@@700662

txt Suggestions on ways of financing the city 's unemployment relief expenditures continued to pour in on Mayor LaGuardia yesterday . On Saturday the Mayor said he would spend the week-end considering more than 100 plans already submitted . The Merchants Association , in a letter to the Mayor from its president , Louis K. Comstock , joined the renewed drive to settle the problem by taxing subway , elevated , street car and bus riders 2 cents a ride . E. Everett Smith , director of the Complaint Bureau in the office of the Commissioner of Accounts , made public a suggestion , in his private capacity as a citizen , for a modified lottery plan involving the selling of bonds . The bonds would be sold for $25 each ; 10,000,000 worth of them would be issued , due in fifty years and bearing no interest . Fifteen bonds would be drawn monthly and 1$1,000 would be paid to the holders of the bonds drawn . Levy on Contractors Urged . Samuel Levine , a building contractor , submitted to Aldermanic President Bernard S. Deutsch a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the license and graduated fees , depending on the size of the project , for the filing of building plane . Contractors who performed work without licenses would be fined $1,000 . The Merchants Association , in its argument for the two-cent transit tax , declared that it agreed with the Mayor that the time had come to stop treating unemployment relief as an emergency proposition and to I start financing it by other methods than the selling of bonds . " If we should continue to borrow money for relief it would be only a few years before the debt service ) for this purpose would be a 1 huge , sum in itself , " the association de-1 Glared , " without mentioning the service on the other large sums which it is proposed to borrow from the Federal Government for public works . " It is not good public finance to borrow annually for recurrent expenses . We believe it is better , therefore , to cease temporizing , face the facts and adopt the hard but certain method of stopping the increase in our debt by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Realty Taxes Opposed . The Association pointed out that real estate could bear no further burdens and that further economies in the ordinary operations of the city government would be necessary . " There is a method , " the letter continued , " by which the sum necessary to meet the city 's present share of the relief charges can be raised . That method is to levy a tax of 2 cents per fare on all passen- gers on the subway , elevated , street railway and omnibus lines . " The Transit Commission reports show that in 1933 these utilities transported 2,733,300,000 passengers , exclusive of those on the HudsonManhattan tubes . A 2-cent tax on this volume of traffic would raise $54,666,000 annually . We believe such a levy upon all local transportation would be within the tax powers of the city and would avoid the danger of litigation which might well ensue if the tax was limited to the rapid transit lines only . It would have the advantages of being broad in application , relatively small in rate , increasing tax consciousness upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a nuisance tax . " RELIEF CONTROL SHIFTS . Supervision in City Goes to New Bureau Today . The supervision of unemployment relief , both through the Home Relief Bureau and the Work Relief Bureau , passes today from the Department of Public Welfare to the newly created Emergency Relief Bureau , of which Welfare Commissioner William Hodson is chairman . The six members of the bureau were appointed last week by Mayor LaGuardia . Mr. Hodson said yesterday that one of the first things to be done by the new bureau would be to confer with the State TERA to fine out the amount available for relief here in July , " and with the further end of arriving at a more stabilized and better planned administration of relief for the city as a whole . " New applications for relief are being received at the rate of 1,200 to 1,500 a day , he said . At present a total of 310,000 families are getting either home or work relief from the city . " The double program of the administration , " Mr. Hodson said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rolls all persons who are not entitled to relief , in order to save all of the money possible for those who are actually in need . One of the chief problems in the administration of home relief at the present time is the small number of home relief stations throughout the city . There are twenty-two now . We are planning to add two additional stations on June 15 , a third before the end of the month , and others will be added as fast as proper handling can be found . It has been recognized by many that it is a hardship upon a great many people to travel long distances to the home relief bureaus , and it means crowding in lines at these stations , and in addition it makes for administrative difficulties . My obect is to make it easier for the public and to facilitate matters for my own staff . "                     