@@697337

txt With the county grand jury scheduled to hear evidence on Wednesday dealing with the alleged purchase of his office by former Magistrate George F. Ewald and the Federal authorities pursuing their own investigation of the matter , attention will be centred today upon the testimor.y of Martin J. Healy , suspended Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Plant and Structures , before District Attorney Crain . Healy , who has been suspended by Mayor Walker following publication of the charges that he backed the api ointment of Ewald as magistrate for a gift of $10,000 , will appear at the office of District Attorney Crain this morning to be questioned on his sidP of the story . Incidentally , there is much interest concerning the probable effect of Healy 's testi --  --  -- F upon his fortunes as Tammany leader of the Nineteenth Assembly District . What Healy will tell Mr. Crain , it is believed , may also determine whether or not Mr. Crain will summon Mayor Walker and George W. Olvany , former leader of Tammany Hall , for interrogation . Mayor Willing to Appear . The Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immune from such examination , he would be willing to answer questions if called upon . Mr. Olvany 's name has been brought into the situation in connection with assertions that it was he who prevailed upon Healy to sponsor the appointment of Ewald after John Mara , Tammany leader of the Twenty-third Assembly District , had turned down the former Tammany chieftain 's request that he act as Ewald 's backer . It was learned yesterday that Mr. 01-vany , like Mayor Walker , is ready to go before any official or grand jury and submit to examination . Healy 's interrogation by Mr. Crain will revolve around the testimony given before the District Attorney last week by other witnesses , including Mrs. Bertha Ewald , the former magistrate 's wife , and Thomas T. Tommaney , chief clerk In the cffice of Sheriff Farley , to the effect that the $10,000 paid to Healy constituted a loan by Mrs. Ewald through Tommaney as the intermediary and the proceeds of which were devoted by Healy to the purchase of a Summer home at Blue Point , L. I. The story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had received a promissory note bearing no interest from Tommaney and that the note had apparently been lost . Tc maney corroborated the story of the loan , but Ewald pleaded that he knew nothing about it unta a week ago . When testifying before the Fr , deral grand jury previous to the action begun by Mr. Crain upon material supplied him by United States Attorney.Tuttle , Healy admitted receiving the $10,000 . He made no reference to a loan , however , saying that he had turned over the money to a " thing " and not to any individuals . This morning he will have an opportunity to explain to Mr. Crain what the " thing " was . Subpoena for Healy Likely .. Following his testimony this morning before the District Attorney , it is mpected Healy will be served with a subpoena for his appearance before . he county grand jury on Wednesday . such subpoenas were served last week Ipon Mrs. Ewald , Tommaney and ? eter Eckert , Mrs. Ewald 's father , who admittedly supplied $5,000 of the amount received by Healy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of a John Doe action involving a possible indictment for felony under the law forbidding the granting or obtaining of public office in exchange for a gift , promise or other compensation . Ewald may also be a witness before the grand jury , although he has not been subpoenaed . An interesting element in the situation , regardless of what the outcome of the county grand jury proceedings may be , are the plans attributed to United States Attorney Tuttle for the production of evidence designed to contradict the story that the moivy received by Healy from Mrs. Ewald was in the nature of a loan . Mr. Tuttle , who spent the day at Lake George yesterday , declined to discuss this aspect of the case . He denied , however , published reports that he had summoned ten new witnesses who will disprove the loan story . " Whatever further action may take in the situation will be after Judge Crain shall have completed his investigation , " Mr. Tuttle said , " I do not widh to interfere with or embarrass him in any way while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be fair to do so . All I can say is that I am awaiting developments . " Tracing Cost of House . It was learned that among the points Mr. Tuttle is seeking to clear up in his investigation of Healy 's income tax payments is the actual amount paid by Healy for his home at Blue Point , purchased in 1927 , shortly after Ewald 's appointment to the bench , a circumstance which Tommaney in his examination by Mr. Crain characterized as a mere coincidence . Investigation has disclosed that the value of the house at the time of its purchase from Arthur A. Hartmann of Brightwaters , L. I. , was $6,500 , while the testimony of Tommaney before Mr. Crain last week was that Healy had told him the price paid was $8,500 . Hartmann may be summoned by Mr. Tuttle to help clear up this feature after Mr. Crain shall have completed his inquiry . Another witness who may later be brought into view by Mr. Tuttle is the mysterious individual who , according to Mr. ** has declared that Ewald had confessed to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Tuttle has offered to reveal the identity of this witness to Mr. Crain , who in turn has let it be known that he intended to hear everybody able to cast any light on the situation . Thus far no information has been given out showing that Mr. Crain has asked Mr. Tuttle for the identity and whereabouts of the mysterious witness . Although not entirely outside the realm of possibility , it was considered unlikely Mr. Tuttle will bring any action against witnesses testifying before Mr. Crain and who had refused to testify before the Federal grand jury on the ground that this would tend to degrade or incriminate them . Among such witnesses are Mrs. Ewald , Tommaney and Healy . Although Mr. Crain in his interrogation of Tommaney pointed out to him the alleged seriousness of his action in refusing to testify before the Federal grand jury while agreeing to give such testimony before the local authorities , Federal officials are known to be inclined to the view that Tommaney , Mrs. Ewald and Healy were within their Constitutional rights in their attitude before the Federal grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuttle today is David Meyer , a member of the examining board of the Plumbers ' Union and of the Steuben Society , with which also Edwald is affiliated . Meyer is said to have been a member of a committee appointed by the Steuben Society to urge upon Tammany leaders the appointment of a Steuben Society man to the vacancy created by the exit of former Magistrate Oberwager and later filled by Ewald . The committee of which Meyer was a member , it is declared , offered three candidates for the place . Ewald was not one of these. , although he proved to have the necessary backing for the appointment . Meyer is alleged to have been told by Tammany leaders that they did not approve of any of the Steuben Society 's candidates and preferred Ewald instead . He will be asked by Mr. Tuttle to tell what he knows of these alleged negotiations with Tammany.                     