@@698919

txt After a suspension of nearly two years , constitutional government has been reestablished in Malta , a British possession in the Mediterranean Sea rightly regarded as the keystone of the British Empire . Elections for the local Legislative Assembly and the Senate took place in the middle of June and resulted In an overwheliting victory for the Nationalists over the Constitutionalists who were In power when the Constitution was suspended . A whole series of unhappy incidents and acute controversies that occurred in the island during the administration of Lord Strickland  --  himself the son of a Maltese mother , and founder of the Constitutiondi Party  --  culminated in May , 1930 , in an open conflict between the local civil and ecclesiastical authorities , which eventually developed into a serious diplomatic dispute between the British Government . and the Vatican . Elections Are Staged In view of the unprecedented situation created in Malta by the constitutional and religious disputes , the British Imperial authorities decided to stay the election for a new Parlliament already in course . This step was shortly afterward followed by the suspension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strict Crown Colony government . The intervention of the British Government in the internal affairs of an island which , in spite of its small size , enjoyed " quasi-Dominion status , " was most unfavorably criticised in Malta . All three Mal , tese political parties , the Constitutionalists , the Nationalists and the Labor Party , agreed at least on this point  --  that the representative government granted to the Maltese people should , in no circumstances , be withdrawn or curtailed , and that , moreover , they should be allowed to settle their own affairs without interference . Owing to the difficulty and delicacy of the issues raised by the Maltese problem , a Royal Commission , composed of Lord Alikwith , Sir Walter Egerton and Count De Sails , was sent to Malta last year to report upon the local political situation and to make recommendations to the British Government for ending the anomalous state of affairs existing in the island and to devise a method by which parliamentary government could be restored . The main recommendations of the Commission have been accepted by the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a new election ( which was not a resumption or continuation of the election suspended in 1930 ) has been held . In one respect the British Government proposes to go further than the Commission urged , namely , on the language question . The majority of the Commission suggested that , while the Italian language should continue to be taught in the secondary schools and the university , it should . he entirely excluded from the elementary schools , where it is at present taught together with English and Maltese . At the same time , the Commissioners further advised that advantage should not be taken of the interregnum to impose upon Malta a change which would be viewed by some people with dissatisfaction . The British Government , however , decided to put the Commission 's proposal into effect immediately , without previously consulting the Maltese electorate . Letters Patent have already been promulgated giving effect to the Commission 's recommendations in regard to the languages to be used in education and in criminal trials . Dispute Reaches Climax The dispute between the civil and ecclesiastical authorities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malta , reached a climax on May 1 , 1930. when the bishops of Malta and Gozo issued a joint pastoral letter forbidding Maltese Roman Catholics , in other words the entire population of the two islands , to vote for Lord Strickland and his candidates under pain of " mortal sin . ' It should be noted that the Church of Rome has always enjoyed a special position in Malta . and that the clergy have always taken , directly or indirectly , an active part in politics . It was largely due to the action the ' very basis of democratic government  --  namely , freedom of election  --  which was threatened by the bishops ' action . Great Britain regarded the intervention of the spiritual authorities in the political life of Malta as constituting undue Interference with the freedom of the ballot , which no civil government could tolerate . It was the British view that so long as the church insisted on its right to inflict a spiritual penalty for a purely civil act , no free elections could be held , and the British Government was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bishops Issue Circular While the election campaign was in progress this spring , the bishops issued a circular confirming the terms of the pastoral of 1930 on the ground that , from the religious standpoint , the situation in Malta was exactly the same as that existing when the latter was published . The situation had become once more so serious that the British Government contemplated again postponing the pending elections unless the bishops withdrew or revised the circular . Indeed , the commissioners had explained in their report that one of the main considerations which had influenced them in recommending a new election was the belief , formed after the most earnest inquiry , that the pastoral to be issued before the next election would be quite different in tone from that of 1930 . Fortunately , however , it has been possible to restore religious peace in Malta in a way considered satisfactory to all parties concerned . Lord Strickland has formally apologized to the Pope for his opposition to the authority of the church , and the bishops have withdrawn their pastoral of 1930 . Electoral freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to record their votes regardless of ecclesiastical dictation . That they disapproved of Lord Strickland is evident from the results of the voting . The new Senate consists of nine Nationalists , six Constitutionalists and one Labor representative . Lord Strickland himself was elected to both Senate and Assembly .                     