@@699044

txt Charles Curtis , formally accepting Republican renomination for the Vice Presidency today , declared to party leaders that he was personally opposed to repeal of the Eighteenth Amendmerit , thus taking a stand quite the contrary of President Hoover 's recently altered attitude . Whereas the President in his acceptance address had asserted that " In order to remedy present evils a change is necessary , " Mr. Curtis said that " I am not only in favor of honestly and fearlessly enforcing all our laws but , further , I am opposed to the return of the saloon , and , am opposed to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . " Mr. Curtis made no reference to modification , and no reference to the return of the control of the liquor traffic to the States . His speech was as much drier than the Republican platform as the President 's speech had been wetter . The Vice President conceded the right of the people to seek a change , if any was desired , in the way that the Constitution designates , but de-clared : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the vigorous execution of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution and to oppose the return of the saloon . " Strong Believer " in Majority Rule . " I believe in meeting the issue squarely ; I am a strong believer in the rule of the majority and feel that the people should at all times be given full opportunity to express their opinion on the Constitution or amendments thereto . ? % , * " The Republican party made " no distinction as to the Republicanism of the members of the party because of their stand on the prohibition question , " Mr. Curtis added , echoing the President 's declaration on ' that point . Topeka was in holiday spirits for the notification occasion , despite Mr. Curtis 's request that no great to do be made about the ceremony . An audience of perhaps 10,000 had gathered on the north lawn of the capitol , - where the ceremony took place , and cheered as Senator Lee J. Dickinson and Colonel Lafayette B. Gleason ; secretary of the Republican National Convention , predicted victory for the ticket by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at the declaration of personal dryness that came from Mr. Curtis , for this State is dry , politically . Mr. Dickinson , who was keynoter of the Republican National Convention , paid tribute to Mr. Curtis in the notifying address as eminently fitted for the Vice Presidential ' post . He reminded- the audience that only once before had a Vice President been renominated by the Republican party .  - -  33 States Are Represented . Among the party dignitaries who were here for the ceremony were Everett Sanders , Republican ? National Chairman , who presided , and Senator Arthur Capper of Kansas . Thirty-three States were represented by members of the official notification committee . Mr. Curtis launched into his acceptpance speech by declaring that he stood on the party platform and approved of " Mr. Hoover 's admirable statement of Republican prin . Ciples and achievements contained in his address accepting the renomination for President . " He then took up one by one the principal party platform planks . As to protection , he thought that " we should not only retain our home market , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . " He reaffirmed the party's- stand that " application of the principles of the American system of protection Is necessary- in order to keep out of our country goods which come into competition with our home-made goods and home-grown products . " The restrictive immigration policy passed in 1924 was praised as beneficial to labor " in these trying times of world-wide economic disturbance . " - Republican tariffs and . immigration restrictions . accounted largely for American workers i being paid more than those in  --  any other country , the II Vice President held . Not only were wages higher , . but American standards of living were better , hours of . labor shorter and 1:working conditions better . - - Farm Problem Not Yet Solved . . The farm relief problem had not been completely solved , despite Congressional efforts ? for eleven years . " I regret to say that while - Some of these laws have . helped:to some extent , " Mr. Curtis said ; " yet most-of them have not come up " to the expectations of those who introduced and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . been ' and should not be partisan , yet the- Republican party wished to solve it , and is anxious to bring the farmer into a situation et equality with . industry . pio 3ar ; g% Xlvsident pgd  --  pg farnAvi lief measures he himself had introduced in the Senate while on the floor of that body , of his own stand fora national cooperative marketing system , and how the Department of Agriculture under . a Republican administration ? sponsored special relief measures . for conditions . brought about , by floods , drofights , the fruit fly and grasshopper plague . Mr. Curtis concluded with a warm tribute to President Hoover , reviewing steps taken by the President to end the depression ; - " when we read of the-depressions- of the past which have given Our . people EI , o much concern , ' he said , " and read how little was done to check them by the national administrations then in power , and , then recall what has been done by . the present administration to bring relief we are justly proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that - in time such efforts are bound to succeed . . " No President in peace times ever had so many .. difficult problems to solve , ' no President ever worked harder to improve conditions , . and none ever , took . the people into his confidence as has the great organizer , the great student of the needs of our people  --  Herbert Hoover . " .                     