@@703935

txt Great Britain  --  striving mightily to bring its sinews of war up to the point where its demand for peace may ring with an authority equivalent to the might of the dictatorships  --  today centralized the control of its arms and munitions manufacture . By establishing a Ministry of Supply , Britain has taken steps to produce the machinery of war at the speed necessary to equip its expanding army . It also has provided the answer to those who have contended that the democracies can not match the dictatorships in rearming . Burgin Gets Post Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain 's announcement of the Ministry of Supply in the House of Commons today included the appointment of Mr. Leslie Burgin to head the new Ministry which will have Cabinet rank . Mr. Burgin , hitherto Minister of Transport , is generally regarded as an interim choice pending wider remodelling of the Cabinet which many observers are predicting . Sweeping control of the national economy , is indicated in the fact that the new Minister will secure priority for Government orders over purely " normal " business . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiment , production and inspection duties hitherto conducted under the War Office . It will also control the Royal Ordnance Factories . The decision to establish a Ministry of Supply , which Mr. Winston Churchill , Mr. Alfred Duff Cooper , and other advocates of more vigorous resistance to the fascist advance have been urging for a long while , is regarded as having been forced on the Government by the implications of Britain 's new commitments in Eastern Europe While supplies for the Navy and the Air Force ate understood to be coming fox ward in ample quantities , those for the Army have been lagging far behind . It is common knowledge that it recruits came forward en masse for the new units which are to be raised under the revised plans for the Army as announced in the House of Commons on March 29 , there would not be nearly enough equipment to fit them out . But it is now realized that even those increases in Army personnel which have raised the manpower of the British land forces to over 850,000  --  the largest peacetime figure ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain is to be able to carry out the guarantees given to Rumen a and Greece and contemplated for other Balkan countries when the proposed " grand peace alliance " is complete . Compulsory Service Hence the talk of compulsory military service is growing more insistent . The present Government is pledged by general election promises not to introduce conscription of manpower , whether for industry or the army , in peacetime , and both Labor and Liberal opposition members are still opposed to it . But there is a steadily growing feeling among the rank and file of Government supporters in favor of compulsory peacetime training for able-bodied youths so that Britain 's promises to its eastern allies can be fulfilled . Many Government supporters want full conscription and a group of 52 of them set down a motion to that effect yesterday for debate in Parliament . But even the lesser measure would necessitate at least a doubling of the present output of arms and equipment within the shortest possible space of time . Meanv.hile to speed enlistment the War Office announced that the period of enlistment for foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to four years Failing another big increase in British land forces , there are gra , . e doubts whether the British guarantees to Rumania , Greece , and other countries will be taken suificiently seriously . Criticisms a : - ready are heard in the Balkans *o the effect that Britain does nut really mean business as it refl. : , : s to adopt conscription . It is a criticism which experts feel is makmg Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , and other countries hold aloof from the anti-aggression front , though their sympathies are overwhelmingly on the anti-aggression side . Hoare 's Speech Recalled In this connection pointed references are being made to the speech of Sir Samuel Hoare , then Foreign Secretary , at Geneva in September , 1935 , when he declared categorically that the " League stands , and my country stands with it , for the collective maintenance of the Covenant in its entirety and particularly for the steady and col- lective resistance to all acts of unprovoked aggression . " Relying on that statement Yugoslavia imposed sanctions against Italy with the majority of the League members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been built up in preceding years . The sequel to British leadership in imposing sanctions at that time , was Britain 's acquiescence in the Italian conquest of Ethiopia . It does not encourage the Balkans to hitch their wagons too tightly to the British star in the present condition of the British land forces . ' Dictators ' Named The Government has announced the names of the 13 Commissioners , or regional " dictators " assigned to various sections of England , Scotland , and Wales in accordance with previously announced defense plans . The function of the Commissioners would be to control by almost dictatorial power the several districts in the event of communication with London being disrupted in time of warfare . Some criticism was voiced in the House of Commons on the fact that seven of the 13 commissioners were in the House of Lords . Among the regional chiefs appointed were Harold Butler , former head of the International Labor Office ; Lord Harlech , formerly William Ormsby-Goi e , Colonial Secretary ; Sir Auckland Geddes , former Ambassador to Washington : and Lord Trent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturing chemists . Ambassador to Return Meanwhile the seasons behind the announcement of Viscount Halifax , Foreign Secretary , that Sir revile Henderson would return to Berlin as Ambassador to Germany at the end of a short period of leave have become apparent . The reason given in Downing Street is that it is highly inconvenient to keep an embassy going without a head . Having registered its strong disapproval of Germany 's annexation of CzechoSlovakia , the British Government now thinks that the importance of having an Ambassador in Berlin who can talk with Joachim von Ribbentrop , German Foreign Minister , on equal terms outweighs other considerations . It is understood that France shares this view and it is therefore planned that Robert Coulondre , French Ambassador to Germany , should return to Berlin about the same time as Sir Nevilc . Lord Halifax also poured tepid water on the stories which have been rife for some time of impending moves in Spain against Gibraltar and Portugal . As to Gibraltar , the British Government has been sufficiently impressed to keep a couple of extra battalions there instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are to stay until the Welsh Guards get to the " Rock " next week . Portugal 's Situation So far as Portugal is concerned , as long ago as last summer reports were current that Germany wanted to establish a Pan-Iberian Federation in the Peninsula at the end of the Spanish Civil War , These suggestions were not taken very seriously here , as Portugal has a reputation for sturdy independence . But any attempt to force Portugal into such a scheme would bring the Anglo-Portuguese alliance into operation again  --  a long standing engagement which has been in existence since 1661 and which always has been the basis of relations between the two countries , even during the slight cooling of friendship at the outset of the Spanish Civil War when the Portuguese wholeheartedly sided with Gen. Francisco Franco . It is to re-emphasize the British bond , moreover , that Dr. Armindo Monterio , the Portuguese Minister to Great Britain , in a speech last night expressed the hope that the future would bring " even more fruitful " collaboration between the two countries . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elicited a telegram of congratulations from King George , Germany is inaugurating a strong diplomatic counter offensive in the Balkans to offset the British efforts to build a peace alliance . In this connection the Italy radio announced last night that Count Galeazzo Ciano , Italian Foreign Minister , intends to offer Yugoslavia a firm guarantee of its existing territory on behalf of Italy , Germany , and Hungary in return for Yugoslavia 's adhesion to the Anti-Comintern Pact . The offer , it was stated , is to be made officially at a meeting of Italian and Yugoslav Foreign Ministers at Venice on Saturday . Hungary 's Position ? Hungary , it appears , is to be compensated for having to forego its claims for the return of Banat ? where 200,000 Hungarians are at present citizens of Yugoslavia  --  by the promise of Transylvania , which today belongs to Rumania . Simultaneously in Berlin Herr von Ribbenthrop was having " friendly " talks with Grigore Gafencu , Rumanian Foreign Minister , based seemingly on a similar guarantee of Rumanian integrity in return for joining the Axis , though what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yugoslavia accepted the Italo- German proposals is left unstated . The basis of the German counter offensive Zs thus plainly disclosed : If Yugoslavia is cajoled into joining the Axis , but not Rumania , then Hungary will be rewarded with a slice of Rumania . Conversely , if Rumania joins , but not Yugoslavia , Hungary would receive a slice of Yugoslavia . If both countries succumb to the threats of what refusal might entail , then Hungary gets nothing . A consideration which is causing some concern in the Balkans is the caution displayed by Premier Chamberlain in his references to the Italian seizure of Albania in the House of Commons debate last week . There is now some reason to believe that the British inaction was due , at any rate in part , to the misinformation received from Rome . The decision to recall the Earl of Perth immediately is regarded in diplomatic circles as not unrelated to the dissatisfaction at the handling of the situation immediately before the Italian invasion of Albania . In any case Lord Perth 's retirement raises the delicate question of whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Victor Emmanuel as King of Albania as well as King of Italy and Emperor of Ethiopia . The British Government has strong objections to doing so , but the final decision has not yet been reached .                     