@@699983

txt As the opening move in a militant campaign against kidnapping and racketeering , President Roosevelt relieved Raymond F. Moley temporarily of his duties as Assistant Secretary of State today tat conduct a special survey of crime-preventive measures for the Department of Justice . At the same time it was said emphatically in authoritative quarters that the assignment had no political significance and did not mean that Mr. Moley would leave the State Department . This has frequently been rumored on the basis of- reported conflict between the views of Secretary Hull and Mr. Maley . The President took this step after a telephone conversation with Attorney General Cummings , who requested Mr. Moley 's assistance , and in the midst of work that made this " vacation " day . ' as busy as those he spends at the White House . In midday he received newspaper correspondents traveling with him for the first press conference since he arrived at Hyde Park last Saturday . He - Removes Coat and Tie . Mr. Roosevelt 's active day 's work was done in the tiny study of the mansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continued torrid heat , the President worked in his shirt sleeves and minus his cravat . Late this afternoon he sought some relief from the weather by swimming in the pool on his estate . Mr. Moley 's new assignment came only one day after he was summoned to Hyde Park for a conference on crime . The transfer of a member of the " Little Cabinet " from one department to special duties in another is believed to be without precedent , but is in accordance with the President 's policy of using the coterie of men known/as his " Brain Trust " wherever their capabilities may find the fullest use . Mr. Moley is reputed to be the leading member of this group . In keeping with the formalities of government procedure , President Roosevelt wrote a letter today to the Acting Secretary of State , William Phillips , " requesting " the release of Mr. Moley from State Department activities for the time necessary . Mr. Phillips , of course , will give his assent . Survey to Take Month . Mr. Maley is expected to require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it was reiterated in authoritative quarters today that " there is n't any other story behind this . " Attorney General Cummings told the President that a serious problem had been created for his department by the prevalence of kidnapping and racketeering , recalling that he had already established a special bureau to cope with these problems under the direction of J. Edgar Hoover . He asked that a brief and inclusive , study be made of all laws , State and Federal , ? of the various informant methods used to combat organized crime , and of all legislation on the subject , a mass of information that at present is available only in scattered and incomplete form . Because of the practical knowledge of crime gained by Mr. Moley as an advisory expert to numerous State commissions , Mr. Cummings requested his assistance . Hull to Report Saturday . Secretary I-full will be informed of Mr. Moley 's assignment when he arrives here , probably Saturday , to report to President Roosevelt on the work of the London Economic Conference . He will come to Hyde Park @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Hull is also expected to confer with the President on the possibility of a visit by the Secretary of State to the Latin Americas . There have been reports to the effect that Mr. Hull might make a " good-will tour " of South America , but these find no confirmation among the President 's intimates . On the'other hand , it is known that if Secretary Hull wishes to take such a trip , or if he wishes to attend the forthcoming Pan-American conference at Montevideo , Uruguay , the President will offer no objection . Coal Strike Studied . The President held telephone conversations today with Secretary Perkins and Governor Pinchot of Pennsylvania , receiving reports of the coal strikes . Governor Pinchot did not ask for assistance and Federal intervention is not planned , but Mr. Roosevelt is keeping in the closest possible touch with the situation there . He also made an engagement to entertain Governor and Mrs. Lehman:at dinner on Saturday eveging , and again revised his vacation plans . The tentative date of departure for Washington for an interlude of work at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 to Aug. 11 . Mr. Roosevelt now plans to leave here one week from Friday night by train and go to some point in the Virginia mountains . There he will enter an automobile for an inspection tour of civilian conservation corps camps in the vicinity , for he has yet to see one , and then drive into Washington Saturday evening . After a Nstay of possibly as long as ten days in Washington , President Roosevelt mill return here to spend the remainder of August .                     