@@697151

txt Street and elevated lines ' traffic in the northwest part of the loop was disrupted early this morning by fire that started in the plant of the Western Radio Manufacturing company at 128 West Lake street and spread rapidly to adjoining buildings on the east and west . At 3 o'clock scores of firemen , summoned by a 5.11 alarm , were still fighting the  --  flaines , but they were said to be under control . Fire Marshal Corrigan estimated that the damage would run close to ; 300,000 . Several thousand persons . watched the battle from the streets and from points of vantage in nearby buildings . Hose lines laid in Lake , Clark , and La Salle streets and in Wacker drive halted automobile traffic , and the elevated lines shut off the electric power in the third rail along Lake street so that . firemen could throw streams of water on the blazing buildings from the platforms . North bound trains were sty-itched to the west at Van Duren street and service was cut off from the eastern half of theloop . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock with an explosion in the West . ern Radio company 's plant , according to members of the first fire company to reach the scene . Other explosions followed and soon the flames were shooting through windows In the upper floors of the building and spreading to the plants of the Office Furniture Clearing House at 130 West Lake street and the Slack Novelties Manufactur ? ing company and New York Belting and Packing company at 124-26 West Lake street . Fire Marshal Corrigan suffered a cut beneath the left eye when he and a group of assistants were showered with glass from skinttered window panes . The firemen attacked the flames from three &des.; Hose lines were run up to the elevated station platform at Clark street and streams of water poured into the blazing buildings from there . Other firemen clambered up fire escapes to the sixth and seventh floors of the new Wacker-La Sallo building at the rear of the burning structures am ! directed streams of water into the blaze . Four hose lines were run from a fireboat in the river to aid the fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street side fifteen firemen mounted to the roof of a one story building at the northeast corner of Lake and La Salle streets and from there took their hose up ladders to the roof of the Furniture Clearing House building . As the crowds watched and the streams of water hissed into the flames in the radio factory the fire suddenly broke through the roof on which the firemen were standing nod cut off escape to their ladders . Comrades in Lake street below quickly realized the situation anti placed ladders on that . Hide by which the men on the roof descended . Two fire fighting towers were brought Into use on the south side of Lake street , one throwing water across the elevated tracks into the ' roofs of the blazing buildings and the other , plunging its stream through the steel ' framework of the elevated .                     