@@698409

txt Congressional investigation of Fascist and anti-Fascist activities in the United States to halt the operations of both factions loomed as a possibility yesterday as Federal officials in cooperation with the New York police and the authorities of other cities redoubled their efforts to run down the conspirators who had sent bombs addressed to leading Italian representatives in this country . The officials were spurred on by another bomb explosion which demolished a building in , Pa . No lives were lost . Radical Leaders Watched . Reports last night that a general alarm had been sent out by the New York police for a man active in Communist and anarchist circles and susPected of having visited the postoffice at Easton , Pa. , shortly before the bomb explosion in that city on Wednesday were not confirmed at Police Headquarters . An examination of the police record for the entire day revealed that while no alarm had been sent out for any specific suspect , police stations had been ordered to keep a lookout for well-known habitu  --  s of radical haunts and were told to scrutinize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was believed , may be preparatory to a round-up of suspicious characters who may have had something to do with the bomb mystery . The move for a Congressional inquiry was made by Representative Hamilton Fish Jr . of New York , who announced that when Congress reconvened tomorrow he would introduce two resolutions calling for an inquiry . The resolutions , as made public by Mr. Fish , characterize both Fascist and anti-Fascist propaganda as " interference in the internal affairs of the United States ' - ' and strike directly at the formation of Fascist centres in this country . Their adoption by the House of Representatives might prove the subject of a diWomatic exchange between the United States and Italy , it was believed . Anti-Fascists Accuse Foes . Representative Fish , who in recent years gained prominence as investigator of Communist activities in this country , took up Fascist operations in the United States following receipt of a telegram from Dr. Charles Fame . of New York , prominent antiFascist and president of the Defenders of the Constitution , demanding a Congressional investigation . The anti-Fascists contend that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fascists themselves to throw suspicion upon the anti-Fascist camp . This charge was reiterated yesterday by Carlo Tresca , editor of Il Martello and an anti-Fascist . He charged that the explosives used in the manufacture of the bombs had been supplied by prominent Fascist contractors in this city . He telephoned Police Headquarters to this effect and said that he would write a letter today to Police Commissioner Mulrooney repeating the charge and giving information that might lead to the apprehension of those responsible . " We welcome any investigation , Congressional or by any other offi- cial and disinterested body , " Mr Tresca said . A lead followed by the police here yesterday ended in disappointment when detectives sent to investigate the theft of a fifty-pound case of dynamite from an Italian contractor at Cliffside Park . near Hackensack , N. J. , reported that the explosives were not of the same grade used in the manufacture of the bombs dispatched through the mails and by express . Other detectives left for Easton , Pa. , whence some of the twelve bombs had been mailed , in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion of having had some relation to the crime and the death of two postal clerks and an explosives expert at Easton . Reports were that one man believed to have had a hand in the mailing of the bombs had been partly identified by a clerk in the Easton postoffice . The partial identification was supposed to have . been made from a photograph of a New York Communist sent from Police Headquarters here , but Police Commissioner Mulrooney said last night he knew nothing about such identification . In making known his intention of introducing the resolutions Mr. Fish said in Washington that he would ask for a declaration by Congress against the teaching of the doctrine of facism in this country , coupled with a demand for both Fascist and anti-Fascist propaganda to cease at once . Reticent on Search . Department of Justice officials in the capital were reluctant to discuss the progress of the nation-wide search , but said that Federal officers had been assigned to post offices and express stations in cities in the East . and mid-West . All suspicious-looking packages are being scrutinized carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at homes of prominent Italian residents in several cities . The Washington police are still taking precautions at the Italian Embassy , where two extra policemen are on duty in addition to the regwlar guard . The Argentine Embassy was also supplied with extra protection following the Easton explosion , but the extra guard has been withdrawn , the police said . It was not learned whether additional arrests had been made by Federal agents . At the State Department it was said that the case was now in the hands of the Department of Justice and postal officials , but , in view of the nature of the investigations , it could only be surmised how close agents were to a solution of the scattered bombing outrages . Resolution for Inquiry . guage , both spoken and written ; to inculcate an understanding of the Declaration of Independence . the Constitution of the United States and free American institutions ; to instruct in American history and civics , with particular reference to our republican form of government ; to promote the practice of American ideals , customs and habits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a view of their speedy absorption as naturalized citizens into the American body politic , having the same identical rights , liberties , privileges and duties as all other American citizens ; and Whereas the diabolical bomb conspiracy to assassinate private citizens and foreign officials has been publicly charged to terroristic acts of anti-Fascists and by them therefore be it Reselved , that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House Representatives , or a subcommittee thereof , is hereby authorized to investigate the activities and anti-Fascists in the United States , for the purpose of putting an end to all such activities which tend to create discord with a friendly nation and have caused enmities . riots and murders among our own people . Demands Propaganda Cease . The second resolution , which would express the disfavor of Congress at the teaching of fascism , along with the demand that propaganda of both " pro " and " anti " groups cease , follows : Whereas , the American Legion and various civic agencies have encouraged and established American centres to teach the English language , both spoken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Independence , the Constitution of the United States and free American institutions ; to instruct American history and civics with particular reference to our republican form of government ; to promote the practice of American ideals , customs and habits , and the Americanization of all immigrants in the United States with a view of their speedy absorption as naturalized citizens into the American body politic , having the same identical rights , liberties , privileges and duties as all other American citizens ; and Whereas the diabolical bomb conspiracy to assassinate private citizens and foreign officials has been publicly charged to terroristic acts of anti-Fascists and by them to Fascist conspirators seeking to discredit the opposition to fascism ; therefore , be it Resolved , That the Congress of the United States is opposed to interference by any nation or nations in our internal affairs through the creation of centres to inculcate foreign ideals and allegiance for their nationals or their former nationals in this country , and looks with disfavor on the teachings of fascism in the United States as inconsistent with American ideals and liberties and subversive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution , and demands that the activities and propaganda of both the Fascists and anti-Fascists shall cease . Dynamite Stolen by Three . The dynamite stolen at Cliffside Park was the property of Anthony Capoletti , contractor . The explosive was taken from a shanty Where it was stored for the construction of a road along the Palisades . According to Rocco Fedelli , night watchman for Capoletti , the dynamite had been stolen on the night of Dec. 14 by three men who covered Fedelli with a pistol " and carefully removed the explosive and carried it to a blue automobile near by . Fedelli said the three men had stopped at the shanty the night before , but had found it locked . The watchman could not describe the men , saying he had not been able to distinguish their faces in the dark . Detective Theodore Heisig and his men returned to Police Headquarters last night and reported that the dynamite was unlike that in the bombs . The building in blown up yesterday housed the fruit market of Steve Orlando and was the home of Julius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had gone to Johnstown , Pa . The explosion occurred early in the morning before Orlando arrived to open his store . The blast jarred the neighborhood . The loss was estimated at $20,000 . It w , as also reported from that on Friday two other bombs had been found , one in the doorway of a barber shop and the other near the home of the proprietor of the shop . The bombs were discovered in time to avert explosions . Two Arrests Thus Far . The only arrests thus far in the bomb conspiracy are those made at Easton , Pa. , where Oscar Viola , 20 years old , and Anthony Rossi Cipolla , 20 , two New York Communists , are being held as suspicious characters . Detective George McCarthy of the . bomb squad left " New York yesterday accompanied by a witness to look at the two Communists : The New York detectives are still working on the theory of Police Commissioner Mulrooney that , while the dynamite used in the bombs did not come from this city . the indications are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that they were without a clue to the criminals . They have sent fingerprints to Philadelphia , Washington and New York in an effort to find whether the marks were those of criminals or radicals known in these cities . Two of the victims of the Easton explosion , Edward H. Werkeiser and John B. House , postal clerks , were buried there yesterday . Marquis Agostini Ferrante , Italian Consul at Philadelphia . was among those who attended the funerals . He drove from Philadelphia under police escort and wag closely guarded throughout his stay in Easton . Before returning to Philadelphia he visited the home of Charles V. Weaver , explosives expert , who was killed while attempting to examine one of the bombs mailed in Easton . The consul also visited Arlington Albert , another postal clerk , in a hospital in Easton . Albert is suffering from powder burns from the explosion which killed Weaver . While bomb scares which turned out to be hoaxes were reported from various cities yesterday . the package that aroused the suspicion of New Haven postoffice clerks on Friday proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in burlap . Mr. Fish took the position that the activities of the Fascist groups , in teaching their political doctrine in this country , amounts to interference in internal affairs . Such was the premise of his first resolution , which follows : Whereas any attempt by a foreign power to create centres to inculate foreign ideals and allegiance for their nationals or their former nationals in this country amounts to interference in the internal affairs of the United States ; and Whereas the American Legion and various civic agencies have encouraged and established American centres to teach the English Ian                     