@@702440

txt Addressing the Democratic victory dinners throughout the country , President Roosevelt tonight made an impassioned plea to his divided party and to the country to support his proposal to pack the Supreme court with a majority that will uphold New Deal laws . He assailed the decisions declaring unconstitutional the NRA , the AAA , the Gaffey coal control , the railroad retirement act and the New York minimum wage law and federal court injunction against the TVA and the national labor relations act . He admonished farmers and working men to reflect that the federal government can not do for them what it has sought to do unless the obstacles the New Deal has encountered in the Su. preme cou. t be removed . Saves Method for Later . flow he would remove them he did not say in this speech . He is saving that for his " fireside chat " with the radio audience next Tuesday nigni when he will unleash all his rhetorical artillery in defense of his project to add six new justices to the Supreme court if the six justices now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he did say tonight was that a crisis exists demanding immediate social and economic legislation to improve the lot of the common man and that there is no time to lose , lest a great calamity , such as a revolution or the advent of a dictatorship , be visite ' , upon the country in the two or three years that might be necessary to remove the obstruction of the New Deal in the manner prescribed by existing law . The inference was that resort to an amer dment of the constitution to legalize the New Deal institutions invalidated by the Supreme court would take too long and that the quickest way is to change the rulings of the court by changing its majority . Not Willing to Walt . " As chief executive and aS the head of the Democratic party , " said Mr. Roosevelt , " I am unwilling to take those risks  --  to the country and to the party  --  of postponing one moment beyond absolute necessity the time when we can free from legal doubt those policies which offer a progressive solution of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , strikes and industrial confusion and disorder can not be bhaasnicli.led forever on a catch-as-can Mr. Roosevelt 's immediate audience was Victory dinner No. 1 at the Mayflower hotel . More than 1,300 Democratic officeholders paid $100 a plate for this dinner . Wife Reads Second Dinner . Victory dinner No. 2 , with Mrs. Roosevelt as guest of honor , was given at the Willard hotel . There about 1,400 lesser jobholders paid 810 a plate . The proceeds of all the dinners throughout the country , after payment of expenses , will be devoted to liquidating the Democratic party 's 8430,000 deficit incurred in the victory of last November . There were 1,162 dinners in 43 states and the District of Columbia . Chief of those outside the capital was a 850 a plate dinner in New York City presided over by Vice President Garner . The President lacked the fire of his campaign addresses . He spoke more with the accents of the powerful leader who commands obedience than as the wooer of support . Pon .. In from Halls . Diners poured into the banquet room from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were eightysix women . Most New Dealers dug into their pockets for the 8100 entrance fee but declined to dig for another for their women folk . Some women attended in place of their husbands . Mr. Roosevelt was the only speaker at dinner No. 1 . But in other cities additional speakers were heard . In nearly every case these celebrated the party 's great victory at the polls in 1936 with a defense of the President 's judiciary program that has split the party in 1937 . Senator William H. Dieterich Ill. delivered such a defense at the Buffalo , N. Y. , dinner , while reserving committment on his own stand pending the hear . ings before the senate judiciary committee of which he . is a member . Denies Thought of Third Term . The argument that he would make himself a dictator by gaining control of the Supreme court Mr. Roosevelt sought to dispose of by explaining at great length that he has not even any thought of serving a third term . Incidentally the President revealed his knowledge of the forebodings of public men that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He related how he told a member of congress that he had a great ambition pertaining to Jan. 20 , 1941 . " I could feel just what horrid thoughts my friend was 04-inking , " said the President . Then to " relieve his anxiety " the President told his friend that his ambition was to intrust to his successor , " whoever he may be " on Jan. 20 , 1941 , " a nation prosperous , a nation clear in its knowledge of what powers it has to serve its own citizens , a nation that is in a position to use those powers to the full in order to move forward steadily to meet the modern needs of humanity  --  a nation which has thus proved that the democratic form and methods of national government can and will succeed . Wants to Push It Along- . " In these coming years I want to provide such assurance . I want to get the nation as far along the road of progress as I can . I do not want to leave it to my successor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " His ambition , Mr. Roosevelt said , may well be the ambition of every person " who wants his United States to be handed down intact to his children and grandchildren . " He spoke with all the gravity at his command , for no one surveying America and the world " can help but feel concern for the future . " The communications he receives from thousands of people , said the President , demonstrate what " men who live mentally in another genet ' . ation can least understand : " The ever accelerating speed with which social forces now gather headway . " Such is the crisis , he asserted , that economic freedom for the underprivileged will not wait , like emancipation , for forty years ; in fact , will not wait at all . Pessimistic on Democracy . He viewed with the greatest pessimism the future of American democracy . " For , as yet , " he went on , " there is no definite assurance that the three horse team of the American system of government will pull together . If three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plowing up a field where the going is heavy , and the team of three pull as one , the field will be plowed . If one horse lies down in the traces or plunges off in another direction , the field will not be plowed . " " It would not be proper for me , " Senator Dieterich said in his speech at Buffalo , " to discuss here pending measures for the reason that those measures are before the judiciary committee of the senate , of which I am a member . " When all of the hysteria has passed away and our people begin to understand what was contemplated by the President 's message , there will be quite a difference in attitude concerning the same by all of the fairminded citizenship . " If an increase is necessary it can and will be accomplished in the usual orderly way , agreeable to the constitution , without destroying the independence of the federal courts , but rather by strengthening them , and making them more independent and more efficient . " Selfridge Field Flyers Rescue 4 Year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( ! P ) ? Second Lieutenant Marion Malcolm of Selfridge field swam through slush ice yesterday to rescue Joan , 4 year old daughter of Capt . Leo H. Dawson , who had broken through the ice when playing 80 feet off shore in Anchor bay . Other Selfridge field men formed a human chain to assist the girl and her rescuer in reaching shore . 3 Burn to Death ; Many Hurt in Tenement Fire New York , March 4. ? fSpecial.:1 ? Three persons burned to death and a score of tenants and firemen were burned and cut this morning as fire destroyed two Old Law tenements in the heart of the crowded lower east side .                     