@@704211

txt The series of diplomatic documents now for the first time published in the British Government 's Blue Book form an absorbing record . The sole responsibility of Hitler for provoking the war was already put beyond doubt by every record hitherto available , but the present documents fill in many details hitherto lacking and throw a brilliant light on the personalities of the German leaders . The spectacle of Foreign Minister Ribbentrop reading at " top speed " and " aping Herr Hitler at his worst " ; of Field Marshal Goering blandly telling the British Ambassador that he knew nothing of the decision to seize the Czech provinces before it was taken , and that he would not have gone to Italy on vacation if he had ; or admitting to the Polish Ambassador that he no longer had much influence on the German policy toward Poland ; or insisting on showing the British Ambassador the great alterations he was making in his house , " which include a new dining room to hold an incredible number of guests and to be all marble and hung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself , with his apparent unwillingness or incapacity to listen to any reply that is not a flat acceptance of some demand , his alternating moods of calm and fury , his denunciations of the British in one mom ant and protestations of friendship in the next  --  on Aug. 28 , two days before he attacked Poland , he even asked the British Ambassador whether England would he willing to accept an alliance with Germany ! ? his declaration that he was by nature an artist , not a politician , and once the Polish question had been settled he would end his life as an artist  --  all these will be unforgettable fragments of the tremendous drama which these official documents hold . The events and motives that led up to the war can not be separated from Hitler 's enigmatic personality . That he will break his most solemn word the instant it suits him to do so , that he will make any statement or tell any lie necessary to gain his immediate end , has been shown again and again , and even explicitly announced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man is a great actor , or because he has some amazing capacity for temporarily convincing himself of the truth of any statement which he finds convenient to press upon his listener , he almost never gives the impression of plain cynicism . Throughout these papers Hitler 's reported protestations of desire for friendship with the British seem sincere  --  provided , of course , that he could gain this friendship on his own terms . If the excuse that Germany had to act instantly in Poland because of " atrocities " of Poles against Germans was devised merely for propagandistic purposes , then it ' is striking that Hitler felt it necessary to carry this propaganda even into private conversations with the British Ambassador . Judging by Hitler 's emphasis and anger , real or feigned , in his talks with Henderson , one would almost gather that his whole attack on Poland was precipitated by injuries to a mere handful of Germans , and that Danzig and the Corridor were only incidental questions . He even implied in an aggrieved tone that the British guarantee to Poland " forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puzzles remain , one thing is clear . This time the British left no doubt of their attitude . Publicly and privately they insisted again and again that if the Poles were attacked they would fight . And Hitler , at the very end , even though he plunged ahead , seems at last to have believed them .                     