@@699848

txt Unless wages of miners are increased greatly under the industrial control bill it is probable that the price of copper adopted for stabilization will be 9 cents a pound delivered . However , until the policies of the administrator of this bill have been announced and the bin has become a law , so that its wording and its intent are clearly known , it is impossible to speak with any definiteness . The copper producers are conferring preparatory to evolving a voluntary plan for stabilizing the copper industry under the industrial recovery act- The producers feel that they should be able to work out a plan among themselves , voluntarily , that would be better for the industry , themselves and the nation , than to have some outsider appointed by Washington to do so . The producers realize that if they will compose the situation voluntarily among themselves , they can make the fact effective in copper within a few weeks after itbecomes a. law . On the other hand ' if they tail tcFevolVe a plan atisfactory to themselves and to Waihington , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appoint some one to work out a plan to be imposed upon the industry , it will be well along toward winter before such plan can be evolved and put into effect . This is because it is fairly certain that the administrator will concentrate his efforts at first upon the iron ana rat.ol , the oil and the coal IndustriesThe 9-cent stabilization price is predicated upon the assumption that the workers ' first need is work rather than higher wages . ? Presumption is that efforts under the industrial recovery bill will at first center on stabilizing at a level that will encourage an increase in consumption this winter , and yet protect producers from monetary loss . If consumption increases , and the costs are reduced as result of higher operating rates , wage advances could come , possibly without immediate increase in the price of the metal . - However , it is at present too early for any one outside the Administration to determine Just what the attitude is to be on the matter of wages . In fact , many feel that possibly even the Administration itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put the details of its application to a final definite conclusion . As yet there is no agreement upon the stabilzation price among the copper producers themselves . In fact , there are two divergent ideas prevalent as to what stabilization price should be . One important factor desires a stabilization price as high as 12 cents a pound . On the other hand , owners of a much larger potential tonnage are desirous of stabilizing the price around 8% cents . This latter price is based on the assumption that wage levels will be such that producers will be able to break even on a cash basis at that price operating at rates that probably will be permitted by consumption during the second half of this year . Many Unknowns in Equation Some of the producers with a higher cost of production feel that a price of 9 cents should be adopted at first in the stabilization plan Still another important factor in the industry feels that it is entirely too early for the industry to discuss the price at which stabilization should be attempted . This interest thinks that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administrator as to general wage levels and commodity prices have been announced . because the wage scale is such an important factor in determining the cost of producing copper . Furthermore , it is pointed out the industry should also know the level at which prices of important mine supplies are to be stabilized . About the best that can be done at present is to indicate what would be acceptable to the copper industry if consumption were to stay around the present level of roughly 30.000 tons a month , and wage scales , costs of materials , power and the like were also to be stabilized about where they are . On such assumptions , it is conservative to state that the managements of companies owning more than a third of the potential producing capacity of the United States believe that the stabilization price at the start should be around 81- : . cents . Owners of more than half our potential producing capacity do not favor a higher price at the start than 9 cents . 9 Cents Seems Upper Limit with 4 Cent Tariff There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to begin with should be one that can be held without difficulty . They also believe the price should not encourage copper imports , or discourage domestic consumption . A price higher than 9 cents a pound delivered does not seem possible for copper unless the tariff of 4 cents a pound is to be raised . There are mines abroad that can produce , at least with their present capital set-ups , at costs which would enable them to pay the 4-cent duty and sell copper in this country at 9 cents a pound without operating loss . Many of these mines have large ore reserves . The advantage to them in dumping part or their output in this/country at no profit would be that the increase in their rates of operation would lower their costs of producing copper . This would give them greater profit than otherwise on their sales outside the United States . Under the circumstances , and until the Administration announces whether it will put embargoes upon the importation of raw materials and goods dumped here as a result of any advances in price under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest price which could be adopted for stabilization would be around 9 cents a pound . It is also probable that such a price would be acceptable to even highercost producers as the best that could be accomplished under the circumstances . Such a price level would enable them to keep on an even keel , considering only direct cash outlay . Probably the foreign price would firm up a little further with the additional advance in the domestic quotation , as it has recently . That , too , would tend to keep down imports , except from Cuba . Copper produced there is , under treaty rights , imported into this country duty free . Some Feel Drain on Stocks Should Walt As yet there is no agreement among producers as to how much of current demand should be met by current production , and how much should be supplied out o ? the large stocks of copper now in producers ' hands in this country . However , there probably will be no great difficulty in arriving at an accord on this matter . Most producers seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption and some of the consumption used in reducing excess stocks of copper . A few producers feel that , during the early stages of stabilization , and until industrial recovery is well under way , and copper consumption is materially higher than at present , mine production should be kept as high as current consumption will permit . This , they point out , would give employment to as many miners and smeltermen as possible during the period of greatest distress . It would also , they point out , make payrolls , and therefore the amount spent by workers , as large as current copper consumption would permit . This they view as very important in the early stages of the recovery . . A.atabllization price of 9 cents a pound would mean the adoption of a price level that corresponds with the lowest price at which copper ever sold in the world prior to the present industrial depression .                     