@@701542

txt The intention of the United States to continue exerting her moral Influence for peace within the limitations of policies previously defined but to avoid foreign entanglements and involvement in war was asserted by Secretary of State Cordell Hull in his note replying to the inquiry of the League of Nations as to our attitude in the Italo-Ethiopian War . His note was dispatched to Geneva tonight . Confined largely to a recital of the measures the United States had already taken in the situation , the note , however , declared that the United States " views with sympathetic interest the individual or concerted efforts of other nation , to preserve peace or to localize and shorten the duration of war . " By those who had been hoping for an extension of our policy of peace in the direction of a promise to the League for support in its program of sanctions against Italy , this declaration may be interpreted as a tacit approval of the League 's projected measures and as a promise for a more direct commitment in a program of cooperation later as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be drawn from the communications , the State Department resolutely refused to elaborate the reference which was contained in a general expression of the desirability of peace . Questions as to whether this might mean that we would not object to a British blockade of Italy remained unanswered , the only explanation vouchsafed being that the note must speak for itself . However , it can be said that it was felt that this was the least that could be said in giving utterance to the desires of this government that all international disputes should be settled by peaceful means . In preparing the note , Secretary Hull and President Roosevelt considered that the League had not specifically asked us to cooperate with it or to undertake any commitments , but only to make observations . What has been done in the reply is to adhere to policies , but with our intention of keeping out of war and avoiding entanglements the paramount considerations . The note was carefully designed , moreover , to make clear the intention to maintain our liberty of action and our independence , without making commitments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . No Commitments Made . While Secretary Hull could have agreed to a system of cooperation or to enter into agreements , he did not . He could have agreed not to interfere with plans of the government members of the League but he did not go that far . In fact , what he did was to recite the record and express the intention to continue exerting the moral influence of this country for peace , making plain that efforts in this direction would be within the limitations of previously defined policies . The note reiterated that the United States stood for the validity of the Briand-Kellogg pact outlawing war as an instrument of national policy , as well as of international agreements to which we are a party , such as the Hague convention of 1907 , the anti-war pact signed at Rio de Janeiro on Oct. 12 , 1933 , and various conciliation and arbitration conventions . Secretary Hull also took occasion to reiterate his declaration , of Oct. 10 that the President 's warning to American business men to deal with the belligerents only at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to encourage it . He declared that this government had exerted every practicable effort to aid in the preservation of peace and , after war existed , both to avoid being drawn into it and to aid in discouraging war . lie emphasized in this connection that various steps had been taken " for the purpose of dealing with this specific controversy and the special circumstances presented . " Then in a general appeal for peace , he said : " The course thus pursued in ad , vance of action by other govern1 ments , most of which are parties Ito one or more of the peace pacts to which I have referred , represents the independent and affirmative policy of the government of the United States and indicates its purpose not to be drawn into the I war and its desire not to contribute to a prolongation of the war . " Realizing that war adversely affects every country , that it may seriously endanger the economic welfare of each and that it causes untold human misery and even threatens the existence of civilization , the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Paris and other peace obligations , undertakes at all times not only to exercise its moral influence in favor of peace throughout the world , but to contribute in every practicable way within the limitations of our foreign policy to that end . It views with sympathetic interest the individual or concerted efforts of other nations to preserve peace or to localize and shorten the duration of war . " Note Sent Through Envoy . The note was despatched for delivery at Geneva to Hugh R. Wilson , the United States Minister to Switzerland , who bad received the communication addressed to Secretary Hull on Oct. 21 by the League of Nations , inviting our comments on the program of sanctions voted by the League and a report on measures we had taken in the circumstances . The League communication , signed by Augusto de Vasconcelios of Portugal as president of the Committee of Coordination , which is in direct charge of the sanctions question for the League , was sent to various non-members of the League . It asked for " any communication which any non-member State may deem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any action which it may be taking in the circumstances . " Secretary Hull in his reply made no comment on the League 's action , nor did he give any new interpretation of the neutrality resolution adopted by Congress . He was also silent as to possibilities of our enlarging the list of implements of war that President Roosevelt has placed under embargo to the bel ? ligerents . Whether his note constituted any development of our policy since his statement of Oct. 10 wan left very much open to question . Officials maintained silence on that point . Perhaps the most that can be said is that the reply left the door open ? but only within limits that had previously been defined . Certainly there was no commitment as to new policies or no offer of an agreement . The note was written around a background of and upon the series of measures that had been taken by the United States since the East African crisis arose , and specifically since Emperor Haile Selassie appealed to us in the name of the Briand-Kellogg pact , but without our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served to define our policy which was reported to the League tonight . The note sought to show that we had moved sympathetically and logically through acts , statements and proclamations . Prior to the outbreak of hostilities our efforts were bent to the preservation of peace . Since hostilities developed our primary object has been to keep out of war . Underlying these two policies have been the intention to avoid entanglements abroad and to maintain our own initiative and independence in our acts touching the international controversy . Furthermore , we have been determined to make no agreements with respect to the situation . Nevertheless , it has been the intention of the administration to hold in mind the interests of peace and to serve the obligations of this country in a general way under the Briand-Kellogg pact and other treaties that make for peaceful adjustment of disputes .                     