@@703313

txt On the eve of . President Roosevelt 's conference with Henry-Ford , sixteen men representing billions in industrial investment and employing power throughout the country , filed with the White House today a pledge of their fullest cooperation with the government in bringing about recovery . The signers included Owen D. Young , chairman of the board of General Electric Corporation , and Winthrop W. Aldrich , chairman of the board of the Chase- National Bank , a close associate of the Rockefellers . The statement was acclaimed as " excellent " by the President . John W. Hanes , newly appointed member of the Securities ' and Exchange Commission , delivered the statement to the White House and it was transmitted to the President through his son and secretary , James Roosevelt , . Acting as they did through . no orgaaiization , but as individuals , the offer of aid from the impressive group of business leaders , who represent through offices and directorships more than 130 companies , ? placed new emphasis on the recovery drive here . In effect , it was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his recovery message to Congress and emphasized in his radio fireside chat on April 14 . Others Signers of Statement Those who approved the statement , - besides Mr. Young and Mr. Aldrich , were : Alfred L. Aiken , president , New York Life Insurance Company . Robert H. Cabell , president , Armour &; Co . Charles A. Cannon , president , Cannon Mills Company , Kannapolis , N. C. Walter J. Cummings , chairman of the board , Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company , Chicago . Edward D. Duffield , president , Prudential Insurance Company of America , Newark , N. 3 . Frederick H. Ecker , chairman of the board , Metropolitan Life Insurance Company . John M. Franklin , president , International Mercantile Marine Company , New York . Robert M. Hanes , president , Wachovia Bank and Trust Company , Winston-Salem , N. C. Robert Wood Johnson , president , Johnson &; Johnson , New Brunswick , N. J. Thomas I. Parkinson , president , , Equitable Life Assurance Society , New York . William C. Potter , chairman of the board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Williams , chairman of the board , R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company , Winston-Salem , N. C. Clarence M. Woolley , chairman and president , American Radiator and Standard . Sanitary Corporation . Sydney G. , president , International . Harvester Company . TEXT OF THE STATEMENT The statement was ? as follows : In his address to the-nation on April 14 , the President stated , the common need and aspiration of us all  --  the resumption of normal industry . To bring about this result calls for teamwork on the part of government and industry &; We gather from the President 's words that he recognizes that we live under an industrial system in which there must be full opportunity for legitimate profits . This industrial system can not function unless there is continuous activity and steady production . It is the responsibility and desire of business to maintain that activity to the fullest extent commensurate with sound practices , It is the responsibility of government to protect and encourage the proper functioning of business . The President has indicated in his speech that he fully recognizetkiis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wide but honest ' differences of opinion exist as to ways and means , but surely no one can doubt that the goal which every citizen desires to reach is to ad- - vane &; the national income to a point where employment and prosperity can be widespread . The effort to attain this goal requires the cooperation of every member of the community , It seems to us most important that we should all resolve to encourage the President in every effort he shall make to restore confidence and normal business conditions , and to support Congress in the position that its legislative program ; should be directed for national recovery for employer and employe alike rather than toward the enactment of legislation based upon untried social and economic theories . The President has clearly indicated that he believes that America 's continued prosperity requires closer cooperation between business and the government . The periods of overproduction to which he referred would be substantially alleviated if the government engages in continuous consultation with business leaders and encourages them to take the initiative to develop and stabilize their respective industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our ability in such efforts of consultation and cooperation . And we heartily endorse the words of the President , " Let every one of us work together to move the life of the nation forward . " Eccles to Attend Ford Meeting The statement caused added importarice. to be attributed to the President 's meeting tomorrow with Mr. Ford . According to plans announced at the White House , Mr. Ford will be accompanied to the conference by his son , clsel . Ford , and his confidential adviser , William J. Cameron . Marriner S. Eccles , chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , will sit in as economic adviser to the President . Today 's statement by the sixteen business leaders was understood to have been a document to which each signer contributed . It was put together largely under the direction of Mr. Young , Mr. Aldrich and Mr. Hanes , the latter acting as ... the Washington " clearing house . " In fact , the idea of the proffer of cooperation from individual business leaders  --  individual in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the business organizations  --  originated with Mr. Hanes . Ever since he came to Washington a few months ago as the " Wall Street member " of the Securities and Exchange Commission , be has been working , on the theory that the first requisite to recovery was cooperation between government and industry spoken of by the President in . his message to Congress and radio chat . President Knew of Effort The President knew generally of the effort , but had no part in the plan . When Mr. Roosevelt publicly called for " teamwork " in meeting the crisis , however , Mr , Hanes and his former associates in the business world decided to take the opportunity to offer their services . " Our one purpose is to pull together to get the train back on the track , " Mr. Hanes said at a press conference upon his return to his office from the White House . The Commissioner said he hoped the movement thus started would soon " pass through the whole industrial system . " Neither he nor the group had any particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for bringing others into the common effort . Ile stated frankly that future steps depended largely upon the reception given the movement in Administration circles . The President ' said at his press conference that he had only had time to read over the statement ' hurriedly , but on first reading it appealed to him as an " excellent " document . He had not decided whether to make further comment or what ' course he would take in indicating his response. -                     