@@697828

txt The National Republican Club may be the scene of another stormy episode over the recent report of its Committee on City Affairs , of which Alan Fox , one of the original supporters in this State of President Hoover , is chairman . The report , which was made public in part late in April , contained an attack on the private life . of Mayor Walker . parts of which were deleted when , subsequent to having been made public by Mr. Fox , it was submitted to the club at a meeting of its members held on April 21 . Yesterday Mr. Fox sent to the club in pamphlet form for distribution copies of that part of the City Affairs Committee report in which was included the attack on Mayor Walker . On the final page of the pamphlet this occurred : " The three sentences of the ? report which were deleted by vote of the club read : " ' He ( Mayor Walker ) has joked , junketed to race tracks , sat up all night at wild parties , entertained Hollywood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , has a right to , live his private life as he sees fit , so ' far as consistent with his obligation to others , and we have no concern with Mayor Walker 's private escapades except in so far as . they interfere with his public duties . The Mayor of New York has no right to allow the vagaries of his private life to interfere with reasonable attention to the responsibilities of his great office . ' " The report asked the removal of Mayor Walker . It brought down on the head of Mr. Fox , following its publication , denunciation from the Mayor and censure from W. Kingsland Macy , chairman of the Republican State Committee , who disavowed any responsibility for the report or its publication and characterized as in bad taste and uncalled for the references to Mayor Walker 's private life . Other leading Republicans at the time joined in a chorus of disapproval : Mayor Walker himself denounced the report as " slanderous " and " pharisaical . " It was intimated last night that the action of Mr. Fox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contains only the part of the committee report which he had made public prior to the action of the ' club , might come up for consideration at the next meeting of the members . In the meantime , it was said , the House Committee of which Conrad N. Pitcher who is a member of the Executive Committ as well , is the head , is avoiding giving circulation to the deleted sentences by tearing out the final page of the Fox pamphlet before distributing the printed document among club members . " You need not believe that I was trying to do any funny business , " Mr. Fox said last night when his attention was called to the fact that his action in including the deleted sentences of the Walker attack in the pamphlet , was causing a stir . " It is entirely optional with Mr. Pitcher or whoever is handling the matter whether my pamphlet is to be sent out . Or they can get around the situation by tearing off the last page on which I had the sentences printed because I thought people would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminate from the report of my committee . ' The pamphlet was not printed at the club 's expense and I fail to see how there can be any objection to the little ' note printed on the closing page . " It was learned yesterday that a movement is on foot to prevent the reappointment by General James G. Harbord , newly elected president of the Republican National Club , of Mr. Fox as chairman of the City Affairs ' Committee . It was said in wellinformed quarters that Chairman Macy of the Republican State Committee was in deepest sympathy with this move against Mr. Fox , his fellow promoter in 1928 of the Hoover Presidential aspiration . General Harbord was elected president of the club at the stormy meeting on April 21 at which the report from the City Affairs Committee was up for consideration . He was out of the city yesterday . Republican State Chairman Macy said he would make no comment on the new development for the present . Calls Action Extraordinary . Former State Senator Nathaniel A. Elsberg , on whose motion the three sentences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said last night . " If what I am told is true and the three deleted sentences were reprinted in a pamphlet containing the report of the committee with a design that they should be given further publicity , I certainly regard it as a most extraordinary procedure . Personal attacks never serve any cause . " Ex-Assemblyman Sol ' Ullman who joined in the fight on the Walker attack contained in the report at the meeting on April 21 , said : " I am sorry that this was done . I certainly do not agree with it at all . I do not think reprinting of the deleted part of the report was a decent thing to do . If anything is done about it , and I suppose it will come before the club , I certainly shall be glad to cooperate . " Former Representative Martin C. Ansorge , who took his stand at the meeting against the attack on Mayor Walker 's private life , said that even Mr. Fox had consented to the elimination of the three sentences reprinted in the Fox pamphlet . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the three sentences should be stricken from the report , " he said , " and the vote appeared to be almost unanimous . I do not care to comment on the action of Mr. Fox and I do not see where there is need for comment . " General Louis W. Stotesbury , who at the meeting moved to have the entire report containing the attack on Mayor Walker rejected by the club , said last night that he did not care to make any comment for publication ,                     