@@697496

txt District Attorney Crain announced yesterday that he would begin prosecution of criminal charges arising from the Appellate Division 's investigation of magistrates ' courts today unless Isidor Kresel , special counsel to Samuel Seabury , referee in the inquiry into the inferior courts , asks him to wait . This announcement came soon after Police Commissioner Edward P. Mulrooney revealed that six lieutenants eligible for promotion to captains had been assigned to guard " Chile " Mapocha Acuna , former vice squad stool-pigeon , twenty-four hours a day . Acuna , who has accused about two-score policemen of shaking down gamblers and gun ' men and of " framing " innocent women on vice charges , is to appear as a witness against them on Monday in the trial room at Police Headquarters . ' Reports that another magistrate was preparing to follow the example of former Magistrate Francis X. and resign rather than have the evidence against him brought out at a public hearing were circulated about the court house , but Mr. Kresel declined to comment upon them . It was indicated , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not be allowed where evidence of corruption involving others than the magistrate was found . Magistrate Goodman Questioned . As a preliminary to the next public hearing , which was to have been held today but which has been postponed until tomorrow , Magistrate Henry M. R. Goodman was questioned at length late in the afternoon by Harland B. Tibbetts , Mr. Kresel 's chief assistant . Mr. Kresel , while refusing to say whether the next public session would centre about Magistrate Goodman , said he intended soon to drop , temporarily , the activities of the vice ring and turn to investigation of charges which led to the present inquiry , or , in other words , the allegation that judicial offices are sometimes bought and sold . Mr. Kresel and Mr. Seabury , who are understood to feel that too hasty prosecution of criminal charges might hamper the work they are doing , refused to comment upon Mr. Crain 's announced intention to proceed . They had not been formally notified , they explained . The District Attorney prefaced his announcement of the appointment of three regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association and the County Lawyers ' Association , " for reasons which they stated ? " had refused to follow his suggestion that they nominate six outstanding attorneys , from whom a special assistant district attorney might be selected . to present evidence of corruption and graft to the grand jury . The District Attorney sought the aid of the legal associations in letters to Charles C. Burlingham , president of the Bar Association , and Henry W. Taft , president of the County Lawyers ' Association , last week . - Pressed for the reasons advanced by the leaders of the bar for their refusal to cooperate with him , Mr. Crain said : " They could not see their way clear at this time . " Bar Cool to Prosecution Now . It was understood , however , that a distinct feeling existed among leaders of the bar that criminal prosecution at this time might hamper the work of the Appellate Division 's investigators and delay disbarment proceedings against six lawyers named as givers of bribes by John C. Weston , the process server of the District Attorney 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Court . Mr. Crain 's statement said : " I have written to Mr. Kresel my purpose to bring to this office for examination at 2:30 P. M. tomorrow ( Thursday ) , John C. Weston . Unless I hear from Mr. Kresel , that to do so at this time would interfere with and impede the investigation he is conducting . " I have assigned Assistant District Attorney James J. Daly , head of the Bureau of Investigations on Complaints , and Deputy Assistant District Attorneys Joseph Schottland and John J. Sullivan to investigate , prepare and prosecute such criminal actions as can be brought against Weston or the persons named in Weston 's testimony . " These three men were selected for the following reasons : " No one of the three was connected with the District Attorney 's office at any time while Weston was connected with it . Assistant District Attorney Daly , by virtue of his position , has had for a year the overseeing of those working in the magistrates ' courts . He was my secretary for the five and a half years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have confidence in his integrity and ability . " Mr. Sullivan was originally recommended to me for appointment by Mr. Burlingham president of the Bar Association , , whose office he had been for some time . He assisted in the investigation conducted by the grand jury under the foremanship of Joseph P. Day , into conditions in the magistrates ' courts . " Mr. Schottland has been working under Mr. Daly 's direction for a year . He is a lawyer of many years ' experience . He has acted and is now acting in some cases which are allied to matters brought out before Mr. Seabury and I repose confidence in his integrity and ability . " These gentlemen will meet me tomorrow and will receive instructions . " Acuna Heavily Guarded . Seldom in the history of the Police Department have such elaborate steps been taken for the protection of a witness as Commissioner Mulrooney has adopted to safeguard Acuna from reprisals by gunmen or members of his own department . Explaining his action , Mr. Mulrooney said : " Knowing the importance of the testimony given by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibly in State prosecutions , this department has adopted extraordinary means to properly safeguard the witness . Beginning this morning six lieutenants on the eligible list for the rank of captain will be especially assigned , two on each eight-hour tour , to safeguard and prevent contacts with this witness . " The last phrase of the commisioner 's statement was taken as an Indication that methods of intimidation to induce Acuna to change his damaging testimony were as much feared as bodily harm . Lieutenants eligible for promotion were chosen as his bodyguard , it was said , because it was felt that with so much to lose for any derelictions in duty they would be more zealous in guarding their charge . The officers selected to watch over the little Chilean whose nervousness and fear of vengeance has increased as the hearings have progressed . were Lieutenants Daniel Ahearn , John E. Copeland , James J. Sheehy , Henry E. Kelly , John , S. Burke and Michael . The first two lieutenants to take up the task of shielding Acuna from contacts and possible bullets were two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their jobs that they refused to reveal their names , although Mr. Mulrooney had announced the names of all the men he had selected . They found Acuna.red-eyed from sleeplessness and crying . It was learned that the assignment of policemen to guard Acuna. who has been protected hitherto by an employe of Mr. Kresel , was made at the request of Mr. Seabury . At first it was thought that some new and definite threat had been made against the little informer , but this was denied by Mr. Tibbetts . He explained that Acuna 's usefulness as a witness at the investigation into magistrates ' courts was about at an end . Inasmuch as he was now to become a witness at the coming police trials , it was felt , Mr. Tibbetts said , that the Police Commissioner should assume responsibility for his safety . Delaney Loses Court Fight . Lieutenant William Delaney , who applied for retirement immediately after Acuna accused . him of " shaking down " disorderly houses , lost his court battle to force Commissioner Mulrooney to grant him his pension immediately . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application for a writ of mandamus . Harry Krauss , attorney for Delaney , said he would appeal from the decision . In arguing the application , Mr. Krauss pointed out that no charges have been made as yet against Lieutenant Delaney by the Police Commissioner . As a matter of fact , the lawyer argued , Acuna 's charges had nothing to do with the lieutenant 's desire to retire . " I 'll tell you frankly , " he said to Justice Black , " this man has been offered a very lucrative position which he will lose if he can not accept immediately . " Assistant Corporation Counsel William E. C. Mayer , opposing the motion in behalf of the Police Commissioner , hinted that formal charges might be leveled at Lieutenant Delaney when he declared that the charges Acuna had made against him under , oo , th amounted to , elle . gations of oppression and . the acceptance of bribes . Lieutenant Peter J. Pfeiffer , who supervised the activities of the vice squad of the Sixth Division , and four plain-clothes men were arraigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct unbecoming an officer . They all pleaded not guilty and their trials were set for next Monday , when the eight who entered similar pleas on Monday also were scheduled to go to trial . Lieutenant Pfeiffer and Andrew P. Stirnweiss , charged with making arrests without evidence and of testifying falsely in magistrates ' court , were not represented by counsel . John J. Glenn , charged with arresting Betty Smith without sufficient evidence and of advising her to plead guilty to the charge , is ill and did not appear to plead . The other three plain clothes men , Louis M. J. Eisner , Arthur H. Knott and Frederick Reger , were represented by Samuel Leibowitz , Brooklyn criminal lawyer , who sought unsuccessfully to obtain a month 's delay in their trials . He needed the additional time , Mr. Leibowitz explained , to investigate Mapocha 's record in Chile and to check up on information to the effect that the " stool pigeon " plotted vengeance on the police while serving a sentence in the penitentiary , to which he believes he was sent as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in an interview at headquarters , reaffirmed his faith in the honesty and integrity of most of the 19,000 men under his command . He urged that the public be reminded that only a few of the members of the force had been accused of irregularities . Mr. Mulrooney revealed also that members of the department are so aroused over the revelations that the Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association is about to embark upon an extensive advertising program in which responsibility for the behavior of " a few dishonest " members will be repudiated.                     