@@698055

txt Not including Ford Motor Co. ' s August assembly of cars , indicated at 50,000 by company officials , the probable output of cars and trucks for the current month is 154,000 units compared with 221,485 , including Ford , in July . Ford Motor will assemble alsaut 50.000 cars in August , but the figure is not counted in the total because the company has long followed the policy of reporting motors produced each month , in contrast to the practice of other companies of reporting cars shipped . General Motors ' output in August is estimated at 77,000. of which approximately 60,000 will be Chevrolets . Chrysler people are looking forward to a schedule of between 35.000 and 37,000 Plymouths , against 25,000 produced in July . With the other divisions , total Chrysler output is estimated 50.500 units for August . The total of all other units in the industry , mainly because of vacations , does not seem likely to exceed 27 000 . On this basis total output for August is indicated as 154,000 . If the 50 000 Ford assemblies indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal number of cars must be deducted from previous months . Operations of Various . Companies Taking the various companies individually there are several cases where a fairly steady rate of operation is in prospect . Chevrolet will taper gradually from its 60,000 August figure until inventory time , while Buick . Oldsmobile and Oakland-Pontiac will continue at about present monthly rates of 5,000 each . Chrysler and Dodge Brothers will operate until inventory time at around 1.200 cars a week Further increases in the Plymouth schedule of 35,000 for August seem unlikely in the near future because of plant capacity limitations . On the other hand , a number of companies which have closed for summer vacations and inventory will reopen during the last half of the month on moderate schedules . The outlook in the aggregate , however , is for a gradually declining curve of operations with another " flat " spot in the last 60 days of the year due to changing over fol- new models unless Ford should unexpectedly come back into large production . Last Half Profit Outlook Slim Two principal factors are operating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even if the expected seasonal gain in September and October appears , few companies will have volume enough to offset the drain of lowvolume operations in the present month and in the final two months of the year . Atop these considerations is the fact that practically all producers will have special last quarter charges representing the cost of new models for next year . Translating probable last half volume of operations into any but nominal profits does not intrigue many well-informed Detroiters at this time . It is generally conceded in high quarters that General Motors may earn enough in the last 83 .. x months to bring the year 's earnings to meet its $3 dividend requirements . Even though Plymouth is making remarkable strides , it does not follow that earnings of the Chrysler Corp . for the last six months will be as favorable as for the second quarter , when 73 cents a share was reported . Chrysler put into reserve in the second quarter only $900,000 , against a similar charge of $3,800,000 in the first quarter . The company will doubtless anticipate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the earnings in the last half of 1931 . This expense can easily run $3,000,000 . On the basis of expected sales during the last six months and figuring normal profit per car , an indicated $5,000,000 of profits for the last six months would shrink to $2,000,000. or 45 cents a share , after allowing for reserves . Chrysler 's Long Pull Outlook The story for 1932 , however , may be vastly different from that of the coming few months . There are several longer pull aspects of the Chrysler situation which are being considerably changed by the fast growing Plymouth . If the DeSoto Plymouth division maintains an annual volume of 250,000 cars , whatever overcapacity may have been added in the Dodge Bros. purchase will have been definitely used up . It is not generally appreciated that Dodge Bros. at the time of its acquisition in 1928 was one of the largest foundry and forge plants in the industry . Several million dollars have since been ploughed back into the plant , and it has been modernized with new layouts , conveying machinery , etc . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cylinder blocks , crank shafts , cam shafts , front axles and related parts used by all of the Chrysler divisions . What the trade called a " white elephant " in 1929 has begun to earn its keep . In addition , Dodge Bros. division is making important strides in the commercial car field . Furthermore , the success of a low-priced car builds up the relative position of one group with the others in waits . Using the July production estimates , it appears that Chrysler in units turned out more cars than all of the socalled independents combined , the figures being 37,000 for Chrysler against 31,000 for all companies exclusive of Ford and General Motors . A. year ago June Chrysler was running 25,405 units for all divisions , against 174,528 for Ford and 97,440 for General Motors ; in July that relation was changed to something like 37.000. 60.000 and 91,000 . Where Chrysler turned out less than one-sixth as many units as Ford in June . 1930. it appears that in July , 1931 , the corporation produced approximately 60% as many cars as Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is accruing to the Chrysler corporation from the success of the Plymouth is accorrion- to officials , that its other low-priced lines , DeSoto , Dodge and Chrysler Sue have been gaining ever since the Plymouth was introduced . This is quite contrary to what the trade has been contending for several years . i. e. , that the Plymouth , in order to be successful , should have a separate dealer organization . In several of the metropolitan centers , however . Chrysler is actively putting in separate Plymouth outlets . Many guesses are being made as to the amount of profit in the Plymouth car . The reach model weighs 2,750 pounds , and the maker of a competing model which weighs 2,700 pounds estimates the profit at $30 a car at 1,000 units a. day . However . it is of little avail to make deductions as to the amount of profit which the Plymouth is likely to contribute to the Chrysler cash drawer for the reason that in both nianufactu.ring and distribution of the Plymouth the facilities of other divisions are being used . Low Priced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford operations , Plymouth parts are manufactured in a fairly small area as compared with Chevrolet - nnich assembles motors in Flint . builds axles in Detroit and gears in Toledo . The Plymouth body supply is close at hand in Detroit . but not as accessible as in the Chevrolet rituation ' which has body plants adjacent to the various assembly plants . The outstanding suggestion for 1932 in the present trends is for an increase in the number lei low-priced cars . The trade hears that Auburn and Graham will enter the low-priced field ; that ' Roo may enter an important transaction having to do with a $500 car ; that Hupp will have a beautiful small creation suggestive of its sweep of five years ago ; that Hudson r. ill be heard from in no uncertain manner ; that Chevrolet will have an offering the keenness of which in eyeappealhas never yet been seen .                     