@@697880

txt The chances of Governor Franklin 3D . Roosevelt of New York for the Democratic presidential nomination are at this moment , a little more than a year before the national convention . better than they ever have been . This represents the opinion not only of Roosevelt enthusiasts but also of those Democrats who have believed and still do believe that some other candidate might make a better race and give a better administration if elected . There are several obvious factors contributing to the Roosevelt strength . One is that he seems so far out in front as to be almost alone in the race . A second is the apparent inability of the opposition to center on anyone who might stop him . A. third is that political trends which point to the predominance of the economic rather than the prohibition issues in the 1932 campaign make his nomination seem easier . Furthermore , support of Colonel E. M. House , adviser of President Wilson , who has reentered politics , gives Roosevelt additional prestige , especially in Texas and other southern states . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front months before the convention was handicapped . He became a shining mark for the oposition . His preconvention campaign reached a climax too soon . Thus , William G. in 1924 was in such a position and lost But four years later Alfred E. Smith knocked the tradition into a cocked hat by taking an early lead and increasing it so that for all practical purposes the convention considered no other name . Roosevelt 's position at this time is closer to that of Smith than to that of . Roosevelt 's Position Similar to Smith*/ . There is another resemblance between Roosevelt now and Smith four years ago . His opposition is divided and scattered among eight or ten men with little apparent prospect of centering support on one of them . was stopped in 1924 when the opposition support was centered , first on the late Oscar Underwood and then on Governor Smith . At Houston in 1928 the Smith opposition never found a figure around whom to rally . Of course , the Roosevelt opposition still has a year in which to organize , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or willingness to get started . Probabilities are that a number of states . among them Ohio , Illinois , Maryland , Texas . Georgia and Mississippi will go into the 1932 convention with candidates of their own , but delegates from each state will know that their man has little chance and simply will wait opportunity to go to the man they think will win , who , under conditions like the present . may be Governor Roosevelt . It is unreasonable to suppose that half a dozen candidates who amount to little more than favorite sons can bold their strength away from a band wagon movement for many ballots . Moveover , the delegations from the favorite son states are very likely to be shot through with Roosevelt sentiment . The lessening dominance of the prohibition issue also is likely to make Governor Roosevelt less distasteful to some factions of his party . So long as the Democratic strategy was built around the idea of emphasizing the prohibition issue to gain the votes of the big eastern wet states , Governor Roosevelt , in the opinion . of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party machinery , did not fit ; into the picture . There always was the fear twat his inclination to emphasize economic questions in a way that warmed the hearts of tae Progressives might frighten off the conservative sections to which the Democrats were looking . Those who were disposed against Governor Roosevelt are not enthusiastic about him now . However , they do recognize that the political trend is favoring him . They might stop him . despite this , but they will be unwilling to pay the price of a repetition of the Madison Square Garden convention in doing it . The biggest handicap which the New York governor carries may be the lukewarmness of the political powers in his own state It is hard to see how the New York delegation can escape being for him . The question is whether it will cling to him if the convention runs into numerous ballots . The BILIAilleAS Revival Consensus of judgment of Washington 's most competent and conservative economic observers may be summed up as follows The bases for revival exist in the form of cheap money , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prospects for improvement in crops The willingness to take advantage of these conditions has not appeared in any definite and compelling way , the foundation is there but none appear ready to begin the superstructure . There is a strong probability that this willingness will be created and in operation before it can be definitely recognized . All of this Is equivalent to saying that the Washington authorities know little more about the economic situation than does the ordinary citizen That is just about the truth and the Washington experts whose opinions are to be most valued will admit it quite readily , which is one reason they do not talk freely for publication . Pinchot Speech Washington failed to grow excited over the ? speech of Governor Gifford Pinchot of Pennsylvania at the French Lick governors conference in which he denounced the utilities The views of Governor Pinchot on this subject have been well known for some time . It has also been generally accepted that he would try to use them ns a vehicle to carry him to the Republican presidential nomination . The speer h which aroused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York in which he urged governments to t. ' , 1:e the initiative to meet modern conditions and emergencies reos statements were contrasted with those of President Hoover at Valley Forge where he con- , demned legislative panaceas to correct economic conditions . Both rerererices , it is true , were general and not specific as to any particular project , but they were sufficient to show the different view points of the two men who may be opposed for the presidency in 1932.  - -   - -  - Farm Board Operations With the Farm Board out of its wheat stabili- ; nation operation , one of the arguments for withholding an accounting of the results of that operation has gone . There still appears , however , no disposition to give a frank public state , ment on this and other Board operations .                     