@@702268

txt With Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin 's statement . on the constitutional crisis expected today  --  a statement that is now generally believed will be announcement of the king 's decision to abdicate  --  it is pointed out that British trade will be affected to the extent of millions of pounds sterling should the coronation be cancelled . Stock markets closed idle yesterday and quotations generally reacted , especially Paris favorites on sales from that quarter . Brokers reported that selling pressure was small but prices were marked lower on increasing opinion the king would abdicate and disappointment at delay of an official statement on the situation . Loss Might Total L50,000,006 Some estimates at the loss to trade in event of cancellation of the coronation run as high as ? 50,000,000 . First there would be the direct loss in timber , metal and accessories for the stands in process of erection along the route of the coronation procession . Secondly , there are innumerable souvenirs already in the process of manufacture by the jewelry , pottery , metal box and printing trades bearing the name and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of cancellation of orders for flags , bunting , men 's and women 's costumes , uniforms and fancy articles . Hotels , restaurants , distilleries , breweries , tobacco companies , theatres , moving picture companies and caterers would all be affected . Much potential business would also be lost by newspapers , printers and photographers . Real Estate Would Be lilt Real estate would suffer from cancellation of orders for furnished houses and rooms . Perhaps the greatest sufferer would be the shipping industry as reservations on all boats from Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa and New York already have been heavily booked for coronation period . Railroads , too , especially the London Transport System , would lose millions from extra passengers . There would also be losses to motor transports , and the consequent lower gasoline consumption . Travel agencies would be affected by the loss in potential traffic Revenues of electric supply companies would be cut as many flood lighting contracts would be cancelled and extra consumption by hotels , restaurants and industries would be lost .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       