@@697302

txt Miss Anna Miller , a 23-year-old nurse employed in the home of Harry Woolsey , owner of the Woolsey Paint Company of Jersey City , was found stabbed to death on the side of a cliff near Green Pond , N. J. , in the northwest section of Morris County yesterday afternoon , after a twentyhour search of the neighborhood by State troopers and neighbors . Harry Woolsey Jr. , 14 years old , who was described by the police as mentally abnormal , early this morning confessed that he had killed the young woman . He had been questioned for hours in the State trooper headquarters at Morristown , N. J. , after having been taken into custody early In the evening when he walked into the police station at Dover , N. J. , and asked for lodging . Tells of Quarrel . The boy said that he and the young woman , who was charged with his care , had quarreled over " different little things , " " the nature of which he refused to specify . She started to slap him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his pocket and stabbed her repeatedly . The boy sullenly refused to reveal his motive . The boy , who is about five feet , ten inches in height and heavily built , was still being questioned early this morning . The police said he looked to be about 19 years old . Miss Miller 's body plunged from the Lookout , as the summit of the cliff is known , to the place where it was discovered between two boulders twenty feet down the side of the cliff . Young Woolsey calmly tramped off ten miles to Rockaway , N. J. , where kid spent the night in the lumber yard of the J. H. Jackson company . Woolsey spent yesterday roaming over the countryside between Rockaway and Dover , he said . After spending his last funds for -a meagre meal at a lunchwagon in Dover he decided to ask the police for shelter . Hatless and coatless , he walked into the Dover police station and , giving his name as Jack Jones , asked Patrolman Russell Vanderhoof for ' a place to sleep . He was curled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rear of the building when Patrolman Vanderhoof received a telephone alarm from the State police at Netcong , N. J. , asking him to keep a sharp lookout for a boy answering the description of his visitor . When Vanderhoof confronted the boy he quickly admitted his identity . He was taken to Morristown , where he was questioned for hours before he admitted the killing . Boys Find the Body . The boy and the young woman had left the Woolsey 's Summer home at Green Pond Sunday afternoon for a hike through the rough country behind the resortl , as was their custom . When they failed to return by dusk Mr. and Mrs. Woolsey became alarmed , and after a few hours more of uncertainty notified the State police , who began tire search which eventually led to the discovery of the body . It was found about 3 P. M. by two boys who had joined the search . The young woman had been stabbed twice in the breast , twice in the abdomen and seven times in the back , according to Dr. J. P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to view the body . An autopsy will be performed by Coroner Charles Stidworthk of Butler today . The Woolsey family , who live on Fairway Road , Ridgewood , had gone to their Summer home at Green Pond Saturday for a week 's outing . Those in the party were Mr. and Mrs. Woolsey , their daughter , Elizabeth , who was graduated from Skidmore College last month ; Harry , and Miss Miller , who had been employed to look after the lad for several months . Harry was described by neighbors as a husky youth with a marked fondness for dangerous pranks witn fireworks , but was accepted by them as harmless . He had been a pupil in the Roosevelt Military Academy at Monsey , N. Y. , a year ago and at the Bordentown Military Academy , Bordentown , N. J. , during the last school year , it was said . The place where Miss Miller 's body was found was exceptionally inaccessible , it was said . It is about eighteen miles nort4west of Paterson and about nine nnles from where Roderic Meakle shot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days ago . Because of the difficulty in getting to and from the place , the State Police had not received at midnight a complete report of the circumstances surrounding the finding of the body , which took place between 3 and 4 P. M. Miss Miller was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John G. Miller of 1,135 Capouse Street , Scranton , Pa . It was said there that . She hild left home about five years ago and had been working in and about Philadelphia for part of the time . She hid Six brothers .                     