@@700739

txt While operations of the corn refining Industry in the first half of 1934 ran considerably behind a year ago , with five months ' corn grind totaling 24,3-19,000 bushels compared with 31,415,000 in the corresponding 1933 period , in the past two months there has been a considerable pickup in the business . The July grind is understood to have been approximately equal to the 6,500,000 bushels of corn ground by the industry in July , last year . Improvement is continuing , and Corn Products Refining Co .. the leading factor in the industry , is likely to have a larger grind for August , this year , than in August , a year ago . Higher prices for corn in recent weeks have not hurt the company 's business . In some respects it has been helpful , for it has encouraged buying of some products in advance by large users of bulk products , in anticipation of further advances in corn which inevitably will be reflected in prices for finished products . Corn Products Refining Co. does not speculate in corn , and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the goods it produces are quick to respond to changes either up or down ' 7 .. the price of corn . In Better Competitive Position Advancing prices for many of the foodstuffs or other products with which Corn Products competes have placed the company in a strong basic position . Early this year the company 's corn oil . Mazola , was feeling keen competition from cotton seed oil and other edible fats . The supply of cotton seed ell has diminished with the smaller cotton ginnlngs , and other - edible fats are much scarcer than early this year . This has resulted in a big increase in the demand for corn oil , and Mazola sales have risen sharply . Although the prices for starch necessitated by the higher corn prices would permit still further Increases of tapioca starch into the United States , importations of this starch recently have been declining , indicating difficulty in supplying the demand . If this difficulty is occasioned by P shortage of , tapioca roots . it may be over a year before the supply can be increased . Price of feedstuffs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and damage to pasturage by the drought apparently forecasts a greatly increased demand for this by-product of the cron refining industry . Factors Slow Being Felt Many of the factors which indicate an increased use of the products of the corn refining industry are apt to become effective slowly , so that the second half year of 1934 may not show an unusual expansion either in activity or profits over the last six months last year . In the second half of 1933 , Corn Products earned $2 17 a common share , after earning $1.70 in the first six months . For the six months ended June 30 , 1934 , Corn Products earned $1.40 a common share . Other income during the period , however , including income from securities owned and from affiliated companies , was $2,002,239 , against net earnings from operations of $3,369,159 . Other income was equal to 81 cents a share during the first half year against 57 cents in the first half of 1933 , without charging any of the deductions for interest and depreciation against this income . This " other income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic affiliates . The business of these foreign companies is now at the highest level ever attained by this group , although the company 's tapioca plant in San Domingo has been hampered by a drought . Income from Corn Products Investment portfolio has declined in recent years , but this has been more than made up by dividends from affiliated companies and wholly owned subsidiaries . Since the end of 1933 , Corn Products has made some changes in its investment portfolio , but has made few changes in its railroad holdings . These holdings at the end of 1933 were a comparatively small part of the total investment which then had a market value of roughly $17,000,000 . While Corn Products holds quite a few shares of railroad company common stocks , a good part of its railroad investment also lies in preferred stocks and high grade tail bonds .                     