@@699731

txt Mustering an apparently overwhelming majority in support of inflation , the House today blocked the Republican opposition to the currency section of the farm relief bill , concluded its debate of the measure and will vote early tomorrow under a rigid rule , forbidding any amendment . The Republican leadership forced a roll-call on the adoption of the rule which made the Senate 's inflation amendment the business before the House . The vote , with party lines holding fast , was a 261-to-113 victory for the administration . Eight Democrats voted with the Republicans , and three Republicans with the Democrats . The Democrats voting with the Republicans against the adoption of the rule were Representatives Black of New York , Claiborne of Missouri , Dunn of Pennsylvania , Hoeppel of California , Howard of 1Nebraska , Huddleston of Alabama , Lambeth of North Carolina and Somers of New York . The Republicans voting for the rule were Representatives Christianson of Minnesota , Peavey of Wisconsin and Wolverton of New Jersey . Debate Limited to Five Hours . The rule under which the amendment was brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all points of order against the amendment , and declared out of order further amendatory action from the floor . The huge majority for the bill which the roll-call disclosed had its effect on the opposition and the fight that followed was halfhearted . Representative Pou of North Carolina , chairman of the Committee on Rules , opened proceedings with a vigorous defense of the drastic action taken by the committee in order to speed the bill on its way to the White House . The Republicans ' charge that they were victims of " gag rule " of the most brazen sort was vigorously denied by Mr. Pou . The Democratic majority , Mr. Pou argued , was generous in allowing five hours ' debate when much less was necessary . " This nation , " he continued , " is in the position of a patient in a hospital who is badly in need of a blood transfusion . We are voting to the President the authority to make that transfusion , and we know he can be trusted to exercise his authority wisely and to the best interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions facing President Roosevelt were as grave as those that faced Lincoln . Mapes Denounces Speed . Representative Mapes of Michigan , leading off for the opposition , deplored " the abolishment by this House of legislation by committees . " The opposition knew , he said , that they were up against a hard and fast " gag rule " and all they hoped to accomplish now was to " keep the record straight . " " It has been said , " Mr. Mapes told the House , " that this legislation is among the most important to come before a legislative body in 6,000 years , and yet we are acting without consideration of it by any committee of the House . " Representative Beedy of Maine , who in previous Congresses has opposed payments of the bonus in advance of the maturing of the adjusted service certificates , interpreted the bill as passed by the Senate as a provision of authority to the President to pay the bonus in full at any time he may see fit . The administration leaders make no denial of Mr. Beedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving the President authority to pay the bonus reads : " Notes issued Under this subseation shall be issued only for the purpose of meeting maturing Federal obligations , to repay sums borrowed by the United States and for purchasing United States bonds and other interest-bearing obligations of the United States . " " The adjusted service certificates , " Mr. Beedy said , " are interest-bearing obligations of the United States . The language speaks for itself . I have previously opposed the payment of the bonus but if this bill is passed , and of course it will be . I am - for paying the bonus with this inflated money . " Blames " International Bankers . " Mr. Beedy charged that " international bankers " were strongly supporting the inflation movement , and these interests , he declared , were the same interests who had wrecked the administration of President Hoover . After Representative Hoeppel , as one of the small group of Democrats opposing the bill , had charged that the bankers were behind this legislation and " that the forgotten man had been forgotten , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he charged that the Roosevelt " brain trust " was responsible for the inflation amendment . " Senator Thomas 's inflation amendment , " said Mr. Fish , " is the most amazing , daring and dangerous piece of legislation ever offered to the American people . Whence does it emanate ? - ' Who claims its paternity ? The best sources of information attribute it to those tried and experienced financiers , Professor Moley and Tugwell , Mordecai Ezekiel and possibly also Mr. Bullitt . Upon their advice the whole financial fabric of our government is to be overturned , our traditional policy discarded , our currency debased . " The debate on the amendment was concluded at 7:35 o'clock . The vote on the amendment will be in order immediately after the house convenes at noon tomorrow .                     