@@699048

txt The Imperial Economic Conference was brought to a close today by the signing of trade treaties between Great Britain and its Dominions . These agreements are to become effective when ratified by the Parliaments of the various countries . Yesterday proved the busiest day of the entire conference . ' First thing in the morning the delegates and their staffs streamed up Parliament Hill , and the seniois dashed from one bilateral conference to another , until late at night when they all met to discuss the final form of the main agreements and the winding up of the business of the con-ference From both British and Canadian sources it is learned that the Canadian delegation had wrestled to the last , switched their offers three times in the last two days , withdrawing and re-proffering in a last-minute attempt to find an agreement . The Canadian Prime Minister , Mr. R. B. Bennett , having committed himself to the " fair competition principle " and trouble resulting , it is reported that the Canadians tried to modify their original offers . Mr. Bennett sought to insert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as would " maintain efficient Canadian industries , " arguing that the clause had been agreed to by the British , but not in the form in which the Canadians first presented it . Mr. Bennett was able , however , to get the restrictions on live cattle removed . Wary on Food Concessions The British- were motivated throughout the conference by a reluctance to grant any concessions which might tax the food of the British consumer . The conference virtually became a food conference , for on the Canadian side the sales of live cattle , bacon , and dai-y products were the chief matters at stake , and on the British side negotiations with the various Dominions , dealt with the food supply of the mother country . One Canadian authority summed up the results of the conference as being entirely dependent on the caliber of the men appointed to the new tariff board and their judicial attitude , and the full light of day being thrown on the fixing of Canadian food products can get wider preferences on the British market , a matter which only time will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on ostensibly to offset currency depreciation , dumping , etc. , have been recognized by the conference as possibly justified , but the main committee of the conference , consisting of the heads of delegations , yesterday passed a resolution giving a broad hint to the countries practicing it that they should drop it as soon as possible . The main committee also looked askance at the Empire content proposals . and insisted that Empire content should not be so low that it defeated the object of the preferences . In other words , the content should not be so much foreign as to really encourage foreign goods to be shipped through Empire countries as British without being really British . The resolutions passed scrupulously observed the fundamental of national autonomy , and so made recommendations for the Empire gov. ernments to consider . The tariff res. elution on " export bounties and anti . dumping duties within the Common . wealth " reads : " This conference , recognizing that export bounties and exchange depreciation adversely affect the value of tariff preferences within the Commonwealth , expresses the hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stabilization of exchanges , such bounties and especially duties which have been adopted as a means of adjusting the situation so created may be withdrawn . " Standard of Content The resolution on " trade promotion within the Empire " declares that " determination of Empire content " is necessary to secure preferential tariff treatment . It continues : " The committee suggests that the conference should draw the attention of the several governments of the Commonwealth to the importance of this subject , and to recommend each of the governments to investigate as rapidly as possible the standard of Empire content which should be required by them for the import under preferential rates , of the different classes of goods , bearing in mind the following principles : " ( a ) That though It must rest with each government to decide what standard it will require , a greater degree of uniformity throughout the Empire is desirable . " ( b ) The standard required should not be such as to defeat or frustrate the intention of the preferential rate of duty ceded to any class of  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              