@@698700

txt The timorousness , inconsiderateness and incompetence of governments " so varied and so marked as to stagger imagination " are held responsible for the continuance of the world crisis and the disaster threatening all nations , in a report for 1931 of the Division of Intercourse and Education of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , submitted by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , director of the division , and made public yesterday . In an introductory survey of the international situation , Dr. Butler asserts that " economists and men of affairs drawn from many lands in conference , have clearly stated the essential facts regarding these , and have said with absolute truth that what remains to be done must be done by governments in the realm of formal politics , " and it is only the failure of governments for the reasons already stated that is responsible for the world 's inability to achieve stabilization . " The key to unlock the door of the possible is In the hands of public opinion , " he declares , " and it is only by public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaching calamities with their untold burden of woe are to be forestalled . " Reviews Events of 1931 . Reviewing the events of 1931 , which , he says , marked a climax in the working of those forces " which , since the close of the Great War , have been making for the undermining and overthrow of the world 's economic and financial system , " Dr. Butler blames the continuance and accentuation of the world crisis upon " attempts to achieve the unreasonable and the impossible in the field of war reparations and so-called intergovernmental war debts . " " The accumulation of the world 's stock of free gold at two centres , the raising and stiffening of tariff barriers in every direction , and the cries for a return to prosperity , while insisting on the perpetuation of conditions without parallel in history , " are cited as additional causes making for the critical situation . " Governments have almost without exception shown themselves stubborn in their timorousness , and both unable and unwilling to understand the conditions which confront them or to respond to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands , " Dr. Butler says . " Public opinion itself in a dozen countries remains distraught , disorganized , highly emotional and largely controlled by partisan symbols and cries which make reflection and highly responsible action almost impossible . " Criticizes Japan 's Actions . Referring to the reassertion of the spirit of militarism and extreme nationalism , Dr. Butler assails sharply the conduct of Japan in China , say-ing : " No matter how disorganized the Chinese people may be and no matter what the incidental and local provocations which may have been given to Japan , that country , which has for a generation past taken so large and so helpful a part in the efforts to build a new world of international cooperation , has now so acted as to forfeit public confidence and public esteem . It may be , as alleged , that the militaristic elements in Japan have been too strong for the civil government and have insisted on going their way regardless of consequences . Be that as it may , what has taken place in Manchuria and in China has been carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people and with so little respect for existing treaties , particularly the Pact of Paris , that a grave blow has been struck at the integrity and effectiveness of those institutions upon which alone the world can depend for constant prosperity and peace . " It must be repeated over and over again that these institutions rest , and can only rest , on a moral foundation and not on one of force . If the moral foundations fail , the institutions themselves break down . There is no substitute for moral obligation and national good faith . " New Challenge to Peace Work . But far from being discouraged , the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace " must find in these happenings a new challenge and a new stimulus to multiply and strengthen every possible effort for the enlightenment of public opinion to the end that there may be the fullest possible understanding of what has been going on and of what the consequences must be . " " If civilization is to commit suicide , let it at least have the courage to do so consciously , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the housetops that every government and every people which seeks for security through arms is the unwitting enemy of the world 's progress , that every government and every people which seeks prosperity through isolation and through multiplied restrictions on trade is prosperity 's greatest obstacle , and that every government and every people which resists and resents international cooperation to deal with the constant and worldwide problems of mankind is not patriotic , but its own nation 's most treacherous and most persistent foe . These are the farts to be driven home in the public consciousness of the nations of the world . " The report covers seventy-one pages and gives a detailed- account of the work accomplished by his division for last year - in this country and . abroad .                     