@@699823

txt Foreign . Minister Sir John Simon and Sir Austen 1 Chamberlain , one of his predecesI sors , paid handsome tributes in the House of Commons today to the change in American foreign policy proclaimed by President Roosevelt in his disarmament message and implemented by Norman H. Davis 's pledges at Geneva . The old pre-war conception of neutrality is now profoundly modified , Sir John told the House . Admitting that the United States was still perfectly free to decide what was right and what was wrong in any dispute , he declared the reversal of American policy was " historic . " Henceforth , he explained , the old idea of the impartiality of neutrals would disappear whenever the ' United States had made up its mind as to the wrongdoer . " In other words , " he said , " the idea of standing with folded arms , a mere spectator from afar of a struggle between two other States , one of whom is in the wrong and the other of which is the sufferer ? that is abandoned in substitution for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all the weight of his authority as a lawyer , Sir John said the importance of the United States action was not substantially less because of the limitations put upon it . On the contrary , he defended the reluctance of the United States to bind herself in advance and said it was " very characteristically the British way of looking 1 at it . " He suggested , in fact , that it was more effective than what he called 1 the Continental method , which used " a most precise and elaborate definition in cold blood and cpld print " to describe the exact conditions under which action might be taken . Later in the debate Sir Austen echoed the views of Sir John , saying he had no more doubt of the good faith of the American people in choosing their course of action than of Great Britain 's in fulfilling the stricter obligations of the Treaty of Locarno . If clear warnings and signposts were set up in advance , Sir Austen said , who would be the aggressor would be shown by the particular steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the time comes , and we shall be able to act in. that knowledge , " Sir Austen said . Sir John 's speech today was a remarkable exposition of the security problem as affected by American decisions and by the draft disarmament convention . Recalling Great Britain 's incessant difficulties with the United States during the years of the latter 's neutrality in the World War , Sir John implied that they were now a thing of the past . " I can not say how much I think we should appreciate this effort now being made by the American Government and President to cooperate with us in what is a piece of world work , " he said , " to abandon a tradition the American people have most jealously guarded , while of course circumscribing strictly and clearly the limits within which they will undertake to act . Sees Fundamental Changes . " At the same time it makes fundamental changes in the prospects of American influence being effectively exerted , if , unhappily , hereafter we are faced with a. conflict where one side , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a party which should be discouraged and , as far as possible , put under the pressure which neutrals may exert . " Sir John said real progress had been made at Geneva , although disturbing storm signals were still flying . He welcomed the better tone of Chancellor Hitler 's Reichstag speech , especially since it caused the withdrawal of the German amer.dment which had threatened to disrupt the disarmament conference . Finally he summed up the British disarmament policy under five heads . First , Great Britain welcomes and responds to President Roosevelt 's appeal that the disarmament conference press for practical results on the text of the British plan . Secondly , Great Britain can not proceed further on the lines of single - handed disarmament on which she has already gone far , but has pointed out , through the British proposals , how much further disarmament by agreement can go . Thirdly , Great Britain recognizes the validity of the concern of other countries for security , a concern which Part 1 of the British plan , coupled with the American declaration , has done much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liabilities except those already assumed under the League of Nations Covenant and the Treaty of Locarno but will join in the proposed consultative pact . Fifthly . Great Britain maintains that international disarmament must depend on policy , and therefore , to be permanently effective , must depend upon better relations among European States .                     