@@704309

txt Behind the easing of tension between Tokyo and the British and French Governments , as reflected in the decision of the Western Governments to withdraw most of their troops from China , lies a tremendous change in Japan 's political orientation . This change has come about during the past few weeks . One circumstance that is forcing the hand of the Japanese Government is the activity of Gen. Chiang Kai-shek , who has spent the past months in a concentrated effort to raise a formidable army , capable of driving the Japanese off , Chinese soil . According to reports , this army , about which there has been considerable mystery , has reached vast proportions , and the Japanese Government is making every effort to settle its quarrel with the Western Governments and to get an all-China Government under Wang Ching-wei ' on its feet before General Chiang can open his new offensive . Another reason for the change is the German entente with Soviet Russia , which rocked the whole basis of Japan 's international setup and was far more sensational in its direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European war has proved . Another incident of deep effect on the Japanese national thought was the American abrogation of the 1911 treaty of commerce and navigation . Incident Bores and Wearies To these things might be added a more nebulous but in its way no less important feeling of dissatisfaction with the continued " incident " in China . It is hard to put a name to this feeling . It partakes a little of both boredom and war-weariness . Two main factors stand out . Firstly Japan feels suddenly more isolated and isolationist , after a long and cosy period of joint importance with Germany and Italy as an " Axis Power . " Secondly , Japan would like to set the Far East house in order to end war depritrations , endless quarrels in all directions , and indugtrial preoccupation with armament needs , all to the end that it may recover friendly trade and prosperity . For a time , after the abrupt revelation of Soviet-German collaboration , it appears that Japanese leaders and public were alike too stupefied for coherent utterance . Abroad there was some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play " at least to a slight extent , and Russia 's subsequent willingness to arrange a border armistice with Japan was made to appear a first step toward a reforming of some sort of Axis alignment , including all the original members plus Russia . But no one in Tokyo seems to have had any illusions on the matter . The aversion to Bolshevism , carefully nurtured for many years by a variety of Japanese leaders who united on this one point if no other , was too great to overcome , even if anyone had desired to undertake the task . what should be done to sweeten American feeling toward Japan . Whether the American view will be modified since Ambassador Joseph C. Grew , returning recently from . home leave , delivered a frank report on the state of American thinking on Japan and China remains to be seen . The speech at the time was candid in its statement that the American ' public had made its decision on Far Eastern issues against the Japanese side of the case , and that Japan 's " new order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an effort to set up an exclusive monopoly for Japanese interests only . Pot Bubbling This moderate statement has had the pot bubbling over in all directions . The Japanese-owned English language Japan Times trumpeted Japan 's sincerity and went on : " We may ask Americans if they have truly fathomed the significance of Japan 's enterprise in the Continent . It is not a question of dollars and cents ; it is not of concession grabbing or of mere material gains . It is a definite step toward Japan 's destiny , backed by moral suasion and inspired by the noble mission of establishing permanent tranquillity in East Asia . . Until the other side psychologically changes its attitude , there will be no use of talking about understanding because it is for them to understand us . " The Japanese want to be understood ; they have no idea that they should do any understanding . They think it is they alone who understand China , who know what is best for China and for all who deal in the Far East . Only a Truce The border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free from the menace of Germany , would crash head on against Japan 's belligerent Kwantung army , and on to Japan proper . But it was regarded as a truce only  --  not as a precursor to an era of Soviet-Japanese sweetness and light . And Russia 's continued help to Nationalist China was not overlooked . Today everyone here seems entirely frank in the view that Germany let Japan down hard and that it is henceforth up to Japan to sink or swim by itself . Last summer , when the writer visited Tokyo , there were great anti-British demonstrations , even against the British Embassy itself , and almost every telephone pole bore posters reading in English : " British withdraw yourselves from the new continent of Asia ! " There were big painted banners also , crowded with anti-British slogans . Today the poles still bear tattered                     