@@704179

txt Twenty-one dead and more than thirty wounded were counted tonight after German bombs had struck an apartment house in a Warsaw workingmen 's quarter . The bombs tore off the side of the apartment house as if it had been made of paper . Rescue workers still were clearing away the resultant pile of debris in a search for further casualties when this correspondent inspected it . One of the bombs had dug a crater fully twenty feet in diameter , and the open ground was piled high with furniture and belongings . In the center of a large park in the southern section of Warsaw , this writer also saw where a bomb had struck a simple woodenAwelling , killing two persons and wounding one . In an open field near the Vistula River , where ten light bombs apparently had been released simultaneously , they had dug craters in a 100-yard circle . With the writer on- this tour of inspection of damage done by the German air bombings were C. Burke Elbrick , secretary of the American Embassy ; Clifford Norton , charg ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polish Foreign Office . During the tour the party twice was forced to take refuge because of air-raid alarms , five of which in all sounded through the city today . Once the party took cover in a shallow dugout filled with working men , their wives and their crying children . The worst scene of damage was at Kolo ,  --  the workingmen 's quarter , where , in addition to wrecking one apartment building , the bombs had smashed windows in several others . An old man gulped back tears as he said his wife and two children were dead . A woman , still staring blankly into space , said : " My husband is gone . " An official news service Communiqu ? stated that yesterday German raiders dropped 120 bombs on Warsaw and its vicinity , killing ten and wounding twenty-five in Warsaw proper , with the number of casualties in the suburbs still undetermined . President Ignaz Moscicki declared that Poland was under a " state of war " today as official reports said that Polish forces were resisting German invasion on three fronts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of national emergency " decreed yesterday . An extraordinary session of Parliament assembled to enact emergency war measures , and the German Charg ? d'Affaires was handed his passport with a request that he leave Poland . Under instructions from his government , the Netherland Minister assumed charge of German affairs . The government announced that it had answered President Roosevelt 's appeal for nations to refrain from bombing civilians by issuing army orders not to bomb open cities or expose civilians to direct or indirect danger . Civilians Killed by Reich It proclaimed , however , that Germans were making unprovoked attacks and Polish civilian losses already made Germany 's compliance with the humanitarian request doubtful . Marshal Edward Smigly-Rydz addressed a message to Poland 's army , declaring : " The time has come to fulfill our duty as soldiers . You are fighting for existence and for the future of Poland . ' , , For every step the enemy takes of Polish soil he must pay heavily in blood . " Confident in the righteousness of our cause and God 's justice , each of us must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Victory will be ours and our allies ' . " The government decreed censorship on telephone , telegraph and mail facilities . Warsaw 's bakeshops were without bread because virtually all bakers had been called to military service . The government announced that public schools would reopen Sept. 11 except where they have been converted into hospitals . The announcement was regarded as a sign that Poland would attempt to maintain normal life despite the undeclared war : Parliament approved a bill permitting members to join the army without forfeiting theft ' seats . Jewish Ukrainian minority representatives declared their loyalty to the Polish State . Heads of the Russian Orthodox and Protestant Churches and the Union of Rabbis followed August Cardinal Hlond , Primate of Poland , in calling for prayers for a Polish victory . Warsaw 's population appeared to be becoming accustomed to the air raid alarms , proceeding in orderly fashion to shelters and cellars when the sirens wailed . Scenes recalling Japanese air bombardments of Chinese cities and the Spanish civil war were enacted , however , as civilians ran to shelter . The adults talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was all about , were terror stricken . Refugees Pouring In Refugees from western Poland and the Corridor are crowding into Warsaw . One sees many small children struggling along with the older persons , all carrying heavy bundles of personal belongings . New war posters appearing during the day showed a soldier jabbing with a bayonet at a bloody hand grasping a Nazi insignia . Boy Scouts and other youth organizations have been called to duty to assist in anti-air raid precautions . The government took over all supplies of gasoline and announced that hereafter it would be issued only on special permits , this greatly reducing automobile traffic . All privately owned paintings in the Warsaw art gallery are being removed to safer places . United States Consul William Morton announced his safe arrival at Brest-Litovsk , where a PolishAmerican evacuation center has been established . The American Embassy has arranged with the Latvian Government to permit Americans to escape through Riga without visas , thus expediting their movement . Premier Exhorts Parliament LONDON , Sept. 2 ( 2P ) . ? Exchange Telegraph , British news agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Felicien Slawoj-Skladkowski told a meeting of the Polish Parliament : " War has been imposed on us . We accept the challenge . We have been attacked and we are fighting . " We shall win this war because Josef Pilsudski taught us how to win liberty and how to defend it . " We shall win this war under the supreme command of Marshal Smigly-Rydz and , by the Holy Passion of Our Lord , He will lead us to victory . " We are in the second day of the war . The tremendous rush of historic events does not hold any terrors for us . We know that the fortunes of war are changeable , but the unconquerable Polish Army will defeat the historic enemy of our country and crush Teutonic arrogance . "                     