@@698233

txt Manchurian Developments . Both in Tokyo and Genleva yesterday the Japanese Government scored American participation in the League Council and rejected Geneva 's terms for a settlement of the Manchurian dispute . Officials in Tokyo described the terms as " quite unacceptable . " Pending developments at Geneva Secretary Stimson delayed sending a note to Tokyo invoking the Briand-Kellogg pact . Chinese sources reported that Japanese troops were digging in for the Winter in Manchuria . Japan Defies the Council . By LANSING WARREN . Sperm ' Cable to Tar NEW ' Yam ( TIMES . GENEVA , Oct. 18 . ? Developments in the hearing on the Sino-Japanese conflict here precipitated themselves so rapidly on this Geneva Sunday as to necessitate late tonight an entire shift in the program for tomorrow , when the proposed plenary session was canceled and a private meeting of the thirteen delegates was called to hear a definite proposal for action toward a solution which Aristide Briand , the chairman , announced he is prepared to make . Previously the Japanese delegation made public a note delivered to M. Briand early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League Council in admitting the United States delegate , Prentiss Gilbert , over Japan 's opposition , and demanding that a date be fixed for a legal decision on this action . In addition the assembling of the Japanese delegation in a conference after midnight on the deadlock over United States participation has caused intense excitement here . Though there is no official indication obtainable , it is believed that the Japanese tonight had cabled their government for instructions , with the prospect of being told to withdraw from the present meeting of the Council unless the juridical points they raised are given immediate consideration . Brland Answers Japanese . It is understood that at the same time M. Briand delivered a conciliatory note to Kenkichi Yoshizawa , the Japanese delegate , he also made strong verbal intimations on the part of the Council that the note was expected to close the incident for the moment . Mr. Yoshizawa is understood to have informed M. Briand that he was unable to give any assurance that the matter would be allowed to rest , and that he would have to communicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States position and announce her withdrawal from further sitings there is no predicting tonight what will be the future course of events . An appeal to the Hague Court might or might not be granted . At the same time the Chinese might immediately act by appealing to the League Council under Article XV of the covenant , which requires investigation and arbitration . Another eventuality arising from any such interruption of the Council 's deliberation would be that the United States would be forced out of her Council seat , since the controversy immediately would become purely a League quandary . Japanese Enter Protest . Japan showed violent discontent with the League in the memorandum which Mr. Yoshizawa delivered to the French delegation at 1 o'clock Sunday morning . ' It protested energetically against the Council decision admitting the American delegate , and provoked from a veteran French diplomat the comment that ' for the first time in his career he had been awakened in the night " to receive a thrashing with a green wood . " The note began by stating that Japan had always insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' terms of the covenant and should be ' considered and correct in their character . " Later in the note the same phrase is given in a variation when Japan wonders whether the action of precipitately proceed- ing to a majority vote , instead of the unanimity which Japan was demanding , was correct . " The opinion was expressed that the United States Government , be-o , ing a signatory of the Pact of Parise should be accorded the right to express its opinions in the League Council solely concerning the application of that treaty , " it states . " But the government of Japan is firmly convinced that the present situation is not one to be considered of a nature to cause the danger of war between Japan and China , and considers also that . the Pact of Paris being a treaty between many States , including non-members , to accord only to the United States representative an opportunity of sitting at the Council and speaking raises an arduous question . " The note concludes by asking that a date be fixed for a legal opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an early response . Grave Concern Is Felt . At today 's secret meeting of the thirteen delegates , which to avoid irritations is no longer being referred to as the Council but as a consultative body , Japan 's reopening of the juridical question aroused gravest concern . One delegate even inquired what would be the . Council 's course if , as he had heard reported , Japan asked for an advisory opinion of the World Court at Hague . The Marquess of Reading and others earnestly advised that a reply be drafted in most conciliatory terms , which while not conceding a reconsideration of the affair , would at least make some amends to the Japanese delegates and to the opinion of their country for the affront their dignity received . This note was framed in a late afternoon meeting of the drafting committee , including French Italian man , Spanish , British and talian experts . " I ant sure I speak for all my Wilti ; 11.644470414 , predate the value of the collaboration Japan has given the League to increase its prestige . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a careful study had been given to his juridical claims , but that since the proposal to admit the United States was strictly limited merely to supplement arrangements already made to enable the Council to obtain information legal questions did not arise and could therefore be tabled . He added that they could , if desired , be taken up at a later date . This last stipulation , it is learned , was included to satisfy misgivings other than Japanese , for it is understood that several membefs of the Council expressed an urgent need for guarding against the same form of procedure if aft emergency should ever arise more directly affecting a European continent , as , say , over the Danzig Corridor or Albania . In the maze of today 's events yesterday 's action by the Council in calling upon the nations signatory to the Pact of Paris to send notes to Japan and China recalling their obligations to seek a peaceful settlement became almost forgotten . It was not known in League circles precisely how many countries had actually dispatched these messages , and nobody seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sat through this morning 's meeting without saying a single word , it is reported . ' Thus , apparently , the Briand-Kellogg pact did not come under discussion , and the American delegate was merely carrying out to the letter his strict instructions from the American Secretary of State . Japanese Issue Statement . Stirred by their intense resentment against what is regarded as incorrect and unjust treatment of their legitimate claims , the Japanese were spurred into making a complete survey of their case , which they ' previously had not deigned to do , and in so doing many believe they have opened the way for negotiation on what had previously appeared to be an unbreakable deadlock . The fact that matters were so brought to a head today gave the first inkling of what has been transpiring at the numerous conferences and conversations outside the Counpit-sitt4ngs , .. bebpsen .. A.ristida ** and other delegates , and between M. Briand and the parties involved . China repeatedly outlined her appeal , stated her case and laid down her program for negotiation , but Japan remained content to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points , and leaving the detars of a solution vaguely indefinite . Japan , in the statement she issued today , outlines fully her whole position on the Manchurian question . In this note she first makes a categorical denial that she has shifted her stand on her terms for evacuation , and secondly repeats her formal renouncement of any territorial aims in her occupation of Manchuria . " The Japanese Government , " says the statement , " maintains the firm intention of withdrawing her troops under the conditions which she has announced from the first , and at the soonest possible momenta To insinuate or contend that Japan has territorial aims in Manchuria , despite repeated formal declarations , is to show either great blindness or notable bad faith . " Points to Moderate Use of Troops . Japan proceeds to point out that she has only 14,000 troops in all Manchuria , which are fewer than the number she is allowed to maintain in the South Manchuria Railway zone , and that conditions of banditry and anti-Japanese sentiment are so serious It is impossible to withdraw protection for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring about this necessary calm , " states the memorandum , " that the Japanese Government has proposed to the Chinese Government an understanding on certain fundamental points which would permit the relations of the two countries to be resumed in an atmosphere of serenity and good-will . " Emphasizing the danger of anti-Japanese feeling in China , the statement recalls how Great Britain in analagous circumstances in 1927 had reason to complain of how anti-British feeling was deliberately incited by Chinese nationalists . As conditions for evacuation , the memorandum proposes , first , that " Chinese forces must abstain from all acts or measures of hostility against Japanese protecting troops , " and , *secondly , that the Chinese Government and local authorities resolve " to respect her rights and recognize the treaties and that they give suffidentguarantees of effective protec-1 ' Ion - 410014. #19 ? nOttozialena                     