@@703841

txt Abuses of Freedom Seen We Are Declared Much Too Tolerant of Subversive Elements To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You well say in your editorial " Private Armies " that " we must do something sooner or later about the problem of the uniformed private army . " Important as this is , it is only one of several problems of disciplined democracy raised by the German-American Bund at its recent Madison Square Garden meeting . We can be thankful for the Bill of Rights that gave this unpopular minority the right of free speech and assembly . Thereby it showed up to public view its abuses of freedom , its intolerances , . its sad misconceptions of Americanism and the menace of its camouflage . It is important to remember that this Bund " pro-American rally " was announced in the press several months ago as a " celebration " of the Appellate Division 's dismissal of some eleven convicted Bund officers and their fines of $13,000 . The court released them on the ground that the State law required all membership organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bund members did not take " oaths " ? they only made " pledges . " Therefore , on this technical difference , they were not guilty . That surprised many citizens . Easy , slow-going democracy having thus protected its avowed enemies , is it any wonder that the Bund leaders just had to celebrate what they called their " victory " ? As a result nazism , camouflaged in a " pro-American rally , " outdid itself on American soil . Opposition Apparent Now democracy knows better what it has to deal with . That includes Communists who packed the same Garden only a few weeks before with almost as many police to safeguard their free speech and assembly . Having been a close observer at both of these regimented demonstrations , I have the uneasy feeling that despite relatively small numbers hi these two bitterly opposing alien camps they are dangerous germ-spreading devices in our midst while we are at peace . But if world events require the United States to defend her interests against fascist powers or the Soviet , these camps are well prepared and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemies , through espionage , sabotage , false racism and subversive propaganda . Here , as I see it , are several of the problems raised : 1 . As regards the abuses of freedom to incite animosities and intolerance in meeting and speech protected by private uniformed troopers , the problem is heading up to this choice : a more concerted active citizen-vigilance or organized vigilante committees . Unless proper legal restraints are found and the legal machinery works faster and with less hair-splitting , the undesirable vigilante committee method will be resorted to not only by outraged Americans but by the overwhelming majority of loyal Americans of German descent . 2 . The use of uniforms among nonpartisan , nonsectarian fraternal orders , Boy and Girl Scouts , and services of one sort and another , is a custom we have long accepted . The use of private uniforms for organized groups propagating partisan programs and attacks in the field of public affairs and sometimes undertaking unofficial police functions is a custom democracy has never accepted . Neither has it guarded against it . Varieties of " Americanism " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the twilight zones . There are several brands of self-styled Americanism  --  the Bund 's anti-Semitic brand to " free America , " Father Coughlin 's curious brand , the Communists ' hyphenated brand and other varieties , narrow , dogmatic and exclusive . None of them deals out Americanism alike and complete . There is much short weight and false measure . To persist in being short or false is not freedom , it is license . Pro-democracy and truly proAmerican groups of standing must soon get together and formulate a commonground statement of Americanism  --  better yet of the American way , which will serve us all as some standard by which te check the false and the misleading , and eliminate confusion . 4 . Bund speakers are vehement in their " true-Americanism " demands that we must make a choice between fascism and communism . They say there is no alternative : democracy is not the American way , for this country is a republic . A republic could , of course , be either communist or fascist . This totalitarian strategy , abroad as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a patriot to focus his attention on attacking his pet abhorrence , either fascism or communism . His attention is so focused on jumping up and down against either of these extremes that he lets down completely the cause of democracy as the true choice to be backed to win . What group or agency in America will blow the bugle for attention  --  America is calling to preserve democracy and to insure the American way first , , last and always ? CARL BECK , Acting Director , American Council for Democracy . New York , Feb. 25 , 1939 . New Station Held Unneeded To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I take issue with the members of the Eastern District Board of Trade who are advocating a new station of the elevated line at Marcy Avenue , Brooklyn , to replace the existing one . I have resided in Williamsburg for more than twenty years and have used this station at all hours of the day . The platforms extend for one and two-thirds blocks and are ample to take care of all passengers during rush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-half block only about two years ago . I believe that no menace exists . If there is overcrowding of platforms at some points , it is because passengers as a rule do not distribute themselves , but gather at these points , especially near the entrance . But this condition can be corrected by one or two guards . Furthermore , to construct a new sta- tion , as is being proposed , right at the Williamsburg Bridge Plaza would be objectionable because of the heavy traffic existing there . Above all , it would be a waste of city money to embark upon an unnecessary project when its treasury is short of funds for much needed construction . If the Williamsburg fathers are looking toward impraving their section of the city , let them turn their attention , first , to the building of P. S. 16 on Wilson Street , one-half of which is too old to serve the needs of a modern school for younger children . JONAS MEYERSON . Brooklyn , Feb. 25 , 1939 . Call of the Sea Muffled Educational Requirements Regarded as Merchant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Rear Admiral Clark . H. Woodward , commandant of the Third Naval District , in his address to the graduating class of the New York State Merchant Marine Academy , advocated the establishment of a national academy to provide training for future mercantile officers . As a former ship 's officer , I heartily agree with Admiral Woodward , but I have not heard or read of any one promoting a school for the training of inexperienced boys who desire to make seamanship their career but who lack the high school requisites needed for entrance in a State nautical academy . My mail brings me daily letters from youngsters who have read that the Maritime Commission has established schools in New York and California for the training of ship personnel . Such schools do exist and are doing an able job . But to be eligible for admission a candidate must be unemployed and have had at least two years ' actual sea experience . Such a regulation benefits the professional seaman who is " on the beach " and desires further instruction in shiphandling , marine firing , etc. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sea for the first time . Furthermore , the maritime unions ? which are stronger now than they have ever been  --  have decided not to accept new members who have not been to sea at least six months . Therefore the door to a nautical career is closed to the non-high school graduate and the youngster just starting in . This is unfortunate , for there are hundreds of clean-cut , good Ame : jean boys who , although not quite up to officer standards , yet are eager to ship out as ordinary seamen , wipers and messb oys . I do not ad , ocate that these present " unfortunates " are entitled after years at sea to wear the four stripes of com ? mand  --  for I still maintain that technical as well as practical training is necessary for the future officer  --  but they will *in time make competent quartermasters , boatswains , stewards and oilers . This is well realized in England and in our American Navy . Only those intellectually qualified are allowed to matriculate at Annapolis , yet a battleship 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers , and a vessel can not be operated by officers alone . America is becoming more and more merchant-marine conscious . More ships annually are sliding down the ways , and this means new crews  --  crews which today are made up of union men and graduates of State nautical schools . But what about the lads fresh from the farm or factory ? They , too , want to participate in the building of an American merchant marine second to none . Must they be graduates of high schools and marine academies , and perhaps eventually hold a Ph . D. degree , before becoming eligible to serve as ordinary seamen ? GORDON MACALLISTER . Annandale-on-Hudson , N. Y. , Feb. 25 , 1939 . Hailing a Sign of Spring To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The editorial " Fun in Winter " made interesting reading . Can it be true that city dwellers as late as mid-February are still longing " to bark their shins " on the ski-jumps ? In Jersey at this time of year we are yearning to toast our shins in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already looking for a sign of the changing season . It appeared today . The great migration of purple grackles came this afternoon and tonight the pine trees are noisy with the restlessness and chatter of these vigorous birds . Their arrival has strengthened our faith that Old Man Winter ca n't hold his grip much longer . My records show that the grackle returns in numbers to this section of the country in February about once in every three years . The first week in March is the more usual date . A friend of mine who tramps the fields a good deal saw scouts as early as St. Valentine 's Day . But the great flocks arrived today , the earliest date ever to be put into my records , by the way . ERNEST E. Rims . Lawrenceville , N. J. , Feb. 18 , 1939.                     