@@700245

txt While President Roosevelt in a speech at Savannah was attacking " Tories " who criticized his " experimentation , " the Chamber of Commerce of the United States was aiming a blow today at administration policies . In a resolution adopted by its directors , the chamber struck particularly at the President 's gold pur1 chake plan , and called upon him for an immediate announcement of intention " of an early return to a gold basis , with complete avoidance of monetary experimentation , greenbackism and fiat money , and with complete recession from theoretical or arbitrary ideas of ' priceindex ' fixation of the value of gold . " It could not be determined whether the action of the chambees board was made known to Mr. Roosevelt before he likened critics of his policies to those who had opposed George Washington in " another great experiment in 1776 . " But some significance was attached to the fact that soon after the President 's remarks had been transmitted to Washington , the chamber 's board made public another resolution , criticizing the use of funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to compete with duplicate existing facilities . Awaiting action by the chamber 's board was still another resolution declaring against operation of Muscle Shoals by the government , while another , adopted at the meeting , called for more industrial selfgovernment under the NRA . No Change Made in Gold Price . No official comment was forthcoming from officials here on either the chamber 's action or the President 's speech . There were no notable developments in the goldpurchase program . The price for new domestic gold was held for the fifth consecutive day at $33.56 an ounce . The gold price fixers did not meet today . This lack of change on the goldmarket experiment was the occasion for some speculation , according to the views one held concerning its merits . Friends of the plan said it represented a determination of the administration to continue on despite all criticism . Persons suspicious or critical of the effectiveness of gold purchases in raising commodity prices held that the stand-still indicated an uneasiness on the part of the administration toward proceeding . The latter buttressed their arguments with statistical references @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not gone up in any degree comparable to the rise in the price of gold . The chamber asked in effect that all this speculation be cleared up with a declaration on money policy . The resolution set forth the conclusion that the whole economic welfare of the nation stood waiting in the absence of monetary assurances . The resolution on monetary policy was as follows : Our consideration of various aspects of the economic and financial situation leads us to the conclusion that the question of a sound national monetary policy is paramount . It is of transcendent importance because the monetary policy not only affects all other financial issues but the whole economic welfare of the nation . The chamber is committed by action of its membership to support the maintenance of the integrity of our currency , the restoration and continuance of the gold standard , with a fixed gold value of the dollar properly determined , the balancing of public budgets , and the removal of restrictions upon foreign exchange . It is opposed to any policy of deliberately engendering price changes through measures which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not conducive to stability . In efforts to stimulate and foster improvement in the prices of primary commodities , of manufactured goods and of auxiliary services , it is opposed to any action that creates distrust in the currency , as being incapable of producing a lasting improvement . In advocating a sound and adequate currency as essential for a greater volume and mobility of credit , it maintains that it is necessary to provide such basis for faith in credit and in currency as will permit their healthy employment in the normal processes of business enterprise . Sees Confusion and Disquiet . We believe it should be emphasized that the present fiscal policies have developed widespread confusion and disquiet . We strongly recommend that the President of the United States make an unmistakable declaration that government securities will not be driven to lower levels by reason of monetary actions . We also urge that there be an immediate announcement of intention of an early return to a gold basis , with complete avoidance of monetary experimentation , currency manipulation , greenbackism and fiat money and with complete recession from theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of gold . Otherwise there will be instability of employment , because of inability of any one to make forward commitments on a basis of reasonable business risk instead of speculative hazard . There will be continuance of the demoralization of the exchanges , with its harmful repercussions on . all domestic and foreign trade . There will be insecurity for all classes of our people and a severe netback to the development of healthy recuperative processes , which in the main are based upon the decisions of individuals and not of government . Protection of the credit of the government is inseparable from public confidence in its obligations and faith in our circulating media , including currency , but mainly deposit credit . Upon the stability of the government 's securities now largely rests the maintenance of our banking , insurance and other fiduciary institutions and the flow of credit . Upon the integrity of the currency depends the well-being of the laborer , farmer , public servant and their dependents , the continuation of thrift and savings and a healthy development of investments . Recommendation on Public Works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Public Works administration announce a policy against the employment of funds from the $3,300,000,000 allotment for the building of competing or duplicating enterprises . It follows : The use of funds by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works to finance business units designed to compete with or duplicate existing units now rendering adequate service at reasonable cost is contrary to sound public policy , destructive of savings investments therein , made in good faith by all parts of our people , including wage earners and farmers , and causes an inequitable shift in the basis of taxation , through removal of extensive property values , and the income thereof , from local , State and Federal taxation . We ask the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works to announce a policy against such use of Federal funds . Such an announcement will greatly contribute to the restoration of confidence in a large aggregate of existing investments and encourage existing business enterprise to proceed with needed plans for extensions and betterment of service , thus furthering employment . Resists Control of Industries . The chamber , through the third resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands out of control of industries under the NRA except where legal penalties , processes provided in the law and abuses obviously harmful to the public or inherently wrong were involved . The resolution pointed out that trade associations were explicitly recognized in the Recovery Act and also alluded to a statement of President Roosevelt to the effect that " the organized national trade association becomes the directing authority for the industries it represents . " The chamber contended therefore that private industry , through its constituent trade associations , should have more responsibility and more latitude in the operation of NRA codes . A fourth resolutiT has to do yvith extension of loans for low cost housing . The board argued that any temporary plan of the administration to provide employment through financing individual home construction and repairs " should be based on established precedents and carried out through the cooperation of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board . " It held that loans to limited dividend corporations to finance such work was to be preferred to direct construction by the PWA or other agencies .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       