@@701890

txt Already the holder of a new record for the westward crossing of the North Atlantic , the new German dirigible Hindenburg , which was the object of 75,000 pairs of admiring eyes here today , will seek new honors when she leaves tomorrow night for Germany with fifty passengers and two tons of freight and mail . This was revealed here this morning by Dr. Hugo Eckener , who received a personal message of welcome and felicitation from President Franklin D. Roosevelt before the commodore left by airplane with his son , Knut , and Captain Ernst Lehmann to be guests of honor at a luncheon in New York . R. Walton Moore , Assistant Secretary of State , delivered President Roosevelt 's greeting to Dr. Eckener . " I think you should know , now , " he said , " that the President has instructed me to welcome you to this country and to congratulate you on the successful completion of your venture . " Gassed , fueled , overhauled and provisioned , the great airliner which flew here from Friedrichshafen in 61 hours 35 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eckener. with Captain Lehmann nodding his approval , said that 10 o'clock tomorrow night had been selected tentatively as her sailing time for her new home port of Frankfort . Launching to Be Difficult Tonight 's weather forecast indicated that there might be almost as much of a tussle in launching the ship on her homeward flight as there was in landing here . The forecast was for a sixteen-knot southwesterly , gusty , cross-hangar wind in the evening , when it was planned to move the ship from the hangar to the movable mooring mast from which she will fly home to Germany . This wind was expected to diminish later in the night . For the launching operation the navy was rounding up civilian recruits today . To augment the force of ninety sailors , trained in the art of manipulating an airship on the ground , officers of the air station were rounding up civilians who helped man and launch the Akron and the Macon before they were lost at sea . The soldiers from Camp Dix who were supposed to help land the ship , and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the picture for the launching . Hopes for ** Trip Dr. Eckener , who sucecssfully flew the old Los Angeles , the Graf Zeppelin and the new Hindenburg across the stormy Atlantic , and hopes some day to see a whole fleet of zeppelins in regular service across the ocean , said he expected to be at Frankfort about forty-five hours after leaving Lakehurst . The distance betwen the two points , according to the navy 's Hydrographic Office , is 3,894 statute miles . If the Hindenburg lives up to her commander 's expectations , she will lower the Graf Zeppelin 's record for the eastbound ocean journey by about ten hours . The older craft , the first airship to bring passengers through the air from Europe , flew from Lakehurst to Friedrichshafen in August , 1929 , on the first leg of her flight around the world , in 55 hours 42 minutes . In estimating his flying time on the homeward journey Eckener was counting upon favoraole winds more than on the power of the Elindenburg 's four Diesel engines , which will not be opened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if not probable , that the huge airship  --  longer than the Woolworth Building is high  --  will match the thirty-three-hour record of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh on his New York-to-Paris flight in 1927 . When fully opened the Fru:ideaburg 's engines will drive her through the air at the rate of eighty miles an hour . With a forty-mile tail wind , which she probably will have if she flies high enough on her homeward voyage , she could do 120 miles an hour , a speed which would put her over Frankfort about thirtythree hours after her departure . Flying westward on her maiden voyage to the United States , the Hindenburg flew at a low altitude to avoid the prevailing eastward winds at higher altitudes and avail herself of the help of favorable surface winds . On the trip home meteorological conditions call for the flight to be made at a higher altitude . The replenishing of the Hindenburg 's depleted fuel tanks and the refilling of her sixteen hydrogen cells were completed at 1 o'clock this morning except for that infinitesimal amount of each that will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She took 1,100,000 cubic feet of hydrogen and 8,666 gallons of Diesel oil , supplied by the Bayway plant of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey . Hardly any fresh provisions were taken aboard , for her commissary officers ? either overestimated the appetites of her westbound passengers or the passengers were too busy sight-seeing on the journey to the United States to eat as heartily as usual . At any rate , the ship 's larder was still amply supplied with foodstuffs and potables when she arrived . Some beer was taken aboard , but it was ? beer that bad first been imported from Germany . Three airplanes brought a large delegation , including Mr. Moore , to Lakehurst to inspect the airship . In the party were high ranking officers of the navy and members of the Military and Naval Affairs Committees of the House of Representatives . Commander Charles E. Rosendahl , commandant of the air station here , escorted Dr. Eckener , who has been his guest , to the hangar , where he introduced him to Mr. Moore . The State Department official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoulder , delivered President Roosevelt 's oral welcome . Dr. Eckener smiled and expressed his appreciation , after which Mr. Moore and government officials inspected the Hindenburg from stem to stern . Among the few among the thousands of visitors who were Permitted to see the airship 's interior were Admiral William H. Standley , Rear Admiral S. Ernest J. King and Alfred W. Johnson , Eugene Vidal , director of the Commerce Department 's Bureau of Aeronautics , and Richard Southgate , chief of protocol of the State Department . Admiral Standley , who as chief of naval operations is commonly believed to be more interested in battleships than airships , was noncommital about his opinion of the commercial and military importance of the Hindenburg , explaining before he boarded the airship that " the policy of the United States regarding lighter-than-air ships is in abeyance . " After he had inspected the Hindenburg he still refused to venture an opinion upon the significance of the airship 's flight , but said that the fact that the great ship had completed its flight across the sea was " sufficient evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chief of the Naval Bureau of Aeronautics , however , was more outspoken in his enthusiasm . He said he was " delighted " to have been able to see " this beautiful airship . " He added that he hoped the Hin-1 denburg 's achievement would demonstrate the " feasibility of transatlantic transportation by airship . " Five members of the House also were among the throngs who visited the hangar during the day . They included Representatives William H. Sutphen of New Jersey , Paul Kvale of Minnesota , Melvin H. Maas of Minnesota , Ralph 0 . Brewster of Maine and J. G. Scroughami of Nevada . Mr. Kvale is a member of the House Committee on Military Affairs and Mr. Sutphen1 and Mr. Maas are on the Naval Affairs Committee . In addition to the distinguished visitors from Washington thousands of humbler folk-75,000 of them , according to Major W. T. H. Galliford , commanding the marines on sentry duty here  --  visited the airport during the day to marvel at the Hindenburg 's great size . The hangar was opened at 8 A. M. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were jammed , with 4,000 men and women and children crowded about the visitors ' entrance at the side of the hanger when the order was issued to open the door . Two sentries guarded the portal and 140 others were stationed about the airship . The plan was to admit the crowd in double file , but the hundreds who had waited for hours to be the first to see the airship in her hangar bad other ideas . They rushed through the narrow door , crushing each other and knocking down the weaker ones in front . Nine persons fainted or were knocked down and trampled , requiring treatment at the hands of Lieutenant C. V. Green , the flight surgeon on duty at the hospital tent . Despite the signs warning visitors that they were forbidden to take parcels or cameras inside the hangar . marines spotted 300 cameras and 150 packages in the hands of visitors to the hangars . These , along with 100 women 's handbags , had to be left at the check room , netting the naval relief society $55 , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents apiece . Traffic on roads leadinge from Toms River , Lakewood and Lakehurst were congested , but conditions were not so bad as in 1928 when the Graf Zeppelin made her first visit to the United States . Early in the morning State policemen sent up an airplane , equipped for two-way radio communication with two police cars on the highways to help unsnarl the traffic jam . The directions relayed to the patrol cars from the air . enabled fifteen motor cycle police and the twenty-five patrolmen on foot to keep traffic moving fairly smoothly . It was estimated that 50,000 cars were parked near the entrance to the navy air station . None but official cars was allowed to enter the gates . Many of the visitors wore swastikas in their buttonholes and hundreds of automobiles displayed the emblem of Nazi Germany upon their radiator caps . The only thing resembling an anti-Nazi demonstration occurred toward mid-afternoon when a red biplane flew over the hanger trailing a pennant which read : " Fight Fascism  --  Help Free Thaelmann . " Few.of the thousands on the field saw the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liberation of Ernst Thaelmenn , former leader of the Communist party in Germany and member of the Reichstag , who now is a prisoner in a concentration camp .                     