@@704368

txt Two business agents of the Dressmakers Union , Local 22 , of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , who had refused to follow the new " line " of the Communist party because they believed it would disrupt the work of the union , were expelled from membership in the party yesterday . Five other Communist officials of the local union , which has 30,000 members , announced their withdrawal from the party as soon as the expulsion order became known . The two who were ousted were Ben Gerjoy and Sol Lipnack . The New York State committee of the Communist party , through its chairman , Israel Amter , explained their removal in a statement in which it declared that , " whenever the going became tough , they wavered , doubted and otherwise deserted the struggle . " Mr. Gerjoy arid Mr. Lipnack were accused in the manifesto of having gone over to " the camp of the Lovestoneites , Trotskyites and Social Democrats , the pre-war , Redbaiting stooges of the bosses and the Dies committee against the best interests of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounced as " obviously false " in a leaflet distributed to members of the union last night by the seven officers who had been Communists before the purge of dissident unionists began . In addition to Mr. Gerjoy and Mr. Lipnack , the signers were Hyman Grossman and Meyer Kravetz , both business agents ; Morris Rosenberg , executive board member , and Abe Feil and Isidore Gross , adjusters . " All of us are known to the dressmakers as people who have served the dressmakers actively for many years , " their leaflet declared . " We will continue to serve the dressmakers and the entire labor movement . However , we could not remain indifferent when we realized that there are elements within our union who placed factional and party politics above the needs of the dressmakers and our union . " Full support for the expelled Communists was expressed by Charles S. Zimmerman , manager of Local 22 , who said they had always cooperated with the other leaders of the union in carrying forward its " constructive work to protect the interests of the workers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new policy of the Communist party , which would lead to disruption of our organization , will make them more welcome to the dressmakers , " Mr. Zimmerman said . " Their present disassociation from the Communist party shows they place the interests of the union first . " Industrial conditions in the dress trade are bad . Many jobbers and manufacturers are trying to run away and operate on a non-union basis . The union is fighting to prevent them from moving out of the city and to maintain the standards of the workers in our industry . For the Communist party to attempt to bring in its new ' line ' at this time is most injurious . " Workers ' Interests Put First Alluding to a charge by the Communists that Mr. Gerjoy and Mr. Lipnack had taken shelter in " the camp of the enemy " to escape the attacks leveled at the party since the European war began , Mr. Zimmerman said : " Does the new Communist ' party line ' mean that serving a trade union and the workers it represents is equivalent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of our union is and always has been to place the interests of workers above party politics . " For several years the Communists in Local 22 , estimated to number about 500 , have worked together with other factions in a " united front " administration . Since the pact between Soviet Russia and Nazi Germany and the Soviet invasions of Poland and Finland the party 's enthusiasm for united front tactics has waned , and this precipitated the efforts at disharmony in Local 22 , union officials asserted . In their pamphlet the seven former Communists set forth their continued faith in the united front policy . They called for " united ranks " to " smash the attempt of the bosses to destroy our living standards " and urged the members not to dissipate their energies in factional warfare . " We are against all those who place factional politics first , " the seven officials said . " At the same time , we will fight against any at-tempt on the part of any one who may seek to embark our union on a Red-baiting campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wish to smash the entire labor movement . But we are just as strongly opposed ) a slander campaign against those who have honest disagreements on trade union policies . " Attack by Communists The statement adopted by the State committee of the Communist party in expelling Mr. Gerjoy and Mr. Lipnack said " the capitalist class and the government " had launched an unprecedented attack on the party and its leadership in an effort to " isolate our party from the masses that follow it . " " It is at a time like this , " the statement declared , " that every sincere and devoted member and friend of the party has rallied to its defense , realizing that a successful attack will open the floodgates of reaction against trade union : and every progressive organization . It is also at a time like this that some weaklings , cowards and opportunists , fearing for their personal well-being , desert the class struggle and take shelter in the camp of the enemy . " Earl Browder , general secretary of the party in the United States , described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long years have become soft or a little rotten from too long sitting in comfortable office chairs of bureaucratic positions . "                     