@@701208

txt In the face of President Roosevelt 's demand for a two-year continuation of the National Industrial Recovery Act , and a declaration by Donald R. Richberg that a mere ten months ' extension would be " complete folly , " the . Senate in a burst of speed and without a record vote approved today the Clark Joint Resolution to keep the recovery agency alive only until April 1 , 1936 . In addition to the ten months ' time limit the resolution would modify the NRA in some important particulars after the present law expires by limitation on June 16 . It would - prohibit price fixing in codes , except those for mineral and natural-resource industries , and ban codes of fair competition for industries that are wholly intrastate . The President would be directed to review codes now in effect , to see if they comply with the resolution , within thirty days from June 15 , during which time the codes would continue to be operative . Before the vote was taken , Senator Harrison , chairman of the Finance Committee , warned House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a two-year lease of life . The Mississippi Senator said that he would never agree as a conferee to such . a plan and would , on the contrary , fight it desperately . Without mentioning Mr. Richberg by name , Senator Harrison asserted . that if the House passed legislation " suggested by certain gentlemen of the NRA , " this would be fought out in the Senate as completely new legislation . In that case , he said , Senate consideration of the resolution might extend beyond June 16 , the date of the automatic death of the NRA unless the extension legislation was approved by Congress . La Follette Backs NRA . Mr. Richberg , acting chairman of the NRA , used the words " complete folly " as he spoke at a mass meeting of NRA workers today relative to the policy of Congress extending the agency for only a. brief time . His views were supported later in the Senate by Senator La Follette , Progressive , and Senator Shipstead , Farmer-Labor , the only Senators to raise their voices in support of President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President toward the Clark resolution , Senate leaders , including the Democratic leader , Senator Robinson , and Mr. Harrison , have insisted since a conference with Mr. Roosevelt ten days ago , that he will approve the measure if passed by both branches . Administration aides asserted that the rapid disposal of both the NRA and the TVA in a single day cleared the legislative situation materially . Action Comes Suddenly . Approval of the NRA extension came with unexpected suddenness . After the TVA amendments were adopted , the Recovery Resolution came to the front , arid after only a brief debate was rushed through to completion . There were not many Senators on the floor when the vote came  --  not enough , in fact , to assure a roll-call , which Senator La Follette and a few others demanded . Immediately after the vote Senator Wagner placed his labor dieputes bill in parliamentary position as the pending business , and debate will start upon it tomorrow . Urges Bill at Next Session . - Senator Haraison said that a new NRA bill would have taken weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next session " and more clearly write a law that can be sustained by the courts . " Senator Long said that he would vote for the extension , " not because I like the NRA but because it dehorns it and gums it up . " Senator Borah stated that he had a " tacit understanding " with Senator Harrison to support the resolution if it remained in its present form . " I will vote for the resolution , but , like the Senator from Idaho , I do not want to be understood as favoring extension of the NRA for I a single minute , " said Senator Glass . " If I could I would ternrinate it right on the spot , but I 'll vote for the resolution because it perhaps is the best thing we can get . " Criticizing the Finance Commit- tee for reporting the Clark resolution instead of a two-year extension , Senator La Follette said : " If the resolution becomes law I venture the prediction that the NRA is as dead as a doornail . Any one who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to uncertainty , because of the approaching termination of the present contract , June 16 , and the legislative policy of Congress , there has been a process of rapid disintegration in NRA . " If that uncertainty is permitted for the next ten months , there wo n't be enough left of NRA to wad a shotgun . It is better for the country and for everybody else to permit the NRA to expire June 16 than to pass this pusillanimous resolution . " Richberg Defends NRA . Mr. Richberg , in his speech to the NRA workers , said that what should be considered today is merely the improvement of NRA administrative machinery " and not an attack upon a fundamental concept which is so obviously sound that only a confused and muddled mind could think of attacking it . " " We may be very deeply concerned with the form and time of extension as to whether an adequate opportunity is given to this organization to carry forward in the light of experience with the gains it has made , " he said . " The idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of legislation or another can not affect the steady tendency , the trend of events , the force of economic and political errors that have brought us from the anti-trust laws of 1890 to the passage of the National Industrial Recovery Act in 1933 . The tendency to go on is inevitable . " I think we should be profoundly interested in the question of at least having the ability to profit by our mistakes , to improve upon our performance , to contract our operations within human limits . " Text of the Resolution The text of the Clark resolution passed by the Senate was as follows : JOINT RESOLUTION To extend until April 1 , 1936 , the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act , and for other purposes . Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That Section 2 ( C ) of Title I of the National Recovery Act is amended by striking out " at the expiration of two years after the date of enactment of this Act , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1936 . " Section 2 . In the application of Title I of such act after the date of enactment of this joint resolution and until April 1 , 1936 , the following amendatory revisions shall apply : ( 1 ) No price fixing shall be permitted or sanctioned under the provisions of any code ; except that provisions for the regulation of prices under governmental control may be continued in codes for those mineral naturalresource industries in which prices are now fixed pursuant to the provisions of any code and which the President finds to be ? so affected with a public interest that such regulation is necessary and proper in the public interest . ( 2 ) No code of fair competition shall be applicable to any person whose business is wholly intrastate . Sec. 3 . The President shall review or cause to be reviewed for compliance with the requirements of this joint resolution every code in effect on the date this jein3t , , resolution takes effect . In order ' to afford reasonable opportunity of such review , such codes are hereby continued in ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the provisions of this joint resolution ) for a period of thirty days after June 15 , 1935 , unless ? previously reviewed and superseded ; . but no such code shall continue in effect after the expiration of such thirty-day period unless the President has reviewed such code and has approved it and finds that the code in the form so approved conforms to the requirements of this joint resolution. ,                     