@@698546

txt In all friendliness of honest difference of opinion it appears certain that the United States and France must take the leadership of the two main schools of opinion which are being formed in this disarmament conference . Their two conceptions were set forth very plainly in speeches delivered from the platform at conference assemblies early this past week . Since then it has been evident that , one by one , each is gaining adherents . Other sentences from their program speeches could be cited to show the difference of conception , but the following should suffice . Ambassador Hugh S. Gibson , for the United States , said : " Our problem is to establish by honest scrutiny and agreement the margin that now exists beyond what is essential for the maintenance of internal order and the defense of our territories . Controlled by prudence , but not by fear , let us then proceed in a practical way to reduce armaments to the level to which we are all cornI mitted . " Tardieu 's Views Contrast . 1 Andr &; Tardieu , for France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be an effectively organized League of Nations unless that League has powers of prevention and repression . We do not believe that there will be any real peace until we have a strengthened League . That is why we wish to implement its covenant by providing the League with the necessary resources to carry it out . We are convinced that disarmament without organization of peace would place an unfair premium upon sheer numbers and technical ability . " Why the United States and France should hold these so utterly opposite conceptions of the real objective to be sought in the conference is a matter of geography , of experience , of living conditions and of mental outlook . It is not a matter about which there can be any argument . But for the purposes of this conference it begins to be very apparent that these two conceptions are going to give rise to many arguments . Maxim Litvinoff , head of the Soviet delegation , answered the riddle of how to reconcile them by declaring blandly for total abolition of all armies , both national and international . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries of all dimensions and circumstances have succeeded each other at the tribune , it has become apparent that , while few are ready to go as far as France has boldly proposed , nearly all those who have big neighbors seem to feel the weight of that argument about sheer numbers and to incline toward the final setting up of an international force of some kind , with the preference going toward the idea of a big international air fleet which , from the skies , would at least menace any offending party . On the other side are those who , feeling themselves on good terms with their neighbors , have no such fears . Confident in themselves , either because of their geographic position or because of thier size , they welcome as the only common-sense answer to the disarmament problem that all menace should and can be removed by reduction of national armies to purely defensive proportions and equipment . This argument is likely during the coming week to be complicated still further , for Germany is certain to seize upon the American definition as exactly right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces , established ' by the treaty of Versailles , must be the unit by which " a ? sufficient national army " for any and all of her neighbors must be calculated . ' It will not , however , be until next week that this argument will begin to be developed in committee . And even then there is likely to be delay , for , although during this week it is expected the long list of speakers will be exhausted , several days will be spent in organizing the committee and in determining just how the varions suggestions which have been made are to be handled and just how the political problems involved will be dealt with alongside those of a technical nature . The latter are likely , upon examination , to provide enormous differences . Although the many suggestions which have been made from the rostrum have had an air of similarity , the connotations of the various spe6ches shows very varied and subtle differences of wording . Virtually the only two matters on which it can be claimed there is complete unanimity are that bacteriological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there must be adequate protection for civil populations from air bombs and gas . Beyond that one finds in these carefully worded speeches very little of agreement , although undoubtedly there is a possibility that agreement exists . There is a clear majority in favor of the abolition or restriction of what are described as " those weapons which are devoted primarily to aggressive war . " But those who seek restriction are not in accord with those who demand abolition . Spain and Sweden have asked for the abolition of military aviation . France would internationalize aviation . Italy , Russia , Japan , Belgium and Denmark have asked for the abolition of bombing aircraft . The United States ' position is defined in the fifth point of Mr. Gibson 's speech : " We will join in formulating the most effective measures to protect civilian populations against aerial bombing . " That does not by any means preclude the use of this form of warfare in so far as armies , are concerned . The United States advocates and Great Britain presses for the abolition of submarines . Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . France still holds to her old position that they are defensive weapons when inoffensively used . Italy , Russia , Sweden and others desire the abolition of heavy mobile artillery and tanks . France would have them earmarked for the League . The United States " agrees in advocating special restrictions . " Great Britain and Sweden still advocate , as they did during the preliminary conference , the abolition of conscription . Germany will undoubtedly add her voice to this demand . But most of that part of Europe Which fought in the victorious ranks in the last war remains attached to the system , although all have reduced and some are willing to reduce further their periods of service . There are thus , when the situation is closely examined , far more points of difference than of agreement in the program and proposals ' which have so far been laid down . That , however , does not imply that these differences will prove irreconcilable . There is unanimity , too , on this point , repeated by every statesman here : that . in the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     