@@704041

txt Great Britain is experiencing recovery in business apart from the activity created by the rearmament program . There has been a recent additional increase in demand for consumption goods , such as foods and textiles . and the belief that prices of these products have about touched bottom is causing inventories to be built up . Although a decline in some industries of normal proportions is expected for the summer , there is every prospect that the revival in trade will continue in the autumn , even though there should be some increase in political tension . Oliver Stanley . president of the Board of Trade , in the debate on Board of Trade estimates in the House of Commons yesterday gave considerable attention to what he called a marked recovery in British trade in recent months . Mr. Stanley said that while rearmament was an important factor in the expansion , he felt the recovery was not as greatly dependent on expenditures on arms as " some people would believe . " ? Export Volume Rises " You would expect , " he said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to this unproductive expenditure , immediately to find a large increase in our imports and falling off in our exports . Examination of our trade figures for the first three months of 1939 does not show this tendency at all . " In the first three months of 1939 , although there was a fall in the value of exports , volume of exports actually increased by some 3% . As regards our imports , there was a fall in value of 11% and an actual fall in volume of 3%. so whatever may be the present effect of arma- ments expenditure upon our economy we have not yet entered the phase of abnormal imports followed by a startling decline in exports . " British industry is still engaged in supplying the usual requirements of people and there is as yet no general dislocation in industry . " Mr. Stanley declared . Referring to the coal industry , he said that inland consumption of coal in the last quarter was substantially greater than in the quarter preceding and that inland consumption is being fully maintained . The iron and steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Stanley stated . Turning to shipbuilding , he added that between the time of the announcement of the government 's plans and May 19. shipbuilders in Britain and Northern Ireland had received orders for 144 ships totaling 714. - 000 tons . The textile Industries have not been wholly outside the general recovery that has taken place , he declared . The large stocks accumulated in 1937 have now , to a large extent , been liquidated , he added . Anglo-German Relations Dealing with Anglo-German trade relations . Mr. Stanley said that the impression given inside Germany was that Great Britain was out to defeat Germany at every turn and to prevent natural expansion but it is worthwhile remembering , he said , that both he and R. S. Hudson had been on the point of going to Germany to discuss methods for mutual improvement of trade when the Germans themselves closed the door to that possibility . " There is no desire on our part , " Mr. Stanley declared , " to exclude a great industrial country like Germany from the natural market which she had enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we were to try to take over every quarter of the world and try to exclude them from Germany , we should adopt a policy which must lead to disaster We do not need to cut Germany out from these markets but we are entitled to our fair share of trade there and we are determined to maintain it . " Cites Anglo-American Pact Mr. Stanley cited the agreement with the United States as an example of the classical method of trade negotiations designed to reduce tariff barriers between countries and , b ) the use on both sides of the most favored nation clause , extending what is a bi-lateral arrangement into the wider field of freer international trade . As to the actual effect of that agreement . be said , it is too early to come to any definite conclusion but there has been an extremely satisfactory increase in Brit:sh export trade to the United States . Mr. Stanley also made an appeal to every individual not to restrict his personal spending. - " We must realize how much trade still depends upon the confidence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plow can be done to our industries , our economic strength and our strategic security by alternating waves of confidence and depression . All of us here would like to appeal to the ordinary man , whether consumer , producer or entrepreneur not to act as if Inevitable emergencies were hanging over us . " The precautions we can take in our individual lives will be of little avail if an emergency does come . The few pounds we can save in the bank , rather than buy the new suit we need , will not really help us much and yet it is that feeling which , if it becomes widespread . slackens our trade , increases our unemployment and decreases our power to meet an emergency if it arises. , I think it is folly to pretend that the emergency is not there . folly to say that war is not possible . but it is a crime to say that war is inevitable , " Mr. Stanley declared . Would Reassure Germans Thursday 's speeches by Prime Minister Chamberlain and Foreign Minister Halifax and yesterday 's reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be designed to remove the growing fear of encirclement from the minds of those Germans who previously had been impressed by Chamberlain 's efforts to preserve peace , but who lately have become anxious by reason of internal propaganda that they might again have to suffer deprivations experienced during the Great War by reason of Britain 's blockade . These speeches are not intended to suggest that Great Britain is again adopting the policy of appeasement at any cost but on the contrary are designed to indicate now that Britain and France aagin are so strong they can afford to be generous if Germany will meet them around the conference table and abandon its efforts to dominate Europe . But Britain will be only willing to negotiate when Germany shows a real change of heart and meanwhile will press on with rearmament and the policy of completing alliances at all costs .                     