@@701455

txt Secre-* tary of State Hull today expressed regret to the German Government because Magistrate Louis B. Brodsky of New York indulged in expressions " offensive to another government with which we have official relations " when he discharged five out of six prisoners charged with participation in the riot aboard the Bremen ori July 26 . The communication took the form of an oral statement to Dr. Rudolf Leitner , counselor of the German Embassy . It pointed out that the Federal Government had no control over the freedom of speech of State and municipal officials . Hull 's Statement on Issue . The statement Secretary of State Hull delivered to Dr. Leitner follows : It appears that those accused were charged with the violation of the Penal Law of New York pro , hibiting unlawful assemblies . The magistrate reached the conclusion , upon the correctness of which the department can not undertak . to pass , that the evidence submitted did not support the charge of unlawful assembly and dismissed the complaint and discharged the defendants on ? this charge . The complaint of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the magistrate in rendering his decision which that government interprets as an unwarranted reflection upon it . The department is constrained to feel that the magistrate , in restating contentions of the defendants in the case and in commenting upon the incident , unfortunately so worded his opinion as to give the reasonable and definite impression that he was going out of his way adversely to criticize the government , which criticism was not a relevant or legitimate part of his judicial decision . I may explain that State and municipal officials are not instrumentalities of the Federal Government . Although in this country the right of freedom of speech is well recognized by our fundamental law , it is to be regretted that an official having no responsibility for maintaining relations between the United States and other countries should , regardless of what he may ' personally think of the laws and policies of other governments , thus indulge in expressions offensive to another government with which we have official relations . The German Government instructed Ambassador Luther to protest at the time of the riot , and again when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freeing the five prisoners . The New York magistrate said that the Nazi flag , which wa torn from the Bremen 's stern and thrown into the North River during the riot , was " a black flag or piracy " in the minds of the defendants . Ostensibly interpreting the frame of mind of the prisoners , as shown in their evidence , he said that they regarded the Nazi flag as an emblen. of " war on religious free-1 dom ; the enslavement of women and workers ; the suppression of the blessed trinity of free speech , freedom of the press and lawful assembly ; the degradation of culture , an international menace threatening freedom ; a revolt against civilization  --  in brief , an atavistic throw-back to premedieval , if not barbaric , social and political conditions . " At the time of the original protest the State Department replied that the New York City police had taken every possible measure to protect the Bremen and to minimize the effects of the riot . It expressed regret that anything should have happened to trouble the relations between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in today 's statement .                     