@@699807

txt Estimates on how long it will require to take in the World 's Fair vary from a week , for a business man 's whirlwind survey of the exhibits and fling at the concessions , to the entire five month period , for one who wants to do a thorough job of it . An official of the Exposition used the Field museum as an illustration of the time that may be spent at the Fair . A Sunday afternoon visitor , he said , might cover a whole floor , while a scientist would spend a week in the anthropological section . 82 Miles of Free Exhibits . There are some sixty buildings given over to free exhibits , with a total corridor length or walking distance of 82 miles . There are some 12,000 exhibits , so that if two minutes were devoted to the scrutiny of each one it would require six weeks to see them all , working 10 hours a day . For the man who wishes to devote only a week to the Fair Col. John Stewart , chief of works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exhibits in the buildings of the Exposition proper may be seen without stepping on the ground . The visitor enters the grounds at 18th street , over the viaduct across the Illinois Central tracks , and into the General Exhibits group , five connected buildings with 211,000 square feet of floor space . A bridge connects this group with the Hall of Science , which has 408,000 feet of floor space , and from it leads a bridge , separating the north and south lagoons , to the Hall of Social Science on Northerly island . Bridges Connect Exhibits . Another bridge leads to the Electrical Group , the Radio and Communications and the Electrical buildings , with a combined floor space of 238,000 square feet . Back through the Social Science hall there is a bridge to the United States government building and the Court of States . A bridge from the federal and states group connects with the Food and Agricultural building , where the elevated journey ends . That leaves the Horticultural building , between Enchanted island and Hollywood , and the Travel and Transport building , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings proper . While on the island the visitor should take in the Planetarium at the north end , Jantzen beach , Enchanted island , if there are children , and , at the south end , Hollywood and Spoor 's Spectaculum . Midway on Mainland . Back to the mainland , across the Venetian bridge at 23d street , is the beginning of the Midway , the Streets of Paris , Midget village , the Old Heidelberg inn , the World a Million Years Ago , the Moroccan village , the A. &; P. Carnival , the Pantheon de la Guerre , the Battle of Gettysburg cyclorama , the Lion Drome , the Oriental Village , and scores of rides and freak shows . There are rows of amusements and concessions all the way to Fort Dearborn and the Lincoln group at about 27th street , after which comes the Home and Industrial Arts group . A visitor can take a bus , if he likes , to the General Motors , Chrysler and Travel and Transport buildings , or stop off along the way at the Vienna cafe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Maya temple . Farther south , at 35th street , are the poultry show and the " Days of ' 49 , " the Ukrainian pavilion , the Goodyear blimp landing field and the Terrazzo promenade . Bar Autos from Grounds . On the return bus trip the visitor sees the sights he has missed north of 18th street , the Chinese pavilion and Temple of Jehol , the Japanese pavilion , the Czechoslovakian pavilion . the Italian pavilion , the Swedish pavilion , the Illinois Host house , the Sears-Roebuck building and the Avenue of Flags . No automobiles will be permitted on the Fair grounds , but the trip from one end to the other can be made for a dime on a bus , while a round trip , with stopover privileges , costs 25 cents .                     