@@701660

txt It is probable that the shipments of finished steel products by the U. S. Steel Corp . in December were somewhat below the total of 681,820 delivered during November . but the decrease is not expected to be substantial . The report will be made public at noon today . Year-end adjustments in the past often have affected the show nag or &11.ipments.; but there are no indications at present that they will be important as of the end of 1935. so that any action in this connection will not influence the showing to any appreciable extent . Deliveries during the early part of December were in excess of the average of 27,273 tons per day recorded in November , but with the approach of the holidays the requirements of customers fell off , particularly because of inventory time , so that the daily average for the month is expected to be slightly below the November figure . Total 1935 Shipments Indications are that the total shipments for 1935 , without adjustments . will be in the neighborhood of 7,350.000 to 7.350,000 tons , the largest for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including adjustments . In 1934 the deliveries were 5.905,966 tons : in 1933 the2. amounted to 5 505,235 tons , and in 1932 they were down to 3.974,062 tons . The showing monthly in 1935 was exactly the reverse from 1931 . Last year the deliveries Month by month kept on a fairly even keel , with a better showing in the last six months than in the first half . In 1931 the shipments were heavy in the first six months and dropped off sharply during the final half of the year . While production by U. S. Steel fell off toward the end of December , affected by the holiday period , the corporations shipments did not come down in proportion to the production cut . This was due to the fact that some surplus material was accumulated which could be sent out to meet the desires of consumers . Increase In Ingot Output Since the beginning.of the current year there has been an increase in ingot output , and finishing mills also have been speeded up to some extent . Specifications for deliveries from customers also have shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months at least is considered favorable , with much depending upon heavy steels when the open weather arrives . - It is significant that many steel interests today are more confident on the outlook for heavy steels than they have been at any corresponding time for several years . ' Improvements in this direction , coupled with the anticipated steady and continued demand for lighter products would be of material benefit to U. S. Steel which has considerable capacity in the heavy steels . With the completion of capacity in strip steel late last year the Steel Corporation is in a better position to go out after a greater share of this business , especially as the operation of the new mill at , Ohio , increases to the point where greater efficiency and reduced costs will be of benefit .                     