@@696969

txt THE CAR-AHEAD ORDER . Subway Traveler Learns About Discomfort on Madison Avenue . To the Editor of The New York Times : I thought I knew all about transportation discomfort in this town , as I ride in the subway every day . But I did not . I had to go over to Madison Avenue and travel in a surface car In order really to discover how human beings can be abused . It was this way : On Tuesday , at about 3 P. M. , I boarded a northbound Madison Ave , nue car at Thirty-third Street . The car was well filled  --  and with the busiest part of its route yet to traverse . At Forty-second Street we overtook another car of the same line . This was already crowded , with many standing . Yet the order came to those in our car , from a railway official : " Car ahead . All out . " This was done in order to enable railway people to secure an empty car for their own uses , since , upon being vacated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eill ) wntown track and was returned to its starting point for use again there . But what of its passengers ? Crushed and pushed into an already overcrowded car  --  the " car ahead " ? swinging by straps , many of them carrying bulky Christmas presents , and packed together in a way to shame a subway crush at its worst rush-hour peak , they were subjected to ' a degree of personal violence and abuse that , if inflicted by an individual , would bring about serious punishment in any police court . Nor was there any relief . In fact , as the car progressed up Madison Avenue , the conditions became steadily worse . The motorman.was in despair . He pleaded with already immovable passengers to ' ' step down the car , " when the - aisle was already packed beyond endurance . So great was the crowd where the motorman stood that it was with the greatest difficulty that he could use his arms to operate the motor and the brake . Hence the progress of the car was intolerably slow . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have doors at both ends and in the middle , this surface car had but one door , and that at the motorman 's elbow , for both entrance and exit . Imagine the situation ! My destination was Sixty-fifth Street ; but on arriving there it was simply impossible for me to push through the struggling mass and reach the door . I therefore decided to stay where I was until the pressure relaxed . It was not until we reached 104th Street that this was the case . As I passed out of the ear  --  numbered 1210 ? I noted the cash register . It showed that 266 fares had been rung up to that time on the trip , in addition , of course , to endeavoring to squeeze in the 50 or so occupants of the car in which I originally started . These figures speak for themselves . This one car had been attempting to convey the traffic that certainly two cars , or even three , should have handled , and this extreme discomfort and delay were simply inflicted by the railway management upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an outrage ! A. E. S. New York , Dec. 25 , 1929 . A Problem Explained . To the Editor of The New York Times : The trouble with Senators Harris and Brookhart is that they want an absolutely fair , unbiased and impartial report in exact accord with those Senators ' views , made by a commission to be composed entirely of persons who not only refuse to consider any but one side of the prohibition question  --  that favored by the Senators named  --  but who will refuse to admit that there is any other side . BOARDMAN WRIGHT . New York , Dec. 25 , 1929 . IT 'S . ALL IN ENFORCEMENT . Senator Borah Upheld in Criticism of Dry Law Personnel . To the Editor of The New York Times : While personally believing that it would be wise to make some modification of the Volstead act , I am , nevertheless , strongly in favor of attempts to restrict and control the sale of intoxicating liquors. -I have little sympathy with the contention of THE TIMES and other opponents of prohibition that restriction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with individual liberty . Whose liberty is interfered with by the drunken murderer , or by the drunken auto driver when he becomes the direct cause of the death of others by his inability to control his auto ? If the courts would enforce fitting penalties , such disasters would be largely avoided . There is no greater absurdity than that of a temporary forfeiting of a driver 's license , soon to be restored and the driver again set free to become a constant menace to the lives of others . But the greatest evil connected with prohibition is found in , the character of those appointed to enforce the law , or in the farcical bluff of enforcement . Senator Borah is quite right when he says that the law can not be enforced until there is a decided change in the enforcement personnel . For , whatever may be said of the higher-ups , there is little attempt at enforcement by a great body of the rank and file of those whose duty it is to enforce the law . Let me cite two cases . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notorious , and there are speakeasies , one of them also quite notorious . Yet this village is practically ignored by national enforcement officers . Again , in the township of Keene , Essex County , N. Y. , where I spent the Summer , bootlegging is rampant . I was told last Summer by a resident that there were twelve to fifteen speakeasies in that township , one man boasting that he had made seventy-five trips to Canada without any interference . A few years ago a college student hiking to the Adirondacks got a lift from a bootlegger who boasted that he made a thousand dollars a ' week bringing liquor from Canada . Again , a few miles from my Summer home in the Adirondacks is a dance hall and speakeasy frequented by State troopers , who have been seen as drunk as others who attend the Saturday night dances . Indeed , it is well understood that that whole region of the Adirondacks is infested with bootleggers and speakeasies . Yet nothing is done . But what could be expected from men of the character of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and enforcement is regarded . as a secondary matter . In almost any district it requires little observation to fully agree with Senator Borah that there must be a. complete change in the personnel of those appointed to enforce the prohibition laws . The editorial in TIM TIMES of Dec. 26 by no means meets the situation . Often wrong in his fluctuating positions ; in this case Senator Borah has put his finger on tk e weak point of prohibition enforcement . If the law enforcement commission will explore this line of - inquiry , it will discover one of the most important reasons for the failure of prohibition enforcement . S. F. WESTON . Antioch College , Ohio , Dec. 30 , 1929 . Freedom a Remedy for Many Ills . To the Editor of Thd New York Ttmea : The effort of the administration at Washington artificially to promote prosperity , while condoning and approving the protective tariff system , reminds one of the story or the yellow who was found on the highway bound hand and foot and unable to move . Those who gathered about him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one suggested the cutting of the cords which bound him . This being done the fellow walked away free and independent of further assistance . Possibly , freedom is what is needed at the present time more than anything else : freedom from the inevitable robbery of the protective tariff system ; freedom from the tyranny , corruption , lawlessness and crime which characterize the prohibition program ; freedom from such excessive burdens upon the taxpayer as are imposed by such legislation as farm relief , which benefits no one excepting the salaried men connected with it and the marketing combinations in restraint of trade which it promotes ; freedom from a system of taxation which violates scientific and ethical principles . It is freedom that is needed today rather than a multiplication of special privileges . HENRY WARE AIsLEN . Wichita , Zan. , Dec. 2a , MU ,                     