@@702038

txt Support of hundreds ? of thousands , perhaps of several million , anti-New Deal Democrats is counted upon by the campaign managers of Governor Alf M. Landon to put the Republican nominee for President in the White House , it was said here today . The Democratic revolt against President Roosevelt and his policies is said here already to have reached large proportions and to be growing . Advisers of the Kansas Governor pointed out with satisfaction ( that President Roosevelt enters , upon his campaign for re-election 1 without the support of the three ' other living Democratic President tial nominees , former Governor Al1 fred E. Smith of New York , former Governor James M. Cox of Ohio and John W. Davis . Mr. Smith already had made clear his opposition to the President , and Mr. Cox , according to information here , is expected to do so during the progress of the campaign . Whether Mr. Davis will make any definite announcement of his position is not known here , but it is assumed , from the informatiol received , that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Landon passed a quiet Sunday , resting for a week of conferences before he goes to Fort Riley next Saturday to review the State National Guard in encampment there . His important talks with visitors tomorrow will be on banking and currency in preparation for a speech in which he will make clear his position on these matters in more detail than he has done so far . In addition to Benjamin M. Anderson , economist of the Chase National Bank of New York , and Colonel Leonard P. Ayres , statistician and vice president of the Cleveland Trust Company , the Governor 's visitors tomorrow will include Robert Marion Hardy , president of the First National Bank of Yakima , Wash. , director of the Spokane branch of the Federal Reserve Bank , former member of the executive council of the American Bankers Association and president of the Yakima Valley Dairy Development League . Another caller will be Leslie Jensen , Republican candidate for Governor of South Dakota , from whom Governor Landon expects to learn something of the political situation in the States of the Northwest and the probable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidacy of Representative William Lemke on the third party ticket . Greets Young Republicans Belief that the young men and young women of the nation were looking to the Republican party and its nominees to preserve the traditional American form of government and policy of non-inter- , ference with business was expressed by Governor Landon in a telegram ' to Thomas J. Downs , president of the Young Republican organize. - 1 tion of Illinois , which is meeting today at Peoria . The ' telegram read : " My greetings to the Young Re publicans of Illinois . The young men and women of the nation express in their spirit , in their outlook on the future and in their inherent vitality the spirit of America that is rallying in this campaign for preservation of the glorious heritage of America . As I said in my speech of acceptance , ' American initiative is not a commodity to be delivered in pound packages through a governmental bureau . ' The history of mankind shows that progress is impossible except when men and women are free to give and to express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because America is free and the opportunity for American initiative is open to all that we have built here a civilization with the highest standards of living in the world . I also said in my speech of acceptance that the record shows that in 1933 the primary need was jobs for the unemployed and that the record shows also that the primary need today is jobs for the unemployed . Jobs are inherent in progress . Our problems embrace the very purpose of America . To solve them calls for sturdy souls and keen intellect and , above all , for the initiative and courage of American youth . "                     