@@699362

txt Depletion of the dollar balances of the Bank of France is proceeding at a rapid rate as that institution gives active support to the franc in the foreign exchange market- It is selling dollars to stave off as long as it can a probably inevitable major gold movement rout of France . Late yesterday afternoon , Paris offered large amounts of spot francs against purchase of forward francs , and several New York banks were understood to have offered future francs freely . At the same time , word was received from Paris of heavy French buying of sterling , and it is understood that the French short position in sterling now has been covered . It is estimated throughout the local foreign exchange market that the Bank of France has sold approximately $15,000,000 of its dollar balances during the past week , bringing that item down to the neighborhood of $55,000,000 . As of December 2 , the Bank of France reported total foreign balances of fr. 4.528,000,000 , roughly $177,500,000 , but this included large holdings in sterling . A year ago the foreign balances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about $922,800,000 . Statements for the next two weeks , at least , arc expected to show material reductions . French Reserves Here Believed Nil In the past several months the Bank of France has depended upon its dollar balances and the gold which it held earmarked at the New York Federal Reserve Bank to defend the franc , which has been consistently weak as the result of a debit balance of payments . Repercussions following the action of the Chamber of Deputies in refusing to meet the December 15 payment to the United States have intensified the pressure against the franc . Despite active intervention during the day on the part of the Bank of France . the French franc broke to $.0390 1-16 , the lowest level to be reached since the exchange was stabilized in June , 1928 . The local Federal Reserve Bank will not say how much gold individual countries have earmarked here to their account , but the general opinion in the foreign exchange market is that the amount of gold which the Bank of Frati.e ; e now has under earmark in New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earmark by all countries is very small , estimated at about $81,500,000 as the result of recent increases . Substantial earmarks have been made on a number of occasions thus far this month , understood to be principally for the account of Switzerland and Holland , and these have offset other releases , thought to have been made by the Bank of France . The exchange market is completely at sea at the moment regarding shipments of gold from Paris to New York . In some quarters it in maintained that gold is actually on the way and that arrangements arc being made for additional shipments . In equally well informed quarters it is stated emphatically that no word has been received regarding shipments . jlelleve Bank Will Stave Off Shipment The market agrees , however , that the Bank of France will endeavor to postpone the actual - hipment of metal out of France as long as possible , in view of the political situation in that country and the storm of popular protest which it is believed would be sure to greet a major mqvement of metal from France to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Bank of France will support the franc through sales of dollar exchange as long as it is possible , but the rapid rate at which those balances are being depleted leads the local exchange market to the conviction that the Bank of France is " nearing the end of its rope " as far as its ability to support the franc in the exchange market is concerned , On present indications , a major movement of gold from France to the United States is held to be inevitable . PARIS  --  With firmness on Lhe Bourse and a calm exchange market , the feature for the day in Paris was a new record high quotation for German marks at fr 6.10 . This is the point at which gold could he exported from France to Germany on an exchange basis Market , however , is extiemely narrow and no exports of metal are expected .                     