@@701482

txt The League of Nations Council reluctantly , but not irresolutely , started to cross the Rubicon today . Before a crowded , silent hall it unanimously agreed In Italy 's absence to these proposals of its President : To proceed in the future In the Italo-Ethiopian conflict under Article XV of the League covenant , thus definitely ending six months of careful equivocation thereon . This means that it Premier Mussolini now resorts to war , the obligation to apply sanctions against him becomes legally binding . To begin immediately preparing the report and the recommendations for a peaceful settlement that paragraph 4 of Article XV requires . This means that the Council has decided to risk the grave danger of Italy 's following the example of Japan , which when faced with such a report voted " no " and left the League . All to Draft Report . To entrust this drafting work to a committee composed of all the Council members except the two parties to the dispute  --  which work starts tomorrow  --  and meanwhile not to close its session , but remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council will draft Its report sitting in private as a committee of thirteen or as a committee of the whole , but able to transform itself immediately back into the Council whenever this is desired . To stress that conciliation remains possible , however , until the Council adopts its report and to this end to keep the committee of five , despite its acknowledged failure so far , in existence . The committee will be authorized not to take any further initiative itself , but to decide whether any suggestions made to it justify another attempt at mediation . This means that it is now entirely up to Mussolini to close the door to conciliation or to make the next step across that doorway . These decisions were taken in the form of an adoption by acclamation of a statement by the president of the Council after Tecle Hawariate , the Ethiopian delegate , had reserved  --  the right to consult his government and Anthony Eden of Britain , Pierre Laval of France , Maxim Litvinoff of the Soviet Union and P. R. Munch of Denmark had emphasized these points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and had briefly reaffirmed their pledges to uphold the covenant . Aloisi Is Absent . Baron Pompeo Aloisi . Italy 's chief delegate , did not attend the Council meeting this morning . Italian delegation circles profess complete Indifference to the Council 's action , but so far are making no move to leave Geneva . The Council omitted all mention publicly today of the Ethiopian Emperor 's request that observers be sent to his frontiers as a safeguard against the use of incidents as a pretext for war . The British , however , are warming to this idea and promise it will be considered by the committee of thirteen tomorrow along with the possibility of taking other precautionary measures against war under Article XI ( giving the League power if war threatens to take action to safeguard peace . Mr. Eden in approving the president 's proposal said that while the report was being drafted " the governments will have an opportunity to consider whether and , if so , how anything further can be done to safeguard peace . " The British say this referred to the above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming period will also be used for preparing through diplomatic channels for sanctions . Joseph A. C. Avenol , Secretary General of the League , tonight instructed a French aviator who is thoroughly acquainted with Ethio , pia to draw up as a basis of discussion by the committee tomorrow a project for rushing impartial observers to the Ethiopian frontiers . It is understood he is exploring especially the possibility of sending competent men already in Addis Ababa to the frontiers by air and perhaps of patroling them by air . Italy 's Plea Rejected . Practically today 's decisions mean two things : One is that the Council , faced as Baron Aloisi said at the start of this session , with the necessity of choosing among expelling Ethiopia , giving her an inferior legal status as a League member or losing Italy , has  --  without admitting that it faced this choice  --  tacitly rejected this plea . It has done this by refusing even to discuss the expulsion of Ethiopia and by recognizing her equal right to invoke covenant obligations . The other thing is that not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it entered today depend on Mussolini but so also does the time the Council takes in crossing . Everything points to its not reaching the deep water of voting recommendations , let alone the still deeper water of invoking non-military sanctions , until Mussolini resorts to war ? whether that comes in days or weeks . Less to Be Offered Mussolini . The Council agreed upon today 's decisions in a secret session first . In that meeting there were strong signs that the coming recommendations will offer less and not more to Italy than did the report of the committee of five . The public Council session did not approve or disapprove the committee 's report and it is understood one reason for this was that in the secret meeting Nicolas Titulescu of Rumania , representing the Little Entente , declared he could not vote approval of this report because it went so far as to be incompatible with the covenant . Mr. Litvinoff , after having twitted Mr. Titulescu for not having taken a position on the Italian war threat in public in the Assembly , said he agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also Tewfik Rushdu Aras of Turkey . They argued that the point , however , now was academic , as Italy had rejected the committee 's offer and could be ignored so long as the Council recommendations did not I repeat this fault . I Mr. Eden , it is understood , agreed that the recommendations need not offer so much as did the conciliators , but thought it wise for the Council not to say so rigidly and publicly now . He suggested that the committee of thirteen after fixing the main lines of its work in the next few days might leave the drafting to a small committee of thirteen experts and adjourn until the document was ready or until Mussolini moved . This procedure seems likely to be adopted and Mr. Eden plans to visit London between Sunday and Wednesday . Mr. Laval plans an even longer visit to Paris during this expected lull . Ethiopia Loses a Right . The Council 's president in the statement adopted today ruled that the Council had been acting under Article XV since Sept. 4 , when arbitration ended . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her right to force the transfer of jurisdiction from the Council to the Assembly , since this right must be exercised within fourteen days after Article XV takes ' effect . This seems to be one point upon which Mr. Hawariate reserved the right to consult his government . The Council retains the right to transfer jurisdiction to the Assembly , but obstructionist tactics could prevent the exercise of It .                     