@@702144

txt A complaint that employers were hiring men on relief rolls at part time for low wages in the expectation that these workers would continue to receive a large part of their support from relief funds was made by Mayor La Guardia when he came here today to confer with President Roosevelt . " We are running into a situation where employers want this parttime relief labor , which thereby make relief payments a subsidy to them , " he said . The Mayor named taxicab companies as one group of large employers among whom this practice has been discovered . Every effort is being made to weed it out , he added , but New York City is handicapped by its inability to enforce the submission to officials of the employment rolls of corporations . " We have not yet got the cooperation from business and industry that we should get , " he told newspaper correspondents after leaving Hyde Park House . " The taxicab people are one group who wo n't give us the names of new employes . We need the cooperation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief work . " Mr. La Guardia said that wherever relief recipients are found having income from work they are taken off the relief lists immediately . Housing Operations Discussed The Mayor spent almost two hours with President Roosevelt , talking principally about cooperative work on relief programs between the Federal Government and the large cities for whom he may speak as chairman of the National Conference of Mayors , which will hold its annual meeting in Wash , ington Nov. 14 . A large part of the discussion related to future public works , par , ticularly housing operations which , Mr. La Guardia said , especially I interest New York City in view I of what he declared was the probabilty that there will be a shortage in low-rent and medium-rent dwellings there in about two years . He said he had discussed the possibility of long-range planning in relations to public works of this character on the ground that a planned program could be carried forth most economically . While this discussion indicated a continued need . for relief work into the indefinite future , Mayor La Guardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the total of persons on relief this year , as compared with a year ago . In reply to the inevitable question as to his guess on the outcome of the Presidential election in New York State , the Mayor replied with a twinkle in his eye : " There 's is n't any guess about it . It 's a foregone conclusion that Mr. Roosevelt will carry the city . " " By how much ? " " By enough to enable him to carry the State . " " Is that last statement a foregone conclusion too ? " " Of course , " he said . Willing to Aid Campaign Asked what part he would take , 1 the Mayor said , " I 'll vote . " Then , i in reply to an inquiry whether he would speak on behalf of Mr. i Roosevelt , he replied first that he had not been asked , but added that if he were asked to make speeches " the temptation would be irresistible . " Mr. La Guardia said he had not submitted figures on the possible relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he discussed with the President . " We feel that long-range planning on projects is more economical , " he added . " If the cities know ahead of time what can be done , they can plan better . The PWA works now are taking shape , and so is the housing program . In New York the super-structures of two big projects are going up . " I think that in the next two years we may have a shortage of houses in the low and middle-rent brackets . I 'm very anxious to get going on more low-rent building . " Relief Conditions Improving " Did you discuss the Wagner Housing Bill ? " he was asked . " Only generally , " the Mayor replied , " in relation to the fact that this is one of the best forms of Federal aid . The cities all are very anxious to have housing on a longterm program . New York State is about the only one at present with a real housing authority , and New York City is about the only city with a real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation in New York City ? " " Conditions ? are improving , " Mayor La Guardia said . " The number of new applications in the last quarter was much less than in the corresponding quarter a year ago . We also are going into the next quarter with a better estimate than a year ago . " " Is that true generally of all cities ? " " I believe it is , " the Mayor said . When the Mayor was asked if he had said anything to the President about the recent all-party convention of progressive leaders who met in Chicago to declare their support of Mr. Roosevelt , he laughed and said : " Oh , that was a nice , unanimous party . You can imagine a group of Progressives getting together and agreeing on everything ! " Would Decline War Post In response to another question , based on a report published in New York City today , intimating that Mayor La Guardia might be named to the permanent post of Secretary of War , he repeated that the position had not been offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would decline it , because " I 've got a contract with the people of New York City that runs to Dec. 31 , 1937 , with an option of renewal . " Mr. La Guardia 's visit constituted the President 's principle engagement today , although he received several other official callers , as well as entertaining a large group of friends and neighbors privately at tea and at dinner . Among the callers were William Griffin , publisher of The New York Enquirer , who recently returned from a trip abroad ; Walter Cummins , former treasurer of the Democratic National Committee , and Bishop Francis J. McConnell , who was a guest at luncheon . The President also talked with James Townsend , chairman of the Dutchess County Democratic committee , who called on him with Alpha Whiton , running on the Democratic ticket in opposition to Representative Hamilton Fish , and Elmer Van Wagner , a Democratic leader . Shift in Maritime Commission President Roosevelt announced a temporary shift in the personnel of the new Maritime Commission , naming Rear Admiral Montgomery M. Taylor , retired , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Admiral Harry G. Hamlet , commandant of the Coast Guard , whose appointment was announced this week . This change was made because if Admiral Hamlet accepted the appointment immediately , in advance of the time early in October when he may retire , he would lose the benefits accruing from more than forty years of service . In the meantime , it was necessary to fill the position which Admiral Hamlet eventually will take in order that the commission might organize formally and undertake pressing duties , including an investigation of conditions which threaten to result in a strike of longshoremen on the Pacific Coast .                     