@@702228

txt Sir Samuel Hoare , First Lord of the Admiralty , made the surprising statement in the House of Commons late tonight that Great Britain had no commitments at the present time comparable to those of 1914 which would compel her to send troops to the Continent in the event of another war . As he was speaking for the government at the close of a debate on defense , Sir Samuel undoubtedly was expressing the opinion of the Baldwin Cabinet and not merely his own view . He did seem to clash , however , with Sir Thomas Inskip , Minister for the Coordination of Defense , who had opened the debate in support of the government 's rearmament program and who had said earlier in the evening that the British public must not hope or expect that its army would be used exclusively at home in the event of war . Remark Is Cheered Sir Samuel was speaking primarily of the army and not of the air force or the navy . His remark , although received with cheers , seemed a strange and unaccountable revelation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain was committed to use all her forces required for the protection at least of France and Belgium in the event of an attack by Germany . That portion of the Locarno Treaty which requires such aid remains intact despite Germany 's forfeiture of aid from Britain by her own scrapping of that treaty . Under the circumstances Sir Samuel 's brief remark seemed almost as sensational as the recent declaration of Belgian neutrality by King Leopold . The statement by the First Lord of the Admiralty was made in reply to Leopold Amery , Conservative , who in the course of the debate had said that in a Continental war Britain should give all the help she could in the air , but should not attempt to intervene with an expeditionary land force or ' at any rate should not commit herself in advance to sending troops . Sir Samuel 's comment on such a contingency was : " As to the so-called expeditionary force of the army which has been mentioned in this debate , I prefer to call it an all-purposes force . To call it an expeditionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in 1914 . That is an assumption from which I demur . An all-purposes force will be able to go anywhere and carry out whatever responsibilities may be imposed upon it . How Situation Differs " The situation differs materially from the situation in 1914 . In 1914 there were in existence definite commitments . There was an actual plan agreed on between the French and British general staffs . " In the present case there are no such commitments . We shall have to judge the situation when it arises , and my own view is that we would be unwise to make either affirmative or negative commit- meats as to how or where we are going to use an all-purposes force . " The House adjourned immediately , after Sir Samuel had finished , and 11 there was no further development in the matter . An immense barrage of balloons , or system of nets suspended between balloons , is to be one of the features of London 's protection against an air attack from a Continental enemy in the event of another war , it was revealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlined various items of the British rearmament program . Referring to a recent government report that battleship armor immune to air bombing had not yet been devised , Sir Thomas said he would not admit that the navy had met an opponent which it would not be able to master . Concerning 1 Britain 's rearming program as a whole , he declared it would continue on an increasing scale to 1940 . Sir Thomas admitted difficulty in getting recruits for the army , but refused to accept this as evidence of a lack of spirit on the part of young Britons and cited the fact that there was no trouble at all in getting men for the air force and the navy because of the greater appeal of those two services . Use of Territorial Army The Minister said that the territorial army was being organized and trained chiefly for service in England against an air attack , but he then warned the public against hoping and expecting that the British land forces as a whole would be kept at home in the event of a war and added that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement was made in a debate on a motion of the Opposition Liberal party deploring the fact that the Baldwin Cabinet was not doing anything to implement the recommendation of the Royal Arms Commission that the government should exercise control of munitions production . He said that the suggestion was too vague and intimated that nothing would be done about it . He also said that the government did not propose a Ministry of Munitions at the present time and he seemed to think that such a new department would carry matters too far . It was true , he admitted , that the speed and magnitude of the government 's program were already forcing the civil industry to give priority to government orders , but for the present there was no need for further dislocation . Admiral Sir Roger Keyes , Conservative , one of the many speakers in the all-day debate , said that the dual control of the Air Ministry and the Admiralty over the fleet air arm should be abolished and exclusive control should be given to the Admiralty . In support of that he declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British because the United States Navy governed its own air service . Says Island Security Remains " It is suggested that the growth of air power has destroyed our historical security as an island , " said Sir Thomas . " That is only a fraction of the truth . If one thinks for a moment what our position would be if our frontier were in Europe instead of on the other side of dividing seas , he will say that a large part of the advantage of being an island will remain . " " Protection of the home bases of the fleet is a prime necessity . This brings me to the necessity of collaboration of the navy and the air force . " The main purpose of the expansion of the air force is to provide a defense against the risks of attack from the air . It is our aim and purpose to develop as a deterrent as powerful a striking force as we can . We believe that both in capacity of speed and range our new types of machines are not inferior to any that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures taken to complete the defenses of Great Britain  --  guns , searchlights and other technical equipment to protect not only those parts of our shore most open to air attack but centers of munitions production and of course naval bases . " For the great population of London a balloon barrage in addition on an extensive scale has been accepted as a necessary part of our defenses . " It would be wrong if I did not refer to the importance of existing measures that may be available as a result of scientific research , which is as ingenious as it is unceasing at the present time . " The next year , 1937. will see an increase in the munitions output which in some cases has already begun , extending on an increasing scale up to 1939-1940 . Resources for the provision of the new and powerful guns required in connection with the scheme for air defense have been supplemented . Apart from existing government establishments and specialized firms , additional capacity has been created by reopening the government factory in Nottingham , which will begin production in six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guns are a prime necessity and the measures already taken do not by any means represent finality . Proposals have also been made for gun production by a group of firms in the north of England . These proposals are under financial examination . " At present the rate of production is largely conditioned by the amount of skilled labor available . Appropriate training is proceeding . Denies War Is Inevitable " I have never believed and refuse to believe that another war is inevitable if we take the proper measures . I am not going to attempt to foresee what another war will ' be like . London might be subjected to an intense and sudden bombardment from the air . " I have referred to some of the defensive measures which have been taken . When all these are taken a powerful air- force is a necessary part of that equipment and defense . " The navy is no longer sufficient to protect the interests vital to this country . Their protection in the future must be an act of cooperation between the two services . If the air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it must be as powerful to discharge its obligations as the navy was in bygone days . " As to the air force being able to undertake many of the duties at present discharged by the other services , the conclusions of the battleship inquiry show that the time has not yet come for such a revolution in strategy . I am satisfied that an enemy fleet threatening or astride our communications can only be dealt with by another fleet of equivalent or greater power . " In the conditions of today the capital ship is a necessary part , of the navy . We are of the opinion that no aircraft can play the role of capital ships . I hope the report will be accepted as settling not the design but the status of the capital ship for the time being . " As to the liability of the capital ship to be destroyed or crippled , I am not going to admit that the navy has met an opponent which can not be mastered . " We remember the anxiety in the late war caused by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support me when I say that the navy met the menace of the torpedo and the mine . " I believe the same result can be achieved by the navy in relation to the air menace . The intensive training in the Mediterranean and the remarkable weapons with which the navy is supplied has affected naval opinion with regard to the air menace . " The last war had an influence upon our conception of any future war . I think most of those who remember the days of the last war would like to think we can keep our army at home to defend these shores , but our strategic position does not permit us to do this . Maximum Effort Demanded " There have been occasions in British history when . our contributions to some alliance have been defined as so much money or so much subsidy . If , however , Great Britain is ever involved in another war , we can never give up until Great Britain is safe again . That means , however much we may regret it , that we should have to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our army has no relation to the size of Continental armies . We look I to it primarily to defend and guard our imperial commitments and the vital lines of our communications in cooperation with the navy . There is a small force at home ready to go anywhere . Our army is at the absolute minimum . " " The expansion of the air force is proceeding , " Sir Thomas also said . " New squadrons are being continually formed and brought up to strength . The total number at home is eighty squadrons , and that includes sixteen auxiliary squadrons but excludes the fleet air arm . "                     