@@704136

txt It would be difficult to sum up the record of the first session of the Seventy-sixth Congress in a few consistent words . That is chiefly because there was no consistency in the session itself . It was a series of paradoxes . It yielded to the Executive in instances in which its case was much better than his , and it opposed him at points where it was clearly unwise to do so . It was subservient , and yet it was the most rebellious session in almost two decades . It economized not with a scalpel but with an axe ; it refused to authorize not merely millions but billions : and yet it was the most extravagant Congress in history , setting a peacetime record of more than $11.000,000,000 in new appropriations , and voting altogether more than 813,000,000,000 , nearly $1,800,000,000 higher than the total far the 1938 session , and several hundred millions above even the executive budget . The explanation of these paradoxes is , in large part , that Congress began its session by going in one direction and ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it extended to the President devaluation powers that had outlived their usefulness and that Congress in any case should keep for itself . It increased still further the thoroughly unjustified subsidy being paid to American silver producers , and continued to make it mandatory for the United States Treasury to buy and pile up useless foreign silver . It retained forms of agricultural control , like the mandatory non-recourse loans , which , though costly to the taxpayer , have increased farm instability and proved disastrous to cotton exports , and it tried to offset the damaging results of this policy , not by its repeal , but by the thoroughly unsound policy of extending export subsidies . It appropriated $1,194,000,000 more for agriculture , nearly twice the Federal Government 's whole expenditure for all purposes in the years before our entrance into the World War , and more than $300,000,000 more than Administration itself had this year requested or allowed for . Responding to the President and the new international situation , it appropriated more for national defense than in any year since the end of the World War . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division in time between the two , because they overlap ) , the last z . lion of Congress adopted a sound measure of tax reform , removing the stump of the undistributed profits tax , among other changes which were not enthusiastically received by the President . It refused to amend or repeal the Neutrality Act , in spite of the Administration 's pleas , and so it did nothing to reduce the possibility of a major war , but on the contrary gave assurance to aggressor nations that at least until Congress meets again nothing will or can be done to make American arms and munitions available to the nations that might he aligned against them in a war of self-defense . Tile last session passed the Hatch act to take politics out of relief and the Federal service generally . It passed a more sweeping bill than the preceding Congress , under Administration leadership , had rejected , and though the President at first expressed grave doubts about the effect of the measure , lie finally iiccepted it and presented his interpretation . In its second phase qwq @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relations Board am the working of the Wagner act , and most dramatic of all , it threw out the President 's lending-spending plan , orig inally totaling $3,060,000,000 , and the $800,000,000 additional housing appro priation , without so much as giving of ficial consideration to either . The contradictions of the last Con. congress were not limited to those of time The House and Senate were frequently moving in opposite directions frorr each other . The Senate was almost consistently the bigger spender ; the House was responsible for most of sue/ economy as occurred , The House sup ? plied the greater opposition to thE President on domestic issues , but thE Senate was more determined in its op. position to amendment of the Neu. trality Act . Even important individua bills reflected the inconsistencies of the last session . The revisions of the Socia ' Security Act marked a great advance in the abandonment of the contemplated huge reserve fund , in immediate tax savings , and above all in the new schedule of benefit payments provided . But they moved in a dubious direction in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed on State unemployment insurance plans were ill-considered . The inconsistencies of the last session were in large part the result of a definite change in the political atmosphere between the beginning and end of the session . They would not have been possible if Congress had not become convinced that at least some phases of the New Deal were losing popularity . But many of the inconsistencies were also owing to lack of proper consideration of measures . One committee is to make a study between sessions of the Wagner Labor Relations Act with a view to its amendment . It is unfortunate that there is no small Congressional council to make a study of the whole legislative program called for in the next session , so that Congress could come to its tasks then with better preparation than it came last January .                     