@@700861

txt Several of the large , diversified units in the steel industry have experienced a slight , though steady , increase in demand in the past several weeks , and officials of these companies believe this trend will continue . The improvemer ? has come to the concerns which did not get their share of the going business a month or two ago . and the makers who wer more active up to a short time ago are not now getting as much tonnage as previously . One explanation heart is that the regular customers of the larger interests are replenishing depleted stocks to a moderate extent and also need the material for work immediately ahead . A number of the smaller units must await return of larger buying 1- m the automobile and other industries which they number among their customers , this is likely to come within a few weeks , according to soundings made in the steel industry by the large users . As a result of the irregular buying , the operations of several of the important companies have shown a tendency to move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been decreasing slightly . However , the reductions have more than offset the increases , so there has been a small decrease for the industry as a whole . Little Response to Richberg Acaurance The situation between the buyers and sellers is in most instances abou- a stand-off . Despite the assurance from Donald R. Richberg that the government will not recommend any change in the price policy of the steel code , consumers have not shown any indication of buying much steel for future delivery . When the assurance was given ten days ago , there was some hope among producers that customers would show more interest , but thus far there has been no indication of much change in the attitude of buyers . What demand has developed recently came from manufacturers who had accumulated quite a stock during the second quarter to avoid paying the higher prices originally announced for third quarter shipments . ' The accumulated inventories have become depleted and these manufacturers have taken some steel , either foi inamdiate actual necessities , or to replenish their stocks to a moderate extent . Apparently there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still is a chance of one or two steel makers breaking away from the current prices in an effort to attract business . According to some users who have been getting the opinions of the makers , there is no evidence of such a development . They report that the officials of steel companies are firmly convinced present quoted prices are justified by wage and material costs . Tin Plate Buying Diminishes The automotive industry is looked upon as likely to give some impetus to steel buying before long . A number of motor car makers are figuring on tonnages for their activities on new models , and some of this business already has been placed , with considerably more to come , if the activity of the auto industry in planning for the future is any criterion . There has been a reduction in the buying of tin plate . In addition co a diminution in demand from domestic users , which is seasonal . the export buying has been dwindling . It was the foreign demand which kept tin plate operations at a high plane this year for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are estimated at around 40% , and should go lower in the coming weeks . Structural steel is not showing any material improvement . The U S. Steel Corp . has booked approximately 7.250 tons In the past week , the American Bridge Co takini. ** tans i2r building for the Krebs Pigment Color Co .. subsidiary of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours , at Edgemoor . Del. , as well as smaller tonnages for a building at Hibbing . Mont. , and a bridge in Maryland . Illinois Steel Co. has taken 1.500 tons of piling for work at Trempeleau , Wis. , and Carnegie Steel received 1,600 tons of piling fill a rock and dam at WIlrfungton , N. C. Bethlehem Steel Corp. , through McClintic-Marshall. booked tonnages for bridges in Iowa and Pennsylvania . In addition to the many projects on which Nils have been received and which will be constructed with government aid , inquiries for structurals which have come out in the past few days include 5,000 tons for a bridge at Cleveland . on which bids will be taken in about two weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. 2.550 tons for a toll bridge at Versailles . Mo. , 2.500 tons for a government bridge over the Columbia River . in Washington , 2,100 tons for a dam and bridge in Ohio , and a large number of smaller tonnages . Cast iron pipe is doing xt little better than the recent average . During the past week contracts for approximately 3.750 tons have been distributed , and inquiries have come out for 4.500 tons . Special to TIM WALL . STRIA " ! JOURNAL SHARON , Pa ? No improvement was made this week in operating schedules of Shenango Valley steel circles . Industrial men said there was little hope for betterment during the remainder of the year . Sharon Steel Hoop Co. started operations at mid-week , Cainegie Stec* Co. worked at about 25%.                     