@@701421

txt With 4,000 investigators for the Home Relief Bureau acting as recruiting agents , persons on home relief reported for Federal work projects yesterday at the rate of one a minute in each of the city 's forty-six district offices . By the end of the day more than 10,000 home-relief clients had applied for jobs and 5,000 had received assignments . The program of the Federal Works Progress Administration in this city , headed by General Hugh S. Johnson , calls for 20,000 ' placements this week . The total number of new jobs now available is I estimated at 45,000 , with an additional 35,000 to be made available by Sept. 1 . The rate of placement developed yesterday , following the official order . to " work or get off relief , " indicated that the quota announced for this week would be filled without difficulty . Pleased by Day 's Results . In the absence of General Johnson , who was in Washington , Mrs. Anna M. Rosenberg , one of his assistants , expressed satisfaction with the progress in the placement of employables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The 20,000 placements scheduled for this week cover unskilled labor only . A large requisition for skilled and white-collar workers is expected shortly . It was explained at the office of WPA yesterday that persons accepting unskilled work , carrying a subsistence wage of $55 a month , would later be transferred to the skilled category if they proved to be qualified . The highest rate for skilled labor is $93.50 . Although it was impossible to determine to what extent the new order played a part in the widespread applications for jobs , the fact was that all the district home-relief offices were swamped with job applicants , beginning at 9 A. M. and continuing until late in the afternoon , when the taking of applications had to be discontinued for the day . 5,000 Sent Out to Jobs . The 5,000 persons who received assignments were directed to report first to the Placement Bureau at 245 East Twenty-third Street . From there they were sent to the respective work projects . The 4,000 home relief investigators impressed into service as jobrecruiting officers were held responsible for bringing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The investigators were instructed to impress upon the clients ' the necessity of their reporting for work or getting off the relief rolls . Each investigator will pick three more clients today and three more tomorrow , so that a total of 30,000 or " more persons will have been mobilized-10,000 more than the number actually required for the week . The balance will be held in reserve to facilitate the progress of the placement program . Officials felt confident that with the start achieved yesterday there will be no trouble from now on in getting the enlarged Federal workrelief program under way . They declared that the new method of recruiting employes through Home Relief Bureau investigators was proving a big success and that ? through the use of the lists compiled by the National Re-employment Service the program would be expanded to its maximum possibilities . 250,000 Workers Needed . There are now 239,000 persons on home relief , but it has not yet been determined how many of these can be classed as employables . The maximum work-relief program calls for the employment of 250,000 persons within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will have to go outside the home relief rolls to achieve this . The number on work-relief jobs at present is about 100,000 . Yesterday 's progress in recruiting family heads for work-relief jobs was brought out sharply in the fact that only about 6,000 job applii cants had been cleared through the NRS since General Johnson assumed his duties as Works Progress Administrator for this city on Aug. 1 . The manner in which the home relief precincts responded yesterday was welcomed by officials as a vindication of the new decentralization method . At the same time , however , Home Relief Bureau officials expressed resentment at previous insinuations that investigators for the bureau were reluctant to cooperate in the transfer of home relief clients because the consequent reduction in the home relief rolls would entail loss of jobs for many investigators . After completing a tour of home relief precinct offices , Miss Charlotte Carr , director of the Home Relief Bureau , issued the following statement : " The home relief division staff has done a magnificent job in getting home relief recipients into the district offices for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am deeply gratified that the amazing turnout of home relief recipients proves beyond any doubt that the people on home relief want jobs as quickly as possible . " Wherever I went I found home relief district office employes as enthusiastic and diligent in their work as the home relief recipients were in trying to get WPA jobs . I feel that today 's activities do great credit to both those on home relief and those working in the home relief district offices . " Just a Start , Says Mayor . Mayor La Guardia also expressed satisfaction with the day 's progress . He said the 20,000 workers needed immediately for projects marked only " a start " and that 75,000 would be needed by the first of the month . " We are basing our plans on those figures , " the Mayor said . He was asked to comment on his order of " work or get off relief , " which has been interpreted by critics as an order to " work or go to jail . " " Do you intend to make a test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " No , " he replied . " None is necessary . For twenty-five years heads of families who have shirked their responsibilities have been jailed . " " Who will press the complaint ? " was another question . " Either the wife or the city , " the Mayor replied . " We are after the shirkers . They are the only ones against whom this order is directed . " A telegram protesting the use of " forced labor " and demanding that professional and technical men be employed in their own fields was sent to the Mayor yesterday by the Federation of Architects , Chemists and Technicians , with offices at 119 East Eighteenth Street . A spokesman for the federation asserted that General Johnson and the Mayor had ' made " profuse promises about their solicitude for the technical men and the thousands of jobs they were going to grant on WPA projects . " " Well , let us demand these jobs , " he continued , " and refuse forced labor at the rate of $55 a month as unskilled workers . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ La Guardia , signed by Joseph S. Jacoby , its secretary , expressing the opposition " to having our professional men accept work as common laborers . " " We have called upon the men to refuse such assignments and to protest to you , " the letter said . " Our federation will back all technical men in this fight against - forced labor . " The executive committee of the unions which called the recent WPA strike in an effort to enforce the prevailing wage rate on WPA projects met yesterday at the headquarters of the Metallic Lathers , 1,322 Third Avenue , and announced that a mass meeting would be held there Wednesday night to discuss the possibility of striking on Public Works Administration jobs . These are jobs being done by private contractors , paying the prevailing wage rate .                     