@@699677

txt The arrival of Mr. Josepheus Daniels , new Ambassador of the United States to Mexico , held the spotlight of public interest here today . His train arrived at 10:45 a. m. , and the reception at the railroad station was without incident . Eager  --  as Mexico always is  --  to know the man as an individual , the neighbor of the . United States to the South was wondering at the same time what his ambassadorship would bring . in the field of relations between the two countries . Coupled with curiosity about whether this new representative of the American people would be " simpatico , " that is , with the warmth and human understanding that Latins like , or " seco. " of typical Yankee frigidity , was the more profound conjecture  --  will the new Ambassador be able to keep the train of international relations on the friendly track it has taken during the terms of the Dwight Morrow and J. Reuben Clark ? During the terms of Morrow and Clark , Mexico 's attitude toward the United States and Americans has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public prints prior to the Obregon administration has gradually been toned down . All manifestations of friendliness between the two countries  --  such as President Roosevelt 's invitation to Mexico to participate in the economic conversations at Washington ? are occasions for large headlines in the newspapers . Several big problems involving relations of the two countries will probably find solution during the time Mr. Daniels is Ambassador . As important as any . Is the perennial boundary conflict along the Rio Grande . Preliminary memoranda for a new treaty which will settle the more vexing phases of this dispute , have already been drawn up , and will probably blossom out in a treaty before long . Some definite conclusions on the Chamizal and Cordoba Island conflict are expected in this covenant , which will be a sequel to the treaty recently entered into between the countries for straightening of the Rio Grande to Box Canyon . Actual engineering work on this project . to be carried ourin cooperation between the two governments , will be started , it is forecast , within the next year or two . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mexico as a stimulus to closer connections of the two peoples . The American colony went ahead today with elaborate preparations for a welcome banquet in honor of the new Ambassador  --  the traditional introduction to his " constituents . " Train Wreck Plotted MEXICO CITY , April 15 ( 111 ? Police disclosed today that an attempt had been made yesterday to wreck the train on which Mr. Josephus Daniels , the new United States Ambassador , is on the way to this capital . The plot was discovered in time and the train , although delayed two hours , was not damaged .                     