@@701862

txt Out of the inextricable tangle of yesterday 's general election in France , with its enormous number of candidates , its intricate party divisions and its lack of clear issues clearly expressed , there has come a wellindicated swing of the electorate toward the Left , but the results are still inconclusive . Early this morning it seemed that in 411 out of the 618 electoral divisions a second ballot would have to be held next Sunday because no candidate had won a clear majority . That second ballot , however , on yesterday 's showing is likely to confirm the present Left advance and may return the Socialists as the largest single party in the Chamber of Deputies , the historic role of the Radical Socialists . The Socialist leader , Leon Blum , was among yesterday 's successful candidates , as was the Radical Socialist leader , Edouard Daladier , Herriot Suffers Reverse Edouard Herriot , however , suffered a reverse and took only second place in his home town of Lyon . It is rumored that rather than accept Socialist and Communist support at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest . This is the first time that Mr. Herriot , who recently reaffirmed his stand in favor of paying the war debt to the United States , has failed of election on the first ballot . In 1932 he obtained 5,867 votes against 3,003 for his nationalist adversary , Mr. Francillon . Yesterday that same adversa ? - got 4,201 votes and Mr. Herriot got 3,698 . Yvon Delbos , who replaced Mr. Herriot recently P .. 5 parliamentary leader of the Radical Socialist party and is one of the vice presidents of the Chamber , must also face a second ballot . More than 10.000,000 male voters took part in the election . Their task of picking the new Deputies from the mass of nearly 5,000 candidates was , however , almost impossible . At 3:30 o'clock this morning it was officially stated at the Ministry of Interior that 498 results had been checked . These showed 153 Deputies elected and the necessity for a second ballot in 345 electoral divisions . A considerable number of results had then still to come in . Four years ago a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago the figure was 177 . Reporting on returns from 592 districts , The Associated Press said 179 of them had elected Deputies on the first ballot . The unofficial standings were given as : Rightists 59 Deputies , Centrists 57 , Leftists 61 and independents 2.1 Communists Increase Seats Yesterday the Communists were the outstanding winners . They captured several new seats and they will certainly increase their representation in the new Chamber , perhaps to between fifty and sixty . In the old Chamber they held ten seats . In a great many cases where they have lined up with the Socialists and the Radical Socialists in the Popular Front , their votes will go to the Socialist candidate on the second ballot . It is still far too soon , however , to make even an approximate guess in the midst of extreme confusion as to how the various parties will rank in the new Chamber . Yesterday the Right held its own remarkably firmly . The Radical socialists were the principal losers of votes , if not yet of seats , but among them it was notable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully adopted the Left Popular Front platform we 've more successful than those who had sought to remain with the Center . There is no doubt that if next week 's vote , after all the party bargaining has been done , confirms yesterday 's Left tendency , important changes in French policy must follow . It must be noted that the election speeches of the Communists especially have not shown any marked pacifism . On the contrary , they have been violently anti-Nazi and anti-Fascist . The gain in the Communist representaion in the Chamber of Deputies will not be so important as the action of the Communist party in demanding certain definite pledges from the Socialists and the Radical Socialists , who will need the Communist votes on the second ballot . The increase in the Communist vote , however , should not be in any way interpreted as indicating that France has gone extremist . It marks , rather , disapproval on the part of the electorate , and not necessarily the working-class population , of the political methods of the other parties and with parliamentary rule . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disturbance on the island of Corsica . During most of the day rain fell heavily in Paris but in the evening the weather I cleared and crowds outside newspaper offices and elsewhere where results were announced gave vent for the first time to some expression of their political feelings . In the crowded Place de l'Opera cheers and booing alternated and a strong force of Mobile Guards was on hand . In Paris , as in the rest of the country , the election was not in any way conclusive . The most prominent nationalist candidates were reelected in the residential districts . Among them were Rene Dommange , the blind Deputy Georges Scapini , Deputy . Fernand-Laurent and Count Charles de Lasteyrie . Others who were elected on the first ballot four years ago and . now must risk a second ballot were former Ministers Paul Reynaud and Jean Fabry . Mr. Reynaud 's case is very exceptional . He ran as a frank devaluationist and advocate of direct negotiations with Germany in a strongly conservative city division and although he did not win outright he obtained the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite enormous opposition from some of his former supporters . Deat Lacks Majority Pierre Taittinger , president of the nationalist society Jeunesses Patriotes , also headed the poll but failed to obtain a clear majority . So did Air Minister Marcel Deat , who recently left the Socialist party to help form a dissident group . Others in this category are C. J. Gignoux , well-known writer on economic and financial matters ; former Minister Marcel Heraud and Edouard Soulier , another prominent nationalist leader . The outstanding victory in the Paris district among the nationalists was that of Henri de Kerillis in Neuilly . Mr. Kerillis is a former airman with a good war record who in recent years has by his writings in the Echo de Paris become leader of the most violent and conservative nationalists . In the Chamber he may be expected to become the leader of the extreme party . Two Communists elected in the suburbs were Maurice Thorez and Vaillant Couturier . Mr. Thorez has ' been leader of the party in the Chamber since Marcel Cachin was elected a Senator some months ago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago , headed the poll in the Saint Denis district , of which he is Mayor , but will have to face a second ballot . Indicative of how hesitant and divided the vote was are these figures : Four Ministers were reelected  --  Foreign Minister PierreEtienne Flandin , Pensions Minister Rene Besse , Labor Minister Ludovie Oscar Frossard and Commerce Minister Georges Bonnet . Two must face a second ballot  --  Jules Julien , Under-Secretary for Technical Education , and Mr. Deat . Six former ministers were elected : Count de Lasteyrie , Mr. Daladier , Louis Marin , Eugene Frot , Louis Malvy and Maurice Petsche . Ten other former ministers failed to obtain clear majorities . Among them were Mr. Herriot , Adrien Marquet and the President of the Chamber of Deputies , Fernand Bouisson . In the case of Mr. Bouisson Marseilles local politics played a great role . Mandel Is Re-Elected Georges Mandel , Minister of Communications for the past three years , was re-elected in his constituency in the Gironde Department . His colleague , Henri Guernut , Radical Socialist and Minister of Education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday . On Saturday at the close of one of his meetings there was a violent demonstration and some fist fighting . It was thought that the interrupters were strangers to the district and the police of surrounding towns were warned . Motor cars returning from Chateau-Thierry to Paris were stopped and in one was discovered pistols and stench bombs . Several arrests were made . In the Seine Department , which includes Paris , only thirteen Deputies were elected . Six were nationalists of the Republican-Democratic Union , which forms the Right wing of the Chamber , two were Left Republicans , or Centrists , and five were Communists . In the Eastern provinces of France it is notable that the nationalists and the moderates have gained strength . The Paris district shows a considerable Communist advance . In the rest of the country it is more difficult to discover any special trend because of the multiplicity of candidacies and the fine shading of parties . At Mantes Gaston Bergery. one of the most advanced leaders of the Left , headed the poll , but did not obtain a clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deputy Sarret , a Nationalist who defeated him two years ago when , after the rioting in Paris and the formation of the Doumergue Cabinet , Mr. Bergery resigned and fought a test election . As the Socialist and Communist candidates , with 1,500 votes between them will probably desist in Mr. Bergery 's favor next Sunday , he is expected to be elected . Foreign Minister Flandin ob-1 tained an easy victory in his home department Yonne , winning nearly 4,000 votes more than his nearest adversary .                     