@@702097

txt Judging by the popular reception given the new feature films , the Autumn moving picture reason is beginning as auspiciously as producers had hoped . Prospect 's are bright for the best year-end box office receipts in a number of years . Loew 's ( Metro-Goldwyn ) ace picture . " Romeo and Juliet , " got away to a big start in New York and other key cities . Although the film is a cla-saic , indications are that it will he a big popular success comparable to Loew 's " David Copperfield . " It is one of the most expensive productions ever made . " San Francisco . " another Loew 's film , has bad hold-overs and return showings in many cities . Aa a. result of the higher cost of its films this year and the unusual number of first rank pictures , Loew 's has been increasing its rental charges to exhibitors as well as getting bigger returns from it 's percentage share of box office receipts . Loew 's own chain currently has been running more than 30 , ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income . General Move to Raise Adnsissionls There is also a general move throughout the industry to raise theatre admission prices where the traffic will bear it . Advances will be made at first only for outstanding films with large drawing power and with this as an entering wedge it is hoped to get a slightly higher scale ill around . A 10 , : c average price advance would make a material difference to the earnings of amusement companies and , movie people hope , would not be enough to hurt attendance . Warner Brothers , which has bad a quiet Summer , is just now coming out with " Green 7. astures " which has been well received and Ls biggest film " Anthony Adverse " will be +penes , / in New York this week . It has already made record grosses at its openings in Detroit ird Philadelphia . If these films do as well SA loped , the first six months of Warner 's new fiscal year , starting September 1 should run well ahead of the corresponding period a year ago . Other Films Drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led by the Shirley Temple films which seem to be drawing as well as ever , and is now making a new version of " Seventh Heaven " an old play which made records when it was first filmed some years ago . Radio-Keith-Orpheum is doing well with " Mary of Scotland " as its first leader for the new season and will follow this with " Swing Tame " another one of the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers dancing musicals . Paramount is still working out of its studio difficulties . and real progress is now apparently being made with a good list of films in prospect for the coming season While quality of production is apparently not yet quite up to the standard of some of its principal competitors . Paramount : . film division should make money in the final quarter for the first time this year The showing for the third quarter ending September 30 will be bad Paramount 's theatre chain is so important that large earnings can come from this division alone if it is freed from the present losses being made by the film division . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season will be an extension of the use of color in the films . Only three important films were produced In color last season but the innovation now seems to be slowly taking hold and more than a dozen features will be produced in this country in Technicolor alone in the 1936-37 schedules There include " Garden of Allah " produced by Selznick and " Ramona ' by Twentieth Century-Fox Another interesting factor is successful revival of a number of important successes of the la.t year or two . These films are of course entirely written off so that any income from them is nearly all clear profit . Many of the outstanding older films can apparently be brought out again from time to time with excellent rectilts now that talking film technique has reached a high plane and is not changing materially .                     