@@698389

txt Although Germany can not hope for complete abolition of reparations , the situation demands urgent and permanent relief  --  these were two general conclusions becoming more substantially confirmed today among the experts of the Bank for International Settlements ' advisory committee . By the stipulations of the Young Plan , this committee can not go beyond the suspension of the conditional payments and a recommendation for the prolongation of the Hoover moratorium , but statistical evidence which will be passed on to the governmental reparations conference in the report now being drafted would tend to indicate such a course : The subcommittee under Otto Rydbeck today reported that the German railway earnings next year would fall far below the 660,000,000 reichsmarks $165,000,000 covering the unconditional annuities they are supposed to guarantee under the Young Plan . As in the reports of the subcommittees on the German budget and foreign indebtedness , the railway subcommittee emphasizes the possibility of the transient nature of the railways ' difficulties , but also makes evident a grave uncertainty for the immediate future . Outline Is Completed . This report , approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reich 's precarious finances after the information supplied by Germany had been examined and checked by testimony and data from other countries . There is only lacking an outside check on the German figures for the balance of trade , but as given It may be concluded they have been found substantially correct . Dr. Carl Melchior of Germany cited a favorable foreign trade balance averaging 350,000,000 reichsmarks $87,500,000 for the past six months , bringing the year 's favorable total to more than 3,000,000,000 marks 1$750,000,0001 . This exceptionally good situation in a time of depression is what Germany has to balance against her foreign indebtedness , creating interest and amortization charges of approximately 1,500,000,000 marks $375 , - 000,000 , a budget balance only through Draconian measures whose efficacy and maintainance are problematical , a large railway deficit fast absorbing reserves and a reichsbank gold cover which has fallen from 30 to 12 per cent . Adding to the complications are psychological conditions of the German people facing the severest measures of economy and the flight of capital from the country , which have made it impossible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This very flight of capital , which is uncontrollable , becomes a factor to prevent Germany benefiting fully from her favorable trade balance , since a large part of the returns are believed to be never repatriated . On the other hand , while Germany is credited with having assets amounting to 8,500,000,000 marks $2,125,000,000 abroad last July and considerably increased since then by the flight of capital , a great deal of these assets can never be brought into play until German economy is first bolstered and political and financial confidence is pestored . Parley of Nations Foreseen . The problem then before Sir Walter Layton and the other members of the drafting committee conferring again tonight is to fit all this information , which has been examined and checked by its statisticians and passed by a full meeting of the experts , into a final report in keeping with the spirit of the Young Plan , which forbids the interruption of unconditional annuities and confines this committee wholly to advisory action , with the power neither to accept nor to reject the German claims for relief . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate conference of governments to deal with the alarming reparations emergency . So certain is this conference that the governments are already taking it for granted and are engaged in discussing its seat and date . From what is heard here , Basle , Lausanne , Brussels , Monte Carlo , Naples and Locarno already have entered the contest for the conference , which , it is hoped , will be held by the middle of January . The figures given today by the Rydbeck subcommittee show the German railways have closely followed the trend and experience of the railway systems of other nations . From 1925 to 1929 they prospered , showing a surplus of 833,000,000 reichsmarks , which easily enabled them to cover the reparations guarantee . " It might be argued that these years were not entirely normal , " Mr. Rydbeck pointed out , " since writingsoff and replacements were not carried beyond a certain limit because the railways wanted to cover the reparations contributions . " Receipts Fell in 1930. b 1930 the effects of the world detpression. caused the receipts to fell , Reproduced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the operating surplus was only 480,000,000 marks . The reparations charge of 660,000,000 marks had to be filled in from the reserves . Figures then cited show that in 1931 the decline became even more severe , and for the two years amounted to 1,500,000,000 marks . Again the company was forced to draw on its reserves . But in this connection Mr. Rydbeck pointed out that the railway charges include reparations payments which , in conformity with the . Hoover plan and the London protocol , are in fact returned to the company in the form of loans repayable in ten years as from 1933 . " Obviously , " Mr. Rydbeck stated , " the financial results will depend on the development of the economic crisis , its duration and intensity and also upon the measures which the company elects to adopt with respect to rates and expenditures . In Germany , as in other countries , experience has shown how sensitive railway budgets are to changes in the general economic situation , the marked recovery in Germany in 1925 being a characteristic example . " Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the comparisons made by the experts , appear to suggest that once Germany and the world have recovered their balance and returned to something like normal conditions , the German railway system , which is fundamentally a sound undertaking , will be able in future years , if managed on a commercial basis , to yield a net income comparable with that earned by other big foreign railway systems . " The next plenary session of the committee has not been set and the week-end will be devoted to the drafting committee 's consultations with the members . Two-Year Moratorium Seen . BASLE , Dec. 18 ( IP ) . ? There was a growing belief tonight that the Hoover moratorium on reparations and international debts would be extended for at least two years as a result of the deliberations of the Young Plan advisory committee now in session and of the international conference on debts tentatively scheduled for next month . In informed quarters this was regarded as the best solution , in view of the- refusal of the United States Congress to consider revision or cancellation , pf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               