@@698572

txt Far be it from the Twelve Editor and Owner Cylinders of the Official Paper in Emporia . of Lyon County and City of Emporia to refuse a ride in Governor Wool ) . - luxo 's " big what-cha-may-call-it-car . " But when the natives got the idea that BELL Wins had had a stroke and was being taken home in an ambulance , he was moved to remark that twelve cylinders were a few too many for Emporia . Why he should feel uncomfortable stowed away in Kansas 's " imperial battleship " demands explanation as much as why some people prefer back-yard gardens to penthouse gardens . Some idea of how the matter may be cleared up can be got from an item in the " Twenty Years Ago " column adjoining Editor WHITE 'S comment on his ride . It says : " When a horse lover meets an auto fan there ensues an argument that ends only when one of them falls in a fit . " In giving unemA Modern ployed draftsmen an Vine-Covered opportunity to win Cottage . a prize in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Architects ' Emergency Committee builded better than it knew . It attracted so many designs from architects that , after the four prizes announced were given , thirty-three more were provided for excellent plans . It showed how quickly an ambitious young draftsman can get up the design for a house , garage and garden . It is also financing jobs for some of the competing architects through funds raised by JOSEPH URBAN 'S exhibition of modern architectural works . Although it is not easy to find prospective home-builders influenced by the recent competition , there must be many who have been thinking about building while materials and labor are comparatively cheap and who look for new ideas in economy and construction . The first-prize winner , who submitted a plan for a fireproof house on a steel frame , asserts that it can be built for $3,000 . Probably that figure assumes quantity production . At present the factory-made units can not be bought , but it will be surprising if some enterprising construction company does not develop a similar idea . Meanwhile , any one contemplating an inexpensive home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Architectural League clubhouse at 115 East Fortieth Street . Some of them may seem original to the point of freakishness , but they are all stimulating to the man with the building bee in his bonnet . Next to a Turkish Fresh Air bath , a closed telefor Telephone Phone booth often Booths . seems the hottest spot on earth . One emerges weak and perspiring . A perfect " telephone box " ? airy and sound-proof -- is now planned for London . It will be tried first in the telephone room of the new postoffice at Charing Cross . Sound-proofing tends to make the booths airtight and stuffy . And they are generally placed " out of the way " in stagnant pools of air . The new scheme is to install a powerful exhaust fan in the room which will suck out the warm air and keep the booths well ventilated while in use . If the plan is successful , fans will be installed wherever needed . Perhaps the movie type of refrigerating may be resorted to . In crowded sections where people queue up to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old-style boxes  --  hot and airless  --  to insure that all calls are made with the utmost possible dispatch . Let optimists who look for crumbs of comfort in these days of depression cast their eyes on LOEFFLER PALMER , whose romantic story is told in Mining and Metallurgy . He buys a compressor , a tractor to run it and compressed air drills , and starts mining for gold in the Rube Mine , Utah . In the sweat of his face and with the aid of his air drills he works his veins at a depth of 180 feet . Last year he shipped in four months three cars of ore to the smelter and the net return to him was the pretty sum of $13,431.29 . Although once or twice he hired two men to assist him , his is truly a one-man mine , carrying on the traditions of the forty-niners . Nor does he stand alone . The West is dotted with properties too thin to attract the large-scale companies , yet rich enough to return more than a fair living to men who are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mining and simple methods of treating ore . The purchasing power of gold is now so high that it pays these lone miners , some of them engineers who have seen better days , to develop promising small claims . Even the minor companies are bestirring themselves . With labor costs low , old mines have been reopened , and properties that seemed little better than worthless in 1929 are examined with a more hopeful eye . In gold mining , at least , there is no slurgp . Back to the Days of ' 49.                     