@@702244

txt Railroads seeking rate increases to offset , in part , the year-end expiration of the emergency freight surcharges will benefit from Interstate Commerce Commission action yesterday to simplify action on such renuests from the carriers . Although denying the railroads ' petition to vacate outstanding maximum rate orders in or der to file revised tariffs preserving about one-half of the $100,000,000 revenues now derived annually from the emergency charges , the commission decided to reopen the emergency surcharge case at hearings which will begin January 6 and which will be limited to the lawfulness and propriety of the rate increases now proposed by the railroads . As the commission 's action evidently has postponed until the middle of 1937 any final decision on the question of revised rates , it was reported that the railroads are prepared to ask the ICC for a temporary extension of the surcharges beyond the present expiration date of December 31 next until the proposals for increased rates can be decided . Relieve , ' Duplication of Evidence The reopening of the emergency rate case will relieve carriers . shippers and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being required virtually to duplicate evidence of comparatively recent date . Although under the procedure approved by the Commission , a decision on the matter of rate increases can not be expected for at least six months , according to informed opinion , the method is more favorable to the railroads inasmuch as it . will be less expensive and more expeditious . While the decision is partly favorable to the railroads it does not give an indication of what disposition ultimately will be made of the request for increased rates to offset loss of surcharge revenue . Short-Term Outlook at Stake Upon move by the roads to seek temporary extension of surcharges and a decision thereon by the Commission , therefore , depends the short-term outlook of carrier earnings , or that part of them dependent upon the surcharges . Technically , the Commission rendered two decisions It refused to allow the roads to file tariffs covering proposed rate increases until a hearing has been held upon the propriety of modifying outstanding maximum rate orders to make this possible , and it reopened the emergency rate case to permit a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roads ' petition was denied without prejudice to modification of the maximum rate orders if such is deemed proper after a hearing on the lawfulness and propriety of the proposed increased rates . Statement by Commission The Commission said in denying the roads ' petition ' - Upon consideration of the petition and the replies , the Commission has determined that the petition of the carriers , in so far as it prays for modification of outstanding orders to the extent necessary to permit the filing of rates described in Exhibit Two attached to the petition , should not be granted at present upon the mere assertions of the petition and the replies thereto , but should be further heard before it is finally determined , for the following reasons : " 1 ? The modification desired would amount to abrogation of the maintenance clauses of the orders , and it is believed that such action should not be taken except after interested parties have had a hearing upon the merits of the proposals of the rail carriers ; -2 ? The expense to the carriers of publishing tariffs and supplements merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense to the Commission of preparing and serving suspension orders relating to such rate changes would be very great and the labor involved might serve no usetul end , and " 3 ? The decision of the multitude of investigation and suspension proceedings within the maximum suspension period ( seven months ) would impose an administrative burden which can be avoided by the course herein indicated . Favors Prompt Hearing " Treating the railroads ' petition broadly , and as seeking ultimate approval as lawful of the specified new rates sought to be initiated , the commission is of the view that the petitioners should be accorded as prompt a hearing as is possible on the issue so raised . It has therefore been decided to reopen Ex Parte 115 ( the emergency surcharge case ) for further hearing as to the questions raised in the petition docketed as Ex Parte 118 ( modification of maximum rate orders ) . The reopening of that proceedings has been decided upon in order to relieve carriers , shippers and others who already have made extensive presentations in that proceeding from being required virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an additional means of expediting the hearings , any interested party will be permitted to submit relevant and material evidence in the form of a sworn statement , subject to the right of adverse parties to require the presence of affiant for the purpose of cross-examination based on such verified statements . " Surcharges Expire January 1 Unless the railroads can obtain another temporary extension of the surcharges , the more than $100,000,000 annual revenue now being derived from that source will cease on January 1 . This added revenue represents the difference , in many cases , between actual coverage of fixd charges and deficits . With this in mind , the railroads are not expected to pass up any opportunity , no matter how small , of retaining at least a part of the added revenue . The surcharge revenue during the first eight months of 1936 , the carriers pointed out in their recent petition , represented the difference between a combined net deficit of $70,000,000 and the actual net income of $15,000,000 which was reported . The surcharges originally were authorized to go into effect April 18 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1936 . However , the ICC permitted their extension through the remainder of 1936 with a number of modifications . Increased traffic , however , in the meantime has virtually offset the revenue losses occasioned by the modification , so that the emergency rates now are yielding in excess of $100,000,000 annually . Rate Increase Condemned The railroad proposal to file tariffs increasing freight rates as an offset to revenue losses which they will suffer at the end of the year as a result of expiration of surcharge rates was condemned as " ill-advised " by the National Industrial Traffic League , principal shippers ' organization , at its annual meeting yesterday . A resolution adopted by the organization asks the Interstate Commerce Commission to suspend all such tariffs and to institute a fun inquiry into their " reasonableness and propriety . "                     