@@703387

txt Eight army airmen were killed here today when a wing of a big bombing plane was torn off as they were about to make a forced , landing in a farm meadow . The plane crashed from a height of about 400 feet and burned , scattering its wreckage and the bodies of seven of its occupants over a quarter of a - mile of field . The dead were : Captain Richard D. Reeve , 36 , of Wannakee , Wis . First Lieutenant Norman H. Ives , 31 , of Los . Angeles . Second Lieutenant Thomas B. Langben. 27. of Galveston . Staff Sergeant Edward F. Murati , 32 , of Denver . Corporal William H. Housley , 30. of Stillwater . Okla . Private Philip J. Truitt , 23. of Galax , Va . Private Max Myser , 21 , of Villa Grove . Ill . Private George L. Huntsman , 23 , of Kan , kakee . Ill . For an hour before the crash the airplane had been flying through rough air currents , according to reports by its crew to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toul , Ill . Presumably the pounding it had taken in flying through sev eral small storms had weakened the essential structure and the pilots brought it down low to find a suitable field in which to land it . While they were circling , a mile and a quarter northeast of Delavan , a line squall , which is an extremely violent type of thunderstorm , passed by . The plane was just beginning I its glide toward a field when the Iterrific swirling winds of the squall i struck it . The wing fluttered away and the machine plunged to the ground , I where its fuel tanks exploded into flame . Parachutes attached to four of the bodies were partly opened , but the army investigating board , comprised of Major Roy W. Camblin , Captain Hugo P. Rush and First Lieutenant Samuel Stephenson , all from Chanute Field , said this did not indicate that any of the - plane 's crew had jumped . The ' chutes probably were opened by the impact with the ground , they explained . After tallying to a dozen farmers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " reasonably certain " that one of the wings had torn away at the root and that it fell between 300 and 400 yards away from the rest of the machine . " The crash must have been caused by weather , " the captain said . " The plane might have been hit by lightning ' as some of the I witnesses think , but planes have been hit before and little damage done . We think the fire occurred after the crash . " Carey Youle , the farmer who owned the field in which the plane fell , said he saw the plane circling the town just before the line squall arrived . He said that just as the high wind and rain struck the airplane , the wing separated from the cabin . " It hit the ground and then it was just a sheet of flames , " he said . Floyd Glenn , a neighbor of Youle , said he was running toward his house trying to get to shelter before the line squall drenched him when he heard the motors .. " I looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was completely plirided , " he related . " Then there was a crash that shook the ground and off across the road I could see flames . " The wreckage was roaring like a blast furnace when I got over there . The bodies lay all around , but only one was in the cabin . " Major Camblen said that the plane , a Douglas B-18 bomber , had arrived at Chanute Field Thursday and had left Chanute Field at 10:25 this ; morning ( Chicago time ) headed for Lowry Field , Denver , Col. , the lhome station of all the men aboard it . The flight was considered entirely " routine , " he said , adding that First Lieutenant Ives was acting as pilot and Second Lieutenant Langben as co-pilot . In their radio communications after leaving Chanute Yield they said they were flying at 6,500 feet in heavy rain and very rough air . The field station attempted to communicate with them at 10:05 but the calls were not acknowledged . The B-18 is a military version of the DC-3 commercial airline planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - the fuselage is 78 feet long . It is built entirely of metal and the two engines are Wright Cyclones , each developing 1,220 horsepower . Its range is about 3,000 miles and its cruising speed around 190 miles an hour . The army has about a hundred of these bombers in service and more on order . The crash today was the eighth serious accident to service aircraft since Jan. 1 . Between Jan. 5 and March 30 the navy lost thirty-one airmen and seven of the new twinengined navy patrol bombers in Pacific Ocean manoeuvres . As in the accident today , the causes of all these crashes are mysteries . . One of the navy ships fell Into the surf near Honolulu and two others crashed while flying in fogs . Nothing is known about the other four machines , as no trace of them ever has been found . The navy 's findings in investigations of its crashes will be made public soon .                     