@@699398

txt Eamon de Valera , President of the Irish Free State Council , announced at 12:45 this morning that the Dail Eireann had been dissolved , and that a general election would be held immediately . Nominations will be filed Jan. 11 and the elections will be held Jan. 24 . The new Dail will reassemble Feb. 8 . President de Valera 's dramatic move is taken as an answer to the i Labor party group , which endeavored to force the government to withdraw its threatened wage cuts . William Norton , leader of the seven Laborites who hold the balance of power in the Free State Parliament , challenged Mr. de Valera and the President decided to force the issue immediately , hoping also to catch William T. Cosgrave 's new National party unprepared . Laborite Threatened Fight . It was realized Mr. de ' Valera would have to take the initiative wheVy ? . Norton said late last night that he would fight the government 's wage-cutting policy " by every means at my disposal , " because he felt wage cutting was not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoped the government would recognize " the rank injustice " of the pay-cut proposals and would not pursue its policy . His challenge was accepted within almost an hour . In announcing dissolution of the Dail to assembled newspaper men , Mr. de Valera said he had no doubt that his government enjoyed the full confidence of the country . The government , he added , had been elected on a well-defined program , but the hostile Senate constantly attempted to harass it " by mutilating its measures or willfully delaying them as long as the government 's power of enforcing its measures was open to doubt . " Sees Government Handicapped . The fact that the government was at the mercy of the Laborite vote , Mr. de Valera said , was preventing development of the country under his policy of protection , because no capital would be invested in industrial undertakings if it thought the government 's policy might at any moment be reversed . The government , he added , had been faithful to its pledges and had sought international peace by removing the oath of allegiance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought a remedy for unemployment in the only direction in which lasting remedies can be found , in pursuing a policy of building the country 's industries to meet the nation 's need instead of having those wants supplied by foreigners . " Our relations with labor have been uniformly happy , and the present differences over the pos- tal workers ' wage cuts are not the reason for dissolution . But these differences resulted in an extension of feelings of doubt which the Opposition parties in the Free State have so systematically endeavored to create . " President de Valera made a further bid for the cooperation of the Laborites by saying their national attitude had been entirely satisfactory . Clever Manoeuvre Seen . Mr. de Valera 's friends regard his act of dissolution as a clever political manoeuvre because under the Constitution he could not dissolve the Dail if defeated on a vote of confidence , which seemed imminent in view of Labor 's attitude . In the event of defeat he would have had to retire and allow the Dail to nominate another President . He has , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Mayor Byrne of Dublin , who are busy forming a new National party " on the wrong foot . " Mr. de , Valera will go to the country before - the full effects of his tariff war with Britain are actually felt . He is to put " an unchanged but more detailed " program before the electors and in the opinion of many observers of the Irish situation stands a good chance of returning to the Dail with added strength . Mr. Coagrave first heard of the dissolution when a newspaper man telephoned to him at , I. o'clock this morning . He declined to comment on the situation , promising a statement later in the day . A prominent member of his political organization said that although the party had been taken by surprise its machinery for an election campaign was just as strong and efficient as it was a year ago . When Mr. de Valera refused to reconsider his decision to cut civil servants ' salaries Mr. Norton had the choice of putting the government out of office as soon as the ** reassembled or of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Valera 's decision . In formal circumstances there would have been little doubt concerning his attitude . Organized labor , of the Free State fears its parlimentary days are numbered . Politic have predicted that the party will disappear at the next general election , and Mr. Norton 's dismissal of the government would have been suicidal . On this occasion , however , he was not altogether his own master . He is the principal official of the Postoffice Workers ' Union , whose members are affected very seriously by the government wage cut . They resent the reduction of their already meager wages and expected Mr. Norton to uphold their cause to the bitter end . The postal workers may complicate the political contest by ordering a postoffice strike . There will be an important meeting in Dublin today of the national executive committee of the postal union , when the whole matter will be discussed .                     