@@700703

txt While still confident of ultimate victory , Democrats appear to have lost some of their complacency about the mid-term Congressional campaign and the election in November . One of the developments which has served to put Democratic leaders " on their toes " is the continuing reports of the ebbing of President Roosevelt 's popularity . A good many of these reports can be discounted and others are quite apparently exaggerated because they originate in sources where the wish is father to the thought . There still remain those which are the result of cold factual appraisal . The most reliable surveys of sentiment stress that the Presidential loss of prestige Is in business , industrial and financial quarters ; that with the masses of voters the standing of Mr. Roosevelt is , to all appearances , as high as it ever has been . Among some of the newcomers to politics there has been the thought that the Administration need not worry about the attitude of business and finance so long as the rank and file of voters remained friendly . This attitude is not held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prestige in any quan.A ' very soon Is likely to make itself felt throughout the electorate . Further than that the business elements are the employers and , very often , community leaders who exert an influence , which at times has been politically decisive . Finally . it is to these elements that the parties look for campaign contributions . Another development which can not fail to disturb the Democrats is the decision of Senator William E. Borah to go barnstorming in opposition to many of the new deal measures which he charges are creating a bureaucracy . In the first place Senator Borah is bound to receive the respectful attention of the liberal and progressive elements of the electorate in which the Administration relies . He can not be classed as a " tory " nor an " old dealer . " He is obviously the kind of a public figure that the Administration would like on its side . In the second place , the Senator with the sure political acumen that has kept him on the front pages for so many years has selected the battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charges of Socialism , Feel= and the delving into medieval history to prove that the new deal is really a very old and ill-fated deal are very well for those who have had time to find out what those things mean . The majority of the voters have not . They do understand what Senator Borah means when he cries bureaucracy ; he means a huge overgrown. meddlesome and liberty restricting machine centered at Washington . Borah Knows a Popular Cause Finally the fact that Senator Borah takes the field at all may be indicative . The Senator has almost an unbroken record of being able to choose between a winner and a loser and an unpopular from a popular cause . More than that he has a habit of making ' his choice when the ground rumblings are not so plain to all as they are to him . Perhaps the Democrats have more fear of Borah than they have of the regular Republican command under the guidance of Henry P. Fletcher , Republican national chairman . At least they affect that attitude . However , the vigorous assault that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something of a surprise to the Democrats . The effectiveness of the effort is yet to be developed . On the other side of the political picture are the results of the Literary Digest nationwide poll in which something like 60 , ; ; ; of those voting have registered their approval of the new deal and its policies . This exceeds the Roosevelt majority in the 1932 election , reports of ebbing popularity notwithstanding . Some Losses Anticipated Whether the accuracy of the poll can compare with those which were taken preliminary to Presidential elections remains to be seen . Previous polls have been a choice between men and between parties . The latest poll was a choice between something and nothing at all . It is altogether conceivable , as the Republicans like to believe , that a great many native Republicans voting in the magazine poll voted aye but that the same Republicans will not vote in the same way when they are faced with a party choice in November . Possibly the character of the poll . did not give full scope to the opponents of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible exaggeration it did furnish a pretty fair cross section of opinion . One very good piece of evidence was that the Administration received the smallest percentage of approval in those sections where all independent surveys have shown the Administration to be least popular and the largest percentage in those sections where the surveys have shOwn the reverse . Scarcely anyone here thinks that the poll can be regarded as indicative of increased congressional majorities . Even the Democratic party leaders admit that they may suffer some losses . They do believe that with the country in its present frame of mind the losses are not destined to be serious .                     