@@700426

txt Challenging the constitutionality of the AAA licensing program for milk stabilization , Attorney General Bennett handed down an opinion today in which he warned against any further extension of Federal control In the national recovery drive . " If the power sought to be exercised by the Secretary of Agriculture as expressed in this license be carried out and sustained , " he wrote , " it is my candid opinion that the distinction between State sovereign action and the limited fields of Federal activity will have been completely destroyed . We will have definitely entered into an era of supreme national authority , and our federated national structure will be at an end . " This will be the end of State sovereign government as such . It will initiate a form of centralized national authority never within the contemplation of the Federal or State Constitutions . It will be rewriting our whole constitutional structure . " Tri-State Compact Favored . Specifically the Attorney General stated that in his opinion the highest courts would not sustain a proposed Federal plan for the States in the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be licensed in order to stabilize conditions . This program would include supervision over purely intrastate industry , and thus would be an unwarranted invasion of the rights of a sovereign State , the Attorney General said . Mr. Bennett gave his opinion in response to a request from Henry Manley , counsel for the milk control board . The AAA officials will bold hearings in New York Monday on the program under which It is hoped to coordinate the con- tiol activities of New York , New Jersey and Pennsylvania . The Attorney General indicated his sympathy for the efforts to stabilize conditions in the milkshed , but suggested that it should be done through a compact among the three States . He cited the agreement between New York and New Jersey that created the Port of New York Authority . He proposed that such a tri-State compact include provisions for regulation of production and distribution not only of milk but of all farm produce . Questions Secretary 's Authority . He agreed that " any expression or prognosis of judicial result would be hazardous in the extreme " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But he went on to assert that , basing opinion on past records of the United States Supreme Court , Federal control of interstate phases of the milk industry could not be sustained . He wrote : ' Neither the Agricultural Adjustment Act nor the commerce clause of the Constitution may in my opinion be construed so as to permit the exercise of any such authority by the Secretary of Agrisey to be established by the administrator . AAA Plan Called Unwarranted . " It may be stated as the opinion of this office that the attempt by the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in the form of the proposed licensing authority to extend the influence and controlling power of the Federal authority over the dairy industry in its wholly intrastate character under the guise of seeking to regulate the sale of milk and its distribution in the metropolitan area of New York and New Jersey is wholly unwarranted , under any reasonable interpretation of the ' commerce clause ' of the Constitution and the powers delegated to Congress ( not to the Department of Agriculture ) , in the said Constitution by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courts are ready to sustain the exercise of any such power by a Federal administrative official whose only warrant of authority is the delegation of what might appear to be a regulatory power over interstate transactions granted by the Congress of the United States . " The desired result of uniformity in regulating the marketing of fluid milk in the metropolitan area can be achieved by a compact between the States of New York , New Jersey and possibly Pennsylvania . A like compact has produced the Port of New York Authority in respect of the commerce of the Port of New York . The constitutional limits of both State and Federal action are thus preserved . Such compact might also include all farm produce as well as fluid milk . " culture as is here sought to be imposed upon the wholly intrastate dairy industry of New York , a paramount industry of the State itself . " It may not be so exercised unless our constitutional guarantees and the police power of the State as a sovereign are to be swept aside in defiance of what have hitherto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Working out in detail the basis for this view , the Attorney General considered basic features of the entire recovery program so far as it affected the rights of States . Licensing Plan Outlined . " The proposed licensing , " he said , " declares that the entire sale and distribution of fluid milk in the metropolitan area , whether wholly intrastate in its nature or not , are so ' inextricably intermingled ' with the interstate transactions in the same area that the former are ' entirely in the current of interstate commerce , ' and therefore subject to Federal licensing and regulation , though wholly intrastate in themselves . " By virtue of this declaration , the Secretary of Agriculture , as the Agricultural Administrator , proposes broadly to license every dispenser or distributer of milk from grocery store to wholesale distributer as well as producer . Provision is made for a bond to the Secretary of Agriculture to secure payments . Reports , &c.; are demanded and provision is &c.,; made for the prescription by the Secretary of the duties of a joint board for the States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 