@@702599

txt President Roosevelt will return this week from his fishing holiday to confront a state of affairs in Washington unparalleled in recent years . The legislative machinery in congress is stalled , the overwhelming Democratic majority is split on important questions to the degi .. e of impotence to function and Democratic leaders are running around in circles , getting nowhere with plans and programs and projects on which they unanimously disagree . Suffers Loss of Prestige . The President himself has suffered a marked loss of prestige , as is evidenced by the spreading rebellion in his own party against his drive to pack the Supreme court and against his budgetary program of continued deficit financing . A much discussed question of the moment is whether the control of congress that Mr. Roosevelt has enjoyed since the beginning of his incumbency is slipping from his grasp . With the progress of recovery definitly relegating to the dim past those days of panic when legislators with bewildered relief did the bidding of the confidence inspiring new tenant of the White House and with necessitous economy beginning to dry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooms have , - echoed of late with ejaculations of statesmen that they are rubber stamps no lonzer . Beady to Crack Whip . Whether they actually have regained their independence or are merely voicing a pious hope will be disclosed at no distant date . Mr. Roosevelt is an exceedingly shrewd and resourceful politician and he will spare no effort to regain control of congress , if he has bast it . He will call the Democratic leaders to the White House as soon as he returns and will crack the whip as of old . The question is whether they will obey as of old . The President will return to confront what appears to be certain defeat on his proposal to pack the Supreme court with six New Dealers . The judiciary committee of the senate , which stands 10 to 8 against Mr. Roosevelt on this question , will take its first vote on May 18 . By that date Mr. Roosevelt will be compelled to decide whether to seek a part of his loaf by way of compromise or to fight for the full six whole loaf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailing opinion among Democratic leaders is that , it disposed to compromise , the President could easily win an addition of two members to the court . Refuses to Compromise . So far Mr. Roosevelt has impatiently brushed aside all suggestions of compromise , asserting supreme confidence that he will win hands down hi the end . In some quarters the belief is entertained that his sfrategy , in any event calls for an unrelenting insistence on the full terms of his proposal at least until after the Supreme court shall have decided the social security cases . 13y so doing he would . keep poised over the court the whip to which Attorney General Cummings has not hesitated to impute the recent decision of the court favorable to the New Deal . Another question the President must decide is whether he shall continue to keep the stream of legislation dammed up with the court packing bill . Up to date he has held back projected New Deal bills , notably measures to empower the federal government to regulate minimum wages , maximum hours of labor , prices and trade practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would empower him to pack the court with judges certain to uphold such legislation . Brings Pressure on Senators . By so doing he has intensified the pressure that labor groups and other proponents of such legislation are bringing to bear on senators to pass the court packing bill and thereby break the log jam holding up labor and other New Deal measures . As a result of the President 's tactics in behalf of the court bill congrass virtually has been marking time since the first week of February . Sessions of : two or three hours four days a week have become common in the house . Even less woe : is being done in the senate which , when it meets at all , rarely stays in session more than an hour or two . In the week of April 5 the senate met three days , in the next week two days , in the next week three days , in the next week two days , and last week two days . The only important bills passed and signed by the President up to date are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coal control measure . The only regular appropriation bill so far enacted into law is that providing for the upkeep of the navy . Believe Party Wrecked . The ever widening split in Democratic ranks has inspired the Republicans with visions of a ' political comeback with the aid of the Democrats alienated by Mr. Roosevelt 's policies . Some Republicans of note are prepared to jettison the name Republican and join the Democratic insurgents in formation of a new party on the foundations of the G. 0 . P. , to be called the Constitutional party , to mention a name commonly suggested . These Republicans believe that the President has wrecked his party with his scheme to pack the court and that the new political alignment will make its appearance in the congressional elections next year in which Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Farley will attempt to defeat for renomination all the Democrats opposing the court bill . Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg Mich. , and other Republicans have signified an intention of campaigning for Senator Bennett Clark D. , Mo . , Senator Edward R. Burke D. , Neb. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up for reelection next year . Seized Aboard a Liner , Admits Theft of $200,000 Los Angeles , Cal. , May 9 . ? ( ! P ) ? Federal agents who arrested Turner Watson , 26 , aboard the liner Santa Rosa at Quarainte tonight said he made a " full confession " to theft of more than $200,000 cash from his widowed aunt , Mrs. Martha Blous of Denver . Agents said Watson had " an appreciable amount of the money in his possession . " Woman Plunges 5 Stories ; Foot Is Only Slightly Hurt Toledo , 0 . , May ** Evelyn Herzig , 22 , of Toledo fell five stories from a hotel window today and escaped with only minor foot injuries . She fell from an eighth story window and landed on the gabled roof of the third story ballroom of the hotel . Police said she told them she turned her ankle and fell .                     