@@703288

txt A charge on the floor of the house today that Horace Russell , general counsel of the Home Owners ' L o an corporation , had been sending out letters advertising the legal services of a brother attorney , caused a commotion in government circles that resulted in the resig nation of Russell . Russell , who is 40 years old , is president of the ecaerat tsar association , an organization of attorneys in the government service . As such he sets the standard of ethics for attorneys in the government . His home is in Atlanta , Ga . Exposed by Ralph Church . Representative Ralph E. Church R. , Ill. drew the attention of members to Russell 's actions . Many congressmen were almost incredulous , but the announcement of the general counsel 's resignation came soon after from Chairman John H. Fahey of the HOLC . Church read a letter written by Russell on the official stationery of the HOLC , which : was dispatched to thousands of lawyers and citizens who have dealings with the agency . The letter announced the resignation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an associate general counsel in charge of the HOLC legal staf , to engage in the private practice of law in Washington before the bureaus and commissions of the government and the courts . T. S. ? His Address . Then extoling Taylor 's abilities and intimate knowledge of govern . mental agencies Russell expressed his belief that many who received his announcement would want to turn to Taylor for assistance and advice . The letter closed : " P. S. ? Judge Taylor 's address is the Investment Building , Washington , D. C. " A facsimile of the letter will be found on the picture page . The letter noted also that Russell had sent a similar letter several months previously in behalf of W. T. Stockton , another associate general counsel of the HOLC , who had resigned . Could n't Believe His Ears . Church said he first dismissed the story of Russell 's actions as mere rumor . " I simply could not believe that any one would be guilty of such an unethical practice , " he said . " It is a violation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is certainly a violation of every rule of good government and common decency for any official to use his posi ? tion to advertise the services of a member of the bar . But I found that it was not rumor , but a fact . " John J. Cochran Dem. , Mo.J , chairman of the house committee on ex ? penditures , then revealed that the matter had been brought to his attention several days ago and that he had asked Fahey to investigate it . Church scarcely had finished when Fahey notified Cochran that Russell was resigning . Fahey made public a letter from Russell to the board of the HOLC in which he offered to make what Amends appeared to be necessary . Admits Writing Two Ads . " As I read this letter now , " Russell wrote , " I realize that it is open to criticism and I regret exceedingly that it was sent out. , I dictated the letter as it is and signed it except that the postscript was added by a clerk in my office during my absence from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for my error and shall be very glad to pursue any course which will in any way redeem the situation . These are the only two letters which I wrote . It is most unfortunate for me and 1 regret the embarrassment to the board . " I have no present or future inter . est in the undertaking of Judge Taylor except as a friend and fellow associate . " Horace Russell .                     