@@700251

txt Two-way conversation was opened between the stratosphere-bound balloon of Lieut. - Commander T. G. W. Settle and Akron , which he had left below , 15 minutes after he took off at 9:27 a. m. today . The first words were from Maj. Chester L. Fordney , marine corps mathematician , who accompanied Commander Settle . They were " Good morning . " Akron immediately asked how high he was , and with the careful instinct of the mathematician he is , Commander Settle 's companion replied , 4800 feet up , " that is , minus 1040 feet allowing for Akron 's height . " Major Fordney added that as yet they were not doing much within the gondola except navigating , but would start their data work soon . Then with the instinct of a landlubber the Akron conversationalist asked what time Major Fordney , who is making his first flight , and Commander Settle , who has waited anxiously for many weeks to make this flight , were going to have their lunch and what they were going to eat . Down from the balloon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12,000 feet they would have a banana , an apple and a cup of chocolate . Akron pursued the novel two-way talk from the sky by asking what the explorers expected to find when they got up toward the top of their flight . The answer he got was : " A lot of little cosmic rays . " Voice From the Skies Describes the Flight To the Stratosphere Special Irons Monitor Bureau CHICAGO , Nov. ** with " the blue " as informally as if the pilot of the stratosphere balloon were In the same room , radio operators in Akron established two-way voice conversation and sent it out on a. national network today , the first time , it is believed at NBC headquarters here , that such a conversation with the skies was ever held or made the subject of a popular radiocast . Other stratosphere explorers , it is explained , have used wireless telegraphic code to carry on conversations . The unique part about the Settle flight is that the two officers in the aerial gondola transfnit their messages in plain English which a nation may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were put on the network . Some of the most amusing bits of - the morning were spoken when the balloon was officially " off the air " from the network but talking to short-wave receivers in fkron and in communication also with N. B. C. stations in New York and Chicago . In these more intimate glimpses , Commander Settle , veteran navy balloonist , spoke In a tone that showed him completely at ease . His frequent " hellos " had a cheery note . Calls by Nicknames He addressed his ground aids by nicknames , " Skeets , " " Leo , " and others . " Skeets " was the N. B. C. direct r of special broadcasts , showman of the occasion , and " Leo " was the Akron weather man . On their part the men on the ground were equally informal . It was " hello Tex " and " hello Mike " to greet the Commander and the Major . Much of the unplanned conversation concerned the weather , which was of the utmost practical concern to the men , but there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Settle wanted to know how his take-off looked , and a friend at Akron answered : " Beautiful . I 've a couple ? of snapshots and I hope they turn out . " Commander Settle replied he hoped so , too , and was glad his friend thought it looked good . Once Commander Settle was asked from the ground " where he was . " " Wait a minute and I 'll take a look around , " was his answer . He " came back " to reply that he was somewhere above Alliance , Ohio . When his conversation and that of Major Fordney grew especially interesting , NBC program directors broke in to ask if he would n't repeat it for the broadcast audience . " Stage " directions between the ground men in ' Akron and Chicago and the two " performers " In the sky were complete and effective . At exactly the time agreed on , 10:30 , a second conversation started . Lost for an Hour While radio conversation with " the blue " seemed at . first almost as simple as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The balloon was " lost " for nearly an hour . Then the balloonists ' voices were heard again , and it was learned that the balloon , far from being actually lost , was in just about the same- location and altitude it had been when last heard from . With this news came the cheering information that - conditions were fine and that the balloon was beginning its ascent at the rate of two meters a second . Someone in Akron informed the balloonists that " Howard Perkins is leaving with the girls , " which meant that Mrs. Settle and Mrs. Forney were going home . By 11:40 E. S. T. the balloon had reached an altitude of 12,000 feet and Commander Settle got out on the " poop deck " and took observations . He reported that he was over East LiverpoolOhlo . The balloon is expected to reach maximum height by 2:30 today and the men are due back on earth by sundown . Delicate Instruments Taken Aloft to Search Out Cosmic Ray Secrets Special to The Christian Science Monitor AKRON , Ohio  --  Delicate instruments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts concerning air resistance and other data sought by natural science were taken aloft within the seven-foot metal ball which carried the ... intrepid voyagers to the eerie regions of the stratosphere . Three sets of technical instruments will be under the constant observation of Lieut. - Commander T. G. W Settle of the United States Navy , as the adventurers drift about in regions perhaps 50,000 to 60,000 feet above the earth . This special equipment was crowded-onto three shelves which entirely surround the interior of the gondola . By far the most important are the instruments to trace the cosmic rays . For if the flight accomplishes nothing else , the experiments to be conducted may solve a long-standing but friendly argument between America 's greatest cosmic ray authorities , Dr. Robert A. Milliken , president of the California Institute of Technology , and Dr. Arthur H. Compton , professor of physics at the University of Chicago . Both authorities supplied sets of instruments for the five different experiments which may . determine which is right in his theory as to the nature of the cosmic ray . Both agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories . Difference in Views Dr. Milliken , who believes that the universe is continuously building itself , holds that cosmic rays are ultra-violet rays of exceptionally high frequency and short wave lengths , the by-product of the building up of a heavy atomic nucleus from groups of lighter nuclei . Professor Compton , on the ether hand , who recently directed a worldwide series of experiments on the rays , believes that the mysterious rays are not true rays , but are electrically charged particles , reflected from the earth 's magnetic field , and moving at tremendous speeds . If Dr. Millikan 's theory is correct and the rays are protons ; or light rays of short wave length , the maximum number of rays should be reached at a height of about 10 miles and then decrease at higher levels , it is explained . But if Dr. Compton 's theory is the true one , then the number should increase all the way to the top of the atmosphere . A set of navigation instruments wel  --  e taken along which are very similar to those carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous balloonist , on his many free balloon : rips . According to Mr. Vdn Orman , these instruments are rather unusual in several respects . - Sensitive to Altitude For instance , there is an Mere-meter , a little instrument which is sensitive to changes of altitude of as little as two feet . Whenever the altitude varies more than two feet , a little red light glows or a buzzer buzzes , to call the pilot 's attention to , the hhange . Similarly an alarm altimeter sounds a warning buzz when the balloon exceeds or drops below a given altitude . , Beside the ordinary altimeters , barographs and statoscopes , there is a hydrograph for recording humidity within the ball , thermometers for measuring temperatures in three places , ? within the metal ball , within the balloon , and in the outside air ; chronometers for telling the exact time , a sextant for determining the latitude and longitude by measuring the angle of the stars . and a radio compass for determining what position the balloon is in . In addition , several interesting cameras @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aerial camera , belonging to Capt . A. W. Stevens of Wright Field , Dayton , Ohio , noted for his outstanding work in photography from planes . Another is an Eastman Kodak . specially built for this stratosphere flight with infra-red filters which . it is said , will cut through the always existing at the horizon in high altitudes , and will get cleat pictures of this horizon . A spectroscopic camera for the photography of the spectrum of sun and light from different alit-Ludes has also been added to the equipment . The pictures of the spectrum will be taken through the quartz " ports " or windons of the ball , which were made especially for taking the spectrum . Prior to taking off , Commandei Settle said that he belic  --  cd the radio equipment is one of the most important aids to the flight . " Radio will be as useful to the balloon as it is to a ship at sea , " he said . " In addition to a Jade ) compass I am carrying a regular broadcasting set . The equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very compact size , low weight and high sensitivity . The transmitter embodies new developments in transmitting equipment . " Trip to Be on Air Broadcasting will be carried on by the National Broadcasting Company over a short-wave circuit and then will be rebroadcast over a nationwide hook-up . A third and most necessary set of instruments sustains life for the occupant of the ball while in the thin upper air , 11 or so miles above the earth . This set includes a pair of submarine " lungs " in case he should have to abandon the ship in - stratosphere , and descend by means of parachute . The " Jun were developed by Mr. Frank Hobson of the navy bureau of construction and repair . " The air pressure inside the gondola will be reduced to about 10 pounds per square inch absolute . Liquid oxygen boils its vapor off into our air , " is the way Conimander Settle explained the method ' of sustaining life within the ball . " It is the same method that is used in submarines . On the way up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : atches and use oxygen above that level . But an interesting fact is that it will be no harder to breathe at the peak altitude than lower down . Once the hatches are closed , breathing conditions will be the same all the way up . " The soda ' lime which is used for absorbing carbon dioxide from the breath will also be used to heat the craft a little , Commander Settle said , but most of the heating of the ball will be done by the sun 's rays . The gondola is painted white on top to repel the sun 's rays and dark beneath to absorb the radiant heat , eqUalizing temperatures to some extent . The gondola must naturally be sealed to ? maintain the pressure of the ' interior . Plan of the Flight A plan of the flight , as Commander Settle visualized it , was to start with an early morning take-off , with no effort to get altitude until the sun 's heat later in the day starts warming and expanding the gas and so drawing the balloon toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated , would be not more than 10 miles an hour . " I may still be able to see Chicago astern in the morning , or at least its smoke , " he said . " Probably I will not get much sleep that night . " The peak altitude will be determined by the amount of ballast that has been saved for landing . To start back down I will either valve gas or let nature send the balloon down automatically , That would happen after the sun has passed the ? maximum heat . I will come down fast or slow according to circumstances . " In case he should land on the Great Lakes , Commander Settle said he would cruise along much as a sailboat , and later take off                     