@@700587

txt Completing the redrafting of the Fletcher-Rayburn stock exchange regulation bill today , the subcommittee of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee was ready to submit it to the full committee for formal approval tomorrow morning . The rewritten measure bears slight resemblance to the original . It will be reported to the Senate with practically all of the controversial features materially modified , particularly the margins regulation and administration sections . The subcommittee of the House Committee on Interstate Commerce also completed its revision today , and will submit the bill to the full membership for ratifying action tomorrow . The formality of reporting to the two houses is expected before the end of the week . Limited Debate Rule Is Likely . The House is expected to pass the bill next week , probably under a suspension of the rules by which de-bate would be limited and all amendments barred except those of committee origin . Just when the Senate will act , due to the rules ofl that chamber , is problematical . The Senate committee redraft is a document of more than 13,000 words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ margins transactions . A change was made in the time limit for the application of the law to margin accounts existing ' at the time of enactment . Senator Glass fixed Jan. 31 , 1939 , as the limit . The subcommittee made it June 30 , 1936 . For a while after the President 's conference with House leaders Sunday night there was talk that the ' Glass amendment might be eliminated and a fixed margin provision substituted along the same lines as that written by the House committee . The Glass amendment was designed to vest power in a , commission of three members to regulate margins so far as Exchange transactions are concerned , with authority to the Federal Reserve Board to fix margin requirements applicable to collateral loans and other credits granted by or through member banks . The subcommittee draft increases the number of members of the proposed board from three to five . The House bill fixes the loan value of a security at 55 per cent of its market price , or 100 per cent of the lowest price at which it sold in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall not exceed 75 per cent of the current market price . There is a modifying clause , however , by which discretionary powers are vested in the Federal Reserve Board to raise or lower margins when in its opinion such action is deemed necessary . The fact that only minor changes were made in the Glass amendment was interpreted as meaning that President Roosevelt is not as much opposed to it as was made to appear . Senator Fletcher conferred with the President last Saturday , at which time he is understood to have called to his attention all of the major changes written by the committee of which he is the chairman . Not more than three of the five members of the administrative board called for in the Glass amendment would be from the same political party . There has been considerable discussion of a suggestion that ' ) . the board , which would be officially known as the Federal Securities Exchange Commission , ultimately may be vested with the administration of the Securities Act of 1933 , the amending of which Congress is expected to undertake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it decided to enlarge the commission was not disclosed . With the exception of control by the Federal Reserve Board of margin transactions involving member banks of the Reserve System , the commission which would be set up by the Senate bill would have the broadest of powers to control the use of manipulative and deceptive devices on the exchanges , regulate the floor-trading activities of exchange members and fix regulations governing reports of condition by corporations . The title of the Senate bill also is changed . As originally written , the purpose was declared to be " for the registration of national securities exchanges operating in interstate and foreign commerce and through the mails and to prevent inequitable and unfair practices on such exchanges and for other purposes . " Title of the Bill Redrafted . The redraft amends this tile to read : " A bill to provide for the regulation of securities exchanges and over-the-counter markets operating in interstate and foreign commerce and through the mails , to prevent inequitable and unfair practices in such exchanges and markets and for other purposes . " Representative Rayburn of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said that the bill as redrafted by the subcommittee , of which he is chairman , carries all the changes previously announced by the committee without material revision . It would put the Federal Reserve Board in charge of margins , while the Federal Trade Commission would be the administrative agency . These are the two major points of difference between the two committees and , according to all signs , will be the provisions around which the battle in conference will centre after , the two houses have acted ,                     