@@702245

txt Discussion is likely to continue as to whether the present business recovery represents the traditional upturn . in the " economic cycle , " or whether it has resulted from remedial measures at Washington . But there will probably be hereafter a good deal of controversy as to why there should have been such a depression . The declaration has already become familiar that something is wrong with the familiar alternation of booms and reactions , and that measures must be taken to prevent its recurrence . That attitude is by no means frivolous . Among economists and financiers , the means by which such industrial vicissitudes might be " ironed out " has been for many years a matter of thoughtful discussion . Much was done before 1929 ( the establishment of the Federal Reserve , for example ) to accomplish the purpose of mitigating the severity of financial reaction . Much has been done since then ( the Securities and Exchange Law is an instance ) to restrain the excesses of a speculative boom headed for disaster . Such feeling of discouragement as has existed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedly from the fact that whereas , even in the Nineteen Twenties , it was widely assumed that we were already safeguarded against calamitous reversals of prosperity , nevertheless the panic of 1929 and the subsequent depression are commonly classed as the worst on record . But is it wholly reasonable to accept 1929 and its unhappy sequel as typical ? Is there no ground for hoping that , granted absence of a world-wide political convulsion , the recent depression is no indication for the future ? As a matter of fact , the severity of our own industrial depressions had been progressively lessened during the halfcentury before 1929 . The reaction after 1893 was not as severe as that which followed 1873 , and the sequel to the panic of 1907 now seems in restrospect , compared with what we have lately experienced , a mild economic readjustment . Yet the exploitation of finance , industry and credit on the eve of 1907 had been as reckless as in any preceding boom , and no such economic safeguards had been established as exist today . The President 's committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1928 , predicted in its subsequent report that , although the " economic cycle " would remain , nevertheless the time should come when " alternating phases of expansion and " contraction will be reduced to alter " nating accelerations and retardations " of a rising secular trend . " It was unfortunate for the eminent collaborators in this report that its final summary should have been published in 1929 . It was equally unfortunate that ( perhaps being blinded by the industrial trend of the moment ) they should have underestimated , if not overlooked , the inevitable aftermath of the economically most destructive war in history . But if the extreme severity of depression after 1929 is to be primarily ascribed to the waste , exhaustion , private and public insolvency caused by that unhappy conflict , is it quite fair to ascribe the result to defects in " the capitalistic system , " or to assume from it the probable character of future industrial reactions ? Considered in the light of the utter derangement of commerce , production , agriculture and credit which had occurred in the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent great and world-wide depression , not as the normal " downturn of the cycle , " but as the inevitable economic penalty for a World War . T ' e reckoning had been postponed for a decade , as it was after 1815 , by one fortunate country 's redistribution of its wartime gains . When that country encountered on each occasion a reckoning of its own , provoked by its own extravagances , the whole world 's unstable economic structure went to pieces .                     