@@702143

txt Foreign trade bargaining based on the interests of the American producer was the basic reform demanded by Goy . Alf M. Landon tonight in his program for restoring prosperity to the American farmer . The second address of his present campaign tour was complementary to his declaration of farm policies in Des Moines and was devoted primarily to a discussion of the reciprocal trade program of the present admin. istration , which he said had " sold the American farmer down the river . " 32,000 Seats Filled . Landon 's address was given in th Municipal auditorium , where 12,0110 seats were filled . Thousands tried in vain to get into the meeting . The reception to the nominee here was one of the ' finest of any of his campaign trips . The Republican party in Minnesota gave a demonstration of strength and enthusiasm in this mem ing which surprised many of those wit h Landon . In a huge sign banked with flowers on the platform the First Voters Di vision of the Youn7 Republican League " delivered Minnesota to Landon . " While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the campaign . it indicated something of I he spirit . of the Republican rally tonight and gay a new slant for the political prophets to watch . Declares for Reciprocity . While condemning the kind of trade agreements made by the Presi ? dent . in what the Republican nominee ' described as " a star chamber proceeding " and by methods unworthy of representative government , Gov . Landon supported the principle of reciprocity and declared himself against a policy of isolation . Of the present methods of reaching agreements he said : " These policies have got to stop . The way to trade is to trade , anti let me tell you this , we Republicans are going to trade , not against but in the interest of American producers . In too many of the present agreements we are the fellow who got the blind horse . " Casting up the results of eight trade agreements which have been in force a sufficient time to judge their effects , the governor said that under these agreements our imports increased more than three times as fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign food now coming into the country  --  live stock , cheese , meats , vegetables , etc . Points to Large Imports . " With the most intelligent and capable farm population in the world , " he declared , " and with unsurpassed natural resources , we are now one of the largest importers not only of those things we do not produce but of those we are adapted to produce . This is a scandalous situation ! " Gov . Landon will keep wide open the channels of trade in those commodities which can not be grown in this country at reasonable cost to consumers . He would not permit unnecessary imports of meats , dairy and poultry products , grains , fruits , and vegetables . Interchange , or barter , along these lines , constitutes his constructive program . " We must not reduce farm production in this country to the needs of the domestic market , " he said . " This is the doctrin of despair . The Republican party refuses to accept this philosophy of despair . It believes in making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believes in increasing the demand for farm products , not reducing the supply . " Feel Effect in Minnesota . In selecting Minnesota as the place in which to discuss the trade agreements , Gov . Landon was in a section which has felt the effect of Canadian reciprocity , particularly in dairy products . The farmers in this state and in Wisconsin , where he will campaign on Friday , are reported as ready to turn to the Republican party because of the loss of their markets and the break in prices . Gov . Landon went into detail as to the effect of opening the door to Canadian cheese and the Brazilian agreement letting in oils and fats that compete with butter . In addition to the dairy and live stock ' farmers he gave as other " casualties " of the agreements the Florida growers of early vegetables , the tobacco growers in Connecticut , and the bulb industry in the Pacific northwest . The reason these agreements have had such results , he said , is the selection of the countries with which they have been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Had the administration been interested , " he said , " in using the principle of reciprocity in its proper manner , it would have made agreements only with our customers . It would n't have made an agreement on agricultural products with our very good friend Canada , which in this field is a competitor , not a customer . " Small Crowd at Station . Gov . Landon 's reception in Minneapolis was in marked contrast with that in Des Moines . A few h undred persons gathered around the railroad station exit and gave him a cheer as he walked out to his automobile . The way to the hotel was along Washington street , a sort of Minneapolis Bowery , and the idlers there stared at the candidate . The car was taken rapidly through this street by a police escort with sirens . Another small crowd was in front of the hotel . It was not a friendly crowd along this street . In the auditorium , which seats 12,000 , the scene was different . Christiansen Ditrodnees Landon . Former Gov . Theodore Christiansen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ovation as he took - the stand to introduce Gov . Landon . " Kansas and Minnesota have much in common , " he said . " Both are typical prairie states , sharing the tradition of the covered wagon and the hope that our nation shall always be a nation of pioneers in the deepest sense . We stand together against a philosophy that would substitute old world regimentation for a free and independent America . " Minnesota has always been loyal to the union , and cast her vote for Abraham Lincoln . It is written in the stars that she will cast her vote this year for a man who has the same initials . This man is no radio crooner  --  he is not a word juggler ? but he has - done fairly well as a budget balancer . He does not talk about things , but does things . He is a true liberal . He not only realizes that taxes are paid by men who labor , but , having personally realized what sweat feels like , he wants to do something about it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committeewoman , and Roy E. Dunn , committeeman , at this moment walked forward with Landon . The governor waved his arm in salute to the crowd , that yelled in delight at his appearance . It was a real demonstration , perhaps the noisiest that he has faced in any meeting . The radio time was going , but the crowd would not stop . Landon leaned forward and tried to stop them . They threw streams of confetti at him . He finally succeeded . in starting his address .                     