@@698429

txt In tone and diction Assistant Mayor KERRIGAN 'S attack on Judge SEABURY and the Hofstaater city inquiry committee shows that the Walker Administration is confident that the time is ripe for battle . No big fish have come into Judge SEA- ' BURY 'S net ; none of the real higherups has been presented for indict1 ment and few for examination ; the State is looking around 107 needed revenues by means of new taxation . 1 What better time to assail the committee and its counsel as " futile " and to oppose a further grant of money to them when Feb. 1 arrives ? Having obviously reached this conclusion , Tammany seemingly told Mr. KERRIGAN to go ahead with . whatever material he had . That he relished the assignment is visible in every word of his defiant document . With others in the Walker Cabinet he has been boiling with indignation that the Mayor should be " annoyed " and Tammany " inconvenienced " by Judge SEABURY . Given the word to storm the works , Mr. KERRIGAN dashed up the hill , firing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee and itS counsel would strike the Legislature 's pocket nerve . We read that the $2,000-a-day expenditure has been useless ; that the sacred cover of " private life , " even as to haberdashery bills , has been lifted ; that the morale of city employes has been lowered by this constant " snooping and municipal credit has been injured . We are told that Judge SEABURY pursues the missing SHERWOOD because he " lacks the courage " to ask questions of the Mayor himself , who is at all times available for a committee call ; and that no one at City Hall has been keeping the Mayor 's private accountant out of the committee 's jurisdiction . The answer is that neither Mayor WALKER , Mr. KERRIGAN nor any , other administration official has done anything to induce SHERWOOD to return . The Mayor has remained silent under implications which would have impelled most men to demand that they be called before the committee at once , and to send out a broadcast which would produce the missing witness . It is hardly credible that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would remain in hiding . And when Mr. KERRIGAN refers sneeringly to " the discovery of three tin boxes , " in disparagement of what Judge SEABURY has produced , the answer is that on one of those tin boxes is based widespread public belief that Tammany is a consistent , brutal grafting organization , and that charges looking to the dismissal from the public service of the owner of the tin box  --  the Sheriff of this county  --  are lodged with the Governor novz , It may be that some Republican legislators will be alarmed by Mr , KERRIGAN 'S attack and refuse to vote added funds if by Feb. 1 there have not been damaging revelations about important public officials . It may be that State Chairman MAcv can hold them in line . But undoubtedly the organization Democrats have decided that they can now risk open and bitter opposition to the city inquiry .                     