@@702293

txt after close consultation with the Federal Reserve Board , is another move of the ss.me kind , made at a different point but aimed at a similar objective . What the Treasury proposes to do is this : as gold imports enter the country the Treasury will purchase them , not by depositing gold certificates with the Reserve Banks , but by borrowing funds on short-term in the open market . By this method it will take out of the market an amount equal to whatever it puts in , and the gold it acquires will be segregated in an " inactive " account where it can not serve , as it now does , as the base for an expansion of credit . Later on , should gold begin to move out of the country , the Treasury will be in a position to reverse its method , if it so desires , and to neutralize the effect of gold exports on the credit system by using the proceeds of its sales of gold to retire Government securities , thereby putting back into the market funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain disadvantages . It will tend to increase the national debt and ( at least fractionally ) the cost of carrying it . Moreover , it will be another step in the direction of Government-controlled credit . Nevertheless , the plan is clearly intended to serve an essentially conservative purpose , by setting up an additional safeguard against a credit inflation which might otherwise run amok , and as such it is to be welcomed . TEE TREASURY 'S GOLD POLICY The significance of the Treasury 's new gold policy can best be understood if the reasons which have led to its adoption are briefly stated . For several years gold has been pouring into this country at an unprecedented rate . It has been attracted partly in consequence of our devaluation of the dollar , partly by our political security and by our remoteness from troubled areas exposed to the threat of war and revolution ( factors which have persuaded foreigners that their funds will find safe keeping here ) , and partly by the desire of these foreigners to share in the profits of our expanding business and our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy requires that all imported gold be sold to the Government . The Government pays for it by means of checks drawn on its fiscal agents , the Reserve Banks , and then reimburses itself ( for the funds thus expended ) through gold certificates drawn against the newly imported gold and deposited with the Reserve Banks . This process gives the Treasury balances which , when disbursed , put additional reserves into the hands of banks in all parts of the country . These reserves constitute a base for the expansion of bank credit , and the larger the base the larger the potential expansion . Bank reserves were already at a very high figure a year ago ? so high , in fact , that the banks had enormous " excess reserves " at hand , over and above the amount which they were required by law to keep on deposit with the central banks of the Reserve System . It was specifically in order to cut down these " excess reserves "  --  and thereby to narrow the base for a potential credit expansion and to prevent an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business  --  that the Federal Reserve Board moved last July to increase by 50 per cent the amount of reserves which the banks are required to keep on deposit with the Reserve Banks . The policy now announced by the Treasury ,                     