@@700026

txt Consumers of electricity have been increasingly vocal recently in demanding ' lower rates , and politicians have been quick to respond . Mayor THACHER of Albany heads a group sworn to " recognize no legal difficulties " in the efforts to get redress . Several months ago " Community Councils " in this city went so far as to demand the removal of MILD R : MALTBIE , Governor ROOSEVELT 'S appointee as chairman of the Public Service Commission , on the ground that he had " given no evidence " of any interest in the welfare of " the consuming public " ? an allegation which , if repeated today , might cause some local utility executives to fall down in a fit . Governor LEHMAN was ultimately compelled to take note of the rising protests , and at his instigation the Public Service Commission began holding hearings last May to see if it might not be possible to establish lower rates under its limited emergency powers . In these proceedings formal rules of ratemaking were given scant con-4 consideration . The commission 's avowed purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been affected by the depression , and to compel those who could afford to do so to " assist in escaping " from it by lowering their rates . Mr. MALTBIE 'S lengthy opinion in the case affecting the New York Edinc-a Company and its associates contains few echoes of SMYTII vs . AMES , as expanded in later decisions of the Supreme Court . The rough-hewn rate base the commission selected is fixed capital , as shown in the books of the company , with adjustments . It appears that on this base none of the companies in question earned less than 5% per cent at any time , during the depression , while some of them earned considerably more . The largest , the New York Edison Company , earned . 6.22 even 1932 . Making much of the " depression-proof " character of the industry and the huge surpluses accumulated by the local companies , Mr. MALTBIE recommended a cut of 10 per cent , calculated to reduce the metropolitan consumers ' bill by about $15 , - 000,000 . It may well be that under the spell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as reflected in the rate base these companies were permitted to earn too liberal a return in the days of their prosperity . Moreover , the argument that the utilities should be treated with extra generosity during the lean years in order to make up for the profits they were compelled to forego during the fat years has its common-sense limitations . These particular companies did not suffer greatly in the years after the war . Nevertheless , they are entitled now , as they were then , to a fair return on the reasonable value of their properties . Even assuming that their surpluses are more than ample , the question arises whether the public can at this time recapture the excess earnings of days gone by . So grave were the doubts of Commissioner BREWSTER on this score that he refused to sanction the chairman 's proposal for a 10 per cent cut , which would have admittedly eaten into these surpluses . He might have quoted the New York Telephone Company case in which the United States Supreme Court held that " profits of the past can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . " In the end the courts may be called upon to pass on the reasonableness of the more moderate reduction of 6 per cent now approved by the commission as a temporary measure , pending final determination of the issues . The companies protest that as-a result of past reductions and additional taxes they are already $19,000,000 out of pocket ; they are about to shoulder the added burden imposed by the NRA . Even Mr. MALTBIE appears to have some doubts regarding the outcome of the litigation now threatened , for he remarked when the hearings were first opened that " if the utilities do not see , " fit to cooperate , the efforts of the " commission for temporary relief may " be fruitless. "                     