@@701781

txt Developments in Europe LONDON. ? France and Belgium pressed Britain for a definite military alliance against " Germany . The British Cabinet , however , is divided on policy . France and Belgium , too , have diverging views . The Council of the League of Nations invited Germany to attend a meeting tomorrow to hear the complaint against its violation of treaties . Within the Council there was no unity on the policy to be pursued . Sanctions were considered out of the question . There was also a proposal to have the League Committee of Thirteen meet to consider means to end the Italo-Ethiopian war . MUNICH. ? Chancellor Hitler indicated Germany would not send a delegate to London unless he could attend in full equality and not be in the position of being haled before a court . ROME. ? Fears were held that a Franco-British alliance would spoil chances of large Italian gains in an Ethiopian settlement . MOSCOW. ? Russians gave up hope that Germany would withdraw from the Rhineland. and felt that war preparations must go on . Britain 's Position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NEW YORK Tr:SIES . LONDON , March ** various schemes that are being considered in London by both the Locarno conference and the League of Nations Council to offset Adolf Hitler 's re-establishment of German sovereignty in the Rhineland have one thing in common . They all depend on Great Britain giving an almost unlimited guarantee of military aid to France and Belgium should they have trouble with Germany . That fact , set out in these Ospatches yesterday , became more apparent today after a secret session of the League Council at which it was decided to invite Germany to attend the next meeting on Monday afternoon . Prior to this executive session of the League delegates there was a plenary session of the Council in St. James 's Palace , at which Foreign Ministers Pierre-Etienne Flandin and Paul van Zeeland restated the case for France and Belgium against Germany for military reoccupation of the forbidden zone and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden made a very brief speech on behalf of Britain . The latter again associated himself with the French and Belgian Foreign Ministers in declaring Germany was guilty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Avenol It was left in the hands of the Council to decide what was the next step to be taken . The first move was to authorize Secretary General Joseph A. Avenol of the League to send an invitation to Germany to attend Monday 's session . The French , Russians and Rumanians were all opposed to the idea of asking Germany to participate but , as Mr. Flandin explained after the meeting , they had to consent to it because Mr. Eden had demonstrated to them that Hitler had a full legal right to send a representative to hear the charges against his government and to answer them . , Whether Hitler is going to accept is one of the many uncertainties among which the British and Continental statesmen are floundering one week from the day on which the Fuehrer threw his latest monkey wrench into the international machinery . The text of the invitation sent by Mr. Avenol read as follows : Referring to the telegram I sent to the German Government on March 8 , the Council of the League of Nations invites the German Government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to partake in an examination by the Council of the question of the communication of the French and Belgian Governments . The Council will meet in St. James 's Palace Monday , March 16 , at 3:30 P. M. No Hint From Hitler It was hoped in Whitehall that there might be some hint in Hitler 's speech in Munich tonight as to whether he would accept the invitation , but there was nothing of the sort in reports of his address cabled to London , and consequently there was disappointment among the delegates dining as guests of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin at 10 Downing Street , where bulletins were received . Neither was there any indication from Dr. Leopold von Hoesch , the German Ambassador here , of a hoped-for assurance that the number of German troops in the Rhineland would be reduced . On the contrary , the Ambassador issued a statement this afternoon declaring that the military force now in that area was only symbolical and that estimates of its strength current in Paris and London were greatly exaggerated . " In this whole Rhineland zone from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " there are now stationed 36 , - 500 soldiers , including organized police forces . There are no armored fighting units and no bombing airplanes . " If one considers that the territory in question is inhabited by onefifth of the population of the whole of **  --  and covers one-eighth of Germany , including large and important towns like.Cologne , Duesseldorf , Frankfurt , Wiesbaden , Mayence and Mannheim , it results from the above-mentioned number that occupation of the zone in question can not be considered anything but symbolical . " Negotiators Beset by Troubles It is impossible to enumerate all the troubles now besetting the negotiators in London , because they are too numerous and also because not all of them have been disclosed even in private conversations . But the difficulties can be classified with reference to the particular groups in which they are delaying action and upsetting calculations . First of all , there is a decided rift in the British Cabinet because of the objections of members to Mr. Eden 's determination to follow the League of Nations regardless of the extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Continent of Europe . Second , there is trouble among the Locarno powers themselves , including a coolness even between France and Belgium . Mr. Flandin is annoyed by what he considers Mr. van Zeeland 's overplaying of the British policy of negotiating with Hitler as the surest method of saving the League . In his report on a plan of settlement , which the Belgian delegate offered to the Locarno conference last night , there was a sentence advocating direct and immediate negotiations with Hitler without waiting to see if he would withdraw any troops from the Rhineland . Flandin Objects Alone Mr. Flandin was very angry about it . The sequel to that today was that Mr. Flandin 's objection was not shared by Mr. van Zeeland when he opposed inviting Germany to attend the Monday meeting of the Council . It was because of this disagreement among the Locarno powers themselves that they adjourned this afternoon without reaching any conclusion except that they would not meet again until after the Council session on Monday . In ' other words the Locarno group is passing the buck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special trouble in the Council of the League itself is that the members do not know for the life of them what they would be able to do to Germany after they had found her guilty of the violation of a treaty . They can censure without punishing her , as they did last year after Hitler 's announcement of a conscript army , but that would not meet the requirements of the present situation in the opinion of even those who are unwilling to run any risk of war . On the other hand , sanctions are ruled out , partly because of Italian opposition and chiefly because it is assumed Germany 's reaction to any act of discipline might well be war and certainly would be a refusal to go on with further attempts to reach a European settlement . Eden 's Attitude Puzzling The most perplexing fact of the situation is the confidence or the stubborness , whichever one likes , with which Mr. Eden pursues his double objective of negotiating with Hitler after doing something about the treaty violation and of satisfy- ' ing France with enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also . This is indicated by the report submitted by the Belgians last night , which specifically calls for a British promise of military assistance . Mr. Eden is willing to consider it as a possible solution . A further indication came today when Mr. Flandin reiterated his willingness to submit the FrancoSoviet pact to the Hague Court for a decision on whether it nullified the Locarno treaty , as charged by Hitler . The French Foreign Minister added he was willing that Hitler himself should appeal to the Hague Court on that score , if he would be bound by the verdict . France agrees to be bound by the verdict . But should the Hague rule in favor of the German contention and France be required to abandon the treaty with Russia , that would produce another situation in which Mr. Flandin would insist in advance on getting from Britain just as much military support as she now expects to get from Russia in the event of war with Germany . French Expect 1,000,000 Men The chief reason why the French have blocked oil sanctions against Italy is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers in any hostilities in the near future across the Rhine . That indicates the extent of the military support Mr. Flandin now wants Britain to guarantee him as his price for adopting Mr. Eden 's European policies . Hence the perplexity of the British , including some Cabinet Ministers , over Mr. Eden 's apparent belief that he can bargain with the French without upsetting the policy of this country not to commit itself on the Continent beyond its present military obligations . It would be impossible for the British Government to have an army of 1,000,000 quickly available for service across the English Channel without enacting a military conscription law , and the Baldwin government or any other British Government that attempted such a thing would be immediately thrown out of office . The War Office is already having great difficulty in getting voluntary recruits for the regular army and the territorial forces . This unpopularity of military service in Great Britain , with 2,000 , - 000 workers idle , can not be explained away by the theory that men would rather live on unemployment insurance or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief reason is that the British people are sick of war and would not tolerate any compulsory enlistment for it in time of peace .                     