@@700641

txt Governor Lehman is prepared to call an extraordinary session of the Legislature to consider and act upon constitutional amendments to prepare the way for consolidation or abolition of county offices in the five counties in New York City , in the interest of economy , efficiency and mot ; ernization . This became known after the Governor had completed today his work on the " thirty-day " bills sent to his desk when the Senate and Assembly adjourned sine die four weeks ago today . In the thirty-day period the Governor has signed 351 bills that have become law and has vetoed 246 of the thirty-day measures , Altogether , including bills approved by the Governor prior to final adjournment of the Legislature , 847 new laws have been enacted this year , and the total number of vetoes for the year , probably a new high record which is likely to stand for some time . is 264 . Ras Not Heard From Smith . Governor Lehman saki late this I afternoon before leaving for New York City , where he expects to spend a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convalescing in a hospital , that he had not heard from Alfred . E. Smith , chairman of the New York City Charter Revision Commission , nor had he received a transcript of the resolution adopted by that body in which demand was made for an extraordinary session of the Legislature . In the circumstances , the Governor said , he was in no position to discuss his plans , which will be an- I nounced only after he has bad an opportunity to confer with Mr. Smith . It is regarded here as not improbable , however , that the extraordinary session may be convened atl or about the time the Senate returns to receive the report of its judiciary committee on the investigation of Senator Warren T. Thayer of the Thirty-fourth District and his relations with certain public utility corporations in the State . The Senate will be recalled for this purpose on June 19 , under plans tentatively made by the Governor . Whether the Legislature will be permitted to confine its labors to the New York City county measures , or whether the Governor will urge consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speculation at the capital . At an extraordinary session a Legislature can not take the initiative in matters of legislation ; it is bound by recommendations made by the Governor in messages transmitted to the Senate and Assembly . May Take Up Other Matters . There is a strong impression here , however , that the Governor may urge upon the Legislature that some of the unfinished business from the regular session be taken up , including action on a proposed constitutional amendment to prepare the way for modernization of county governments outside of New York City . Mortgage relief is another question that may again be placed before the Legislature . It is considered possible that the lawmakers also may be urged to make up for their failure to pass bills for a reapportionment of Congressional as well as Senatorial districts . The Governor strongly recommended during the regular session that new Congressional and Senatorial district maps be drawn . In any event , it is regarded as almost certain that the Legislature will be asked by the Governor to take up county governmental reforms in the rest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City counties . The Governor had something to say on the subject in a memorandum he issued this afternoon in announcing his approval of Senator Seabury C. Mastick 's bill , which extends the powers of the State Tax Revision Commission , of which the latter is chairman . An analytical study of the present government of up-State counties , cities , villages and towns , with a view to preparing alternative plans of government for such units , is to be undertaken . Recalls Defeated Proposal . Th Governor recalled that a constitutional amendment had been placed before the Legislature to open the way for governmental reforms in counties and other local political units ; that it had been adopted by the Democratic Senate , but had failed of passage in the Republican Assembly . The Legislature disregarded a recommendation for the creation of a joint legislative committee with the duty of making a study of the subject and preparing plans for governments , adjusted to the somewhat varying needs of up-State counties . " Despite messages and insistent recommendations and my admonition that without the constitutional amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative commission would be , in large measure , lost , the Assembly refused to pass the constitutional amendment , " the Governor said . " I do not feel , however , that I would be justified in disapproving the bill before me . " The legislative commission , I am sure , will proceed to make a careful study of county and local government . In so doing I feel confident that it will bring to the attention of the people of the State the many needed reforms that should be instituted at once . " I am sure that the studies of the commission will forcefully convince the taxpayers in every county and local unit of government throughout the State that a modernization of their county , town and local government will mean lower taxes and should be effected without delay through a constitutional amendment , as recommended by me . " Court Clerks ' Bill Vetoed . Governor Lehman has vetoed a bill fostered by Senator Thomas F. Burchill and strongly backed by the Tammany element in the Legislature . which would have placed the clerks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exempt class of the civil service . Identical bills were vetoed by Governor Roosevelt in 1931 and 1932 . The Governor , in a veto memorandum , said the practicability of competitive examinations for similar positions in the Supreme Court and the city court had been proved and that such tests had produced an efficient and competent personnel . " This bill , " the Governor said , " contravenes the State Constitution , which requires that appointments and promotions in the civil service shall be made according to fitness and merit , to be ascertained as far as practicable by competitive examinations . It violates the vital principle of merit through civil service . " Special Exemptions Blocked . A similar bill , introduced by Senator A. Spencer Feld , another Tammany member , and designed to give exemption from competitive tests to employes of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board , was disapproved by the Governor also . " This special exemption would be unfair to the large body of civil service employes and to those who contemplate qualifying as such , " Governor Lehman said in a brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill fostered by Senator John L. Buckley . which would have empowered the Appellate Division to give appointments as official referees for life , at two-thirds of their salaries on the bench , to municipal court justices who had served full ten-year terms . " In my opinion , the whole problem of the appointment of additional official referees should be given careful study in all of its aspects , " the Governor wrote . " Appointment of more referees should be considered in the light of their possible use to relieve congestion in our courts . The effect of their appointment upon the cost of government should likewise be weighed . Furthermore , thorough attention should be given to amending the law to redefine their duties and powers so as to coordinate them more effectively with the regular work of the courts and thereby increase the usefulness and value of official referees . " The presiding justice of the Appellate Division of the First Department . the Association of the Bar of the City of New York and the New York County Lawyers Association have recommended disapproval of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 