@@699318

txt The tense search for some method by which European debtors can be assisted to meet their Dec. 15 obligations and a world crisis averted went on pressingly today , paralleling in quiet drama the outward excitement of the scene on Capitol Hill as Congress opened . The search extended to London when Mr. Andrew W. Mellon , Ambassador to the Court of St. James 's , acted on-instrIttOns from President Hoover to ascertain views of the British Government on the latest plans under study . In Washington , President Hoover continued his consultatiOns with the Secretaries of State and the Treasury , in the preparation for transmission to Congress of the French and British debt notes and his relevant recommendations probably within the next three days . Nothing tangible in the way of compromise methods of payment became known here beyond the two proposals held out to debtors 10 days ago . by means of which the British debt on Dec. 15 would be cut by a third and payment deposited in London in sterling . Other proposals have been under close study , but little of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , one important Idea is now emerging from the consultations . This is that default , often held in congressional circles as a desirable step to clear the air and put American-European relations on a realistic , rock-bottom basis , is a step probably more in the interests of debtors than of creditors . This view is explained on the basis of the two possible lines of action now available . They are : 1 . Payment on Dec. 15 , either on a compromise basis , or in full in gold . Stich action would be followed . if not preceded , by a flat announcement from debtors that the payment was definitely being made for the last time , in compliance with President Hoover 's request for such transfer to " improve the atmosphere " for revisionary negotiations soon to follow . 2 . Voluntary or involuntary default . Under the first alternative , the initiative for the future would rest with Europe . The debt obligation would still rest validly upon the debtors , and theirs would be the task of seeking revision from the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fabric of world financial dependency , would still hold up . The shattering influence of repudiation would not be sweeping through the world 's exchanges . Would Shift Burden But default , the second alternative , formerly almost welcomed by some intransigent American spokesmen , would place the initiative for future action upon the United States instead of Europe . The present controversy now rests at the negotiation stage . The choices lie between full payment , adjustment , and repudiation . If Europe makes full payment , it will clearly do so with the flat announcement that revision must follow and that the June , 1933 , payments will not be similarly treated . If no adjustment is reached , and repudiation must take place on Dec. 15 , then the burden for the future appears to Treasury and State De- partment leaders to rest upon the United States alone . But if an adjustment on the Dec. 15 obligation prepares the way for a further adjustment on the whole future of debts , the course of statesmanship will have been followed and the sanctity of all debts the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goal , and the thrust to attain it will be pursued until the last minute of Dec. 15.                     