@@697760

txt In defiance of precedent , the Republican majority voted during the closing session of the Legislature today a reapportionment of Congressional districts by I concurrent resolution . It is not denied in Republican quarters that the resolution method was chosen to obviate the necessity of having the measure subjected to approval or veto by the Democratic Governor . The concurrent resolution was only presented in both houses early at the cession today . It was passed in both the Senate and Assembly swiftly after debate in which some Democratic members denounced the action as illegal . Governor Roosevelt said this afternoon that while he was unwilling to make any comment on the character of the reapportionment , the courts undoubtedly would be asked to pass upon the legality of the measure in a friendly suit to be brought by the Secretary of State , probably on a set of facts agreed upon by both sides . In both houses the Democratic members from Queens voted with the Republicans for the reapportionment , which was adopted in the Senp.te by a vote of 27 to 22 and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the eleventh hour Chairman W. Kingsland Macy of the Republican State Committee decided not to press the bill , already defeated once in the Senate , providing for a new Senatorial reapportionment . Despite the plea put forth by Governor Roosevelt in a special message , there appeared to be no prospect of getting Democratic support , without which the bill would have been lost . Republican members of the Legislature are content with the present apportionment , which should have been superseded in 1926 . Under the new Congressional apportionment there will be forty-five Congress districts in the State . Under the apportionment which will be replaced by the measure adopted today there were forty-three . The two additional districts allotted to this State by Congress have been carved out of territory outside of New York City . The County of Richmond , however , is combined with the county of Suffolk in the First Congressional District . Under the old apportionment Richmond was part of the Eleventh Congressional District , which was partly in Manhattan , but wholly within the city of New York . Under the reapportionment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - two Congressional districts wholly within New York City , and in addition there were two districts which took in sections of New York , combined with territory outside of the city . There was the First district , which , besides the counties of Suffolk and Nassau , took in a part of Queens , and the Twenty-third , composed of a section of the Bronx and a section of Westchester County . Under the new reapportionment there will be twenty-two Congressional districts wholly within the city of New York and twenty-three outside of the city , one of these latter united with a New York City County . Tammany bailiwick , which apportionment there were twentytwo Congressional districts in territory beyond the city boundaries , but two of these , as already stated , were made up in part of sections of the city . Queens and Bronx Gain Members . As among the New York City counties , Bronx and Queens are the biggest gainers . Queens , under the present reapportionment , has one Congressional district situated wholly within its boundaries and one which it shares with Suffolk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four Congressional districts all its own . Bronx , under the present apportionment , has one Congressional district to itself and two others , of which one , the Twenty-second , is Combined with a section of New York County , and the other , the Twenty-fourth , with a section of Westchester . Kings will continue to have eight Congressional districts . New York County , Tammany 's baliwick , which under the old reapportionment had ten districts wholly within its boundary lines and two additional , of which one took in Richmond County and the other part of Bronx , will have only six Congressional districts under the new plan . On the whole , the Republicans will be the gainers under the new reapportionment . The two Westchester districts are regarded as safely Republican , a gain of one . The two districts on Long Island outside of the city are also regarded as safe from a Republican viewpoint , another gain of one . The Republicans admit that they have not been able to carve out any districts in New York City giving promise of victory for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even with regard to the Seventeenth Congressional District , now represented by Mrs. Ruth Baker Pratt . It has been a close district in recent years and is said to remain doubtful . The same is said to be true with regard to the Twentieth , which is represented by F. H. La Guardia . These are the only two Congressional districts within the city which in recent years have sent a Republican to the House of Representatives . Clear Republican Field Up-State . Outside of the city the Republicans appear to have a pretty clear field everywhere except in Albany County and one district in Erie . Under the circumstances the delegation , provided the Republicans hold on to what they control within the city of New York now , would be composed of twenty-three Republicans and twenty-two Democrats , but all the Republicans appear absolutely certain of electing in the State is twenty-one members . There have been few changes upState and none of these drastic . The counties which gain are Erie , with three Congressional districts wholly within its boundaries , where under the old it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Monroe County , which will have two whole districts , where it now shares one with small adjoining counties ; Onondaga , which becomes the Thirty-sixth District , where before it was combined with the County of Cortland , and Albany , which under the concurrent resolution adopted today becomes the Twenty-ninth . Under the apportionment in force , Albany is combined with twelve wards of the city of Troy in Rensselaer County , of which nine are Democratic . The change is regarded as having improved the Republican outlook . Some comment was made on the fact that Chairman Macy was willing to take on a strong Democratic unit as part of his own district , the First , to be composed of Suffolk and Richmond Counties . Suffolk , in Gubernatorial elections , returns Republican pluralities of approximately 16 , - 000 , while Richmond has been giving pluralities of 10,000 in round numbers to Democratic candidates for Governor . The debate in the Senate when the resolution came up was opened by Senator Campbell of Niagara County , chairman of the Reapportionment Committee . " I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution as well as by legislative bill , which would be subject to approval by the Governor , " he said . " We have consulted eminent authorities , who have assured us that we could do this . " One advantage of our new reapportionment is that in no instance county lines have been crossed . Congressmen represent in all instances , either one county or a group of counties , which in their entirety are within their districts . Senator SChackno , Democrat , of the Bronx , declared reapportionment by resolution illegal . He cited eases in Ohio and other States in support of his contention , " On the eve of adjournment , " he said , " we are confronted with a measure involving procedure without precedent in reapportionments . In the entire history of reapportionments in this State no reapportionment resolution was ever presented to a Legislature . Reapportiontnents have always been carried out by legislative bill , subject to , approval by the Governor . " This resolution can not possibly accomplish what it seeks to accomplish , " he declared . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been said by members of the majority that a determination of the legality should be left to the courts . " Democrats Attack Constitutionality , Senator Knight praised the plan which , he declared , provided for as equitable a distribution of the districts as between New York City and up-State as any plan ever proposed . " This plan , " he said , " is considered by some of the beet legal minds within the State as wholly within the Constitution and there can be little doubt that this procedure can be legally followed . " Democrats in the Assembly charged that the resolution method was unconstitutional and predicted it would be thrown out by the courts . Minority Leader Steingut raised the point of order that reapportionment by resolution was in violation of the Constitution , but Speaker overruled the objection . " I say to you that when this is presented to the Court of Appeals it will be declared null and void , " said Mr. Steingut . " It may result in Governor Roosevelt 's calling a special session of the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority is jamming this thing through the Legislature simply because Chairman Macy ksatcayha.ats ordered that such action be " This is not proper , it 's not American , it 's not even sportsmanlike ; but it 's things . " Republican way of doing Assemblyman Saul Streit , Democrat , of New York charged that the resolution was a " gerrymander " in an effort to provide more Republican not on the level and se , a , Ttshiisn tChotanggriesss. a it 's not legal , " Mr. Streit said . " There is no question but that the c fat s t hwi sill r edeclare aitwiellehgaavle. " tried to divide the forty-five districts in a fair and honest manner , " Chairman Cornaire of the Assembly . Reapportionment Committee said . " If keeping the districts within the counties wherever possible is not fair , I would know whatsisa . " The say we should not like to s kpne do this by resolution , but it is the only way we can get Congressional reapportionment , because Governor Roosevelt would veto whatever kind of a bill we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that Tammany would not lose any representation . "                     