@@697386

txt The spectacle of one of the ' smallest League of Nations members heatedly maintaining its sovereign right to hold up single-handed all the rest of , the League in opposition to the policy of Washington and in the face of strong moral pressure from the rest of the world was presented here this morning in the Assembly 's first commission on judicial affairs when a difficult situation due to Cuba 's op-. position to the protocol revising the World Court statute came before it . After an exchange of views between Nicolas Politis of Greece , Dr. Orestes Ferrara , Cuban Ambassador to Washington , which was the sharpest heard here in years , Dr. Ferrara , though sticking to his guns , raised the hope of ultimate solution by hinting that Cuba , if all the States ratified the protocol , might do so , too . The protocol , which Elihu Root helped to- draft and which was partly intended to facilitate American adherence to the World Court , provided that the Council could put it into effect this month if no member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , thirty-four ratified it in a year , and the United States joined nine others in formally declaring she did not object to enforcement of the protocol . Cuba alone objected , and the Council thereupon declared the protocol could not go into force . Demands Explanation . Referring to this situation and the unusual ? speed most of the States had shown in accepting the protocol , M. Politis told the commission that " an effort of good-will has been made by all save one State . " Though he did not regard it as fitting to criticize the State for the way it exercised its sovereign right , he held the situation required an explanation from it . The Cuban objections  --  that the amendments increasing the number of judges , requiring them to devote all their time to the court , providing for a permanent session of the court and increasing the salaries of the judges were unnecessary or too expensive  --  M. PC/4i ti s argued were groundless , but he did not touch on the main Cuban objection that the procedure whereby the Council could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By Cuba 's refusal " to sacrifice to this act of good-will , the measure is held up in a League where reciprocate concessions are the rule , " M. Politis said , adding that this was " most regrettable . " . Dr. Ferrara immediately took the floor , declaring hotly , " I can not accept the discussion of reasons given by a State for a sovereign act . It would establish moral pressure on the State if it was bound to ratify the convention . Cuba is determined with all the authority of a State to oppose the coming Into force of a convention in accordance with Article IV of the relative protocol , because she considers harm is done to her interests by that convention . " Neither Greece nor . M. Politis can dictate to Cuba her line of conduct . Any moral pressure would be worse than material pressure brought to bear formally on States . We must be quite free here . We are to cooperate , not to obey . " He went on to charge M. Politis with violating another principle by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council , and declared , " No one can discuss what the Council has decided . " He continued : " If a State is obliged to accept any obligations which it does not wish to accept , then we are placed before a super-State , and such a super-State as we do not wish to have . I think that this whole debate is unnecessary and that what my friend on the other side said was an electioneering speech . " - M. Politis jumped up to point out that he was not a candidate for World Court chairman and Senator Scialoja declared that both had ended their speeches with words they should not have used , so there was compensation on both sides , and Dr. C. C. Wu , also an Ambassador to Washington , restored the calm after what he described as a rather warm passage at arms by expressing China 's regret that the protocol had been held up , but suggesting that the debate be closed since the temperature was " somewhat high . " British Delegates Object . Noel Baker of Britain intervened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council could not accept the view that the Assembly lacked the right to discuss Council decisions or anything else . Dr. Ferrara admitted this , but insisted that the Assembly ought not to discuss this Council resolution . Mr. Baker , continuing , reminded Cuba that since as a member of the Council she had accepted the Council 's decisions providing an outside protocol for an increase in judges , and all the other amendments to which Cuba did not object save on principle , Cuba now opposed the protocol on one point alone and he hoped Cuba soon would change her mind here , too . Dr. Ferrera then said that though he could not promise anything on behalf of his government , yet " if all the members of the Court ratify the protocol maybe Cuba also will ratify . " No Decision Taken . In view of this declaration , which several welcomed , the commission in subsequent discussion tended strongly to provide for the protocol still entering into force whenever Cuba agreed . The situation comes down to this : The Council and the Assembly through other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly all the amendments in which the Court members are most directly interested . The amendments they can enforce without the protocol are chiefly those transforming the rules of the Court on advisory opinion procedure into Court statutes , including Article LXVIII whereby the Court can not hear an advisory opinion if any party involved objects . These particular amendments were put in at the request of the United States to facilitate her entry into the Court . Some members of the Court did not regard this transformation of the rules into statutes as important , since the Court already had established strong precedents , but all accepted them because of the American desire . Even Cuba did not object to these amendments , though she is preventing their enforcement because she objects merely to allowing any protocol to be enforced unless every State ratifies it , New Importance of Amendments . The advisory opinion amendments , however , have taken on considerable importance here now because officials in rereading Secretary Stimson 's letter to President Hoover find he made a strong point of them , especially Article LXVIII , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stand Mr. Stimson has taken it is feared here that Cuba , by holding up the protocol for revision , may make it harder for the Senate to ratify the Root protocol for American entry into the Court . The feeling here is that League members have done their utmost to get Cuba to change her mind , and it is up to Washington now as the most interested party to use her friendly influence at Havana in the same direction . Many also regard the- mere fact that a small State like Cuba is able alone to block all the League ought to reassure the Americans who fear that even a great power like the United States might be imposed on at Geneva and thus help the Senate to accept the Root protocol . commissions Also in Session . The Council and all five of the other Assembly commissions also met today . The Council session was so routine that Aristide Briand dozed from time to time as it decided to leave the Polish-Lithuanian controversy td " clirect negotiations fixed for May 27 ; for a narcotic limitation conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries at London on Oct. 27 ; for the advisory opium commission to meet on Jan. 9 , and a European conference on automobile traffic on March 31 . The third commission continued discussion of the- convention for financial assistance of a victim of an aggression , with the likelihood of a final agreement growing . The sixth commission appeared to agree in principle in favor of the proposed League refugee office to replace the organization headed by the late Dr. Fridtjof Nansen . The fifth commission considered the improvement of penal administrations , while the second commission heard Japan , India , Persia , Australia and the East Indies pay fulsome tribute to the League 's Far Eastern health service , which they wanted extended , and the fourth commission stressed the need of improving the sanitation of the Secretariat Building in considering the League budget .                     