@@698664

txt How needs arising within a racial group because of unemployment may be met efficiently , quickly and humanely , is being exemplified among the Danes of Greater New York . This relief work Is carried out by the emergency relief committee on unemployment , which works under the central committee of the United Danish Societies of New York , There are 27 organizations in this affiliation , with Mr. Frank Nielsen as president . Two members of the relief committee visit immediately any person or family reported to be In financial need . Upon confirmation of the need , they give money to help , then and there . They have authority to act immediately , on their own judgment . This has proved perhaps the most useful element of the plan , for often cases of need are not known until the necessity for assistance is imperative . The money is not given as a dole , but as a loan . There are no strings to this loan , so that while it can be accepted with no sense of being an object of charity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the money may be returned without again causing distress . The chairman of this emergency committee is Mr. H. J. P. Enemark , traveling passenger agent of the Scandinavian-American Line . Mr. Enemark says that the plan of immediate relief has proved so workable that there has never been a lack of funds to carry it on . " We never have had to beg for money , " he went on . " Often we have found that a man may merely need to be helped to make himself presentable with a new suit of clothes in order to get work . This happened just the other day when we heard of an expert waiter who was prevented from applying for a position because his outfit was too shabby . The committee acted at once and he got the job . In other cases workmen of various trades have had to let their tools go in order to buy food . Supplied with tools , they became self-supporting again . " Many people who have thus been helped have been able to repay the loan , though they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain pride In the matter and a lasting gratitude . One man recently repaid the loan and gave in addition 1 aontribution to the relief fund . Just the other day a second check that had been sent out in a case of need vas returned with thanks and with the information that it would not 3e needed , as the father in the family had now a steady position ; hat insured support for his de ) endents . " In some cases Danes felt that employment conditions would be Setter in the home country or for ether urgent reasons needed to re-urn to Denmark . The emergency : ommittee has been able to assist ; uch persons through various chancels . The Danish Consul has masted . " Because of its simplicity and di  --  aness , the plan works . "                     