@@703576

txt William B. Herlands , Commissioner of Investigation , has been ordered by Mayor La Guardia to make an intensive inquiry into all law-enforcement units in Brooklyn as a result of conditions that led the Citizens Committee on the Control of Crime in New York to report the need for public scrutiny of " every agency for the enforcement of the criminal law in Brooklyn . " Correspondence made public by the Mayor 's office yesterday revealed that as early as July 5 Harry F. Guggenheim , president of the citizens ' group , had advised the Mayor of " grave irregularities " in Kings County . It was also disclosed that since then Mr. Herlands and the committee have approached the problem jointly , without calling attention to their work and without subpoenaing witnesses . Mr. Herlands was at his office yesterday but had no comment except to announce that a press conference on the subject would be called this afternoon . Committee Organized in 1936 Neither William F. X. Geoghan , District Attorney of Kings County , nor Mr. Guggenheim was- reached . The Citizens Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and described as a spontaneous , non-partisan , voluntary body without association with any public official or department . Its purpose , Mr. Guggenheim said at the time , was " to assist the authorities of crime detection , prevention and law enforcement in their efforts to apprehend and punish those who , through intimidation and corruption , are endangering individual liberties . " The proposed intensive investigation in Brooklyn recalled recent developments in Mr. Geoghan 's office , which have led him twice within two months to conduct a personal investigation of rumors 5of " official corruption . " Late in July William P. , assistant to Mr. Geoghan , was charged with conspiracy to " fix " a criminal case . George Murphy , an elevator operator in the Brooklyn Central Courts Building , was accused with him . On Sept. 12 the defendants obtained an order for a jury trial from Judge Peter J. Brancato . The trial is pending . Inquiry in Fur Swindle Last Monday tir . Geoghan appeared before the grand jury and spent several hours questioning three witnesses , including Police Inspector Michael @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policemen and forty other persons have been indicted . On Tuesday Magistrate Matthew J. Troy was a witness before the grand jury , and the next day Mr. Herlands appeared . Other witnesses were Chief City Magistrate Jacob Gould Schurman Jr . and Deputy Welfare Commissioner David L. Marcus . Mr. Geoghan , having declared that " aspersions have been cast upon my office and I now propose to have a showdown , " had promised at the outset he would subpoena " every single person connected in any way with this matter . " The Brooklyn prosecutor said Tuesday his investigation chiefly concerned Isidore Juffe , alias Jaffe , 48 years old , of 332 East Fourteenth Street , a suspect in the fur case against whom grand larceny chaiges twice have been dismissed because of insufficient evidence . Juffe , alleged to have said he was freed " because I paid plenty , " was immediately rearrested by Inspector following the second dismissal , at which time Commissioner Herlands was a courtroom spectator . New Indictment Dismissed A superseding indictment naming Juffe was handed up Tuesday to County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Troy dismissed the superseded charge . At this time ' William Richter , counsel for the de-1 fendant , declared : " My client would rather be in jail than in the hands of the District Attorney of Kings County , who indicted him because he refuses to clear the District Attorney 's office of a bribe charge . " Magistrate Troy committed Juffe to Queens County jail . Mr. Herlands , who is scheduled to appear today before the held-over December grand jury investigating sales tax evasions , is a native and a resident of Brooklyn . Formerly1 an aide of Thomas E. Dewey , he was made Commissioner of Investigation on Dec. 31 , 1938 and it was recalled that the Mayor , in campaigning for reelection , had promised Brooklyn " another Tom Dewey . ' ' Mr. Guggenheim in his letter to the Mayor , dated Sept. 28 , said : " The Citizens Committee on the Control of Crime has maintained for fifteen months now its daily watch of the work of the police , the prosecutors and the criminal courts of Manhattan , Brooklyn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know , covers every step in the administration of criminal justice , from the arrest of an offender to 1 final disposition in court of the charges against him . " On July 5 , last , as president of the Citizens Committee , I advised you of evidence we had found of grave irregularities in the administration of criminal justice in the borough of Brooklyn . " I asked you then if Mr. Herlands , your Commissioner of Investigation , might not join us in our work in Brooklyn , and complete a preliminary inquiry into the situation there , lack of official authority and limitations of personnel preventing a comprehensive investigation by us . " You agreed promptly to this proposal , and through your helpful offices for the past three months Commissioner Herlands and the , committee have pressed the joint inquiry . This inquiry has been carried on thus far without notice to the community and without the subpoenaing of witnesses . " The results of this , especially developments of the past six weeks , have demonstrated the necessity for a public investigation into every agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Citizens Committee on the Control of Crime respectfully urges and requests that you direct your Commisisoner of Investigation to begin and carry through such a public investigation . We assure you of continued , whole-hearted cooperation in this . " Mayor La Guardia said in his reply , dated Sept. 29 : " I have conferred with Commissioner Herlands of the Department of Investigation , and he agrees that you have submitted to him sufficient facts , which he has in a measure checked , to warrant a thorough investigation . " I have , therefore , directed the commissioner to proceed accordingly . " May i take this opportunity to thank you and , , through you , your committee for the public service rendered to date and for your fine cooperation with the law enforcement agencies of our city . " Mayor La Guardia also wrote to Commissioner Herlands as follows : " Agreeable to our conference today , I am submitting the letter of the Citizens-Committee on the Control of Crime referred to above , and a copy of my reply . " You will act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              