@@702117

txt President BUTLER 'S address at Southampton yesterday , which has by now become an annual fixture , was more specific and detailed than some of its predecessors . He limited himself to a few subjects , all of them having to do with laws and governmental practices in which he argued strongly for a reform . One of these is the method of amending the Constitution . It is at present left a good deal at haphazard . A proposed amendment may be left dangling indefinitely between heaven and earth . This has been the case with the child labor amendment . In connection with it a precedent , said to have been established by Secretary SEWARD , is that a State having voted " No " on an amendment is at liberty later to change to " Yes , " but that it may not change its vote from the affirmative to the negative . As Dr. BUTLER says , this is a " grotesque rule . " He would have Congress enact that when one more than a quarter of the States have voted against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State to proclaim that it has been defeated , and so make an end of it . President BUTLER would also have Congress provide that all future amendments to the Constitution shall be submitted to specially elected conventions in the States , rather than to their Legislatures . This was done in the case of the repeal of the prohibition amendment . Abuses and evils rising out of the direct primary laws of the States are stressed in the address . Mr. BUTLER would go back to the original idea of a direct primary as urged by Mr. HUGHES , when he was Governor of New York . It was not intended to supersede the party organization in ordinary circumstances , but only to give an opportunity to members in open revolt against the machine to make their will known . However , the direct primary has proved in fact to be one of those instruments of political reform which , when made lawful , the politicians have shown that they know how to use for their own purposes . This is because they are working year in and year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spasmodically active . The matter is one under the control of the States . President WILSON believed at one time that there ought to be a direct Presidential primary , displacing the national convention , but this idea . turned out to be so impracticable and unpopular that it was quietly dropped . We have space only to mention the other changes which President BUTLER would wish to see brought about . One of them is to compel Cabinet members to sit in Congress , so as to answer questions and give information concerning their departments for the purpose of enlightening the public as well as aiding legislation . Cabinet members do at present meet with committees in Congress when bills affecting their branches are pending , and there seems to be at present no likelihood that Congress will go further than that . President BUTLER would abolish the War Department outright . The name itself he thinks now to be an anachronism , since this country has ratified a treaty renouncing war as an instrument of international policy . But his suggested Department of National Defense , including both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a defensive war , if that should prove necessary . What the Southampton speech has to say about fewer elective officials , greater executive responsibility , and a general reduction and tightening up of our now sprawling Federal bureaucracy , is well put and timely . President BUTLER has again shown that he is a close and thoughtful student of our public institutions and of our political customs , and that he knows how to express himself with unusual lucidity and force .                     