@@699196

txt Characterizing himself as " a plain business man representative of a conservative community " and not , as Republican speakers allege , " a dangerous radical , " Speaker John N. Garner of the House of Representatives , Democratic candiditte for Vice President , in a radio speech last night , charged President Hoover 's Administration with esponsibility for the depression because of its tariff and foreign loan policies , and for last Winter 's financial panic and the prolongation of the depression because of its failure to balance the Federal budget . Mr. Garner spoke for half an hour , beginning at 10:15 o'clock , from the WABC studio of the Columbia Broadcasting System , 485 Madison Avenue . His address also went over the air via WJZ and the blue network of the National Broadcasting Company . The Speaker made his address a direct reply to President Hoover 's speech at Des Moines on Oct. 4 , when the President declared that the United States at one time last Winter had been within two weeks of being forced off the gold standard , that financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance for " the destructive measures of the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives , " and that the radical legislative program of the House Democrats under Speaker Garnet showed the danger of entrusting the administration to the Democrats . Says Depression Started Here . Denying President Hoover 's argument that the depression was worldwide and struck here from . Europe , Mr. Garner asserted that " the 1929 crash bit herd first " and then " rocked the world . " " It came , " he added , " from our own folly and illusion , not the least of which was that ' prosperity was so great that poverty would soon be abolished . " He quoted from President Hoover 's 1928 campaign speeches and characterized the results of the policies outlined in those speeches : " The Smoot-Hawley tariff on the one hand gave higher rates and on the other destroyed export farm markets . The St. Lawrence waterway is not begun ; the Mississippi project is years from fulfillment . The Farm Board is an acknowledged failure . Let the farmer draw his own conclusions from the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippled countries was folly . , Increasing tariffs destroyed foreign trade and made debt payments impossible . Errors in the delicate balance of taxes and spending did cause fabulous losses and upset the stability of business . " Speaker Garner characterized President Hoover 's appeal for re-election on the ground that he saved the country from financial destruction last Winter , despite a Democratic Congress that would have made the panic worse , as " a new version of the 1928 myth of Republican leadership . " Mr. Garner then went back to 1929 for quotations from President Hoover to show the latter 's failure to recognize the need for balancing the budget after the business depression cut into the receipts from taxation ? a failure which Mr. Garner held the main cause of the financial panic . Only six weexe after the 1929 crash , Speaker Garner showed , President Hoover in his budget message estimated a Federal surplus for 1930 and 1931 , recommended tax reduction and proposed increased expenditures . Holds Figures Misled World . Even in December , 1930 , when Federal revenue had decreased 25 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1931 deficit of only $180,000,000 and expected a small surplus for 1932 , professed to feel no concern with the deficit and failed to call for new taxes or de ' creased spending . Yet , the Speaker went on , the 1931 deficit turned out to be $900,000,000 and the 1932 deficit ' nearly $3,000,000,000 . The only explanation for the great discrepancy between estimates and results , he added , was that " the administration was either hopelessly at sea as to the actual Treasury situation for two years or else deliberately concealed the true state of affairs . " The real reason for the panic , Mr. Garner said , was that the world suddenly realized it had been misled as to the soundness of our Federal finances . Mr. Garner ridiculed the President 's statement that the United States was within two weeks of going off the gold standard last Winter . " To say that we were within two weeks of the edge of the gold standard tczause of any lack of gold . " he asserted , " i .. ; a libel on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Estimates . The Speaker charged that the administration was still misleading the public on the budget and quoted Republican newspaper comment to show that last Winter 's effort to balance the budget was a failure , that there is now a big deficit , and that the administration was concealing its size . According to Mr. Garner , this situation is entirely the fault of the administration . He charged that , the Secretary of the Treasury submitted overestimates of nearly $1,000,000,000 in tax receipts , and that the new tax bills , which he said President Hoover and Secretary Mills insisted would balance the budget , were producing only about 45 per cent of the estimates . Mr. Garner urged that the budget be balanced by the Democratic plan of a 25 per cent reduction in expense , which he said would establish the Federal credit so that the government could borrow all it needed for emergency financing .                     