@@697865

txt Today 's bi-weekly conference of President Hoover and his Cabinet lasted longer than usual and was devoted almost entirely to a study of the economic situation , with the resultant finding , it was stated , of " many favorable factors . " The Cabinet session had been in progress for some time when the newspaper correspondents gathered for their regular Tuesday meeting with the President at noon . Just before the time arrived , however , the President sent word of what the Cabinet was doing and that the meeting would be canceled . The White House declined to amplify the statement concerning the subject of the Cabinet conference , and none of the Cabinet officers would say what " favorable factors " had been found in the study of business conditions . It was assumed that general business conditions shared a place with the government 's fiscal affairs in the Cabinet discussion . The time is drawing near when the treasury mast balance its books for the fiscal year 1931 , with present indications pointing to a deficit of around $1,000,000,000 . Further Economies Considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the suggestions that have been made for revision in government financing , among them those indicated by Secretary Mellon . Some time was devoted at the Cabinet meeting to a further study of administrative economies , particularly as to the progress of the War , Interior and Postoffice Departments in deciding on details of reductions as planned at recent week-end con-1 ferences at the President 's Rapidan camp . It was indicated today that the President intends to extend economy to his own household , since he direct-1 ed postponement of the placing of a cooling system , similar to the one put last year in his executive office , in the main White House building . An appropriation of $51,000 was made for this apparatus . As he intends to spend most of his week-ends at the Rapidan camp , the President feels that he and his family will not suffer in the hot weather and that $51,000 can be saved . The White House has promised to reveal in the near future , further details of the President 's economy program , including further reductions for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions . The President will forego his trip to the camp this week-end as he is to make a memorial address at Valley Forge , Pa. , on Saturday . He will return to Washington late Saturday afternoon and , according to present plans , will remain at the White House on Sunday . Mr. Hoover will keep one of the few dinner engagements he has made outside of the White House since becoming President when he is entertained Friday night by the directors of the Union League Club in Philadelphia . He will stop overnight at Philadelphia on the way to Valley Forge . He will be presented with a portrait of himself at a reception following the dinner . WASHINGTON , May 26 ( 2P ) . ? The Agriculture Department is pushing forward a survey In an effort to ascertain if it can reduce expenditures . Secretary Hyde said . today , however , that he saw little prospect of cutting regular operating expenses without curtailing important services . A considerable reduction is in prospect through termination of two emergency items administered by the department , drought relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stricken farmers and jobs for unemployed . on highway ? construction . Valley Forge Speech at 9:30 . The President will be accompanied by only a small party on his trip to Valley Forge . With him will be Mrs. Hoover , Theodore Joslin and Lawrence Richie , two of his secretaries ; Captain Russell Train , naval aide : Colonel Campbell B. Hodges , military aide , and Captain Joel T. Boone . White House physician . The speech will be delivered at 9:30 o'clock Eastern Standard Time at Valley Forge . The President and his party will return to Washington by automobile . Mr. Hoover will be Introduced by Isaac R. Pennypacker , president of I the Valley Forge Park Commission . The President will inspect the park . visiting General Washington 's headquarters , before starting for home . ing that the Valley Forge Association of Richmond had received permission to make a cast of the famous Houdon statue of Washington for erection on the site of the proposed Washington memorial ' church at Valley Forge . Mr. Pennypacker wrote that the chapel and Dr. Burk " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chapel " is an uncalled-for rival to numerous pre-existing churches of the same sect . " " If he proposes to put a perishable cast of Houdon 's statue under cover in one of his buildings , the park commission would have no voice in the matter , " the letter continued . " But a durable replica in bronze erected out of doors . . an advertisement of a project to erect a vast church which probably will never be built would be an impropriety . " Dispute Over Valley Forge Bells . Special to The New York Times . PHILADELPHIA , May 26 . ? A dispute as to whether the carillon at the Valley Forge Memorial Chapel shall be played during the visit of President Hoover was carried direct to the President today . Dr. Ellis P. Oberholtzer , secretary of the Valley Forge Park Commission , which is to be the President 's host , sent a letter to the Rev. Dr. W. Herbert Burk , rector of the chapel , " requesting " that the bells remain silent " between the hours of 10 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day . " The request was based , according to Dr. Oberholtzer , on promises made to White House attaches . Dr. Burk sent the following telegram to President Hoover : " The National Washington Memorial carillon at Valley Forge is the first American-made carillon . Mr. Alexander McCurdy , graduate of the Curtis Instittite , has - been engaged to play the carillon on Memorial Day . Is it your will that the bells of Valley Forge shall not be played between the hours of 10 A. M. and 12 noon ? We honor the President of the United States and of course the bells will be silent during his address . " Ordinarily , the bells of the chapel are played every hour between sunrise and sunset , but Mrs. Edward W. Bok , widow of the founder of the award conferred upon Dr. Burk for his development of the memorial chapel and Valley Forge Historical Society , engaged Mr. McCurdy to play a special program for Memorial Day . He has been practicing it for two weeks , Dr. Burk said . The rector said this evening that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . Coincident with the letter to Mr. Burk , Isaac R. Pennypacker , president of the Valley Forge Park Commission , sent 9. letter to Governor Pollard of Virginia in which he accused the rector of using the memorial chapel and the tradition of the encampment site " for the promotion of his peculiarly individualistic enterprises . "                     