@@700275

txt While the insurgency in Protestant circles against the Nazi German Christian movement was spreading swiftly throughout the country today , Reich Bishop Ludwig Mueller in Koenigsberg outlined a policy of drastic , unyielding adherence to Nazi principles and no quarter for the opposition . " I will not undertake a single step against the German Christians or their aims , " he told an interviewer . " Together with Chancellor Hitler we will build a new German church . " Reich Bishop Mueller referred to opponents of the German Christians as " criminals against the unity of the German nation , " adding that " trouble-makers will not get me to back down an inch . " He said that the three professors of the University of Tuebingen who resigned from the German Christian movement yesterday had seceded for personal reasons , which he called groundless because of his previous assurances that the Bible and the Christian creed would remain the foundation of the new United Evangelical Church . In opposition Protestant circles , however , the Reich Bishop 's utterances were interpreted to indicate that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church . More Irheologians Quit Nazis . Prominent theologians at the universities of Breslau , Halle and Giessen announced their withdrawal from the German Christian movement following the example set by the Tuebingen professors . The suspension of two more nonNazi pastors further clarified the lines for what was generally regarded as a decisive struggle for supremacy in the German Protestant Church . Prayers were said in 3,000 nonNazi churches throughout the Reich for the two pastors . They were the Rev. Dr. Voiet of Berlin and Boit-. zenburg and the Rev. Dr. Ohse of Mecklenburg , both removed for an alleged attack on Bishop Joachim Hossenfelder of Brandenburg , leader of the German Christians . Religious circles were startled by a declaration from Bishop Karl Thom of Stettin , a pioneer German Christian of Pomerania , that he refused to take further orders from the national German Christian headquarters , of which Bishop Hossenfelder is the chief . Stressing his loyalty to Reich Bishop Mueller , Bishop Thom said he was acting with the full endorsement of his flock . The controversy received further impetus when German Christians in Thuringia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hossenfelder . They said they wanted " a new interpretation of Bishop Hossenfelder 's idea in the spirit of the Third Reich . " This insurgent group was regarded as likely to become the backbone of the extremist Nazi church movement . If Chancellor Adolf Hitler had his way he would unite all Germans , Catholic and Protestant , in one Christian faith , just as he ? has united them politically . It is an open secret that Reich Bishop Mueller has been dreaming of bridging the gap between Cathol- icism  - -  and Protestantism . So certain was he of success that he advised Chancellor Hitler to join the new national Evangelical Church , which held its first national synod at Wittenberg on Sept. 27 . It was thought that the magnetism of Herr Hitler 's personality would sweep even the Catholics of Germany off their feet and carry them into the one united German church . Baldur von Schirach , who as the Reich 's youth leader is in a pivotal position as far as Germany 's future is concerned , has repeatedly stated In public that he favored one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To realize this aim of a nonconfessional or interdenominational single German church the Nazis tried to promote union services , but the Catholic church was quick to object . The Archbishops of Freiburg-imBreisgau and Breslau issued warnings against their flocks ' taking part in such services , the Archbishop of Breslau branding them as " sprin , : - , ing from a wrongly understood enthusiasm for the union and unity of our people . " Has Not Given Up Plans . k This positive stand of the Catholic hierarchy would seem to dash the hopes for an early religious union of all Germans . Nevertheless , Chancellor Hitler has not given up his plans . To a delegation of Catholic clergymen who visited him In Essen when he spoke there on behalf of the plebiscite on foreign policy earlier in the month he is reported to have replied when they remonstrated against Nazi interference with Catholic church affairs : " If Rome wants a Kulturkampf , ' I am ready for it . " The " Kulturkampf " was Bismarck 's conflict with the Catholic church . More recently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Catholic sections of Germany was geared up to start immediate work for a unified German church embracing Catholics , Protestants and adherents of the Germanic anti-Biblical cult . The running of a Protestant church on Nazi principles is proving a much harder task than the leaders of the German Christians imagined it would be . Revolts are either threatening or already in progress from three sides : 1 . There is disunity among the German Christians themselves both as regards church policy and dogma . 2 . The non-Nazis are determined , even at the risk of a schism , to resist the totalitarian claims of the German Christians . 3 . The new Nazi church movement , which- decries Christianity as non-German and favors a Germanic cult instead , is gaining ground steadily . Differ on Aryan Paragraph . One of the great differences among the various factions in 1 this church division has to do with the extent of application of the antiSemitic so-called Aryan paragraph . The German Christians generally have accepted it as binding in the case of church office . In Mecklenburg , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no baptized partJew or Jew can in future obtain church office . Those already engaged in religious work are to be left in their positions . This milder form of anti-Semitism clashes with the views both of Reich Bishop Mueller and the German Christian National Council . The Reich Bishop declared on Oct. 27 : " The Aryan principle must be enforced relentlessly . No consideration must be taken for possible misunderstandings abroad . " Under the pressure of the faction headed by the Rev. Dr. Friedrich von Bodelschwingh , his ousted predecessor , Reich Bishop Mueller rescindc:1 the Aryan paragraph on Nov. 17 pending the promulgation of a new church law . But there is little doubt that the projected law will at least provide that in the future only " pure Aryans " may aspire to church office in Germany .                     