@@701782

txt A clash of opinion between two members of the Roosevelt Cabinet today came to light with a disclosure that a third , the Attorney General , had been called upon to prosecute striking sailors on the Steamship California for alleged mutiny . . Overriding the suggestions of Secretary Perkins , Secretary Roper requested the Justice Department to take direct action . The intra-Cabinet difference arose after sailors aboard the California of the Panama-Pacific Lines delayed the ship 's sailing from San Pedro , Calif. , from March 2 to March 5 by striking for higher wages . The Commerce Department chief contended that such an act was mutiny . The Labor Department Secretary asserted that it was merely a strike . Miss Perkins today declined to comment upon the situation , but it was learned upon high authority that she was still trying to prevent the sailors ' arrest . Mr. Roper asserted that he had no " antagonism " toward Miss Perkins . He told reporters , however , that the strikers had violated the laws of the sea , and that the laws governing mutiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merits of the demand for higher pay . Roper Demands Discipline " It is absolutely essential that we preserve ship discipline , " Mr. Roper said . " The safety of passengers " at sea is paramount and safety can not be maintained if there is the slightest doubt of official authority . " Joseph B. Weaver , chief of the Bureau of Navigation and Steamboat Inspection , upon whose motion the Commerce Department 's action was taken , added : " If something is not done to maintain discipline on shipboard the safety of life at sea will be seriously jeopardized . We can not discuss , at this point , the merits of the sailors ' demands  --  which may b6 , so far as I know , justified  --  but we must act vigorously against mutiny . " Mr. Roper said that he considered he had disposed of the matter by transferring it to the Justice Department , and that its view would , of course , prevail . Justice officials stated only that the case was under consideration , and that they knew of " no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike single-handed on the night of March 4 . She left a Cabinet dinner in honor of President Roosevelt at a hotel here , went into a cloakroom phone booth , and talked for more than an hour with the strike committee , meeting at the time in the back room of a Long Beach , Calif. , butcher shop . The next day , at a press conference , Miss Perkins gave an account of the negotiations . The strikers , she said , told her that they were holding their meeting in the butcher : shop to avoid " wire-tapping and spying . " They demanded a monthly wage of $62.50 despite their contract to take the ship from New York to San Francisco and back at the rate I of $57.50 a month . They finally agreed , however , she said , to resume their posts at the contract wage . In return , she promised to see that their demands were placed before a conference between the International Seamen 's Union and the Atlantic Coast shippers negotiating a new wage and hour contract . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to prevent dis crimination against the strikers . Commerce Department officials said that Miss Perkins did not consult them during these negotiations , although the situation involved , problems of discipline subject to the department 's supervision . Shipping sources disclosed , meanwhile , that other incidents of a similar nature have been reported to the Commerce Department . In one case a crew refused to conduct a life-boat drill on the high seas . even though , the ship 's officers said , the water was calm . After the California resumed its voyage ? it is reported due in New York next Wednesday  --  the Seamen 's Union obtained a new contract from the Panama Pacific Lines calling for the wage the sailors had demanded . Fourteen companies signed the new contracts . More than 400 passengers , including Adele Astaire . former dancer , who is now the wife of Lord Cavendish , were held up by the strike .                     