@@699207

txt The required six months ' notice has been given by Great Britain for the termination of the trade treaty with the Soviet Union , J. H. Thomas , Dominions Minister , announced in the House of Commons tonight . This is the sharpest reversal so far of British trade policy to meet the Ottawa imperial conference agreements . Parliament resumed sessions today after a three months ' recess , im ' meditely settling down to the task of passing the necessary bills to implement the Ottawa trade agreements . When the vote comes the government is sure of a majority of 422 . Unless there are absentees the division will be 517 to 95 . The Opposition will include thirty-three Samuel Liberals , forty-nine Laborites , the Lloyd George family and some minor groups . Mr. Thomas explained the termina1 tion of the Soviet treaty was necessary because the continued importation of " sweated " goods from Russia would be in violation of the United Kingdom 's agreement with the dominions to prevent importations from any country that would lupset the new imperial preferential I arrangements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new trade treaty with Russia that would not conflict with the new imperial system . George Lansbury , leader of the Opposition , and other Labor members I wanted to know why such drastic action was taken without any investigation to determine whether Soviet trade conflicted with dominion trade . Mr. Thomas replied that no investigation was needed to convince the government that Soviet goods were being dumped in England . By this act of denunciation the National Government not only reverses the trade policy of the Labor Government of 1920 , of which Mr. Thomas was a leading member , but brushes aside the policy for which 1 seven British Ministerial delegates declared when they first arrived in Ottawa . Incidentally , this announcement in Commons signalizes one of the most important victories won by Premier Bennett of Canada over the United Kingdom at the imperial conference . The immediate practical effect of the denunciation of the trade treaty will be to deprive British consumers 1 of large quantities of low-priced lumber , fish and grain . In his announcement to the House of Commons , Mr. Thomas said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have recognized the importance of maintaining the effectiveness of the Ottawa preferences against State action by any foreign country which might stultify the intentions of the preferences . This principle was acknowledged in Article 21 of the agreement with Canada . It necessitates the United Kingdom Government being in a position to discriminate by a prohibition against the import of commodities from any such country . " This stipulation has rendered necessary the denunciation of the temporary commercial agreement with the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics signed in London , April 16 , 1930 , which assures the ? Soviet the trade - privilege of most-favored nation treatment and therefore would stand in the way of a prohibition which might in conceivable circumstances be necessitated by the Ottawa obligation . " A note was therefore addressed on Oct. 17 to the Soviet Charge d'Affaires in London , giving notice of denunciation six months from the date in accordance with Article 7 of the agreement and adding that the government of the United Kingdom remain anxious for the furtherance of trade with Soviet Russia and are prepared to enter into a discussion for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the ** led by ? Sir Herbert Samuel . was arguing in the House of Commons that the Empire agreements would deprive Great Britain of freedom of action at the world economic conference and bar the making of satisfactory trade agreements with foreign countries , it was announced from the Foreign Office , merely by coincidence , that the government had invited the Danish . Swedish and Norwegian Governments to send delegates to London for negotiations on new tariff arrangements . The three governments accepted and conversations will begin early in November . it was said . Prime - Minister announced in the House of Commons that the world economic conference would be held in London and , that invitations had been sent to the United States and Russia and to all member States of the League of Nations . He added that the date would be fixed later by the preparatory committee which is to resume its sessions on Oct. 31 at Geneva . Later the Prime Minister told the Commons he would be chairman of the world conference . Although not mentioned by Mr. , he hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked by a member of Parliament if the restrictions originally imposed by the United States on the conference agenda still held good , and he replied : " So far as I know at this moment , that is so , but do n't let us have any misunderstanding about the scope of those restrictions . It is a very much misunderstood matter . " The-Prime Minister did not attempt to clear up the matter , but it is now generally understood here that the United States does not object to discussion of the general principles of tariffs , but merely to discussion of the tariff rates of . any . particular country . - Defends Ottawa Agreements . In closing the day 's debate on the Ottawa agreements late tonight , Mr. said neither protection nor free trade could be held responsible for unemployment because it existed in countries regardless of what tariff systems they had . " And neither protection nor free trade by itself , " he added , " can cure unemployment , which is caused by the breakdown of the present social system . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resigning from the Cabinet becatfse of the Ottawa agreements . He then said that nothing had been done at Ottawa which in the least violated the pledges which the members of the National . Government had given to the people when it took office a year ago . Failure of the Ottawa conference , he added , would have been a far greater calamity than anything Sir Herbert was now predicting as a result of it . Mr. did not undertake to discuss the economic details of the imperial agreements , but concluded by saying : " I am not afraid to face the World Economic Conference with , these Ottawa conference agreements , but the failure of Ottawa would have made a world conference impossible . " Chamberlain Praises Schwab . Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , opened the Ottawa debate for the government . He paid a compliment to Charles M. Schwab , chairman of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation , who said in-London yesterday that , although the Ottawa agreements would hit the United States and his own steel business , it was necessary to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospered it probably would help the rest of the world . " There is true statesmanship , " said Mr. Chamberlain , " in that remark from a man who is not a citizen of the British Empire . I wish all our own citizens could take an equally far-sighted view . " Mr. Chamberlain said the broad conclusion he drew of the situation was that " apart from any immediate advantages we may get from alterations of Dominion tariffs , the general tendency of the agreements - which we . concluded last- August is the lowering of inter-imp-trial tariffs and further cooperation in trade- . " George Lansbury , Labor party leader , said the Dominions had driven a bargain by which they were getting great fininedbite advantages , while the people of Great Britain were getting nothing that would decrease the cost of living or the number of unemployed . Sir Herbert Samuel reiterated his reasons for resigning as Home Secretary as a protest against the Ottawa agreements and then declared those agreements would deprive Great Britain of freedom of action at the world economic conference if a program for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are now committed , " he said , " to arrangements with the Dominions which are going to make trade questions a matter of vehement controversy throughout the empire-and , worst of all . they will bring the daily urgent needs of the poor people of this country into direct conflict with claims made for imperial patriotism . " ?                     