@@703599

txt Taking a dramatic and unprecedented step , Mr. Justice Louis D. Brandeis last night called personally on President Roosevelt and appealed to him to help prevent closing of Palestine to Jewish immigration by action of the British Government . ' The visit followed a State Department explanation of the situation which reflected great official concern but a feeling that the United States has no treaty guarantees or other absolute means of preventing the action , But the personal appeal of Mr. Justice Brandeis , who hitherto has held himself rigidly aloof from inter , ventions in matters tzutside the orbit of the judiciary , shows as few other incidents have done how gravely World Jewry views the situation . The Justice , respected as a lifelong liberal , spent over an hour with the President in the White House itself . Leaving , he swiftly strode to his automobile and nimbly waved reporters aside . He has long been interested in the Zionist Movement , and at one time considered resigning from the Supreme Court to head the world movement . U. S. Regrets Inability to Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preservation of a national home for Jews in Palestine was officially expressed by the State Department yesterday in a statement which at the same time made it clear that the United States possesses no treaty power to prevent modification of the Palestine Mandate . The statement was issued as a reply toa mass of telegrams , letters and persbnal petitions which have poured in on the White House and State Department within recent days urging the use of official American influence to prevent the rumored intention of the British Government to close Palestine to further Jewish immigration . The statement reviewed the his tory of American policy toward the project , of a Jewish national home in Palestine stating In concise and positive terms the strong sympathy which " beginning with President Wilson each succeeding President has on one or more occasions expressed " in the project . It added that it is " a project in which American intellect and capital have played a leading role . " Little It Can Really Do But , having thus stated its sympathy for the project , the State De-pal tinent ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . can do as a practical matter to prevent the closing of the doors to this national home lot the Jews if the British Government should decide to take such a step It iecl tes the treaty rights which the United States does have under article 's of the British-American Mandate Convention of Dec. 3 , 1934 , but explains : ' None of these articles empower the Government of the United States to prevent the modification of the terms of any of the mandates . Under their provisions , however , this Gov11MCZIL can decline to 2. ecogrnze the validity of the application to Amen lean interests of any modification of the mandates unless such modification has been assented to by the Government of the United States . " In other words , the United States Is sympathetic to maintenance of a Jewish home in Palestine , may decline to recognize changes in the mandate modifying the character of that home , but has no power to prevent modification if Britain feels that it must curb Jewish immigration to appease Arab unrest in the Near East . It represents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is able to give to organizations and individuals in the United States which are pressing it hard to do something to protect the Jewish dream of a national home . The American Statement The U. S. statement follows : Within the past few days this Government has received a large number of telegrams and letters from individuals and organizations In the United States concerning the Palestine situation , with particular reference to the reported possibility of the application by the British Government of a new policy with respect . to that country . It is obviously impracticable to reply separately to the many communications which have been received and this statement is therefore being issued in lieu of individual answers . As is well known the American people have for many years taken a close interest in the development of the Jewish national home in Palestine . Beginning with President Wilson each succeeding President has on one or more occasions expressed his own interest in the idea of a national home and his pleasure at the progress made in its establishment . American sympathy in a Jewish homeland in Palestine was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the president on Sept. 21 , 1922 , recording the favorable attitude of the United States toward such a homeland . In submitting the resolution the House Committee on Foreign Affairs ieported that it " Expresses our moral interest in and our favorable attitude toward the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people . It commits us to no foreign obligation or entanglement . " With Sympathetic Interest It is in the light of this interest that the American Government and people have watched with the keenest sympathy the development in Palestine of the national home , a project in which American intellect and capital have played a leading role . On several occasions this Government has brought its views regarding the rights of the United States and its nationals in Palestine to the attention of the British Government . As recently as 1937 a formal exchange of correspondence took place and the following self-explanatory paragraph is quoted from the concluding note dated Aug. 4 , 1937 , communicated by the American Ambassador in London to the British Foreign Office : " In expressing satisfaction and appreciation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep the United States Government fully informed of any proposals which may be made to the Council of the League of Nations for the modification of the Palestine Mandate , I am instructed to request that these proposals may be communicated to my Government in ample time to enable it to determine what , it any , observations it may desire to make with a view to the preservation of American rights in Palestine , " Hopes to Submit Views It is expected , therefore , that this Government will have an opportunity to submit its views to the British Government with respect to any changes affecting American rights which may be proposed in the Palestine Mandate . These rights , which are defined by the American-BritIsh Mandate convention or treaty of Dec. 3 , 1924 , comprise non-discriminatory treatment in matters of commerce , non-impairment of vested American property lights , permission for American nationals to establish and maintain educational , philanthropic and religious institutions in Palestine , safeguards with rebpect to the judiciary , and , in general , equality of treatment with all other foreign nationals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in the terms of the Palestine Mandate are set forth in Article 7 of the above-mentioned treaty , which reads as follows : " Nothing contained in the present convention shall he affected by any modification which may be made in the terms of the Mandate . as recited above , unless such modification shall have been assented to by the United States . " Identical With Others This article Is substantially identical with corresponding articles included in eight other existing agreements concluded by this Government with respect to the mandated territories of Syria and the Lebanon , former German Islands in the North Pacific , French Cam-croons , French Togoland , Belgian East , Africa , British Cameroons , British East Africa and British Togoland . None of these articles empower the Government of the United States to prevent the modification of the terms of any of the Mandates . Under their provibiona , however , this Government can decline to recognize the validity of the application to American interests of any modification of the Mandates unless such modification has been amented to by the Gov- ernment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palestine Partition Commission , which was appointed some months ago to make recommendations with respect to partition , will make its report to Jewish-American groups in Palestine plan protest to proposed immigration bar . JERUSALEM , Oct. 15 ( . P ) ? Britlsh leaders here unofficially expressed concern today at the prospect of in , tervention at this time by the United States in the three-cornered Pales , tine problem . Between 8,000 and 9,000 Jews in Palestine who are citizens of the United States , have laid plans for a conference of all Jewish-American investors in the Holy Land to indicate to the British and United States Governments their objection to any restrictions against Jewish immigration in Palestine . At the same time Zionist leaders here were greatly heartened by a flood of telegrams from all parts of the United States to Jewish leaders In Washington imploring the United States Government to intervene with the British Government against threatened curtailment of Jewish immigration . In the face of this , British leaders unofficially asserted that intervention by the United States now could serve only to make the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus far there has been no concrete evidence from London or elsewhRre that the British Government has decided to restrict immigration to Palestine and that there was nothing to indicate what the finding of the British Partition Committee would be or what the British Government would do about it . British authorities have ordered all inhabitants of Palestine to provide themselves with identification cards to be issued by district officials  --  the latest move facilitating military efforts to suppress what British call the Arab revolt . Only residents able to prove their peaceful intentions will be given cards , thus making it possible for Britain 's reinforced soldiery to pick out rebels against British rule . The step was taken as troops , recently arrived from England to bolster the army of the Holy Land , established firm control of the Bethlehem-Hebron District which had been the seat of operations for one of the largest Arab bands . But while order was restored there , the wave of violence surged on in other parts of Palestine . The British American Tobacco Company 's plant at Jaffa burned with a loss estimated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origin . Meanwhile the Jewish Agency for Palestine has replied to a warning by the Palestine Arab Defense Committee with the declaration that further killings would not deter the Zionist Movement , The Arab , Committee on Monday warned Jews of the Near East to expect grave trouble if the Zionist Movement persisted In further immigration into Palestine . A Jewish Agency statement said " We see a possibility of fruitful co-operation between Arabs and Jewa in Palestine , but an essential condition is the recognition of the basic rights of the Jewish people in the Holy Land . " The statement added that no dangers would deflect the Jews from a policy of returning to Palestine which " is dictated by historical necemity . " Well-organized iebel activities have been increasing daily in number and daring . The rebels apparently have been trying to harass vulnerable communication lines and circulate alarmist rumors in order to keep the Government on the defensive . The past success of such a policy necessitated the abandonment of outlying police posts and government offices , With the return of High Commissioner Sir Harold from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinforcements , it was believed the military would resume the initiative and reoccupy the country , Council Pleads for Jews By a Stall Correspondent 0/ The Clertletatt Science Monitor NEW YORK , Oct , ** New York City Council is today on record unanimously to memorialize President Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull to use their good influences to aid continued Jewish immigration into Palestine and to uphold the Balfour Declaration , which opened the door to them . The action by the Council followed a similar protest by Senator Robert F. Wagner ( D ) of New York and other members of the Senate and by various bodies here . The resolution by the Council declares there le apprehension that Great Britain would repudiate the Balfour Declaration assuring Jews of a homeland and might stop further Jewish immigration into Pales tine , which , the Council asserts , " offered the only refuge to hundreds of thousands of homeless Jews in Europe , " Simultaneously , a resolution urging the President to intervene with the British Government to continue the open door for Jews in Palestine was telegraphed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday .                     