@@702932

txt Active negotiations for an Anglo-American trade treaty will be undertaken early next year , it may now be stated with a reasonable degree of certainty . Such progress has been made in the preliminary negotiation that two facts , significant In the commetelal relations of the United States end Britain , may be stated . 1 . The negotiations between the United Kingdom and the Dominion governments have progressed to a point where the joint British proposals will be in concrete form at the turn of the year . 2 , There has been a change in the attitude of the British Ooveminent . The original approach was somewhat doubtful . Bat in recent days there has developed a marked enthusiasm for the pros-peel of fruitful negotiations with the United States . Industrialists Consulted Already a number of leading Indu  --  trialists are being consulted in the definite preparations . Meanwhile prominent members of Parliament , including Robert Boothby , Conservative , H. B. Lee-Smith and Morgan P. Price , Labor , and Graham White , Liberal , have been speaking strongly for such a treaty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shape materially since the Australian elections . They envisage such revision of the Ottawa trade agreement as to afford more favorable conditions than at present for interchange of goods betNeen the United States and all parts of the British Empire . Jigsaw or Interests This interchange , it is recognized , may necessitate some Dominions giving up a part of the preference that they now enjoy in the United Kingdom market , but this , it is thought , may be exchanged to everybody 's advantage for toweled American tariffs on their own particular products . The entire problem presents a jigsaw of interlocking interests , all of which have had to be examined individually , not only in relation to the Empire and its countries , but also regarding repercussions upon trade with other nations as affected by the existencetof the " most-favored-nation clause ' which it is not proposed to disturb . Thus Britain 's existing agreements with Denmark , Holland , Argentina and other countries , especially where farm produce is concerned , are likely to cause complications . This accounts for the extreme caution with which Oliver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , approached this question In Commons last Tuesday . The chief fresh information that he gave has been the negative fact that the Ottawa agreements are not entirety scrapped .                     