@@703174

txt President Roosevelt today withdrew the restrictions put on activities of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation last October , and directed the corporation to resume the extension of loans to " ill deserving borrowers " with emphasis , in this connection , on loans that would maintain or increase employment . Announcement of the action was made by Jesse H. Jones , chairman of the RFC , after he had , received a letter from the President . Mr. Jones said that the corporation had available about $1,500,000,000 and I that , while it was " ready to lend all , f , " he did not believe that there would . be " a demand for any considerable part of it . " While the RFC has authority to make a large variety of loans , including those to banks , mortgage loan and insurance companies , emphasis centered  --  under the new action on the importance of the removal of restriction on its activities about loans for industry , particularly the smaller industries , and to the railroads , several of which have made , or are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the present period of reduced operating revenues . Replying to a question , Mr. Jones said that he did not expect any requests for loans from banks . Mr. Jones said in a statement that the RFC preferred that banks I should originate and participate with it in the loans extended to business , big and small , and urged them to do so . He made it plain , however , that the RFC again was ready to try its hand in making industrial loans even if the banks held back , and would make every effort to " qualify " applicants for loans where , as required by law , there was security offered which " appeared reasonably to assure repayment . " THE PRESIDENT 'S LETTER President Roosevelt 's letter to Mr. Jones read : " While the modifications we have heretofore made in your lending authority since my letter to you of Oct. 18 permit emergency loans of various character , it is my wish that you make credit available to aid deserving borrowers to which you are authorized to lend , especially loans that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was as follows : " In connection with the President 's letter to me of today , we are instructing the managers of our thirty-two loan agencies to accept applications for loans that qualify Under our act , and especially loans that will maintain or increase employment . This includes all types of business , little and big . " We prefer that banks originate and make the loans , selling the RFC a participation in them , sharing equally or ratably as to collateral and repayments with the 1RFC . Ordinarily we would prefer that the lending bank retain a 50 per cent interest in the loan , but if necessary we will consider a greater participation , depending on the circumstances surrounding the- particular loan . Favors 5 Per Cent Interest Rate " We will also reinstate our agreement to permit banks to carry an entire loan with a call on the RFC to take up such portion of it as may be agreed upon at the time the loan is made . For this we will require a charge based upon the amount and duration of the loan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the borrower . " Our rate on industrial loans has been 5 per cent and this appears to be a fair rate . However , if some of the smaller banks feel that they should have a 6 per cent rate we will not object , but whatever - the interest rate it should include any charge the RFC makes for under writing the loan . " It will not be our purpose to- relieve banks or other lenders of presently frozen loans , but to cooperate // JONES OPENS FUNDS HeSays$1,500,000,000 Is Ready for ' Deserving ' Borrowers TO AID SMALL BUSINESS Rules on Collateral Remain , but Its Type May Be ' Modified , in Individual Cases with them in making new loans of the character specified . " While we prefer that banks originate and participate in the loans , and believe it would be better for all concerned for them to do this , we will make loans without bank participations when necessary . " Some of the small business men who met recently in Washington had complained about the collateral requirements for obtaining loans from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Jones said that the only authority to modify the requirements was with Congress , which had written into the law that such requirements must be sufficiently reasonable to assure repayment . There was a possibility , he said , that the RFC might " modify " its views as to the type of collateral necessary to meet the test set by law , but that this was a matter to be handled when actual applications were before it . Mr. Jones said that the RFC recognized the feeling that existed among many people concerning the need for loans to industry by the government , and that the corpora . tion was going to do its best to extend aid . He also said that the RFC was mindful that there now was a necessity for loans greater than that which had existed during the last two years . But beyond these statements he was not ready to clarify the RFC viewpoint concerning the type of collateral which would be required . Mr. Jones pointed out that loans to industry were authorized under the law with a date for maturity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that the RFC might be enabled to make loans up to ten years ' maturity . , To a certain extent , officials say , this vests the corporation with power to make what amounts to capital advances , as differentiated from short-term loans , and it was the need for capital of such a kind that was stressed by the small business Men tit their conference here . Old Basis ' Is Restored Chattel mortgages on plants and equipment of going concerns are among the forms of collateral acceptable to the RFC , and if it desires to do so it also may make loans to new ventures under certain circumstances . Usually the latter type of loans receives consideration only where the applicant also is prepared to put up a substantial amount of capital . The effect of the President 's letter , Mr. Jones said , was to pla , ce the . lending authority of the RFC on substantially- the same basis as it was when the President , on Oct. 18 , called for restrictions except in certain emergency situations and where applications already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating In many sections of the country it would be unnecessary for the small business man to come to Washington , Mr. Jones said . Where a case satisfactory to the RFC was made out by the applicant there should not be long delay , , he added . Under the most satisfactory conditions , Ile said , negotiations might even be closed within a few days . Concerning the experience of the RFC in making loans to industry , Mr. Jones said that of about $79 , - 000,000 now outstanding 23 per cent was in default . Security offered on the loans now in default had appeared reasonable to assure repayment at the time the loans were Made , but the loans got into trouble when the business recession came . Questioned on Rail Collateral Mr. Jones was asked if the RFC was giving any consideration to a modification of its collateral requirements in connection with loans to railroads . Some of the railroads , it is understood , have found it difficult to meet the present RFC demands-because of the amount of collateral required . Mr. Jones said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of the loan made , but again was unwilling to make any specific statement to the effect that any easing of requirements was contemplated , saying that this was a river which would be crossed when the RFC came to it . Mr. Jones said that before the RFC could make a railroad loan it was necessary that the Interstate Commerce Commission give its approval . In cases where the I. C. C. , in approving a loan , felt that it . was unnecessary to state an opinion as to whether it believed a railroad was in need of reorganization , Mr. Jones said that the RFC , of course , could exercise its own judgment in deciding whether to make the loan . Whether a road was in need or reorganization , he said , was a matter of opinion " and we use our opinion . " Among interest rates charged by the RFC on loans are 5 per cent to industry , 4 per cent to railroads , 3 per cent to banks and 3Y2 per cent to some other classes of borrowers . HAILS THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Parley President Roosevelt 's plan for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to resume lending to business men from its $1,500,000,000 fund was hailed here yesterday as a product of the conference of " small business " men in Washington early this month . " Our trip to Washington has not been in vain , " said Henry Modell , president of the Modell Sporting Goods Stores and a member of the " small business " conference . " It is gratifying to learn that President Roosevelt at last is going to give financial aid to small business as well as big business . This will mean a turning point . " Mr. Modell is treasurer and chairman of the public ; relations committee of the newly incorporated Association of Small Business Men of the Second Federal Reserve District , which will seek to protect the interests of " small business " men in New York , Northern New Jersey and a part of Connecticut .                     