@@701689

txt THE TIMES publishes this morning the text of the Administration 's new Farm Bill , devised as a temporary substitute for AAA . It consists of a series of amendments to a comparatively obscure law known as the Soil Conservation Act , adopted without much fanfare in April of last year . That earlier law declares it to be the policy of Congress to prevent soil erosion , and with this in view the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized " to carry out pre " ventive measures , including , but not " limited to , engineering operations , " methods of cultivation , the growing " of vegetation and changes in use of " land . " The new bill proposes to stiffen the backbone of the earlier law and to broaden the powers it confers . Depletion of the soil and the " improper use " of it are now declared , obviously with a watchful eye on the Supreme Court , to be matters affecting " the national welfare . " To prevent such practices , to maintain farm purchasing power and to assure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to pay bounties or benefits to farmers . These bounties can not ( in deference to the Supreme Court 's recent decision ) be based on contracts binding upon the producer ; but they are to be conditioned upon the maintenance by the producer of such acreage of erosion-preventing or soil-improvement crops , or such acreage or production of agricultural commodities designated by the Secretary , or upon such utilization of land , as the Secretary finds has tended to further the purposes of this act . For the payment of these proposed bounties no funds are provided in the present bill . But it is understood that a separate request will be made for an appropriation of $440,000,000 . Whether this will be borrowed or raised through new taxes has not been revealed . Questioned on this point , one of the members of the Senate Committee on Agriculture replied : " Ask Mr. MORGENTHAU where the money is coming from . " Two other questions are raised , by the introduction of the bill . In what respects , as law , does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court to be unconstitutional ? And in what respects , as policy , does it differ from AAA ? The gist of the Supreme Court 's opinion wps that " the regulation of " agricultural production is a matter " not within the power of Congress , " and that by paying farmers to farm in a certain way Congress was in effect coercing them in a field of action properly reserved to the States . Will the abandonment of the contract system , and the substitution for it of a system of payments to be made on evidence that the farmer has complied with certain standards established by the Secretary of Agriculture , meet the court 's objection ? Senator NORMS said yesterday that he does not think it will . The question will doubtless be raised in Congressional debate and , in event of the adoption of the bill in its present form , be tested in the courts . As for policy : it is obvious that the new bill retains several of the most important features of the old AAA ? the bounty system , the maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production , though this control is now made incidental to conservation . The chief point of difference between the old plan and the new is a shift of emphasis from wholly negative to more positive action . Under AAA , farmers were paid for not producing crops which the Government decided were not needed . The theory of the new plan is that payments would be made as a reward for planting crops which , without adding to an existing surplus , would help to conserve the soil .                     