@@703009

txt President Roosevelt was represented by those close to him as standing pat on his budgetary estimates and policy as laid down in his statements and speeches this Autumn . Neither the President nor officials directly responsible to him for revenue and budgetary policies , are thinking at this time either of further gold desterilization or of greater unbalancing of the budget despite recent predictions by Marriner S. Eccles , Reserve Board chairman , of further deficits because of business recession , it was stated Mr. Eccles or anyone else not directly concerned with budget work speaks only for himself and not for the administration when he discusses the budgetary outlook , it was emphasized . In those circles where budgetary policy is determined , there is no thought at this time of using the sterlized gold immediately to finance increased expenditures or of adopting a long range program of using gold as a budgetary cushion . Encouragement of Private Capital Neither is there any belief in these circles that the budget estimates published by the President on October 19 need be revised in the light of subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower business level and relief expenditures are running about as anticipated , it was said . In addition , the determination to balance the 1932-1939 budget still is being adhered to . Hewing to the line on the budget policy laid down by the President and eschewing all unusual moves such as gold desterilization are steps essential toward the primary objective of the new Roosevelt recovery program : Encouragement of private capital , it is felt . in this connection , the success on Wednesday of the West Virginia Pulp &; Paper Co. bond offering was watched with particular gratification . That flotation , considered here one of the moat successful in months , as well as the Treasury 's own successful return to the bond market , are regarded as marking a potential turning point . More Optimistic Feeling For the first time since Labor day , people are beginning to talk and act optimistically , according to the feeling here . If these developments actually do ind.cate returning confidence . then adherence to the President 's budget policy . as announced , is felt to be doubly important to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view is the belief , expressed by Secretary Morgenthau in his New York speech of November 10 and reiterated by the President in his message to the special session of Congress , that the current recession is not like the 1929 break either in symptoms or probable cure . Encouragement of private capital to enter productive channels is the solution now , whereas unbalanced governmental budgets were necessary in the 1933 situation , according to this line of official reasoning .                     