@@704125

txt Our Economic Maturity That This Country 's Growth Has Ended Regarded as Hard to Understand To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : You have published recently an exchange of letters between Kenneth L. Pray and John E. Exter which seem to revolve around the merits of Federal spending and its results . I believe a pertinent observation should be made in connection with Mr. Exter 's latest letter in which he maintains that the period of rapid expansion for this country is ended and that " there are not now in prospect new industries which will profitably allorb the tremendous amounts of capital that the railroads and automobile industries absorbed in the past . " Statements that we have reached our economic maturity are not novel , for they have cropped out in every slump we have had for the past half-century . It is no wonder that a pessimistic outlook is maintained by some observers when we read the statistics which were released in recent months ( I believe the I. L. 0 . in Geneva to be the source ) , and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery . In some instances , it is true , the advance has been an artificial one , stimulated by heavy armament construction , but in others arms building has been a relatively unimportant factor in the movement , and normal industry in the aggregate has risen . Why this country should be considered to have ended its growth and to be facing a period of stagnation while much older countries with limited resources are forging ahead is hard to understand , unless one believes that this democracy is incompetent to learn from its mistakes . While aggregate industrial production in this country has never reached the 1929 level , numerous industries are still expanding , and only lack of space prohibits an extensive recitation of their accomplishments here . Suffice it to say that in the year 1938 more automobiles were in operation than in 1929 , for which 40 per cent more gasoline was consumed ; aircraft and aircraft engine production was 40 per cent ahead of the 1929 total , and the 1939 figures will probably show at least a 100 per cent gain . Electric power production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the productions of dyes and plastics have become major industries in the past decade . There is hope in the ultimate future of business as a whole when , despite the handicaps of chaotic labor conditions , political interference , increasing taxes and experimentation with settled economic law , particular industries and corporations are able to forge ahead . Mr. Exter is on firm ground when he states that " in economics we can take a lesson from the countries who have solved unemployment . " W. S. DEAN . New York , Aug. 2 , 1939 . Cooperation for Farmers Fixed Price for Grain for Domestic Use Recommended to Solve Problems To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Collapse of Farm Planning " prompts a reply . While industry can calculate costs on a definite basis , being able to shut down its plants and dismiss its workmen , who , while unemployed , a 3 supported by the taxpayers , farming has to be content with unpredictable weather conditions . Farmers are therefore unable to make any exact calculation of the costs per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing wheat for many years had to sell all of it , whether for domestic uses or export , at the free world market price , but manufactured articles they bought had to be paid for at highly protected tariff prices . Any economic system based on such an anachronism must be broken sooner or later , unless farmers are to become mere peasants . If farmers would cooperate in a large measure similar to the system of mass production in industry , the solution might be a simple one . They could agree on a price for domestic consumption commensurate to the industrial tariff and dump the surplus , if any , abroad . Any fixed price policy for farm products may strike horror into the heart of " rugged Americanism , " although there seem to be a good many fixed price policies in the realm of mass-production industry . Repugnant as it may be , but having regard to the fact that the hoary philosophy that " supply and demand dictate prices " has been thrown overboard in so many instances , a fixed price for grain for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer a solution . Should the farmer still persist in growing an export surplus , he has to sell it abroad and take the price dictated by the policies of other countries. ? This also would eliminate a great part of the costly army of government officials in the AAA and its foster-child , the Commodity Surplus Corporation . HANS FOLKERS . Hudson , N. Y. , July 31 , : 939 . Cigarette Taxes Resented To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In judging the case of the New Jersey commuter who purchased cigarettes for his co-workers , THE NEW YORK TIMES reports Magistrate Lindau as saying : " I deprecate the conduct of any one who is averse to contributing a few cents to relief . " Any sane-thinking American today is well aware of the fact that relief and the payment of taxes to support its continuance are vitally necessary . We have no quarrel with that issue nor are we prone to overlook the needs of our less fortunate fellows . But the establishment of the taxes on cigarettes is enough to make Adam Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay taxes , but let our legislators make them fair ones . If they want to tax tobacco , then let them tax all types  --  cigars , cigarettes , smoking tobacco , etc . But do n't let them single out one group of consumeres and burden that group with an additional tax to the exclusion of those who use the same article in other forms . JAMES RANDALL . New York , Aug. 2 , 1939 . Our Inactivity Deplored Pre-War Policy of Using Our Influence Against Aggression Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : After reading the editorials in THE TIMES relating to our position toward the sinister cloud of war that is hanging over the world today , besides various other articles dealing with the same subject , I must confess that I find my self appalled at the facts as revealed in most of those writings , in that we , in this country , holding as we seem to dc in our hands the balancing weight in favor of averting a world catastrophe , nevertheless stand hesitant , nay , almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That we do not want , and have even the privilege of protesting against , the sacrificing of our youth in a wo  --  nout slogan about saving democracy , I agree , and indeed thank God for the privilege of being able to utter that protest in this democracy of ours , far from perfect though it may be . But what about those other lives ? Have we no direct interest in their preservation , or heed to the cry in the hearts of those mother 's in dictator countries who dare not whisper , much less utter , that protest , and who may be reaching out to us to utter that protest for them ? Then what are we doing about it ? What justification have we to offer for not throwing in such weight as we undoubtedly possess in what has been so aptly expressed by Anne O'Ha  --  e McCormick in one of her articles as " A pre-war policy of loading the scale against aggression , " before it is too late ? Surely by so doing we might not only avoid a cruel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaving in its wake a discouraging " blot on the escutcheon , " of such democratic attainments as we rightly believe have been accomplished in this our present generation . A. P. New York , July 31 , 1939 . Policemen in Plain Clothes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The case of the chauffeur accosted , according to news reports , by a police inspecto ? in plain clothes , who , without first identifying himself , asked " Where are you from ? " and got the proper answer " Mind your own business " is happening in aifferent forms all over the country , with the exception that most people do not stick up for their rights as this chauffeur did . Officers of the law in plain clothes seem to have ' a system of provoking their victims before identifying themselves . As long as a policeman does not show his identification he must be considered as an ordinary citizen without special authority and should not be su ? - p  --  ised to get a similar answer and a blue eye in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , IT.PS . Katydids as Weather Prophets To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : A point of information for your readers who are a bit warm these days : Frost will arrive six weeks from yesterday . The katydids made their debut Aug. 1 , 1939 . We cheered their entrance last night beautifully . BRIAN , O'BRIE New Canaan , Conn. , Aug , 2 , 1939.                     