@@699809

txt Chicago , " hog-butcher On a to the universe , " opens High her Century of Progress Note . show in a somewhat unexpected manner . The curtain does not go up on the Spirit of Chicago pointing proudly to a panorama of the stockyards and saying " These are my jewels . " The Fair is not ushered in by the dedication of a Machinery Hall or an exposition of the grain and cotton industry or the lumber industry or the railroad industry . The curtain rises on an art exhibit . The first concrete reporting on the Chicago Fair would be our dispatch of yesterday describing the treasures of art , American-created or American-owned , that will be thrown open to the public today . To be sure , mention Is made of the fact that the exhibits have a value of $75,000,000 . But a few years ago reports of the great Burlington House art exhibition in London were all the time quoting the many millions of dollars represented . The ruling against the Beer sale of beer at bars where and there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coffee shops and the open-air food and drink stands . It is a decision to be regretted by people who would like to see the European open-air caf ? domiciled in this country . The nearest approach to the transcontinental caf ? is precisely the beverage booth and drug-store counter . They are actually , or to all intents and purposes , open-air . The customers are not ashamed to take their drink or light repasts before the whole world . The chief evil of the old saloon , as Commis-. sioner Musnoorrar himself has said , was the back room with its drawn blinds . Under what more innocent circumstances could a glass of beer be taken than on a Summer 's day at a hot-dog stand beneath the spreading chestnut tree ? HITLER told Mr. BERWe in NARD RIDDER , in an inHitler 's terview printed in The Place . Staats - Zeitung , that the United States , England and France ought to be grateful to the Brown Shirt storm troops instead of disseminating atrocity slanders about them . It was the Nazi and Stahlhelm fightters who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poised to overwhelm the entire civilized world that night on the eve of the German election when the Reichstag building in Berlin was set on fire . " What would you , gentlemen , have done in the United States , " asked Herr HITLER , " if you had as many organized Communists to deal with , in proportion to your population , as we in Germany , and if on that critical night the White House had gone up in flames ? " One answer is that the American people might have started in to clean up the Communists , but it is not likely that we would have declared war upon American citizens of a particular religious faith on the ground that they were ipso facto Communists , incendiaries and , in general , public enemies . Another answer Nazis that HITLER ' Bred American visitors Communists . might have made is that in the United States there is very little chance of there ever being as many Communists in proportion to the population as there were in Germany a few months ago . The reason for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements to breed communism . For it , is the German showing of the last ten years that the Communist growth was parallel with the growth of the Hitler movement . The only serious Communist danger in Germany was back in 1923 , if even then . At any rate , the Third International at Moscow is accustomed to speak of 1923 as the great opportunity which the German Communists missed . In the early part of 1930 the Communists had as many seats in the Reichstag as they had in 1924 , and that was less than 10 per cent of the Reichstag membership . But as the Hitler campaign for the avowed overthrow of the Weimar republic gained headway it created heavy Communist gains as a counter-challenge . The more militant elements in the Socialist party grew weary of its consistently moderate policies and swung over to communism . The national wealth Some of the United States Wealth and it is beginning to Left . be possible to mention the subject without incurring the suspicion of humor ? was very nearly $3,000 per person in the year 1929 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1932 . This is the estimate of the National Industrial Conference Board , whose earlier figures in this field have authority . The dollars are actual dollars , adjusted to price level . It is something to learn that in the trough of the wave last year the country was still two-thirds as well off as at the crest in 1829 . It is something to /snow that even last year the per capita wealth of $1,981 was higher by $31 than in the year 1912 Formerly there would have been very little satisfaction at finding one 's self back where one was twenty years ago . But people have been so much in the mood of thinking themselves back to approximately the year 1492 that sliding back only to 1912 is by comparison splendid progress . " Japanese in Chicago on Way to Capital . " This is fast going . The day before they were twenty miles north of Peiping and Tientsin .                     