@@701733

txt Southern Pacific Co 's January gross revenue is expected to be nearly ** more than for the corresponding month a year ago , when it was $11,634,960 . Net operating income also is expected to be higher for January this year than January , 1935. when it totaled $416,000 . According to Paul Shoup , vice chairman , the road suffered some storm losses during the month and operating expEnses were higher than a year ago . The storm losses have not been heavy , he said . Unusually severe weather conditions in the upper Mississippi Valley and in the Northwest have not been duplicated in the territory served by Southern Pacific . Exceptionally good traffic has been enjoyed by Southern Pacific to date this year . Mr. Shoup pointed out . He particularly stressed heavy loadings of building materials and commodities going into construction work . Number of loaded cars handled by Southern Pacific in January ran as much as 23r. , above corresponding week in 1935 , and in its poorest week was 13.9 , ; , above the corresponding week of 1935 . Loadings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the corresponding week of 1935 . Diverted From Boat Linee In part the large increase in traffic the first part . of this year is to be attributed .. o curtailment of boat line activity due to labor difficulties , coastwise along the Pacific . Mr. Shoup explained . Services have recently been resumed on an almost normal basis , he said , but there v ? ab a period when the lumber vessels were almost entirely out of service . None the less , figures cited by Mr Shoup indicated a sharp improvement in conditions over the wide territory served by Southern Pacific . The company anticipates a substantially better showing for all winter months than was made last year in both its freight and passenger business . Transcontinental passenger traffic . this season , westbound to California and Arizona , is running 50 , ; ' , greater than a year ago , and the road 's freight traffic is of a highly diversified character . Emphasizing the latter point , Mr. Shoup stated there were more than 150 individual items of traffic each which provides the road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Construction Increases in shipments of lumber and cement have been particularly heavy , indicating , he said , that new construction as well as extensive repair work is in progress in Southern Pacific territory . In December there was an increase of 225- in the movement of lumber over the lines the road , compared with a year earlier ; an increase of 90 in cement shipments , and about in brick and building January Rail Gross Best in Years tile , with similar increases in the movement of lime , plaster , articles of iron and steel manufacture , etc . Citrus shipments will be lighter this season than a year ago , he said , but added that the crop last year was the biggest ever produced in California . Movement of nava. oranges . now at its peak , is being aided by the fine quality of the crop , in the face of unfavorable weather conditions for distribution and a smaller crop , he commented .                     