@@703518

txt Broadening of the antitrust laws to prevent the building of large inventories and prevent price fixing of any type by organized industry , together with an enlarged anti-trust division and a network of regional officers , was advocated by Thurman Arnold , chief anti-trust enforcement officer of the government , in a radio address last night . Mr. Arnold , who is one of the guiding forces in the so-called anti-monoply committee investigation , contended that in the recent depression there was no collapse of the financial organizations , was was the case in 1933 , but instead " we were choked with the inventories which could not be distributed . Production therefore had to stop and men were discharged at a scale new in our history . " This break-down , he said , was followed by the demand for an investigation of monopoly practices . " We are being forced to take control of inflexible price structures and coercions in restraint of trade today just as in 1933 we were forced to take control of financing and marketing of securities . " he asserted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ f desires to break up efficient mass production , " Mr Arnold declared . " We only desire to conck:mn combinations going beyond efficient mass production which have become instruments arbitrarily affixing inflexible prices or exercising coercive power . " The Department of Justice official contended that during the 40 years of the anti-trust laws concentration of economic power . handicaps on small business , exploitation of consumers and piling up of huge invcntorica which can not be distributed have become the nation 's major economic problem . He further averred that this " industrial empire building " has taken place because of inadequate anti-trust law enforcement officers . Complaining that anti-trust law enforcement in the past has been nothing more than a series of crusades , Mr. Arnold advocated a change in the policy to " every day enforcement and actual control , with a policing force adequate to accomplish economic results . " Abandon Former Policy " It is my conviction that we are being forced to abandon our former policy of easy acquiescence and industrial empire building by the failure of great industrial empires to adapt their price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are capable of making and so they can employ labor and run their plants at capacity , " Mr. Arnold declared . " The recent ' depression . " he said , " brought home to us the absurdity of people going without goods because inventories of these goods had become too large . " Mr. Arnold referred to the American economic structure as two distinct worlds , one of large organized industry and the other a world of small . unorganized business , formers , laborers and consumers . " In the first world , we have concentrated control , which makes possible high and rigid prices , which in turn lead to restriction of production and wholesale discharge of labor . In the second world , we find competition , low flexible prices , large production and labor standards often at starvation levels . " he said . The problem is how to unleash the productive forces without taking the short and easy road to industrial autocracy , he stated . Government 's Position Mr. Arnold said that the government is spending money on relief and in other financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called " second world . " But , be added , ? Shis can never succeed if the world of organized industry maintains and raises prices faster during the period of adjustment than the government supplies temporary purchasing power . " The anti-trust laws can help by preventing business men from adopting inflexible price policies which have nothing to do with production capacity and which do not aid in the distribution of the goods which they make . They can help . he said , by preventing coercion which destroys small business . Price-fixing , he said , in reality . in the same as taxing and it works in various ways . By way of illustration , he said that in good times sellers in control of the market raise prices in an attempt to get a better than fair share of the business expansion . Whereas , he said , if they were interested in distributing their products they would reduce prices . The higher prices make inventories pile up , he contended , so that shortly there is another depression . Mr. Arnold said a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " not all of which are illegal . Oil Companies ' Sales Drives In the sale of gasoline , he said , the very existence of independent oil companies of Ain ... rica is threatened because the major oil companies stand between them and access to the market . " This has happened in a way which is partly legal under our present laws and partly illegal , " ne said . By aggressive sales policy . the major oil companies have acquired so mcry filling stations that it is very difficult for an independent to obtain a foothold , he said . " The question before the American people is whether they want to save their competitive system , " he stated . " If so , it will not be done by attacking the morals of the business men who have been thrown into a ' free for all ' fight without enough referees present at the battles . It will be done only if an enforecement organization is built up , with regional offices and a personnel sufficient to investigate and prosecute all violations instead of some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partially effective , according to Mr. Arnold , it has saved the nation from the European cartel system . Mr. Arnold seemed to take issue in some parts of his address with views expressed by Assistant Secretary of State Adolph A. Berle , in a recent memorandum . Mr. Arnold frequently referred to the ' ' helplessness of small business , " which he said was coerced by big organized industries into price policies and sales policies . The anti-trust laws , he said , can prevent coercion which destroys small business . Mr. Berle. on the other hand , maintains that small business in many respects is a monopoly itself . O'Mahoney Issues Statement Meanwhile , Senator O'Mahoney , chairman of the temporary national economic committee , issued a statement praising the cooperation that has been given by industry in connection with the committee 's investigation . Specific offers of cooperation , the senator disclosed , have been received from the National Association of Manufacturers , the United States Chamber of Commerce , the American Bar Association and the American Petroleum Institute . Senator O'Mahoney said this was evidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an objective , factual study and not a " goat-hunt . " The Senator revealed that leaders in the insurance business have advised Chairman Douglas of the SEC of their readiness to help in the study of insurance companies .                     