@@704168

txt slightest justification for thinking that the governments of France , Britain , and Poland contemplate such an eventuality for a single instant . On the other hand there is good reason for believing that Italy intends to bring a peace plan out of the bag at a prearranged signal from Berlin . The paramount question , however , for the anti-Axis States is whether any proposal produced from Axis sources would be acceptable , and in this connection , 4 Is felt President Roosevelt 's suggestion for arbitration or conciliation can scarcely appeal to Herr It Is also felt that the Poles would have diMetilly in accepting any a  --  bitral award which went beyond what they have already offered . Danzig is in their eyes one of the " vital interests " upon which their national existence depends . On the other hand Polish circles stress that from the outset they readiness for direct negotiations . However that may be it is widely believed here that Germany is determined to make one more supreme effort to break Polish I esIstance  --  like Czechoslovakia 's  --  without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler would do if he failed . But he would still have two choices  --  peace and war . Peace It is agreed would involve a climb down of perhaps unprecedented dimensions . But war would involve his countrymen as well as a large part of Europe in a catastrophe of still more impressive magnitude . It is emphasized that until a final choice has been made one way or the other , war is not inevitable . Meanwhile despite stories assiduously propagated from Berlin that the new Soviet-German nonaggression treaty involves Germany 's leaving the Baltic States alone , but being permitted to swallow large chunks of Poland while the U. S. S. R. takes the Galician Ukraine , it is still being declared in Moscow that Russia is ready to sign an antiaggression treaty with England and France . The official Moscow spokesman 's statement to this effect yesterday Is understood to be the reason that the Franco-British military missions did not leave Moscow as anticipated . Sir William Seeds and Paul . E. Naggiar saw Premier Vyachisloff Mototoff in the hope of eliciting from him whether the U. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is aggressive , and , if sn whether , despite ' the Sovlet-German pact , Russia would be prepared to join Pronto and Britain in the event of German pressure leading to war . Diplomatic circles are frankly pessimistic of gtting a favorable reply , but it Is admitted that in these inpsy-turvy days such an outcome is not impossible .                     