@@701553

txt Charging that the Brooklyn Democratic organization was run by Postmaster General James A. Farley , Samuel Seabury endorsed yesterday the candidacy of Joseph D. , Republican - Fusion nominee for Kings County District Attorney . The endorsement was made public at an " anti-crime meeting " last night in Brooklyn . Mr. Seabury , whose work as counsel for the Hofstadter legislative investigating committee caused James J. Walker to resign as Mayor , described the Postmaster General as " Spoilsman Farley. - He said the people of Brooklyn " drew a blank " when William F. X. Geoghan . Democratic incumbent , was first elected District Attorney five years ago . The former Walker inquisitor did not attend the meeting , which was held under the auspices of the campaign committee , in Erasmus Hall High School , Flat . ' bush Avenue and Church Avenue , Brooklyn . Instead , the endorsement was made in a letter which was read at the gathering . The speakers included Mr. , former United States Senator William M. Calder , former United States Attorneys Charles H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mates on the county ticket . Geoghan Trial Record Scored . In his address Mr. charged that Mr. Geoghan had I tried only four cases since he was first elected and had lost three of them . The Republican - Fusionist alse repeated his attack on Mr. Geoghan for the latter 's failure to procure an indictment in the Druckman murder case . Earlier in the day he had telegraphed to Mr. Geoghan for the office books of the trucking concern that figured in the homicide , a personal request for which ended in a verbal encounter in the District Attorney 's office Friday afternoon . " My opponent 's campaign against me is limited to his assertion that I have not been active as a criminal or trial lawyer , " Mr. said . " He does not tell that the Brooklyn Bar Association examined carefully into my qualifications and voted to endorse me . " Mr. Seabury 's endorsement was the highlight of Mr. 's campaign yesterday . The Republican-Fusion nominee has let it be known that he is an independent Democrat and Mr. Seabury 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year Mr. Seabury endorsed Mr. for Controller , but at ' the same time declined to support either Governor Lehman or his Republican Gubernatorial opponent , Park Commissioner Moses , after Mr. Seabury , himself an independent Democrat , had sought the Republican nomination for Governor . In explaining that only his ab sence from the city prevented his appearance in Brooklyn in behalf of Mr. , Mr. Seabury congratulated him for the campaign he had been waging in Kings County and said that he hoped he would " be able to congratulate the people of Brooklyn upon your election . " Brooklyn knows by experience how little your opponent has accomplished in his great office , " Mr. Seabury 's letter said . " When the people elected him they drew a blank . The trouble with most of the Tammany District Attorneys is that while they hold their offices they do not fill them . " Whenever any difficult task is to be performed , which ought to be and would be performed by a competent District Attorney , the Governor of the State has to step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Attorney to do the job . This is and has long been the situation existing in New York County , where in order to get ' action that amounts to anything from the public standpoint it is necessary for even the Governor to , ' ignore the Tammany Hall District Attorney and appoint some one else . Mr. Dewey 's recent appointment is an illustration of this . " The situation which prevails in ' Kings County is no better . Racketeering and crime are rampant . By electing you the people have n real opportunity to make the District Attorney 's office amount to something worth while . Pleads for Whole Ticket . " I hope , also , you will carry the Fusion ticket to victory and thus demonstrate that the people of Brooklyn have no use for the Tammanyized Farley - Kelly machine which Spoilsman Farley has set up to rule over Brooklyn . Brooklyn ought to be able to govern itself , and can if it decides to do so . It does not need to be governed by an agent set up by Farley . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will put the city 's leading borough in its proper position and will enable you to demonstrate how a District Attorney 's office should be run , with its activities devoted to prosecuting criminals and breaking up groups of gangsters , instead of striving to earn the good-will of local politicians . " Good luck to you and the people of Brooklyn  --  their cause and yours is the same  --  and I hope that cause will triumph on election day . " Mr. 's telegram to Mr. Geoghan , which had not been answered last night , follows : " Yesterday you promised to obtain the Luckman books in the Druckman murder case from your ' friend Solovei and hold them until Jan. 1 . Please let me know when you have secured them . The proper protection of the public interest requires that these books be impounded . " In his Erasmus Hall High School meeting speech and several other rallies he attended , Mr. criticized former Governor Smith for not quoting the Brooklyn Bar Association 's entire report concerning Mr. at the Democratic rally in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picked out two sentences from the two-page statement of the Bar Association and carefully omitted to tell his audience last " night of this concluding paragraph or to tell them that the Bar Association had endorsed me , " Mr. said .                     