@@697446

txt In August , 1896 , the late William J. Bryan was sweeping the country like a prairie fire in his campaign for the Presidency of the United States on a platform demanding free coinage of silver at the ratio of " sixteen to one . " The United States Treasury was being drained of gold to supply the demand for exchange and the " reserve " for redemption of its " Treasury notes " and the " greenbacks " had fallen far below the hundred-million-dollar limit which had generally been held to mark the line of safety . Gold was being exported weekly in amounts limited largely by steamer capacity . Election day was two and one-half months distant . The stock market was in a condition of virtual panic . On its face the situation was nothing short of desperate . The late Mr. Morgan one afternoon summoned to his office representatives of the principal foreign exchange houses . What he said to them is not a matter of historical record . A banker who was present at that meeting described to this writer the substance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " We may be ' busted ' after election , and that we can neither know nor help . But as things stand we shall be ' busted ' before election unless we act . We must draw upon our credit abroad to the limit of that credit and furnish exchange to stop the Treasury drain now . " As a result of that meeting a " pool " was formed to supply sterling bills to an amount of ten million pounds to begin operations at once . Total sales of bills by the " pool " were less than a quarter of a million sterling . Exchange broke five cents in a few days and gold started for this country from London almost before the last shipments from this country had arrived . The drain on . the Treasury was stopped , the stock market panic v. ? as stopped and long before election day the crisis had passed . That this was rendered possible by one of those shifts in the underlying facts of the actual economic situation ( full details of which are in the historical record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of a bad hole , is true , but irrelevant . The point is that a seemingly desperate situation was boldly faced and was saved because it was ' mildly faced . - October 24 , 1807 On October 24. 1907. the money stringency which had reflected itself increasingly for several weeks in the call loan market on the New York Stock Exchange reached a climax . Early in the afternoon of that day it was evident that // Courage Needed Coatinuad fro .. " rat Pops brokers ' needs tor money to provide for deliveries were large and that virtually no money to supply those needs was in sight . The then President of the Exchange , Mr B .. H. Thomas , and Mr. SUlimas , President of the City Bank , called upon the late Mr. Morgan at his office and described the situation . The banks were " below the legal reserve , " clearing house cercertificates were in use and currency stood at a premium of about three per cent . over certified checks . The needs of the Stock Exchange were large , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have asked whether the banks had not still " reserves " and what bank reserves were for . In half an hour the reserves were used to the extent of twenty-five million dollars , the Exchange got the money it needed and the market , which at two P. M. was slipping into panic , stopped in its decline and the " 1907 panic " was over so far as the Stock Exchange was concerned . The " banking panic " came two or three weeks later . Again a seemingly desperate situation was boldly faced and was saved because it was boldly faced . The condition of the stock markets today may not inaccurately be described in general as a " state of nerves . " It is the natural penalty of the mood to which people enthusiastically yielded themselves eighteen months ago . The penalty is ? as is always the case  --  proportioned to the previous excess . That excess was unprecedented in degree and intensity , and the mood ran until it exhausted itself . Not even high money rates lasting over a year could avail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respects . In the last few weeks the contrary mood ? necessary , no doubt , to expiate the former  --  has shown signs of similarly running until it exhausts itself . Not even abundant money suffices to check it . The mood of eighteen months ago , as we can all now see , was unreasonable in Coto . Presently we shall see with equal clearness on looking back that the present mood was equally unreasonable . Some Would Suspend Dealings : " Nerves " are not confined to stock market circles . They are a contagious disease that tends to spread with rapidity and virulence to all circles of human activity . That the present mood of " Wall Street "  --  the phrase is used to specify the circles directly interested in the stock market ? is infecting business in general . at least to some extent , is evident , and it is evident that infection is spreading . More than one letter has been received by The Wall Street Journal urging either that dealings in stocks be suspended altogether or that quotations be not published ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unreason that is loose in men 's minds in these days . The whole situation is one that is susceptible of bold handling on lines analogous to the handling of the situation in 1396 and that of 1907 as has been sketched above . In the first place there is actually going on at this tune a steady but almost imperceptible percolation of stocks into the hands of small but numerous bargain hunters who have enough reason left  --  and money ? to recognize the opportunity that is offered by today 's prices . The " humidity " in the markets ' technical position is steadily dropping as a result of this evaporation . In the second place , except in the case of a comparatively few commodities , such as wheat , copper , cotton . sugar , etc. , production has been cut to demand levels and accumulated stocks are small . In the third place , prices of the above commodities are at or below the normal cost of production , and in the case of copper and cotton , at least , the far-sighted merchants of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they can make no mistake in so doing . Speaking by and large , the country as a whole is unusually free of " inventories . " And , to take but one instance , that of iron and steel . output now is nearing the place where the mere normal renewal requirements of the country will absorb production . And with 23.000,000 passenger motors in use in this country mere renewals in normal times will absorb at least as many cars as ikre being produced today . In these respects we are better off than we have been in previous depressions . All that the stock market needs now to produce a swift change of mood is evidence that somebody has some reason and some " confidence " left - and it need not be a great deal .                     