@@701572

txt One clash between students and the police today broke the calm in Cairo after yesterday 's violent anti-British outbursts . At about 10 o'clock this morning 2,000 Egyptian University students gathered on the campus in Giza and decided to proceed to Cairo to continue yesterday 's demonstrations . Upon their arrival at Abbas Bridge over the Nile , connecting Giza with Cairo , they were met by a strong police force which tried to disperse the students . Police Fire Into Crowd . They resisted , hurling sticks . bricks and other missiles . The police first fired in the air , but when this was futile they fired at the crowd , killing Mohammed Abdoul Meguid , 20-year-old agricultural student . Fifteen other students were injured , three of whom are in a critical condition . Major Lees , British police officer and head of the protection squad , was severely injured on the head . A British constable is suffering concussion , and several native Egyptian policemen also were injured . No other incidents occurred anywhere else In the country , according to Hamdy Bey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not likely that Premier Tewfik Pasha Nessim will heed the Wafdist demand that he resign . He issued today a long statement reviewing his administration since he formed the Cabinet a year ago . As was expected , the twenty-three-page statement attempts to justify all the acts of his administration . Devoting the longest chapter to the question of a revival of the 1923 Constitution , he tries in diplomatic language to prove that be did his utmost to revive the constitutional life of the country but that Great Britain opposed this . The statement indicates the British High Commissioner suggested the drawing up of a new constitution . While the statement does not directly blame the British and the language is most friendly to them , nevertheless Nessim Pasha tries to show himself as not to blame for the non-revival of the 1922 Constitution , And although issued just after yesterday 's disturbances , which coincided with the Waf dist demand for his resignation , nevertheless the statement was prepared last week and was not connected in any way with the developments of the past two days , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticized for " unstatesmanlike behavior " in revealing , in the section dealing with the problem of the Constitution , confidential conversations with Sir Miles Lampson , British High Commissioner , and notes sent by him to the Premier . The statement took Sir Miles , as well as other high residency officials , by surprise , An emergency meeting of the Council of Ministers decreed today a new and most stringent press law , according to which the government may suppress any publication printing not only false or inflammatory news but even exaggerations . The law also applies to photographs . It was promulgated with a view to preventing the local press from inciting Egyptian ) youths to endanger public security . From long observation of the Egyptian political situation and from conversations with the highest Egyptian and British authorities in the past forty-eight hours , your correspondent is able to state that the outbursts here in the past forty-eight hours were definitely not the result of Italian propaganda . Anti-Italian and pro-Ethiopian feeling in this country is stronger than ever . The students ' anti-British demonstrations and wrath were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Sir Samuel Hoare , British Foreign Secretary .                     