@@702513

txt IGovernor Lehman announced yesterday afternoon that a new minimum wage bill for women and minors would be introduced in the State Legislature early next week . He madb the announcement , after an executive conference with State officials and representatives of labor , employer , consumer and civis organizations to consider minimum wage legislation now possible under the recent decision of the United States Supreme Court . The New York Minimum Wage Bill was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court several months ago . The conference was held in the offices of State Industrial Commissioner Elmer F. Andrews , 80 Center Street . When the conference adjourned shortly after 1 o'clock , Governor Lehman said : " The conference voted unani-. mously in favor of continuing our policy for legislation to apply to women and minors only and is opposed to applying it to men . To Define " Oppressive Wage " " A new bill will be introduced early next week along the lines of the 1933 bill . That bill will define ' an oppressive wage ' to mean a wage that is less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rendered in an occupation and less than sufficient to meet the minimum cost of living necessary for health . " The Governor then added informally that the new bill would be drawn along the lines of the 1933 Wald bill , which was keld invalid by the State Court of Appeals and the United States Supreme Court . He said there would also be a few amendments as to the administrative features of the bill based on experience during the period when the Wald bill was in operation . The new bill will be introduced by Senator ' Leon A. Fischel and Irwin Steingut , minority leader of the Assembly . Those at the conference expressed confidence that the bill would be passed speedily by the Senate and Assembly . The new minimum wage bill will be a substitute for the minimum wage bills already introduced . The Governor was asked what the objection was to having the bill apply to men . He did not reply directly , but said he would send a message to the Legislature with the new bill and give his stand on such issues . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference were in favor of having the new bill set a mininmum wage for men as well as for women . The proposal was objected to , however , by some of the representatives of labor and others . There was considerable discussion on whether the proposed minimum wage bill should fix the minimum wage on the " cost of living " as set out in the Supreme Court de- cision or be based on " reasonable value of services . " Those favoring the former stressed . the fact that if wages were based on " reasonable value of services , " they might be lower than the cost of living . It was argued , however , that a bill fixing minimum wages on " reasonable value of services " would be easier to administer . Before leaving the Labor Department offices , Governor Lehman said he had talked over the telephone with President Roosevelt in Washington concerning the plea of several Governors that there be no heavy cuts in the WPA and in relief appropriations for the States . He said the President had agreed to meet a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks ago a group of Governors conferred with Governor Lehman at his home here and afterward sent a telegram to President Roosevelt protesting against WPA and relief cuts . Those at the conference yesterday in addition to Governor Lehman and Mr. Andrews were : John J. Bennett Jr. , State Attorney General ; Henry Epstein , State Solicitor General ; John E. X. , Assistant State Attorney General ; Charles Poletti , counsel to the Governor ; Irwin Steingut , minority leader of the Assembly ; Charles C. Burlingham , lawyer ; Professor Joseph P. Chamberlain of Columbia University ; State Senator Leon A. Fischel ; Mary Dewson , Consumers League of New York ; Frieda S. Miller , director of the Division of Women in Industry and Minimum Wage . Also Josephine Goldmark , National Consumers League ; Professor Herman A. Gray of New York University ; Leland P. Hamilton , Laundry Minimum Wage Board ; Mrs. Elinor M. Herrick , Regional Director , National Labor Relations Board ; Dorothy Kenyon , Deputy Commissioner of Licenses . New York City ; Mrs. Henry Goddard Leach . Hotel and Restaurant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York State Federation of Labor . Also Max Meyer , chairman , Hotel and Restaurant Minimum Wage Board ; Benjamin Namm , chairman , Review Committee for New York City Service Projects of the WPA ; Pauline M. Newman , Laundry Minimum Wage Board ; Anna M. Rosenberg , Regional Director , Social Security Board ; Rose Schneiderman , secretary , State Department of Labor ; Frances X. Sullivan , counsel , State Federation of Labor ; Nelle Swartz. member , State Industrial Board ; Marion Mel and Louise Stitt , observers , United States Department of Labor ; and F. F. Umhey , International Ladies Garment Workers Union .                     