@@701305

txt Openly flaunting the wishes of President Roosevelt , the House , which yesterday only counted noses on the issue , went on record today by a vote of 258 to 147 to substitute its own modified version of the Public Utility Holding Company Bill for the more drastic measure passed by the Senate with its " death sentence " on all Intermediate concerns by 1940 , Later the House passed its bill by a record vote of 323 to 81 . In itn decisive vote on substitution the House confirmed and finally sealed its action of yesterday , when , on a teller count of 216 to 146 , it rejected a move to substitute the " death sentence " section of the Senate bill for the corresponding provision in its own , despite the demands of President Roosevelt that the Senate provision be accepted as part of this farreaching reform measure . As the decision neared , the House witnessed such a test between the lobbying activities of the power companies and political pressure applied from the White House that , to vindicate its own " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an investigation by its Rules Committee of the influence exerted from both sides . Three Preliminary Tests . Three times before the vote on final passage of the modified measure reported by its Interstate Commerce Committee , the House demonstrated that , on , the record or off , it would not legislate for outright dissolution of holding concerns . Whatever the form of the question , in these three votes , each by an increasing majority , the House stood by its own bill making " the public interest " the measure of justice by which intermediate companies should be given life or death at the hands of the Securities and Exchange Commission . While , technically , the first vote today came on a motion to substitute the House bill for that passed by the Senate , actually , it was an affirmative vote against substituting the Senate bill for that of the House . The explanation was that the House has been considering its own bill continuously . The latter was brought before the chamber in the form of an amendment to the Senate measure which took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause . The measure now goes to conference with the Senate which , by a majority of one , acceded to the President 's demand to strike down these companies with one sweep of the legislative axe . Senator Wheeler , sponsor of the President 's plan , who doubtless will be one of the Senate conferees , expressed the hope this afternoon that a satisfactory measure could be worked out in conference . Wheeler Would Let Bill Die . " If we can not get a decent bill out of conference , it will die and the issue will be carried to the country , " Senator Wheeler said on leaving a White House conference with the President . ? Senate opponents of the " death sentence " planned to move concurrence in the House bill with the aim of preventing the administration from resolving the matter in conference . On a teller vote this morning while the House was still in Committee of the Whole , 246 votes were cast against eventual abolition of the holding companies , while 133 favored the Senate bill . Jumping at the chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican leader , demanded the " ayes and nays , " as soon as the committee had risen . This was the vote of 258 to 147 by which the House bill , without the " death sentence " provision , was overwhelmingly approved . Joining with the 166 Democrats were 92 Republicans . Those voting against the House measure either because they wanted the Senate bill or thought even that of the House too stringent included 130 Democrats , 7 Republicans , 7 Progressives and 3 Farmer-Laborites . Margin Against President Grows . At no time since he assumed office had President Roosevelt received a more severe legislative rebuff in the form of rejection of a policy on which he had repeatedly insisted . But an even larger margin of victory for the opponents of the administration measure was in the making . Representative Holmes of Massachusetts , a Republican member of the Interstate Commerce Committee which originated the House substitute , moved that the measure be sent back to committee with instructions that Section 11 , containing the modified version of the Senate " death sentence , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a parliamentary manoeuvre to block the offering of a more effective motion by a " death sentence " advocate , and was rejected on a record vote of 312 to 93 . The Republicans had by this time returned to functioning as a unit , the outright dissolution provision being effectively killed , and Representative Snell was pressing for roll-calls on each issue . The question thus became final passage of the House substitute for the Senate bill , and when the result , 323 to 81 , was announced by Speaker Byrns , only seven Democrats had joined with the seventyfour Republicans who voted against passage . Record Vote a Tense Scene . The House chamber was tense and unusually quiet as the clerk began to call the , roll on the record vote to substitute the House bill for that passed earlier by the Senate . Despite the teller vote , which immediately preceded this test , there were some members who felt that the tables might be turned in favor of the administration when the membership had to go on record . When the vote was announced , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cheering such as has not been heard there since passage of the Bonus Bill . Not since then had there been such fierce manoeuvring for advantage as that of the opponents and supporters of the " death sentence " on which the President had insisted . Pacing the aisles continually was Representative Rankin of Mississippi , who in conference with President Roosevelt yesterday , mapped the strategy of the administration for the day . In striking contrast was Chairman Rayburn of the Interstate Commerce Committee , who had given up the fight after yesterday 's decisive defeat . Rankin Makes a Point of Order . Representative Rankin seized his first opportunity on a point of order against permitting Mr. Holmes to offer the only motion to recommit the bill that was permissible under the rule . Mr. Rankin 's contention was that opportunity for such a motion was designed to protect the minority on a proposal , and that since control of the bill had shifted to the Republican side of the chamber with defeat of the move to substitute Section 11 of the Senate bill for that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman O'Connor of the Rules Committee , on his feet in an instant , said the governing precedents were so well known as not to need repeating to a tired House . Speaker Byrns was prepared for just such an exigency as had developed on the point of order from Mr. Rankin . He told Mr. Rankin how it had been the uniform practice " without a single exception " that the " political minority " of the House had the privilege of making the motion to recommit provided the minority member qualified and was a member of the originating committee . Although the action on the floor today was almost without debate and comprised a series of roll-calls , cheers , rebel yells , and booing greeted the few brief remarks that were permitted . Rankin Tells of " Power Trust . " No doubt remained of the predominating sentiment of the House when derisive cheering greeted a remark by Mr. Rankin that " a vote for the House bill is a vote for the power trust and a vote against it is a vote for the American people and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment . If the vote had been against the House measure , the far more drastic Seaate measure would automatically have gone to the White House for the President 's signature . The first unfavorable break for I advocates of the " death sentence " developed when Chairman Rayburn , who had been sponsoring the " death sentence " substitute for the House Section 11 , said he could not ask the House to make the substitution , having previously stated that some parts of the measure originated by his committee were superior to corresponding provisions of the Senate bill . He warned the House , however , that what it was about to do would make it more difficult for the Senate to yield . and at the same time it would tie the hands of the House conferees . Representative Cooper of Ohio , ranking Republican member of the Interstate Commerce Committee , declared that what the Senate had done or might do did not matter so much as what the House committee had done after five months of mature consideration of the Senate 's action . He challenged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get a conference with the Senate . Since the Senate had approved the " death sentence " by only one vote , the two houses of Congress could not be very far apart . Promise of Relief Funds Charged . In a speech Representative Hoeppel , Democrat , of California ; said . an attempt to win his support for the drastic provision had been made on a promise that larger funds for relief would be given the State . " I am informed from a source which I can not divulge that California relief funds would be augmented if I voted for the ' death sentence , ' " said Representative Hoeppel . He read a telegram from the chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee of California urging him to support outright dissolution of holding companies , as the President had requested . As passed by the House the bill would authorize the Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the relationship of holding companies to each other and to operating subsidiaries with a view to simplifying or dissolving them in the public interest . It would require all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1935 . The regulatory provision falls into the following general classes : 1 . Issue and sale of securities . 2 . Acquisition of securities , utility assets and interests in other businesses . 3 . Simplification of holding-cornpany systems . 4 . Intercompany transactions . 5 . Service , sales and construction contracts . 6 . Reports and accounts . Interstate Regulation Established . The SEC also would have jurisdiction over operating companies as subsidiaries of holding units and , for the first time , regulation of electric utility companies transmitting energy in interstate commerce would be established . The Federal Power Commission would be authorized to regulate interstate wholesale transactions and , indirectly , to exercise a degree of control over retail rates in addition to the factors underlying transmission and sale . The chief difference in the House and Senate bills is that the latter would make mandatory the dissolution of all but so-called primary holding units by 1940 , and even the latter after 1942 , unless good ' reason were found for permitting them to exist beyond that date in the interest of maintaining , economically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill requires a finding by the Federal agency that the public interest requires simplification or dissolution of existing companies , while the Senate measure requires a like finding to permit continuance . Another distinction between the two measures concerns the proposed regulation of intercompany servicing . This the Senate bill would prevent except on a mutual profit-sharing basis . The House measure would permit continuance of present arrangements under regulations requiring charges to be fair and reasonable .                     