@@698143

txt A murder yesterday afternoon in a midtown New York office building sent a dozen detectives hurrying out of town on secret missions last night , and is said to have furnished the police and District Attorney 's office with startling disclosures regarding the operations of a nationwide ring of alien smugglers . The existance of such a ring has long been known to the Federal authorities . It Is estimated that more than 8,000 aliens have been smuggled into the United States by this means in recent years , and earlier this week it was revealed nineteen arrests had been made here . Only , a few weeks ago the government began an investigation , centering its activity on the Chicago territory of Al Capone . And the fact that yesterday 's murder has been linked with Chicago gunmen is therefore regarded as significant . Although the police took great care to hide the destinations to which detectives have been sent , it was reported that , among other points , they went to Chicago , Buffalo , Poughkeepsie , and Sea Isle , N. J. The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base in the smuggling operations . Gunmen Invade Offices . About 3:45 o'clock yesterday afternoon , while seven men were waiting in the ante-room of the suite of offices maintained by the Eagle Building Corporation on the ninth floor of the Grand Central Building , at 230 Park Avenue , four men carrying pistols entered the office . One of them ordered the seven men and Miss Frances Samuels , a secretary , to line up against the wall . The others stalked into the private office of Salvatore Maranzano . There was a sound of voices raised in angry dispute ; blows , struggling , and finally pistol shots , and the four men dashed out of the suite . The seven clients , who had been waiting to see Marazano , lost no time in following them . But Miss Samuels hurried into her employer 's office . She found him slumped in a chair , his body riddled with bullets and punctured with knife wounds . The sound of shots attracted scores of occupants of other offices . Some of them dashed out in time to see men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them . Ex-Pugilist Seized . The four gunmen got away . But in the ground floor corridor , George Stewart , a special policeman of the New York Central Railroad , seized one of the clients . He was James Santuccio , 31 years old , an ex-pugilist. known in the ring as " Bobby Doyle . " When detectives arrived soon afterward from the East Fiftyfirst Street station , Stewart turned Santuccio over to them . At first the detectives attributed the shooting to a bootleggers ' feud . They knew that Santuccio , who has a criminal record , had been mixed up in bootlegging operations , and thought that this accounted for his presence in the ninth-floor suite . But when they began to examine the contents of the suite the case soon took on a different aspect . On the floor of Maranzano 's private office they found two hats which had been knocked from the gunmen 's heads in the struggle . Both hats were of exceptionally fine make and bore the labels of Chicago hat stores . The pile of correspondence heaped on Maranzano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusively with immigration ; while the officed files were filled with booklets describing methods for evading United States immigration laws . Assistant District Attorney . William A. Humphreys and Captain Michael in charge of . the Police Department 's Criminal Bureau , arrived at thesuite within a few minutes of each other . While Mr. Humphreys was examining Maranzano 's correspondence , the detectives scattered through the building questioning occupants of other offices and building employes about the business of the Eagle Building . Corporation . They learned that the office had been leased to one George B. Alascia . But no one seemed to know much about Alascia . One of the elevator operators declared that four or five days ago he had taken a man to the ninth floor and the man had asked for the Eagle Company 's offices . The opera-1 tor was positive that the man was Al Capone . He said he had seen Capone 's pictures in the papers many ' times and could not possibly have mistaken his identity . Mr. Humphreys declined to discuss the nature of the information he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that the Maranzano 's office had exchanged correspondence with the Department of Immigration in Washington . He said too , that his investigation had developed various ramifications and was - " growingl bigger all the time . " Victim 's Son Questioned . A short time later police sent to Maranzano 's home and brought back his son , Dominick . Questioned regarding his father 's business , Dominick said it was fishing , and that the base of operations for his father 's fishing fleet was at Sea Isle , N. J. When Police Commissioner Mulrooney arrived on the scene he notified the Department of Justice , and it is understood that many documents from the office were turned over to the department 's agents . A memorandum book , found by a New York newspaperman on Park Avenue , a short distance from the ? ? building , and believed to have been dropped by one of the gunmen in his hurry to get away , was turned over to the police . The book contained a long list of names , and the information that resulted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been obtained from it . On inspecting the hats found in Maranzano 's office one- of them disclosed a small piece of yellow paper fastened to the lining . On the paper was an address adjacent to Maranzano 's home at 2,706 Avenue J , Brooklyn . A search of the stairways in the building disclosed a .38 calibre pistol , from which three cartridges had been discharged on the landing of the sixth floor of the east stairway . On , the second floor of the same stairway the deteotives found another pistol fully loaded . A. stiletto with which Maranzano had been stabbed was left lying on the floor of his office . Victim Once Suspected of Murder . Special to The New York Times . POUGHKEEPSIE , N. Y. , Sept. 10 . ? Salvatore Maranzano , or Marganzano , as he was known here , had lived on a farm near Xew Hamburg Road , Wappingers Falls , six miles south of here . He was called The Boss and was said to be the leading spirit in , . a ring of alcohol distillers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him two years ago . A body was found in Benny Walker 's pond last " April , tied with twine corresponding to some seen onj Marganzano ' s farm , and was weight-1 ed down with a heavy chain and a piece of . grating stolen . from a street ' in Wappingers Falls . Police searched the farm , but Marganzano was not there at the time . He occupied the farm owned by Rocco Germano at Wappingers Falls , but the two quarreled and a suit is pending in the Supreme Court of Dutchess County , brought by Germano . The - authorities here are convinced that Marganzano was murdered by bootleggers . EX-OFFICIAL FACES CHARGE . Publicity in Alien Smuggling Ring Inquiry Ended by Medalie . To the accompaniment of reports that a former appointee of the Department of Labor is among those against whom indictments will be sought , United States Attorney George Z. Medalie assumed personal I charge yesterday of the New York phase of the nation-wide inquiry into alien smuggling . Orders issued at the Federal Building were that all statements con-1 cerning the grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty to twenty-five indictments , some of them against attorneys of New York and other cities , should come from Mr. Medalie personally , rather than from his assistants . It was learned that he feels that publicity is not conducive to the best I Interests of the inquiry . One Canadian attorney , whose name has been brought into the investigation by aliens questioned by Assistant United States Attorneys William B. Herlands and Jacob Grumet , may escape prosecution- because he had iforeknowledge that the United States desired to question him . Telephone requests to him to Come into the country " to talk matters over " have failed of their purpose , and the evidence collected to date does not establish any offense for which , under the agreements between this country and Canada , he may be extradited . Mr. Medalie said that information in the future would be given out by Secretary William N. Doak , who is directing the country-wide investigation from Washington . It was a statement made by Secretary Doak In a Labor Day address at Johnson City , Tenn. , which led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved was herd responsible for the smuggling of more than 8,000 aliens . Mr. Herlands and Mr. Grumet spent much of yesterday questioning aliens who were understood to be willing to testify- against the persons who brought them into the country . Some of these realize now that they were victimized by the ring , which extorted money from them after they htd entered the United States , under threat of starting deportation proceedings .                     