@@702135

txt In a message to the youth of the country , Governor Landon declared today that the real issue of the campaign was whether the Federal Government should " regulate " business or " direct and manage " it , and that the future prosperity and happiness of young Americans depended upon the preservation of a free form of government . He spoke to an enthusiastic audience of more than 2,000 young men and women in the Topeka City Auditorium at the Youth Conference called by the National Young Republican Federation , with representatives present from each of the forty-eight States . Introduced by State Senator J. Kenneth Bradley of Connecticut , chairman of the federation , the Governor was cheered for several minutes . His speech was interrupted frequently by applause . History and experience , he said , showed that America was made over in every generation , not from blueprints in Washington but by the honest toil of the people . He added that the presence of young men and women from every State showed that the present generation was following in the footsteps of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Graver Issue Governor Landon said that in the past campaigns had dealt chiefly with how the government should exercise the powers it had . The present campaign , he asserted , cuts across party lines and holds a graver issue ; what powers the government shall have and what powers it shall not have . Expressing sympathy with the young people , whom he characterized as among " the saddest victims of the depression " in that many of them had been unable to find employment , the Governor said he was confident that the young voters would reject the " theory of the Roosevelt administration " that this country had reached its peak , that there would be a permanent army of unemployed and that the government must take an increasingly greater part in regulating the daily lives of its citizens , and would accept the philosophy of the Republican party . The Republican party , he added , believes that the government should tighten the rules governing business but should not attempt to manage business , so that America once again will become a nation where youth can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dangerous and insidious New Deal argument was that youth had no future under the American system , that American business men were no longer capable of running their own businesses and that the government had to take over the responsibility of making business decisions to assure the maximum good for the greatest number . Opposes " Business Direction " On the surface , Mr. Landon said , this appears to be an extension of the policy the American people always have followed . " But there is a fundamental difference between this argument and the policy we have always pursued , " the Governor continued . " In the past we have had regulation of business by the government , not direction and management of business by the government . " What is the difference between the two ? It is very simple . Under the one  --  in the policy we have always followed  --  the government tells us what we can not do . Under the other , the government tells us what we must do . " Under the one system , the government is the umpire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other system , the government itself plays the game ; the people are mere puppets . " Before going to the Young Republican conference the Governor attended a luncheon given for about forty editors of farm papers by Senator Arthur Capper , himself the owner of a widely circulated farm publication . The editors told the Governor that farmers everywhere expected him to come forward with a definite farm program . They admitted that this might be difficult because of conflicting views among farm leaders . James M. Moore of The Ohio Farm Bureau News said that farmers in his State favored legislation toward self-help through buying and selling cooperatives and rural electrification . There was considerable discussion of crop insurance . Senator Capper said he was preparing a crop insurance bill and would introduce it at the next session of Congress . Receives Young Republicans After his speech to the Young Republicans , Governor Landon received many of them at the State House . New Yorkers officially attending the conference included Walter J. Mahoney of Buffalo , president of the State Association of Young Republican Clubs ; George H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , national representative ; Paul W. Williams , president of the New York Young Republican Club ; Miss Audrey Lewisohn and Miss Patricia Wood of New York City , Miss Florence Barnett of Syracuse and Mrs. Millicent Davis of Niagara Falls . Arthur Northwood Jr . of New York City , president of the National Student Federation , and Miss Dorothy Brown , assistant to the president , talked with Mr. Landon as representatives of the federation . " Governor Landon saw the value of a Federal student aid program , " Mr. Northwood said after their conference . " However , he seemed to have given very little thought to the plight of 5,000,000 young men and women who are out of school and out of work . "                     