@@699681

txt The administration machine in the House , which has shown definite signs of slowing up for a week , is again proceeding at top speed . Committees in which administration bills have been lagging , with the result that when the House met today it had no business pending before it , are again working overtime and ample legislation to keep the House busy for a week or more to come is promised to be ready for floor action when it reconvenes at noon Thursday . The change in the legislative situation was apparent tonight when Mr. Byrns announced that three of the administration bills should be ready for action Thursday . These are the emergency unemployment relief bill , sponsored by Messrs . Wagner , La Follette and Costigan ; the bill to continue the gasoline tax which will include the drop letter postage reduction and the Muscle Shoals bill . This procedure would leave in committee the securities supervision measure , the home mortgage bill and banking legislation . The home mortgage and securities bills will be ready early next week , it was said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , floor leader , and their principal lieutenants are worried over the situation , which both the Speaker and Mr. Byrns had described as " bad , " was common talk in the office buildings and cloakrooms when the House met today . The Republicans were smiling , for signs indicated that a serious rift was impending in the majority ranks . Democrats Hold Rump Caucus . There had been , in the morning , a " rump " caucus attended by fiftynine Democrats , including the leaders in the inflation and pay-thebonus-now movements . Representatives Carpenter and Howard of Nebraska and Patman and Dies of Texas and Hoeppel of California brought about the " rump " caucus . In this parley , which was held in the majority room of the House Office Building , Mr. Howard presided , while Mr. Patman , the father of the pay-thebonus-now movement , and Mr. Dies did most of the talking . The threatened abrogation of the rule giving the power to 145 members to petition a bill out of committee was ostensibly the reason for the secret conference , but the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we commend President Roosevelt for his efforts to restore the country to a prosperous condition ; that we express our confidence in his leadership , ability and sincerity ; that we pledge our allegiance to his program. ; that we especially commend his efforts for driving the big , powerful bankers from the United States capital and depriving them of the special privileges enjoyed in the past against the general welfare . " Purpose of Caucus Disguised . That this resolution did not disclose the real purpose of the " rump " caucus was disclosed from the floor during the few minutes the House was in session . This I was when Representative O'Connor 1 of New York announces that he was ready to bring in a rule to make the abrogation of the 145-vote rule the business before the House and that debate would be limited to four hours . The leaders , apparently , were determined to force a show-down . They were certain they had the two-thirds vote necessary . Subsequently the opposition apparently reached the same conclusion . Then , the Democratic skies began to clear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result that the leaders decided to forego action at this time on the proposal to abrogate the 145-vote rule . " We have five times as many votes as we need , " said Speaker Rainey , announcing the change in plans , " and there is no need now to get the fifty-nine Democrats in a hole . " As a matter of fact , the minute anybody starts a discharge petition we can have the committee bring in the bill with an adverse report and that will end it . " Both the Spedker and Mr. Byrns said that a vote on the proposed change of the rules might tend to embarrass the fifty-nine " insurgents " who participated in the " rump " caucus . The leadership , said Mr. Byrns , was reluctant to go that far . " Many of these men , " he said , " campaigned on the issue of more liberal rules , and personally I see no reason or necessity for making them mad . The folks back home do n't , as a rule , know or care much about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against their leaders might embarrass them in the future . We have the votes , but there is no reason for haste and there will be none . " " The skies are clearing and all is well , " said Speaker Ramey.                     