@@698290

txt Self-styled specialists in obtaining reduced assessments for propertyowners this year have built up a " racket " which is responsible for the filing of many of the 70,000 protests against assessments , it was said yesterday by James J. Sexton , president of the Department of Taxes and Assessments . He added that he had asked District Attorney Geoghan of Brooklyn to investigate two corporations specializing in the work In that borough . The number of protests filed this year is about double that of last year , Mr. Sexton said . The 70,000 complaints were filed after tentative assessments had been levied upon 804,431 parcels of property in the entire city . Most of the protests this year come from Brooklyn . Mr. Sexton charged that the " assessment racket " had become well organized in a short space of time and that at least two corporations had been formed to his knowledge to specialize in soliciting that business . Printed contracts specify that if reductions are obtained the property-owner shall pay one-half of the resulting saving in taxes to the lawyer who represents him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclose the names of these corporations before Mr. Geoghan had opportunity to investigate them . He said that both used misleading names designed to give the impression that they were agencies of the State or City Governments . One solicitor in this field had filed twenty-five protests I in Brooklyn , and the same man was soliciting business at the Brooklyn office of the Tax Department on Friday , according to Mr. Sexton . The solicitor vanished when employes of the office looked for him . " This business is what I should describe as one of the lower forms of ambulance-chasing , " the tax official declared . " It is fee-snatching pure and simple . Present conditions in the real estate market , combined with the fact that many young lawyers are hard pressed to make a living have resulted in the springing up of this new racket , in my opinion . The persons who solicit this business see in it an opportunity for easy money . If they win a reduction they get half the saving to the property owner , and if they fail to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate protest need only file it here within the specified dates to protect his interests . If the complaint of over-assessment is just , we will make the reduction without the intervention of any third party . Property owners who place their faith in these fly-by-nights are merely throwing good money away , for they would probably receive as much consideration from the Tax Department on their complaints as they could receive through any third person . 7-000 Last-Minute Protests . In the half day to noon yesterday , when time expired for the filing of protests , about 5,000 complaints had been delivered In person and 2,000 more had been mailed . Last year the record number of 40,000 protests kept members of the tax department working late at night to complete their hearings and Adjustments before the end of February . Final assessments must be reported to Controller Charles W. Berry early in February to give him a basis for fi:ing the tax rate . He forwards the tax rate in tentative form to the Board of Aldermen about March 3. and that body fixes it formally by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he would sort out all complaints that looked as if they had " high-pressure inspiration " and hold the hearings on them himself . He said he would invite newspaper men to attend these hearings , so that publicity would be given to complaints he considered improper . Assessments may be reduced by the tax department while field inspections are being made , and they may also be reduced after having been tentatively fixed by the department after hearings on complaints . A third recourse is through a writ of certiorari to bring the matter before the Supreme Court . Mr. Sexton said the solicitors whose activities were reported to him promised to obtain reductions in at least one stage in this chain . No estimate can now be made with accuracy on the amount of reductions involved in the protests . New buildings opened this year have permitted an increased total of assessments for taxation purposes . The Empire State Building now carries a full value assessment of $42,000 , - 000 . The Chrysler Building assessment is now the subject of litigation . with the owners contending that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxation . Under an old law , buildings were formerly free of assessments if they were not ready for occupancy by Oct. 1 of any year . Mr. Sexton said his inspectors had found that builders took advantage of this provision by having their buildings complete and sometimes occupied by that date without the issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the Building Department . This result could be obtained , he said , by leaving a flight of stairs off a fire escape or failing to complete some other minor detail of construction . Through agreement with the Real Estate Board , he said the time limit for such exemptions had been moved up this year to Dec. 15 . Since the renting season is well over by that time , builders can no longer take advantage of the old law . Yesterday noon was the deadline for filing objections to tentative assessments . but mailed protests will be accepted if they are postmarked not later than today .                     