@@700039

txt President Roosevelt told his neighbors of Dutchess County today that the recovery drive , backed by a unanimity unequaled since the World War days , was bringing the country back to better times . " There is a unity in this country , " he said , " which I have not seen and you have not seen since April , 1917 , by which the American people-are getting together behind the spirit of the NRA . " In every community , in every State . they are going to live by this principle , and through its operation and through the operation of other great agencies of the government which we have started we are going to bring this country back to better times . " Acclaiming a new social order based on neighborliness , the President stirred cheers from 5,000 persons standing under the trees on the Vassar College campus as he declared the NRA campaign a success , saying : " We are definitely succeeding in this purpose and the downhill drift of America has definitely turned and become the upward surge of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his speech , the President affirmed his determination that the changes now taking place be made permanent when he said : " It is also true that the people , through government , are extending as a permanent part of American life  --  and not just for - 'te year or two years  --  they are extending their insistence that individuals and associations of individuals shall cease doing many things that have been hurting their neighbors in , bygone days . " This statement , of which the part set off in dashes was interpolated in the prepared speech , was cheered for a full minute , leaving no doubt in the President 's mind concerning the present attitude toward him of his own neighbors , despite their overwhelming vote last Fall for the Republican ticket , since Dutchess is a strongly Republican county . Nearly every sentence was cheered , in fact . Although Mr. Roosevelt 's address in large part consisted of a description of pleasant recollections of his early career here in the Hudson Valley , he took this opportunity to reduce his social and political 1philosophy to simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outset he adverted to a time twenty-three years ago when he said he was " kidnapped " and taken to a policemen 's picnic , this being his first acquaintance with persons in Dutchess County out , side of Hyde Park , his home community near by . He next told of another " kid , napping " that same year which resulted in his being elected to the State Senate . Then , plunging into the principal topic of his speech , the President said that this was " the first time in our history that the nation as a whole , regardless of party , has approved drastic changes in the methods and forms of the functions of government without destroying the basic principles . " The whole philosophy of the administration , he said , was summed up in the principle " that no indi , vidual , man , woman or child , has a right to do things which hurt their neighbors . " Such a principle resulted in the outlawing of child labor , he declared , adding : " It is no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acte-i quate wages than it is to tell that 1 man that he must not hire child labor , or that he must not maintain a nuisance against his neighbors . " I think it is within this understanding of the deeper purposes of things today that the National Recovery Act we have heard so much about is proceeding and that that act is being accepted by the people of the country with the understanding of what it is all about . " The President also asserted there would be no favoritism , nor benefits for the growers of particular , I crops not accorded to other farm- I ers , nor benefits for one industry ' at the expense of others . " The national government must think in national terms , " he said . He then turned to a theme with which New Yorkers have become familiar through countless speeches ? by Mr. Roosevelt during his State career . He appealed to the public I both in New York and in all other States to work for a simplification of the machinery of government . Citing the overlapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State , the President said : " But I tell you that nothing will be done about it unless you make your representatives  --  your representatives on town boards and county boards and the State Legislature ? do something about it . And if they wo n't do it . substitute other representatives for them . " When I say that I am not talking Democratic politics , I am talk- n ing straight Dutchess County , Americanism . " While the address was prepared in advance , in the fervor of delivering it Mr. Roosevelt reiterated phrases for emphasis and interpolated new thoughts until the structure of the speech , although not its substance , was almost completely changed . President Roosevelt was introduced by Dr. MacCracken , president of Vassar College , who spoke of Mr. and Mrs. Roosevelt as " a real man and a real woman . " Dr. MacCracken recalled the whispering campaign alleged to have been circulated about Mr. Roosevelt during the campaign , but ! said the President entirely disregarded it and went ahead " painting by his acts the portrait of the I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creative artist of our time. , ' Dr. MacCracken exclaimed . and the crowd cheered . lI Today 's reception was shorn of formality as much as possible . With Mrs. Roosevelt and his mother . Mrs. Sarah Delano Roosevelt , the President drove direct to Vassar from Hyde Park behind a small escort of honor . He spoke from the porch of'Dr . MacCracken 's home on the campus . As an unseasonably hot sun beat down on his bare heat perspiration ran in rivulets down his cheeks . The President acknowledged the receipt of a gold NRA pin presented to him by the Dutchess County Society . He laughingly said , however . that he hardly felt he should wear itg He explained that his recovery aides often had to work from early one morning until early the next and that the NRA limitations on hours could not hold for them .                     