@@699223

txt Germany has been going through a lively national campaign of her own . The new Reichstag is to be elected two weeks from today . It is now Some time since predictions began to drift in that HITLER 'S strength would show a noticeaple decline in the new Reichstag . Time has strengthened these forecasts . Professional observers are not afraid now to risk their reputations on the thesis that the . Nazi movement has seen its best days . The principal data for such a view would have to be sought on the spot . But ? enough has come over in the cabled news to suggest what is probably the chief reason for anticipating a Hitler setback . It lies in the unquestionably stronger position of the von Papen Government . It has won prestige and authority . The economic situation is improving . Unemployment , as compared with Iast year , will soon be down by nearly a million . A. general lift in business is predicted for next Spring . The enhancement of voN PAPEN 'S position is significant because he is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those exchanged between the Nazis and the Junkers and Hugenberg Nationalists , the latter constituting such party support as the von Papen Cabinet can command . If HITLER should hold to his decision not to share power with other parties but to make it all or nothing , then it looks more and more as if it will have to be nothing . The present government is prepared to use the army against a Hitler attempt to seize power ; and in so doing would have the tacit approval of the democratic parties which stand formally in opposition . But it is far from certain that HITLER will remain obstinate . His present campaign lacks something of its former drive . If the forecasts are justified and his popular vote begins to slip , his choice will lie between concession and fairly rapid extinction . Some such development might have been Irehind ? Herr BRUENING 'S branch move in the Nazi direction the other day . The ex-Chancellor does not love HITLER , but neither is he fond of HINDENBURG or VON PAPEN . A. chastened Nazi party might well find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemies than to the highcaste " Presidential " Ministers now in power . But it is undeniably a confused situation , and the number of possible combinations is large . Among others would be one based on the theory that the von Papen regime is not fundamentally hostile to parliamentarism , but is primarily concerned with carrying out HINDENBURG 'S original plan of forcing the political parties to forego their strife and organize a stable government . If HITLER decides to enter such a coalition , it will be what the President has long been striving for . It is far from impossible that the Hugenberg Nationalists , backed by the government , will win back a considerable number of the seats they have been losing to HITLER . Such an outcome would be warning to the Nazis to make terms while they have the chance .                     