@@701364

txt Maxim M. Litvinoff of Russia , as president of the League of Nations Council , today convoked that body in extraordinary session on the Italo-Ethioplan conflict . His telegram asked Council members to reply by noon tomorrow whether they preferred to begin the session at 5 P. M. on July 31 or on Aug. 1 . By this method it is hoped Geneva will know by noon through the Italian answer whether Italy will attend . League officials say nothing now indicates that Italy will refuse to attend , and what signs there are point to her attendance . Along with Mr. Litvinoff 's telegram the League gave out a note from Ethiopia insisting on an immediate meeting . In her note Ethiopia declared that Secretary General Joseph A. C. Avenol had assured her that the Council would meet July 25 , not thereafter . League officials say the meeting must now be held whether or not Italy comes . Public Attention Focused . This will be the first Council meeting held exclusively to consider the Ethiopian war danger , thus assuring that the League 's possibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this question . This , however , seems to be more a result of the nature of the League machinery than a deliberate policy . The aim of British and French diplomacy , in so far as it is reflected here tonight , is to gain time and not to use this opportunity to mobilize public opinion . The trend is to avoid considering the basic war problem and to make the Council session instead very short , using it merely to find some means to postpone the real issue until the September Assembly meeting . The means being considered consist in getting the parties to the dispute to continue their arbitration for a month , preferably with a fifth arbitrator named , or in the Council 's asking the British , French and Italians to try their 1906 treaty 's consultative machinery . In addition , the British at least are understood to wish to use this meeting to state their position just a little more clearly and solemnly to Premier Benito Mussolini . Hope for Quiet Session . The hope behind this whole scheme is to get the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rubicon . Some experienced League quarters greatly doubt that these expectations will be realized and attribute them to wishful thinking in London and Paris , mixed with a desire to coax Italy thus to attend . They consider the chances at least even that the Council will be forced to face the issues and that the session will develop into one of grave importance . Mr. Litvinoff , in his telegram , was careful to avoid stating the Council 's terms of reference , leaving that to the Council when it meets . His curiously phrased message , however , implies that the Council will deal only with the arbitration question . In listing the documents sent to members , he mentions only those dealing with arbitration . He excludes the note circulated to Council members on June 20 in which Ethiopia proposed that the Council send at Ethiopia 's expense neutral observers to her Italian frontiers to investigate and report to Geneva on all incidents . Normally this would have to be on the agenda , and Ethiopia can still force it out of the pigeonhole onto the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date for the meeting , Mr. Litvinoff 's telegram explained the convocation of the Council in these terms : " Concerning the dispute between Ethiopia and Italy , members of the Council have so far received , in accordance with the first resolution adopted by the Council on May 25 the following documents regarding the development of the arbitrators ' work : " First , the Ethiopian communication of July 9 . Secondly , the Italian communication of July 25 . " In accordance with its second resolution , adopted May 25 , the Council decided to meet if , in default of an agreement among the four arbitrators for settlement of the dispute , an understanding should not have been reached by July 25 among these arbitrators as to the selection of a fifth arbitrator ( unless the four arbitrators agreed to an extension of this period ) . Gives Notice of Meeting . " As It does not appear from information so far received that the four arbitrators by July 25 reached any agreement or understanding as provided in that resolution , the president notifies his colleagues that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In a letter received July 25 the Ethiopian Government requested a meeting on that date . " The last sentence is inconsistent with the Ethiopian letter itself . After saying that Mr. Avenol prom- , ised a meeting on July 25 , Ethiopia demanded " an immediate session . " The Ethiopian note , although received , like the Italian telegram , yesterday , was published a day later . This is typical of the unprecedented way the League secretariat has handled this conflict from the outset . It is arousing criticism of Mr. Avenol 's fairness , especially since Italy is strongly represented in the secretariat , whereas there is no Ethiopian on the staff to help protect that nation 's interests . The Ethiopian note , which was signed by Tecle Hawariate , Ambassador in Paris , on July 24 , confirms that Ethiopia , as soon as arbitration broke down , asked an immediate Council meeting and agreed to a delay only when promised a meeting by July 25 . The note reads : " The agent of the Imperial Ethiopian Government has communicated to you awards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Arbitral Commission , which awards indicated complete and final disagreement . He requested Your Excellency to call the attention of the members of the Council to the urgent necessity of their intervention . Yielded to Aid Negotiations . In a recent conversation representatives of the Imperial Ethiopian Government were informed by Your Excellency that the Council would meet the 25th of July , which was the date fixed by a decision May 25 , last , in case of a disagreement between your arbitrators , While expressing its preference for an earlier date , the Imperial Ethiopian Government did not insist in order not to interfere with the negotiations taking place between certain powers with a view to peaceful settlement of the dispute. , The Ethiopian Government , in any case , only had knowledge of these negotiations through the press . " On the eve 4f July 25 , the Imperial Ethiopian Government begs Your Excellency to renew to the members of the Council its request for an immediate meeting . " Rumor explains the choice offered to the Council members as being due to prestige in the quarrel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Italy insisting on August . Some officials explain , however , that this offer was due to a desire to prevent Council members from asking an even later date and to ascertain discreetly whether Italy would attend . The International Red Cross Committee announced today that the Swiss Government had notified all governments of Ethiopia 's adherence to the 1929 Red Cross convention for the protection of wounded and sick . But it was stated nothing could be done until Ethiopia organized a Red Cross society and submitted it for approval . A Red Cross official said that when this was done the committee would urge Ethiopia to adhere also to the Red Cross convention of 1929 for the protection of prisoners of war .                     