@@699955

txt State Catches Tourist Trade Corning and Going With Resultant Profit . POLITICS BECOMING ACTIVE Congressional Primary Looms , but Trend of Copper Casts All Else Into Shade . By CHAPIN HALL . Editorial Correspondence , THE NEW YORK TIMES . PHOENIX , Ariz. , July 20 . ? The burning Summer sands of that part of the great American desert lying within the confines of Arizona are fairly alive with Arabs . No camel tourists they . Poised on rubber cushions of air thousands of Pacific Coast States pilgrims are darting eastward to the Century excursions into the G. 0 . P .. seems to have settled comfortably into Democracy 's solid Southern phalanx . Nomination , equivalent to election . will be made at a primary on Aug. 8 at which time prohibition repeal will also be an issue . This was originally set for the general election in October , but pressure from Washington is asserted to be the reason for advancing the date . It is indicated that the drys have failed to qualify any nominees for standing the hope which stirs in delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rise in default . the price of copper to 8 cents a Realty Owners Helped . pound , the Summer reading most Recent tax legislation , unpopular popular has to do with politics . Governor Moeur , the 80-year-old as it is many quarters , is affording country doctor who was catapulted into the job by a series of circumstances the nature of which it is said the good doctor does not yet understand , is prominently mentioned as a prospective candidate for the recall cure . In an effort to overcome an imposing budget deficit the Legislature adopted , with the Governor 's approval , a series of nuisance taxes which are already becoming irksome . They are called " Moeur taxes . " But while the recall is a fruitful topic of conversation it is not likely , in of Progress Exposition , while refinanced Easterners trek busily westward to test for themselves the vaunted climate of the sunset coast . All of which leaves a modicum of prosperity along the wellworn trails of concrete , and in the high places where heat waves come to grief the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words . But for all that , and nothwithrelief to the owner of real estate . This together with a proposed cut of 40 per cent in State expenditures and heroic readjustment of mining and railroad assessments , is gradually bringing order out of near financial chaos . The luxury taxes ! go deep with cigarettes puffing under a load of nine cents a package . Eventually Arizona 's well-being inevitably works around to copper , for the basic prosperity in this accordance with the present view - qwq strong personal friendship with President and Mrs. Roosevelt . Other candidates are two Phoenix lawyers , Harlow Akers and Kirby Vidrine , who with William Coxon , formerly Secretary of the Corporation Commission , are up and doing . There also may be a Republican offering , although this formality is becoming more and more of a gesture in Arizona , which , after brief Summer season . periment in political economy to return to the old fashioned convention and Arizona turns down the noble experiment of prohibition , old timers see considerable hope for the young State yet . " Back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fancy problems of taxation were unknown , and a highball was an event instead of a misdemeanor. " is a war cry of the current                     