@@703472

txt Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain . expressed the emphatic belief today that the - European situation had taken a turn for the better and that the war clouds were not so menacing as they had been a few months ago . Making his last speech on foreign affairs in the House of Commons before its three months ' adjournment next Friday , Mr. Chamberlain drew a contrast between the position now and that at the beginning of the year . " Now that more than half of the year has gone , " he said , " I believe that we all feel the atmosphere is lighter and that throughout the Continent there is a relaxation of the sense of tension . which six months ago was oppressive . I believe that in the end we shall succeed in. bringing back security and confidence to Europe . " His voice sounded flat and weary , but there was a determined cheerfulness in everything that he said in a speech that ranged from Spain to China . His optimism extended even to the stubborn Sudeten German problem in Czechoslovakia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future of Central Europe . In particular the Prime Minister expressed hope that sending Viscount Runeiman to Prague as an " impartial " " investigator " and " mediator " would help bridge the gap between the Sudeten Germans and the Czechoslovak Government . Mr. Chamberlain also let a few rays of optimism shine in the direction of the United States . Asserting that Anglo-American relations had never been better , he said that there was enough good-will on both sides to overcome the present hitch in the trade treaty negotiations . He skated lightly over the problem of war debts with ' the reminder that " it takes two " to make a settlement . Regarding Spain , he announced that the Rebel authorities had agreed to a British investigation of recent ship bombings and had also agreed to pay compensation for any attack that the investigators found to have been deliberate . And he repeated that a " settlement " in Spain was a prerequisite to bringing the Anglo-Italian treaty into effect , although he was careful , as usual , not to define " settlement " too precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benches annoyed him when he said . that Italy had " kept faith " with Britain since the agreement was signed and that neither Italy nor Britain was to blame for the failure to make the treaty operative . One of his hearers who did not laugh was Anthony Eden , whO listened from a back bench with an expressionless mask on his face . Wearing a cool gray suit with a blue shirt and soft collar , Mr. Eden looked ten years younger and happier than when he was Foreign Secretary . During the Prime Minister 's speech he just inspected his fingernails and occasionally passed his hand over his eyes and in general gave the impression that he had not the remotest interest in what Mr. Chamberlain was saying . He never spoke throughout the subsequent debate , although Opposition members had hoped that he would break his long parliamentary siknee at last . But it was Czechoslovakia rather than Spain or Italy or the prospect of a speech by Mr. Eden that filled the Douse today and drew half a dozen foreign Lnvoys to the distinguished strangers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more light on the decision to send Lord Runciman to Prague , but he filled in no more details than he had to . - He denied that Britain was " hustling " the Czechoslovak Government ; on the contrary , he said , Britain 's real fear was that the Czechs would hurry the completion of their nationalities statute so there could be no more " give and take " between the two parties . Britain 's desire , he said , was that ' ? the Czechs should first present their proposals to Konrad Henlein , the Sudeten German leader , before submitting them to the Czech Parliament . Lord Runciman 's role , said Mr. Chamberlain ' , would be like that of a mediator called in to settle a strike when the two sides could make no further progress toward a settlement . But the Prime Minister explained that Lord Runciman would be independent of the British Government and all governments . would act only in his personal capacity and had agreed to take the post only if both parties to the dispute approved his mission . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , although acceptance had not yet come from the Sudeten Germans , he spoke as if he had confidential knowledge that they would be instructed from Berlin to accept . AltogetherChamberlain showed extraordinary confidence that the Sudeten. problem could be settled p.md the way opened for wider negotiations between Britain and Germany . This. , of course , has been Mr. Chamberlain 's objective all the time , but today he revealed it more clearly than ever . For he reminded the House of the Anglo-German naval agreement of 1935 , which he described as proof that democratic and totalitarian States could reach a worth-while agreement . The - naval treaty , said Mr. Chamberlain , was a gesture by Chancellor Adolf Hitler " of the most practical kind in the direction of peace  --  the value of which , it seems to me , has not been fully appreciated . " Much of Mr. Chamberlain 's speech was in answer to Sir Archibald Sinclair , the Opposition Liberal leader , who began the debate by begging the government to change its foreign policy while there was still time . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying , " It was one of the greatest achievements of Mr. Eden when he was Foreign secretary that he attained a sounder and closer understanding with the United States than any Foreign Secretary since the war . " " The tragedy is that while the United States is swinging away from isolation our government is swinging toward it , " Sir Archibald declared . One thing that would help develop Anglo-American friendship , he suggested , was " if the Prime Minister would strike in his speeches the same note as President Roosevelt and Secretary Hull strike in theirs  --  the common interest of mankind in preserving peace and democracy and extending trade , and that Britain is concerned not only in defending her own interests . trade and territory , but in upholding freedom , law and justice wherever they are threatened . " Britain should also press forward with the reduction of trade barriers and with an attempt to settle the war debts , Sir Archibald advised . He also warned the . Prime Minister that the policy of concession to the dictatorships might bring war instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Mr. Chamberlain had spoken . Most of the speakers seemed relieved at the Prime Minister 's optimism and thought that they could at least go home to their constituents this week-end with the nice , comfortable feeling that Eu ? rope would not explode while they were on their holidays .                     