@@703598

txt With operations of most major producers now reaching large volume proportions , current prospects are that October automobile production will be close to peak levels for the current year to date Barring labor tie-ups in the motor plants , it appears definite that output in the United States and Canada this month will surpass 200,000 cars and trucks tor the first time since May . The prospective October total will be considerably under the corresponding month of last year , when 338.000 units were turned out , but will run close to the 230,000 output level in October . 1936 . The principal uncertainty surrounding the near-term production outlook  --  aside from the usual labor factors ? is the speed with which the Ford Motor Co will attain large scale new model operations . With the first previews of the new Fords scheduled for October 24. only a small quantity of the new cars have been turned out thus far and it ie not yet known when large volume output will begin . However , even with no pick up in Ford 's operations before the month-end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability exceed the 200,000-level . Ford Operations Last year . Ford did not reach full operations on new models until December because of last minute delays . If comparable delays are avoided this year , Ford 's new model production will contribute importantly to an Improvement next month in the production comparison with last year . Another factor now pointing toward an improving comparison with last year 's production levels is based on the initial indications of a strong retail sales trend in the new models Last year , after an auspicious start he demand for new cars deteriorated rapidly . Since all dealer organizations except Ford's-were fully stocked by early November . their production schedules began to decline by mid-November . Although the gradual pick-up in .. Ford output prevented any debrease in total production during November and December . the result was that the industry 's total operations in those months showed only a small expansion over the October levels . This year . manufacturers are pursuing a much mote conservative program of dealerstocking than a year ago in order to avoid the complications arising from an oversupply of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retail trend holds firm , the likelihood is that those manufacturers now in active production will be able at least to maintain their current schedules through the balance of this year In this case , Ford 's new model output in November and December would be reflected in an expansion in total production over the October levels Retail Sales Test Thus far there have not been sufficient of the heavy selling lines in the market with 1939 models to provide a comprehensive test of the probable retail sales trend in the fourth quarter . There has been no development , however , in connection with the few lines which . have been in the market with new models for several weeks to contradict the general expectation of a marked expansion in retail sales over the low levels prevailing since the first of this year . Aa a partial sample of the demand for new cars , a check-up in the New York metropolitan area on the sales experience with 1939 models here shows in some cases a larger influx of new retaiL.orders than existed a year ago . Retail orders for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly introduced last month are reported larger than in comparable periods of the 1938 and 1937 model seasons . Sales of the 1939 Packard models , which also have been on the market for several weeks , have been running ahead of 1937 in New York and New Jersey . While the hurricane and flood conditions in New England caused a slow start in that region , Packard 's New England sales are now recovering rapidly , officials stated yesterday .                     