@@702766

txt The National Association of Indian Affairs and 11w American Indian Defense ANSOCIalion have recently consolidated , since both societies held the same liberal views for Indian self-government and the perpetuation of Indian ruts and crafts and culture . This new organization known as the American Association on Indian Affairs . Inc. , with its national oMee in New Yolk City , chose for Its president Oliver I.a Farge , former president of the National Association of Indian Affairs . Both of the associations were founded in 1922 to combat the Bursum bill which . according to their members would have taken how the Pueblos of the southwest many acres of land . And the two were Monumental in having passed instead the pueblo Lands Act , which made definite Pueblo ownership . Since that time both associations have Med to remedy specific abuses and have worked for a government system which would be beneficial for future generations of Indians . ion Farge Outlines Gains As Oliver La Pam says : ? The intovements in Indian affairs since 1022 have been sometimes small , sometimes offset by backward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reforms in personnel and education under Commissioner Rhoads , the fundamental and far-reaching Indian Reorganization and Oklahoma Welfare Acts passed during Commissioner Collier 's administration are landmarks . " According to Mr. La Forge there has also been a notable swing in a favorable public sentiment toward the Indians and now this new association , which reaches from coast to coast , is concerned with crime prevention among Indians , in having more eMelent law enforcement , besides helping to organize the tribes , when asked to by the Interior Department and the Indians themselves . Their major efforts at present are with the Navajos of Arizona and New Mexico both as to their soil erosion problem and their reorganization , although no appeal from any tribe is unheeded . Drawing Up Constitution The two associations before their consolidation were Instrumental in having the Government issue a mark for Navajo , Hopi and Pueblo silver and turquoise products which can only be used on articles passed by the Arts and Crafts Board , made up of members who work without pay . Although the Navajos by a small Margin voted not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self - governing automatically , they are now drawing up a constitution which will be acceptable to their tribe , with their own able leaders as Thomas Dodge , lawyer , and Howard Gorman , as advisers , they are making progress . Their goal of reorganization is an electoral system based on the 18 land management districts . Capital al Window Rock in Arizona Repre : , ents 50,001 ) Indians Sm. ( fat to The Christian Si fence Monitor WINDOW ROCK , Ariz. ? Although Window Rock Is too young a community be on any map , has scarcely 200 permanent Inhabitants . and is situated in one of the loneliest pans of the United States , it is more in the nation 's date-lines than many a city of a hundred times its population . Window Rock Is the new capital of the far-flung Navajo reservation of 16,000,000 acres  --  larger than many an eastern state . It , is a governmental center and a news center . From here the affairs of 50.000 Navajos in Arizona and New Mexico ate administered . Prom here go stories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribes self-government ; of delegations on their way to Washington to complain about Government Indian policies ; of spectacular soil conservation and herd reduction measures taken to restore overgrazed ranges ; of immense and profitable " clips " of Indian wool ; of weird ceremonials and customs practiced as they were precticed before Coronado 's time ; of changes that white men are bringing to Navajo land , and of bizarre contrasts resulting from the mingling  --  one might almost say the collision ? of two races so basically different in ancestry , religion , and viewpoint . Once the reservation was divided into five administrative jurisdictions . Naturally , there were variations In interpretations of regulations set up by the " Great White Father " for governing the Navajos and tribal unity was disappearing . One of the first decisions leached by John Collier , when he became United States Commissioner in 1933 , was to give the 1 ? 111VH.108 a central agency under a single head . Mr. Collier himself chose the site and gave the place its name . The " window " is a great orifice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red sandstone . fly Navajos it is called " Ce na Hots n "  - -  hole in the stone . The place is ( At the Arizona-New Mexico border , barely over on the Arizona side , midway between Fort Defiance and St. Michaels , 106 miles northeast of Holbrook , 27 miles northwest of Gallup , N. M. Since Gallup is the nearest settle , men ( ' of any size , it Is " town " to the agency employees and Window Rock is better known to New Mexicans than to Arizonans . Construction began as soon As Congressional appropriations could bo obtained and contracts let , but the buildings were not completed until Nat a little more than a year ago . Native sandstone , quarried near by . was used as the principal material . Result is that the buildings blend so harmoniously into their surroundings that already they seem as natural to the scene as the cliffs and buttes that have been here for Untold centuries . In the 60-room administration building . the largest , are carried on the business of the agency , also of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the task of checking erosion and revegetating the Navajo ranges . Truly it is a beehive of activity , outwardly not unlike a big office building anywhere , except that many of the clerks and stenographers arc dark-eyed young Navajo men and women . Over all presides Agent E. R. Fryer , representative of the " Great White Father " who traditionally dwells in a far-off city called Washington . Usually his days are lull , for committees and individuals are constantly turning up to discuss the multitudinous problems that arise , and to solicit favors . Then again , days may pass with not an Indian in Window Rock except employees . Window Rock is devoid of most of the amusments of modern life ; there is not even a movie house nearer than Fort Defiance , and It is open only once a week . Yet life is anything but dull . There are parties , trips to nearby points of scenic grandeur , outdoor sports . Sadly enough , the residents admit there are far more young women , both paleface and Navajo , than young men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big social events of early summer was the " graduation exercise " of the local public school . There was Pa one graduate , a boy , but the occasion was not slighted . Probably it was more elaborate than it there had been a graduating class of a score . Enrollment through the term was about 45 , for many agency executives and SCS officers are married and have families . The Rev. J. R. Helms , Episcopal rector of the Fort Defiance Indian orphanage , comes once a week to conduct services and Sunday school in the school building and all of the Roman Catholic faith attend mass at the St. Michaels mission . Driving to Gallup for church IS a regular Bundy morning practice with some families .                     