@@701931

txt A composite farm relief plank , embracing most of the plans thus far proposed as substitute for government control of production as under the original AAA programs , has been drafted by a group of Midwestern Republican leaders for submission to the resolutions committee of the Cleveland convention . Because they felt their proposal should not be identified with any particular candidate until one has been nominated , the authors of the plank asked that , for the present at least , they remain anonymous . The principal claim made for the composite proposition , however , is that it would attempt to restore farm purchasing power without resort to production control . It was disclosed simultaneously that Democratic farm chieftains plan to meet their partisan antagonists on the clear-cut issue of production control in agriculture and the need for its application until foreign markets for our surpluses have been reopened . Payments Based on Tariff The principal points of the farm plank to be submitted at Cleveland include the following : 1 . Provision for " tariff equivalent " payments to farmers on the domestically consumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be determined by the extent to which prices for the things they buy are increased by reason of the tariff . 2 . A comprehensive program of government purchases of sub-marginal lands , which would be retired from production over a tenyear period . 3 . A modified soil conservation program without subsidy payments as a reward for constructive farming practices , and with administration divorced as much as possible from Federal agencies and placed in the hands of State and local governments . 4 . A program of government aid of foreign trade by use of this country 's bargaining powers with foreign nations , but with the present reciprocal trading policy modified to prevent " generalization of concessions " by the United States , and continuance of the most-favored-nation principle . To this end , the plan would base American foreign trade policy on the negotiation of unilateral agreements . 5 : Preservation of " the American market for the American farmer " by restricting imports of competitive farm products , now estimated at about $500,000,000 a year . Excise taxes and import quotas would be utilized to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . Authors of the proposed plank said that it is subject to modification before its submission to the committee . They said their chief purpose was to consolidate Republican agrarian thought behind one farm-relief plank that would avoid production control and aim at a restoration of purchasing power . Instead of holding the output of crops to probable domestic and foreign demand , the Republican draftsmen would permit the farmer to produce as much as he would , pay him a subsidy on the domestically consumed portion of his crop , and let the surplus bring what it would on the world market . Where needed , an outright export subsidy . would be paid . Being necessarily general , the authors of the proposed declaration of farm principles have not undertaken to prescribe the details of the plan 's operation . For instance , the base from which the " tariff equivalent payment " would be made has not been determined . The payment would be calculated to offset the farmer 's tariff disadvantage , now figured at about 20 per cent . Landon Backing Reported A bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House earlier in the session by Representative Hope of Kansas , ranking Republican of the Committee on Agriculture . At the time of its introduction the plan was understood to have the support of Governor Landon of Kansas , but it has lain dormant ever since . Under the bill the Tariff Commission would undertake a study to determine the extent to which the farmer was placed at a price disadvantage on the things he buys . This disadvantage would be converted in bushels or bales or barrels , and on selling his crop on the market the farmer would be given a negotiable certificate for the amount to which he was entitled . Some Republicans who have tentatively approved the Midwestern plank have found it subject to criticism . It is pointed out , for example , that with benefit payments confined to a tariff basis the farmer could not be compensated for commodity price declines over which he had no control . Under the plan , as now drafted , the farmers ' subsidy would be just as large with wheat selling at $1 as when It was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidy should be attached to a more flexible figure , such as " parity prices " under the old AAA . They point out that under such a scheme the amount of the subsidy would increase as the market price declined . Lowden Not Yet Consulted Because of this conflict of views , it is thought the plan may have to be somewhat modified prior to its submission to the resolutions committee . One of the few Republican leaders to whom the plan has not been submitted is Frank 0 . Lowden , who was suggested by Herbert Hoover as the one best suited to write the farm plank . Mr. Lowden , although an old-line Republican , is known to be sympathetic to the administration 's soil conservation program- and has indicated in speeches that he agreed with Secretary Wallace and Chester C. Davis , AAA Administrator , on the necessity of some form of temporary production control . Drafters of the Midwestern plank contend that under their scheme the only production control possible would be such as would result from government acquisition of submarginal areas plus a voluntary shifting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservation provision . Critics of the Midwestern plank say that it does not include cotton farmers . There being no tariff on cotton , producers of the staple would not benefit from a " tariff equivalent payment . " Neither could they be expected to benefit materially from a payment based on the domestically consumed portion of the crop , since a larger part is exported . Similar criticisms are applicable to the export subsidy provisions of the proposal since American cotton still enjoys a sellers ' market . While they believe some workable provision for cotton must be included in their plan , the Midwestern group feels its exclusion from a Republican farm plank would not jeopardise Its chances of adoption .                     