@@701985

txt Governor Alf M. Landon was represented today as being opposed to farm benefit payments as a permanent part of the nation 's farm policy , and as feeling that some other method of dealing with the problem must be worked out . The statement on the views of the Republican Presidential nominee came from Senator Robert D. Carey of Wyoming after a conference with Governor Landon at the ranch this morning . At his press conference this afternoon Governor Landon was informed of Senator Carey 's interpretation , but he declined to comment on it . Senator Carey conferred primarily with Governor Landon on the cattle and beet sugar industries , and it was with reference to the latter that the nominee 's farm views were outlined . He said that Governor Landon agreed with him that beet sugar was a product that could well be produced in the areas now being reclaimed in the West , and that it was time that the country turned to producing farm products which it does not already produce in sufficient quantities to meet the domestic demand . Favors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shipping anything into here which hurts us , " Senator Carey said , with particular reference to his own section of the country . " What about farm benefit payments ? " Senator Carey was asked . " He agreed with my views that we can not go along indefinitely with benefit payments , that they are a makeshift proposition , and that some other solution than benefit payments must be worked out , " Senator Carey replied . " It means regimentation of the farmer if you keep this system up . " " Did you discuss what other solution might be worked out ? " " No , we did n't go into that , " he replied . Senator Carey met Governor Landon for the first time this morning and expressed himself as feeling that the Governor had " a most attractive personality and an amazin ? grasp on the nation 's problems . " " He is thoroughly conversant with them and has an excellent knowledge of the country itself , " the Senator declared . He quoted the Governor as realizing that there should no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Middle West , as producing areas . " The Governor , I am pleased to say , feels that we should be treated equally , and not like provinces , " Senator Carey said . At the press conference this afternoon it was pointed out to Governor Landon that there was an apparent inconsistency between his views on benefit payments , as outlined by Senator Carey , and the references to benefit payments in the Republican platform . The platform proposes benefits on the domestically consumed portions of crops where there are exportable surpluses , in order to make the tariff effective . The platform limits those benefits to " the production level of the family-type farm . " Governor Declines to Comment The Governor nevertheless adhered to his original stand that he would not and could not comment on such matters prior to his acceptance speech , and that if he made one exception to that rule he would be forced to make more . His vacation really came to an end today with the arrival from Topeka of the three principal members of his research group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taylor . They went out to the ranch with the Governor in midafternoon , prepared to outline to I him the results of their labor in Topeka for the past few weeks , presumably for incorporation in his acceptance speech . Frederick D. Enfield , another member of the group , stayed in Topeka . He has been joined there by Andrew J. Cordier , Professor of History and Economics at Manchester College , Manchester , Ind. , and for six years Republican County Chairman of Wabash County . Governor Landon , who maintains that he has no " brain trust , " smilingly denied that Mr : Cordier was a permanent addition to the group . He said that Mr. Cordier might be with him for a week , two weeks , three weeks , or more . Vacation to Be Curtailed Tomorrow a group of Colorado political leaders will arrive and have lunch with the Governor . The group consists of former United States Senator Lawrence C. Phipps , now national committeeman from Colorado , State Chairman Charles R. Enos . Gordon Allot , head of the Young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Denver political leader . William B. Bell of New York , the chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee , whose expected arrival was announced several days ago , will be another guest at the luncheon table , although there is no connection between his visit and that of the Colorado group . The Governor denied today that Senator Frederick , Steiwer of Oregon , whose arrival had been rumored , would confer with him here , and it seemed likely that the arrivals tomorrow will be the last while the Governor remains at Estes Park . The Governor announced that he would curtail his stay here by one day . He will leave here about noon on Saturday by car , and will stop off at Greeley , Col. , to make a brief appearance at the Greeley rodeo . He will motor from there to Denver , where he will catch the 4:30 train back to Kansas . He will not , however , be back in Topeka before Monday morning , as he plans a stop-over in a near-by town to visit a friend . Governor Landon did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is understood to be desirous of avoiding crowds , that day , at least . Hanson Appears Tired It is more or less doubtful how much of a vacation his stay in Estes Park has been for the Governor , despite the excellent facilities available for it . He has been restless , it is known , and the direct telephone wire installed for his benefit between the ranch and Kansas City , is understood to have been used by him considerably . He has been in communication with Topeka , as well , through the Kansas City exchange , it is understood here . He was obviously tired today from the snowball-throwing expedition across the Continental Divide yesterday . However , he came in this afternoon to the village for his press conference and patiently endured the presentation to him I of a large quantity of dressed beef , presented by the Denver Live Stock Exchange . The Governor left Topeka on June 23 , arrived here on the 24th and had planned to get back there on Monday , July 6 . The special session of the Kansas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mrs. Landon and the children will stay at Estes Park , at least until the acceptance speech at Topeka on July 23 . There is a possibility that the Governor will return , after that speech , to spend some more time in the Rockies before embarking on his campaign ' tour .                     