@@699839

txt WASHINGTON , June 6 . ? Within ten days , unless a deadlock develops between the President and Congress , that body should stand adjourned . Its departure will call for more than the usual postmortems . Indeed , some of these have already begun . Learned essayists , safely removed from the heat as well as the first-hand information of Washington , have engaged in stately argument whether Congress has delegated more of its Usual authority to this President than any other Congress ever delegated to any other President in peacetime . That discussion may well be left to the erudite and comfortably located essayists and students of American history . Summaries of the legislation that has been enacted and detailed accounts of the administrative outlook will come out of Washington itself , pouring hot from the pens and typewriters of jourhalists who have been at the " front " since March 4 . These retrospects and prospects must await the actual adjournment . But there is one detail of the legislative history of the Roosevelt administration that may be glanced at now , several days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ideas which have been proposed or enacted into law by this administration . To judge from some editorial and personal expressions , a large group in the United States takes the New Deal very literally . In the view of this group , every administration measure is based on an entirely new conception . The evident impression among these people is that the President and his advisers have thought of laws no one ever thought of before . Economy Bill a Hoover Idea . A survey of the new statutes and proposed laws indicates that the actual fact almost completely reverses this impression . The " permissive " method of authorizing the President to do certain things in lieu of Congress has been more employed by this Congress than by any other . But most of the things authorized to be done range from ancient to full-grown concepts of the past . This Congress has done a lot of delegating  --  and , in the instance of the veterans ' allowances , has come to regret it . But the power-transmission method is not new either . Taking up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age as ideas , this is what we find : The Emergency Banking Act transferred certain Congressional rights to the Executive , and in one important particular is an adaptation of the Trading With the Enemy Act of 1917 . The Economy Bill is an enlargement of Herbert Hoover 's reorganization idea , upon which he campaigned In 1928 , and of the " executive discretion " plan with respect to veterans ' allowances , first advanced by the House Economy Committee in 1930 . On this committee Lewis W. Douglas , then a Representative , now the Director of the Budget , was the leading spirit . Beer Advocated for 12 Years . The " wet blbc " in Congress advocated for twelve years the Beer Bill which this Congress passed at the President 's behest . The Farm Relief Bill is an omnium gatherum , combining the allotment plan ( advanced in the Northwest a year ago ) , Senator Smith 's cotton pooling plan and ex-Secretary Hyde 's acreage reduction and land-leas. ing schemes . The Farm Mortgage Relief Bill picked up and enlarged plans that have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long-term guest of the country . Its details , however , are new . Currency inflation devices are a combination of four schemes , one of which  --  the Federal Reserve government paper purchase plan  --  was tried by the Hoover administration . The other three have for some time been advocated by members of Congress generally considered wildeyed . The gold-clause repeal , and particularly its retroactive feature , may be claimed by the administration as its very own . New in detail , but based on suggestions often advanced in Congress since 1929 , is the bill supervising traffic in securities . The Home Loan Relief Act perfects a Hoover plan . The Glass Banking Bill is everybody 's stepchild and need not at the moment be put in any category . Forest Camps Are New . The reforestation camps are a new idea . The President brought this thought from his Albany experiences . Senator Wagner for three years , later joined by Senators Costigan and La Follette , advocated the unemployment and destitution relief measures that now are law . The Muscle Shoals improvement is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to coordinate railroad supervision is new . The thought behind the arms embargo resolution is to get Congressional approval of what diplomacy has actually practiced for years . Last on the list  --  the Industry Recovery Act ? is a modernization of the system used by the War Indus-. tries Board under B. M. Baruch years ago . But its details are new , and striking and mark a real change in government philosophy . As ler the public works section of this bill , , . it is a colossal assembling of hum .. dreds of proposals on the calm . dars of Congress , to be supervised . however , in a new and ingenious ' manner . From the above it will be seen . that while this administration has ' undoubtedly made realities of cer .. ? taia ideas , many of them are not . new .                     