@@702652

txt A pitched battle between 100 pickets and as many special deputy sherifs occurred only four blocks from the main business district a Youngstown early this morning . The fighting began at the Market street entrance to the Republic Steel mills and spread over an area of about four blocks . For twenty minutes the deputies , armed with tear gas guns , laid down a barrage , bottling up the pickets finally in a cul-de-sac on the lower level of the Market street bridge . Clubs flashed and several revolver shots were exchanged by both groups . One Shot ; Dozen Hurt . When the brief but intense battle was over one man was shot in the leg , a dozen others had received cracked skulls , and 50 of the pickets were loaded aboard a truck and herded into the county jail . Many of those arrested were suffering from gas . The disorders began when a huge closed van , supposed to contain food for about 2,000 loyal workmen who have remained inside the plant , ran , the picket line at the Market street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled with Youngstown city police , roared down the incline of the bridge ramp leading to the lower level and swept past the few startled pickets there before they could collect their wits . Send for Reenforeements . Angered by the success of the police and company men , the pickets sent out a call for reenforcements , which soon began to collect . The pickets blocked the ramp with their own auto ? mobiles when they heard reports that a second truckload of food was about to attempt the blockade , Twenty police attempted to control the crowd and to remove the blockading automobiles , but the strikers , flourishing stout clubs and flinging heavy stones , beat them off . Four policemen were clubbed about the head as the pickets rushed them . Police then sent a call for help to Sherif Ralph Elser at the jail , which is only three blocks away . Sherif Brings 80 Men . He responded with three truckloads a deputies , numbering about eighty in all . The police carried revolvers and tear gas guns . They were split into two groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firing tear gas immediately . The area beneath the bridge became blue with the spitting fire from the gas guns . For a time the pickets held their ground , throwing clubs and stones and firing several shots , according to Sherif Elser . Then their ranks broke and three-quarters of their number melted away in the darkness . The remainder surrendered and were taken to jail . None of the company guards were involved in the fight this morning , and the police retired upon the ar ? rival of the deputies . At least half of the deputies , according to the Sherif , consisted of steel workers who are anxious to go back to work and who are not members of the steel workers ' organization committee . Workers Lose Enthusiasm . In spite of the tenseness in the six steel mill towns in the area , there is a steady loss in enthusiasm for the strike among the 32,000 workers who have been out of jobs for 13 days . This indication is inescapable for observers here . And even the first efforts by Ohio 's Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together seems to have little weight among the strikers at this time . There are several reasons for this . Gov . Davey , although a Democrat , is known to be highly unpopular with the national administration and with President Roosevelt . In efforts to bring about peace Davey will lack the support which was so freely accorded Gov . Murphy of Michigan in the General Motors strike . See Long Drawn Strategy . Men in the rank and file of the strikers , the strike leaders and the officials of the companies affected , all know these facts . A few of the strike leaders will admit in private that they do not expect to obtain any results from their attendance at the conferences called by Davey for Saturday in his capital office .                     