@@702835

txt The solution of the present unemployment problem , in the opinion of George H. Davis , president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , does- not lie in the absorption of the unemployed by industry . His contention is that half or perhaps more of those now carried on junemployment or relief rolls would not be employed if the jobs were there , simply because they are unemployable . He bases his opinion on a survey made for the Nation 's Business Magazine , published by the chamber , which indicated that a large proportion of the persons now receiving relief of one kind or another were not employed even when industrial activity was at its peak in 1928-29 . Quotes Unemployment Mr. Davis said that such remedies as the thirty-hour-week and other industrial control measures would be ineffective . The survey was made by Crossley , Inc. , which chose a city , it was said , which was regarded as typical as a center of industry , trade and agriculture . The cases were picked at random , but in such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the relief rolls . " The name of the city and its approximate location were not disclosed . Mr. Davis admitted that the survey was not wide or broad enough for general conclusions but was important enough to indicate the necessity of segregating the relief problem from the unemployment problem . " If you take the popular figure of 5,000,000 as the unemployment figure in the United States today , then this study would indicate that of that number only between 2,000 , - 000 and 3,000,000 are employable , " Mr. Davis said . " Industry can not be asked to absorb the rest and its responsibility for them is charitable , just as is the responsibility of the rest of the community . " The survey showed that only 56 per cent were working during the boom years , that 17 per cent were over 70 years of age and that in the entire list only a single workman had been employed in the machinery or equipment industry . This last fact was indicative , it was said , of how small a part " technological unemployment " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The sampling is too small to provide sufficient evidence upon which to base or change our national policy , but certainly the results are significant enough to show the necessity of a broader survey , " Mr. Davis said . " ? uch a survey well might be considered as part of the several official studies which are now under way or . which are shortly to be undertaken . " Asserting that most legislation seeking to change business methods has been based on the premise that unemployment is a problem of industry , Mr. Davis contended that there was a big difference between a man who was employable and one who was not . " Unemployment roils have been made up from all classes , not only those who are employable but also those who belong to hoboes ' associations , those who are opposed to any work and those who are physically or mentally incapable of working , " Mr. Davis said . " The inclusion of the unemployable works to the detriment of those willing to work . Such a survey would take some of the mystery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry in its efforts to absorb unemployed who were really employable , Mr. Davis said , was uncertainty concerning its own future . Unemployment , he said , in the construction line for example , was likely to continue until business had more confidence . Speaking of the survey of a hundred cases sponsored by the chamber , Mr. Davis said that it was not undertaken with any thought of criticizing the amount that is being paid today to those unable to work . " Perhaps such an amount should be greater , " he said , " but we can not handle the situation intelligently until two classifications are considered , the one containing those who are unable to work and the other those who are able and will take a job if it is offered ! ' Mr. Davis said the chamber had not offered the results of its own survey with studies of unemployment , it was collected during the last year to John D. Biggers , the Toledo glass manufacturer who has been appointed by President Roosevelt to act as administrator of the unemployment census . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way with Mr. Biggers , " he said . " No one seems to know how many are unemployed or how many of those unemployed could be put to work , " The solution , Mr. Davis Is convinced , does not lie in a Government attempt , through public works or some other line of employment , to give work to those whom industry has found to be ' unemployable . ' " The Government would find itself in the same predicament as industry , " he said . The results of the survey undertaken by Nation 's Business will be published in that magazine 's October issue .                     