@@697498

txt Dr. James M. Doran , Chief of the Industrial Alcohol Bureau of the Treasury Department , announced today that a new denaturing element has been discovered which , within a short time , would make possible the elimination of poisons from industrial alcohol . petroleum product , derived from oil undergoing the cracking process , termed alcotate , will be substituted for wood alcohol . Alcotate can be obtained only from California petroleum . " The Treasury had not felt justified in abandoning wood alcohol until the discovery of the element we have termed alcotate , " said Dr. Doran . " The protection of industrial alcohol from redistillation and thus diversion to illegitimate channels was the primary consideration , although removal of poisons was advisable if that could be done with the alcohol still properly protected . " There have been repeated efforts on the part of the " wet " blocs in Senate and House to compel the government to give up the use of wood alcohol and other poisons as denaturants . The last fight was made on Dec. 5 when Representative Linthicum of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment to the Treasury supply bill which would have had that effect , but it was voted down 106 to 54 . A similar move , made last year , was beaten 107 to 27 . Of International Interest . The Treasury officials said they expected the announcement of the discovery of a non-poisonous denaturant which could not be removed and which rendered the industrial alcohol treated with it unfit for beverage purposes would attract international attention , as some nations other than the United States have long been using poisonous denaturants , which made possible the release of alcohol to industries without payment of the taxes assessed against its use as a beverage . The new formula for completely denatured alcohol which will be issued within two or three weeks will provide for 1 per cent alcotate and 1 per cent aldehol , also a petroleum product . At the present time 4 per cent wood alcohol and a quantity of aldehol is " placed in denatured alcohol . Completely denatured alcohol now is not instantly deadly or blinding , as would be wood alcohol , yet it has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been determined after months of study as an effective substitute for wood alcohol , " Dr. Doran said . " Apparently it is proof against removal through the most . severe bootleg processes , including filtering through carbon and fractional distillation in column stills , tests which are sufficient to remove most other denaturing elements . Poison Liquor Deaths Increase . " If consumed accidentally or purposely , it is non-poisonous and does not have the blinding effect of wood alcohol . It renders all liquors produced from alcohol it contains unfit for beverage purposes . " The alcotate denatured alcohol has the taste of putrid eggs and garlic , with the flavor of gasoline and chloroform added , he said . Consumption of any quantity would render the drinker very ill , although not dangerously so , according to experts . Alcohol which is sold to the public without permit , such as anti-freeze mixtures for automobile radiators and other purposes , will be treated first with alcotate , as it is the desire of the Industrial Alcohol Bureau to remove poison from alcohol easily obtainable . There are plenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a beverage , and Dr. Doran said that in ' the last few months he had been receiving reports of increasing numbers of deaths from drinking poison liquors . Three years ago Dr. Doran and other treasury chemical experts started in quest of a denaturant as a substitute for wood alcohol , which has been used , for the purpose for many years in the United States both before and since prohibition , so that alcohol might be withdrawn from warehouses tax free for industrial purposes . Drys Approve Action . The Association of Organizations Supporting the Eighteenth Amendment , which includes the Anti-Saloon League , the Methodist Board of Temperance , Prohibition and Public Morals , the Women 's Christian Temperance Union and a score of other dry organizations , now in annual session in Washington , unanimously adopted a resolution today commending Director Doran for his announcement of a nonpoisonous formula for the denaturing of alcohol . The resolution was as follows : " The conference records its approval of the announcement by the Treasury Department of the new nonpoisonous prohibition denaturant to replace wood alochol and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United , States about fifty years ago . " The conference emphasizes again that prohibition carries with it no mandate to drink and therefore even if the new denaturant has all the effects of a sea voyage it is taken at the option of the drinker . "                     