@@701651

txt In the past few days French and foreign newspapers have been so filled with comment and conjecture about the future of Franco-British collaboration under Article XVI of the League of Nations covenant that I thought it useful to have the exact character of the accords concluded and under discussion specified by the most competent authority . The following is the answer I obtained : " The problem of mutual assistance in accordance with Paragraph 3 , Article XVI , of the covenant has given rise to many misunderstandings . Often the principle of mutual assistance itself has been confused with measures for its application . At other times naval measures have been confused with corollary measures to be taken on land and in the air . " Premier Laval , speaking from the tribune of the Chamber , announced a promise from the political viewpoint of integral assistance to Great Britain , but he referred to conversations between experts and not to conclusions reached , which permitted some doubt to remain with regard to the true nature and automatic character of the measures . " Correction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 Sir Samuel Hoare ( former British Foreign Secretary ) , who certainly was well informed as to the status of the conversations , made several ambiguous statements which might have led to a belief nothing had been agreed between Britain and France . Wrong Interpretation Made . " It should be recalled that on the day following the Commons debate the British newspapers announced that the British Government was sounding out Mediterranean powers as to whether they were ready to furnish assistance as provided under the terms of Article XVI . " This announcement was also interpreted as indicating that France had done nothing , but the next day the press stated explicitly that inquiry had been made of Spain , Greece , Yugoslavia and Turkey , ' the question of French participation having previously been settled . ' " The truth is that on the day after they sent the home fleet to the Mediterranean the British became concerned regarding the naval assistance France could give in the event of a sudden , unprovoked attack on British ships by Italy . " The British forgot that while from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was not the same for France , which , by reason of her contiguity with Italy , is obliged to consider the problem under its three-sided aspect  --  navy , land and air forces . " Therefore , while establishing contacts between the two admiralties  --  and at the same time informing Italy of this action  --  the French Government was not in a position to isolate its naval action from the function of its war apparatus as a whole . " The British Government , traditionally inclined to place importance upon the naval problem , delayed until the beginning of December the establishing of any contact between the army and aviation staffs . " It was at this moment that there arose the delicate question of mobilization , which caused wavering in Parliamentary circles , although this never existed in the minds of the technicians and did not in any sense represent either evasion or retreat . " It should be explained that it Is not possible for France to prepare mobilization without Ministerial decision , official decree or even legislative act . Britain , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as she sent threefourths of her home fleet into the Mediterranean . " Among such measures may be cited the cancellation of sailors ' leaves , the calling up of reservists , the putting into condition of vessels in reserve , &c.; " As regards France , considering it from the naval viewpoint only , the dilemma was whether to take ' such measures immediately , which would have caused deep emotion in the world , or whether to defer them until the suppositional aggression became a fact . It was without discussion or controversy of any kind between the two nations that ' the second alternative was adopted . " These measures , moreover , vary in number , extent and rapidity of execution , depending upon whether they concern naval , air or land forces . In the rdalm of the navy they are relatively unimportant and require only a short time , and even when they concern the use of armed ships no special measure is needed . Land Moves More Difficult . " This is not true when it comes to putting forts into commission or increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these a governmental order is required , and it must be ratified , with only brief delay , by Parliament . " Such measures are much less expeditiously secured when the army ! and air forces are involved . Also , they raise an important question to which the British newspapers have just called atention  --  the question of reciprocity . " It is plain that alteration in war plans necessitates examination , of the question of corresponding assistance on other fronts . This problem is of highest importance . Its study as a whole has not yet been fully completed . . " In any case , I can say in conclusion that France not only has not for a single instant evaded her obligation under the covenant but , contrary to what has been said , insinuated or suspected , she has made the necessary agreements and concluded them in full equality of understanding with her neighbor . " I may add to the above information , which I obtained from indisputable authority , that my personal investigations have revealed that a sector which France will be obliged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alpine frontier is the region between Dunkirk and the Somme . The British Government itself has agreed that , if war should be brought about by Italy , in no case and at no point should the French Northern and Eastern frontier be weakened . - -                     