@@699522

txt James J. Corbett , who won the heavyweight championship of the world from John L. Sullivan and I lost it to Bob Fitzsimmons before the turn of the century , died yesterday in the little stucco house at 221-04 Edgewater Avenue , Bayside , Queens , where he had lived for Ilmore than thirty years . He died in the belief that the Pain that had wracked his body for the last few years of his life had been caused by heart disease . Actually his death was caused by cancer of the liver , according to Dr. G. Willard Dickey , his physician . Knowing that Corbett was an avid reader of the newspapers , Dr. Dickey said , he had announced that the fighter was suffering from heart trouble . Sixty-six years old , " Gentleman Jim 's " powerful body had wasted away until he weighed scarcely 140 pounds . He had been critically ill since Jan. 31 and for the last three days had been in a state bordering on coma . The end came at 1:30 P. M. so peacefully that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not know at once that he had died . Friend Describes His Death . John Kelleher of Boston , a friend of long standing , who with his brother , Dennis , a former sparring partner of Corbett , has been staying at the boxer 's home , thus described his passing : 1 " Jim died in his wife 's arms , as 1 he wished . It happened some time i between 1:30 and 1:45 in the afternoon . My brother and Joe Smollen of Bayside were in the room with him . Jim had been sleeping since early this morning , when the doctor gave him a sedative . Suddenly we noticed that his lips were twitching . Mrs. Corbett put her arms around him . Then he relaxed . That was all . " Because of Corbett 's refusal to have a nurse , the Kellehers have been staying at the home helping Mrs. Corbett and acting as buffers between her and the host of friends of the stage and ring who telephoned and called almost continuously during the fighter 's last illness . They were overcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no chance to call Dr. Dickey . In a formal statement issued from Corbett 's home , giving the cause of death as " carcinoma of the liver , with metastasis in adjacent organs , " Dr. Dickey said : " His unusual reserve of vitality was amazing to all . His persistent determination to fight to the end was only overcome by the seriousness of the disease . " The doctor was asked if a blow received by Corbett during his career as a fighter might have caused the disease and he replied : " Any statement on that would be only a guess . " The body of the former champion will be taken from the home to St. Malachy 's Roman Catholic Church , 241 West Forty-ninth Street , Manhattan , tomorrow morning at 11 o'clock , when a solemn high mass of requiem will be celebrated by the Rev. John Hayes , a curate of Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church . Bayside . Father Hayes administered the last rites to Corbett two weeks ago . A friend of the former champion for several years , Father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Honorary Pallbearers Named . The honorary pallbearers will include many persons prominent in the sports world and a large contingent of sports writers whom Corbett had known as friends . They are : Gene Buck Charles Stoneham John J. Jack Curley Edward P. Mul-rooney William Slocum Charles Dillingham R. H. Burnside Bill Carey James Johnston Harry Hershfield Gene Tunney Jack Dempsey Grover Whalen George M. Cohan William Collier Fred Block Jack Hazzard Harry Levin Fred Hilderbrand Patrick Cavanaugh Dr. George W. Fish Robert G. Anderson Fred Stone Joe Humphreys John John J. Judge Harry Mc-Devitt Walter C. Kelly James Young Paul Nicholson Brig . Gen. John Phelan William Muldoon James A. Farley De Wolf Hopper Dr. Carries Weeks Henry Medicus Alfred E. Smith The Rev. Charles A. Brown John B. Klecher Jr . Joseph Johnson Ring Lardner Frank Case J. Wilson Dayton Douglas Van Riper Howard Winter Nat Fleischer John McCormack George F. Hoffman Dennis Kelleher John Kelleher Richard Doded 0 . 0 . George U. Harvey Jack Sharkey James J. Jeffries Edward Frayne Damon Runyon Arthur Baer George Phair James P. Dawson Colonel Bernard Thomson George @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grant Powers Gus Edson W. 0 . George H. Daley Harry Cross Richards Vidmer W. J. Dan Parker Murray Lewin James Hurley James Jennings W. S. Farnsworth Bill Corum Hype Igoe Frank Buck O'Neill Burris Jenkins Harry Singer Marty Berd Joe Vila Grantland Ries Wilbur Wood Henry King William Treanor Joe Williams Harry Grayson Peter Llanuza Tim Byrne Jack Kofoed Eddie Forbes Ed Hughes Paul Warburg Bill Vreeland Len Wooster James Wood Charles Vackner Eddie Neal Allan Gould Dave Walsh Gene Lawrence Pat Robinson L. M. Cameron George Finley Joe Connolly George Pardy Jack Curdy Vince Treanor Walter Trumbell L. L. Leonard Charles Matthewson Joe Millard Sid Mercer William Granger Telegrams of condolence were received in large numbers at the home after his death had been announced . The Fight With Fitzsimmons , at Carson City , Nevada . March 17 , 1897 , in Which Corbett Lost the Championship .                     