@@698668

txt John N. Garner , Speaker of the House of Representatives , was bluntly told by some of his most important chairmen today that his course next week toward the tax bill would either cornplete the chaos in the House or make it a responsible legislative body once more . As he left the Capitol late this afternoon the Speaker carried with him , in the opinion of his colleagues , a burden second only to that of the President of the United States . This week the House deserted its leadership and followed shifting coalitions of Democrats , regular Republicans and Progressive Republicans against the budget-balancing tax bill of the Ways and Means Committee in forays which left the bill in fragments . As they smashed the carefully wrought sections , to the construction of which Chairman Crisp and the bi-partisan membership of the Ways and Means Committee had given weeks of patient toil , they had only two expressions from the Speaker of the House . The first was that the method of budget-balancing was " inconsequential , " and acting on this hint they gathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill was built . The second was that , in such a time , individuals should forsake their special theories of economics and unite to preserve the government 's credit . At no time did the Speaker enter the breach with his face to the invaders in an effort to save the integral sections of the bill which had been written with his encouragement and in full consultation with him . Attitude of Committee Is Told . Mr. Garner was informed today that the subcommittee of the Way ! and Means Committee , which ha : been commissioned to recommend to the House excise levies to make ul the $600,000,000 of revenue lost in thi defeat of the sales tax , would report early next week . He was told that it would be corn pelled to recommend taxes such a : an increase in postage , which will bt unpopular with the House and prob ably with him also . But he was notified definitely tha if his failure to support these vigor ously by word and by act was fol lowed by another debacle , the Way and Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenue which the gel ernment must have and would tur : over the task to the shifting and dit orderly groups which have mad hash of the committee 's program . This will mean that the reckles and disorganized body into which the House this week disintegrated will seem like a gathering of Quakers by comparison . It will mean that every effort will be made on the floor and before the j ublic to assign to the Speaker a large share of blame for the failure of the House , organized by the Democrats , to respond to Mr. Garner 's own slogan : " The budget must be balanced . " It will mean that the party nominally in charge of the House , of whom the Speaker is the elected representative , will before the eyes of the country have surrendered to the Senate the task of making an orderly tax bill . The political consequences of this to the party and to the Speaker himself were detailed to him today . Emergency Held to Be at Hand . Few of those who formed the bipartisan alliance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dorse the language or psychology of the two statements he issued when the strength of the La GuardiaDoughton forces was first revealed in the income tax amendments . But his refusal after that to take the floor for the sales tax has its defenders among these . They agree that by that time he could not have stemmed the tide by a speech . They agree that his decision was wise to save his influence and credit for an emergency when these would prove effective . But both critics and defenders of the Speaker among those who made the bill and defended it before the House joined in the counsel given him today , that the new emergency , and perhaps the greater one , was at hand . There was no particular stress laid upon Mr. Garner 's Presidential candidacy , because , while his colleagues are proud of his mention , not many have believed that the Speaker is likely to be nominated . In their pleas to him they have emphasized the danger ' to the country and to the Democratic party if he does not lead the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Crisp Adds to His Stature . That leadership breaks into many bands and captains . Once the heart of the bill  --  the sales tax  --  was cut out , the natural result was log-rolling for home consumption without any regard to the basic purpose of the bill to balance the budget . On the Income , and estate taxes , and on the saletv4a.z. the La GuardiaDoughton irregulars prevailed  --  with Democrats supplying two-thirds of the votes  --  against the regulars led by Chairman Crisp and Representative Snell , of New York , the Republican floor leader . On the oil embargo . with party lines down on both sides , it was the Atlantic seaboard against the interior . But here trading had obviously begun , for on the coal embargo today even Mr. Snell and high-tariff Democrats who had stood by the sales tax voted to get what they could , with Mr. La Guardia and Mr. Doughton resisting the move . It was this clear evidence that the irregular leadership had shifted , and complete disorganization was at hand , which called from Mr. Crisp the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the opinion of all the House factions . The desertion of Mr. Snell to the log rollers on the coal tax left Mr. Crisp alone in his eminence . This is not to exclude the Democratic floor leader , Representative Rainey of Illinois , from equal praise for having stood by the committee program . But Mr. Crisp , by the agreement of the entire House , contributed not only most of the labor ; he added to this courage , force in utterance , tolerance in behavior and an unwavering non-partisanship in dealing with the question of revenue as economics and not as politics .                     