@@702686

txt The pressure-for-beer drive of brewers in the United States does not tell the whole story of the assault of alcohol-laden propaganda upon the American public . The publicity drive of the United Brewers Industrial Foundation may be characterized as the spearhead of the effort of the malt-beverage industry to escape governmental regulation and to increase the consumption of beer . But behind this campaign there also is the additional weight of the utilization of established advertising and promotion channels for the " build-up of beer . " By its own admission , the brewing industry is spending more than $30,000,000 a year to increase the appetite for beer . Advertising Problem The extent to which a profit-making liquor industry is stimulating the consumption of alcohol recalls the warnings of temperance leaders that liquor 's " right to advertise " presented one of the gravest problems of repeal of prohibition . And the experience since repeal indicates that the restraints on liquor advertising have , in actual practice , been neghgible . There is practically no legal check on what the brewers may say in their advertisements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not injurious to each other , according to Washington officials who have closely studied the situation . Under the Federal Alcohol Administration , there has been devoloped a code of advertising regulations but these are only enforceable where states have enacted similar laws , and the brewer concerned is engaged in interstate commerce . They apply , however , if advertising is sent by mail . Since the brewers are not required to have permits such as those which can be taken from the hard liquor manufacturers when they violate such rules , enforcement of advertising regulations in the brewing industry is said in Washington to be practically impossible . W. S. Alexander , Federal Alcohol Administrator , has his ear to the ground to hear public reaction to beer and liquor advertising . Indications that he has begun to hear adverse public comment might be gained from a recent speech he made in which he declared emphatically , " it was never the intention of Congress , or the State Legislatures or of the people , in bringing back liquor as a legal business , to open every home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are some who think that because liquor is legal it has the right to go anywhere it pleases. , " While the American people do not oppose the use of alcoholic beverages , they are showing a rising sense of indignation over their abuse . " 930.000,000 for Advertising The estimate that $30,000,000 annually is expended in brewery advertising was contained in the January , 1937 , issue of the American Brewer , one of the leading malt beverage trade publications . This figure is more inclusive than the estimates made by a number of other sources . The Bureau of Advertising of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association has estimated that the brewers spent about $5,000,000 last year in newspaper . magazine and radio advertising , despite the fact that a number of leading publications in the United States refuse to open their columns to any form , of liquor advertising . I Other estimates , adding the expenditure on outdoor advertising and point-of-sale material , raise this figure to 510,000,000 . The American Brewer total , however , is said to cover all the major promotional activities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paign , in its various aspects , is not confined to the brewers alone . The makers of containers  --  bottles and cans  --  are engaged in an effort to combine the promotion of beer to , gether with promotion of their indiividual container . One of the largest can manufacturing plants in the United States spent $1,000,000 last year in newspaper and radio advertising alone while its trade paper and merchandising promotion raised this figure to 51,500,000 . Its radio program uses 60 stations on one of the national networks despite the fact that this same network accepts no direct beer advertising . A competing company is spending $750,000 a year . ' Other Parts of Campaign To meet this beer container drive  --  and becoming an integral part of the beer promotion campaign  --  the Glass Container Association of Ammica  --  through the initiative of Owens-Illinois Glass Company  --  last year ran a geneial magazine campaign for beer bottles . The association will spend perhaps $100,000 in the New York metropolitan area alone this summer in a series of contests in English- and foreign-language newspapers . The character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern has been clearly apparent in the hard liquor industry . The Federal Alcohol Administration recently called one distiller on the carpet for the indefensible claim that his product would give a young man a better " chance to succeed in life. ? One distiller has advertised that whisky contributes to longevity . Similarly ? though no regulatory body yet . has the authority to control their statements  --  the beer industry , in their paid advertising and their new publicity campaign , has stated and implied a " health appeal " which , medical and temperance authorities declare to be a complete falsification of the facts about beer . Misleading " Health Propaganda " Some of the brewers advertise alize that the public reaction to radio advertising that comes directly into the home at any hour of the day and reaches the conscientious abstainer as well as the liquor drinker , children as well as adults , is not always of the type they would like to see . An indication of the feeling that is growing up against beer advertising Is a ruling made by the State of Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after Feb. 8 , 1938 . Further evidence that the brewers , apprehensive of government regulation , have realized the expediency of toning down their advertising claims is a recommendation made in , the Dallas , Texas . Journal , quoted with commendation by the Modern Brewer . that brewers " print upon every retail container of beer in large letters the amount of the beverage which can be safely consumed by the purchaser before his reactions to traffic stimuli are slowed down to the point of danger when driving a vehicle at 45 miles an hour . " This is a tacit admission by the brewers that beer interferes with safe driving , their products for their " mild stimulus , " omitting all suggestion of the essentially deleterious effects of alcohol , while others spuriously suggest . beer as a means of " relaxation . " The problem of this " health propaganda " aspect , especially in radio advertising , Is indicated by the instance cited in Washington of one program which directly subverts the temperance teaching of school and home . ? Children , who are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time signals over the radio , only to hear such a suggestive statement as : " Six o'clock and time to drink beer . Beer is good for you . " The only recourse a family has to such advertising is to write protests to the Federal Communications Commission in Washington . When the broadcasting station 's license expires , the commission will take the protests under advisement . Thus far , no station has been denied a license because it advertises beer . Only when a brewer engaged in interstate business advertised his product in a way injurious to his competitors has the Federal Government undertaken to reprimand him . The Federal Trade Commission has issued a number of " cease and desist " orders against brewers engaged in unfair competition . In one case a company was advertising its beer on the radio as superior to other IN:ers because it was made under a " non-fattening " formula . They claimed it had power to slenderize persons of excess weight . The Federal Trade Commission investigated , found this was not so and ordered the company to cease this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step to end such advertisments as this , actually sent over the air by leading brewers .                     