@@702542

txt With the appointment , last night , of a ' joint Philippine-American commitktee of experts to work out a new , economic status between the . Island commonwealth and the United States , the first step toward revision of the Tydings-qzmcq#Duffie Independence Act appears to have been taken , The committee , composed of technical authorities , will work out a plan or plans for economic relationships to be applicable either if the present 10-year transition period continues , if President Quezon 's suggestion of independence in .1938 or 1939 is adopted , or if some other political arrangemenet reached . Ecohomlc Independence The objective is to prepare Philippine economic independence to match political independence . For this task , the dependence of the islands upon the free American market must be reduced , but not too sharply . There has been a strong feeling in . the islands , shared 0Y many authorities in the United States , that the economic terms of the Tydings-qzmcq#Duflie law are too stringent . These provisions would have placed an export tax on Philippine exports to the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1940 , and rising to 25 per cent in 1946 , after which the full tariff would ' apply . Now , the experts are talking of a much longer transition period , to permit the Philippine sugar , coconut , shell-button and other industries to adjust themselves to competition in world markets . Such an adjustment would be equally advisable whether the Islands become ? politically independent in 1938 or 1946 . Experts feel , if the Islands are thrown into economic chaos upon becoming nominally independent , they not only would suffer severely but would be a more ready prey for aggressive nations . With future American . responsibility for the Islands poorly defined , such economic chaos , followed perhaps by political breakdown or international aggression , would tend to draw the United States back into the Far East . Isolationists Back Move It is far from certain that Congress would favor a long-range program of economic adjustment . The Interests  --  beet and cane sugar . cottonseed oils , etc. ? which were largely instrumental in pushing through the present independence law , are expected to urge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With them may be joined such isolationists as fear Far Eastern involvement and interpret economic concessions as continued involvement . The present temper of Congress is strongly for severing connections with the islands . The drive for even earlier independence than now fixed by law is led by both Republicans and Democrats . Former supporters of the Hoover Administration , which favored retaining the islands for a much longer period , are now urging speedy independence , among them notably Representative Allen r . Treadway ( R ) of Massachusetts . ranking minority member for the House Ways and Means Committee . Therefore , the committee of experts has to reckon not only with economic facts , but the political realities . Economically speaking , the expert trend seems to be toward a humane but Spartan regime for the islands : sufficiently limited concessions to force the spoiled-child sugar industry to stand on its own feet , and to bring about needed readjustments in the whole economic picture . By this is envisaged crop diversification with much subsistence farming , development of local manufactures , and the grqwth of new exports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ore , chromite , manganese , and copper .                     