@@698826

txt The " fuel front " is causing great concern to the Soviet Government . The program of production and transport of coal and oil is in arrears , and in consequence many factories face the possibility of complete stoppage . So serious is the shortage that it appears likely oil exports will be diverted . in part , to domestic industrial use . In Ekaterinealav , in South Russia , the important Lenin and Petrovsky metal works in mid April had fuel supplies in hand sufficient for only a few days . Elevators in northern Caucasia , quite near the Grezny oil field , could not be heated in order to dry the corn owing to lack of oil . The corn therefore was spoiled . Especially unsatisfactory is the supply of Denetz coal so important to industry . During the first quarter of the year the deficiency in coal for railroads was 8% ; for metallurgical works 17% , and for factories in the Moscow industrial region 84% . Oil deficiencies are principally due to transport defects , while coal arrears arise because of unsatisfactory mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90,000,000 tons . Last year 's production was 56,000,000 tons , as against 86,000,000 tons projected . Commissar for Heavy Industry Ordionikaniclje recently declared that if the 1932 program be not executed it would be impossible to produce the 9,000,000 tons of pig iron on which the whole economic program is based . ' Large sums have been spent on the coal industry , especially in the direction of the mechanisation of mines . During 1931 twenty- seven new pith were opened , and It is proposed to open 89 pits , having a capacity of 38,000,000 tons , this year . In the first quarter of 1932 , however , only a few small pits were opened . Total output for the quarter was 17,290,000 tons , or 2,600,000 tons less than projected . As the Donets field yields about two-thirds of the total coal production and all industry in European Russia is dependedt on it , the government is much perturbed . It is declared by responsible officials that output is steadily falling and that production by mechanical means Is especially weak . At the beginning of the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the present less than half of the necessary coal-cutting machines have been installed . On the other hand about 50% of the coal-cutting machinery on the field Is out of action for one reason or another . Miners Refuse to Tolerate Conditions Labor is the principal problem . Living conditions in the Donetz area are such that miners refuse to remain there . In the January-March quarter the number of workers fell by 17,000 . Sometimes the miners remain only a few days in the pith . The Soviet Press declares that the miners work on the average from three to four hours every shift . Time is wasted both by miners and administration . Cutters are held up for long periods owing to the need of small repairs to the machinery . As Soviet stores have a minimum of supplies the miners spend much time in a search for food . German unemployed miners who went to the Donetz field in search of employment were able to tolerate conditions only for a few weeks . In the Kuznets basin conditions are rather better . The principal hindrance to progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply the Ural industrial area , 1,300 miles distant , but the railroads are unable to keep schedule . The great Magnetestrei works lack coal , yet the coal perhaps is held up on the railroad a hundred miles away owing to defects in railway management . In order to fulfill the program the daily output of coal must be maintained at 240,000 tons , but that this will be attained is doubtful . as for some time the daily output has shown a tendency to fall steadily . In February it averaged 191,000 tons , during March it was 186,000 , and in early April it was 183.000 tons . The state of the coal industry may react on the Soviet 's foreign oil policy , compelling a reduction of export in order to keep home industry going .                     