@@701898

txt While all current indications are that the franc panic of last week is subsiding . the French public is being given tacit notice that it may soon prove impossible to maintain the free play of the present gold standard . . rosing the problem at confidence in the franc and obtaining funds for the expenditures projected by the new Popular Front , exFinance Minister Germain Martin proposes the creation of an exchange equalization fund to enable the readjustment of the relation of the franc to the dollar and the pound sterling without a reduction in its gold content . His article has been quoted widely in the entire French press , and reflects growing opinion in responsible quarters that changes may be necessary and that some alternative should be found to the dangerous experiment of putting the exchanges into a straight jacket after the German and Italian model . M. Martin , who is a Radical , and failed reelection , was hitherto famous as an orthodox defender of the gold standard and champion of deflation . He has been mentioned by rumor as possible governor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote public discussion on a subject which . up to now had been taboo . His critics state that the plan amounts to devaluation of the franc terms of foreign currencies , although not in terms of gold , and implies a rigid control of international gold movements , but admit that the device might make palatable to the general public an operation to which the public has been obstinately opposed in the form of a legal reduction in the gold content of the franc . Panic Passes It is fairly evident however that the panic which rapidly was permeating the ranks of the small French capitalists and investors last week , and was spreading even to the man in the street , has subsided and that the strain on the franc is over Thisis more remarkable because official quarters insist that there Is no restriction whatever on the sales of checks and drafts on abroad or transport of gold or bank notes over the frontier to Belgium or across the Channel to England . At the same time , even the authorities admit that there is no return yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The common attitude is to wait and see . The plans of the new government embrace the expenditure of several billion francs for the relief of unemploment and distrees and the elimination of various sacrifices imposed by recent decree laws . It is not evident yet how this money is to be obtained . The state of the domestic bond market certainly does not warrant assumption that the government can borrow to meet the contemplated requirements . A certain increase is being shown in yield from indirect taxes but income taxes are still below last year so that tax revenues can not be counted on to furnish the required funds . French tax returns in April continued to show a poor yield from income taxes but a fair indirect tax collection . Income taxes daring April amounted to 120,000,000 francs , compared with 246,000.000 in April , 1935 . Income tax yield for the first four months amounted to 782,000,000 francs , compared with 1,105,000e 000 in the same period last year . Yield from indirect taxes , on the other hand during April amounted to 2,702,000,000 francs , compared with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield for the first four months to 9.349,000.000 francs , compared with 9,247,000,000 francs in the same period last year . As compared with the estimates , indirect taxes during April were 6,000,000 francs above but yield on the first four months was 94,000 , - 000 francs below estimates . Tax Collections Nevertheless , neither the foreign exchange market nor the Paris Bourse now is displaying any nervousness , despite the unfavorable statement of condition this week of the Bank of France , especially unfavorable in revealing further rapid expansion of Bank of France credit through indirect loans to the State . Indeed the dollar declined and closed at 0 . level which has not been seen for over a month at 15.14 francs to the dollar as compared with the recent quotation of 15.19 . Sterling is down to 75.13 francs , the lowest since the beginning of the month . Even the belga has declined to below the upper gold point to which if had clung for the last two months . Thus the Sow of gold out of Prance has been entirely stopped and authorities can claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed on over-the-counter sales of gold coin and foreign bank notes and the informal prohibition of forward exchange operations other than those responding to genuine commercial requirements . A big contribution to this success has been supplied also by Leon Blum 's public opposition to devaluation which has been backed by repeated declarations to the same effect by the Communist                     