@@703995

txt The Triborough Bridge Authority 's plan for a $41,200,000 toll bridge between the Battery and Brooklyn was rejected yesterday by the War Department on the ground that the structure , as planned , would " create additional hazard and obstructions to the already highly congested water traffic at the locality . " The War Department 's decision , as handed down by Major Gen. J. L. Schley , Chief of Engineers , left the door open for modification of the plan , and Park Commissioner Moses , in his capacity as chairman of the Triborough Bridge Authority , immediately went into conference with army engineers of the New York area to discuss modifications already prepared by the Triborough staff . Later Mayor La Guardia and Commissioner Moses joined in declaring their confidence that modified plans , to be submitted to army engineers next week , would win their approval as well as the approval of the Board of Estimate . New Plan to Be Offered A new application will be submitted to the War Department , probably on Wednesday , and steps will be taken to resubmit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modified plans and a somewhat greater cost . There was every prospect that the bitter fight against the proposed bridge , waged before the Board of Estimate and at army engineering hearings , would be repeated . The War Department 's rejection of the present plans was hailed by Borough President Stanley M. Isaacs , the Regional Plan Association , the Merchants Association and the West Side Association of Commerce as a vindication of their opposition to the proposed bridge . The New York City Tunnel Authority took occasion to issue a statement again urging that the Battery-Brooklyn crossing be by underwater tunnel , at a cost not to exceed $65,000,000 . Major Gen. Schley 's rejection of the bridge plans was based upon a report submitted by Colonel Charles L. Hall , who , as district engineer , presided at hearings on the proposal on April 25 . Sees Navigation Hazard " The proposed bridge would require the construction of two main piers and a joint anchorage in the waters of East River in the vicinity of Governors Island and would create additional hazard and obstructions to the already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. Schley wrote , in notifying Mr. Moses of rejection of the plans . " After full consideration I find that this would constitute an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of these waters and accordingly I must advise you that the plans presented are returned herewith without approval . " Major Gen. Schley 's letter noted receipt of a telegram from Commissoner Moses last Monday stating " that the engineering staff of the Triborough Bridge Authority has done a great deal of work on a practical modification of these plans looking toward a readjustment of the piers in the East River , " and asking for a chance to discuss these with War Department representatives . This opportunity , the letter said , would be given . The modified plans mentioned in the letter were shown to Colonel Hall and Colonel Francis B. Wilby at army offices at 80 Broad Street soon after word of the rejection of the original plans was received . The new plans were drawn , it is reported , when the Triborough Bridge Authority was recently advised that an adverse decision might be expected on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of this conference , " the Authority announced after the meeting with the army engineers , " we believe that a basis has been found for an agreement on the Brooklyn-Battery bridge which will be satisfactory to the War Department , the Authority and to the Mayor and the Board of Estimate . An amended application will be submitted early next week to carry out the new plan . " The new plans , it is understood , provide for additional horizontal clearance above mean high tide water and contemplate the substitution of a single suspension bridge for the proposed tandem spans , each with three segments , and a joint anchorage near Governors Island . Mayor La Guardia , when notified of the War Department 's ruling , called Commissioner Moses into conference at the Summer City Hall in Queens . Before Mr. Moses arrived the Mayor discussed the situation over the telephone with Federal officials in Washington . " The action taken by the chief engineer of the War Department should not be construed as a final determination , " the Mayor said . " It is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity to meet certain requirements or objections which might be in the mind of the War Department . " Commissioner Moses has informed me  --  and this will be no surprise to New Yorkers  --  that he is ready with modifications and will submit them on Wednesday . I do n't anticipate any delay in building this bridge and I want to remind you that the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco Bay had its opponents , but it was constructed and there it is . " Mayor La Guardia said that the bridge should be completed by July , 1941 , the original date set for finishing the job . Confidence that the present bridge plan can not be modified to overcome the fundamental objections to such a structure was voiced by Harold M. Lewis , chief engineer for the Regional Plan Association . He joined with spokesmen for other civic groups in urging that careful study be given to possible alternative plans for a BatteryBrooklyn crossing . The West Side Association of Commerce urged that Mayor La Guardia and Commissioner Moses , instead of backing a revised bridge plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the War Department 's approval .                     