@@700764

txt The President has on his hands , in filling the vacancy created by the resignation of Governor BLACK of the Reserve Board , an appointment of high importance . During the past eighteen months both Congress and the Administration seem to have been disposed to apply their own power to influencing Reserve Bank policies ; sometimes , wisely or not , causing departure from the original purposes of the system . Rumors have floated about in Washington that an effort may hereafter be made in Congress to reshape the Federal Reserve on lines of a central bank with closer Government control . Whether that attempt succeeds or not , the necessity of the day is that the new titular head of the system shall be a man of judgment , experience and force of character , able both to harmonize his associates in the system and - to present his own views strongly and tactfully at both the White House and the Capitol . It does not follow necessarily that he should possess wide banking experience . The post is primarily executive , and previous experiments in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not resulted entirely well . In shaping the system 's general attitude and policies , the key position has always heretofore been the New York Reserve Bank . Governor STRONG and Governor HARRISON have fulfilled that responsibility , and it will rest upon the same office hereafter . On the other hand , it is not to be assumed that naming for the Reserve Board governorship a mere politician would be proper , or a man with eccentric ideas on finance , or , indeed , a person who would be classed as at all times subservient in his own attitude to any conceivable ideas of President or Congress . The necessity for intelligent independence , fully recognized in the Bank of England and the Bank of France , equally exists in our Federal Reserve . We believe that Mr. ROOSEVELT recognizes these aspects of the situation . His reappointment this week to the Reserve Board membership of A. C. MILLER , whose conservative instincts have been clearly demonstrated and who has occupied the place ever since the Reserve System was established in 1914 , points in that direction . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history , but public remembrance of the period since it came into being , twenty years ago , is still distinct enough for the people as a whole to acclaim its creation in its present form as one of the country 's greatest legislative and administrative triumphs . The enactment of the law creating it still has its place as perhaps the most memorable and lasting achievement of a Democratic Administration . Its occasional shortcomings , in the period since the war , have been attributable , not to defects in the system , but to hesitancy of its administrative body to use the powers conferred on it by law for the purpose of restraining reckless speculative use of credit . The time will surely come when circumstances will call again for the exercise of those powers ; and when it does , the task will be simplified by the authority over speculative " margins " committed to the Federal Reserve by the Stock Exchange Regulation Law . But it will be imperative for the old and new powers to be exercised by an enlightened and intelligent central management . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean was abundantly foreshadowed by the unfortunate results of President HARDING 'S choice of an incompetent Reserve Board governor , for reasons of personal favoritism.                     