@@701283

txt BOSTON , June 21 . ? What has been called the " Cotton Textile Policing Organization , " to compel the Northern mills to continue to operate in compliance with the terms of the now defunct code , has had nothing to do as yet . At the headquarters of the National Association of Cotton Manufacturers in this city rumors of defections in three fairly large plants have been heard . The executive secretary promptly investigated and found no changes had been made by any of the mills in code regulations as to hours and wages . There has been some labor trouble in at least one small place , but NRA continuance would not have prevented this . The Southern industry also manifests a decided disposition to abide by the code . There have been two or three strikes in the cotton States , due to local contentions , but involving no questions of wages or hours . One mill in Lincolnton , N. C. , did lengthen its work week from the code maximum of forty hours to forty-eight hours with a slight increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and , after a single week , returned to the code limitation . One Georgia Plant in Break . There has also been one continuing break in the South , it is understood . A plant in Georgia making surgical dressings has departed from the two shifts a. day for textile machinery , which was imposed by the code , and has gone to three , running the apparatus round the clock , while adhering to code requirements as to human hours and wages . Committees on observance have been established both North and South . As yet they are merely skeleton organizations . If need for real " policing " should arise no doubt flesh would quickly appear on the bones . The Northern committee has four members , with Lincoln Baylies of the Nashua Manufacturing Company as chairman . The Southern organization , headOA by William M. , secretary-treasurer of the American Cotton Manufacturers Association , is a. little more extensive . Besides the central committee one man has I been assigned in each State to set up the same type of committee in his State . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best-in- ; formed cotton men in the North pronounced the degree of code observance in this industry to be " without doubt extraordinary . " The fact is that this code No. 1 did a lot of good for an industry which tended toward demoralization . Present policies are based on the conviction that the code was a good thing . Otherwise moral suasion would not count . That present conditions will continue the leaders are " reasonably hopeful . " Business conditions are not favorable , and any difficulties that might arise probably will be due more to necessary curtailment of production than anything else . Perhaps a good test of the spirit of all parties will be provided by the rather general shutdown which is planned in the North to cover the first week in July , with the national holiday inviting a long weekend Many mills would rather not run than run . Certainly the industry is going to follow a policy of increasing curtailment if market conditions do not absorb their production . A large amount of goods is on hand in many lines , but this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise . A battle is on over prices between buyers and producers and the former are alleged to be striving to do a lot of chiseling.                     