@@697311

txt Police Commissioner Mulrooney installed the progressive or " stagger " traffic light system last night at 9 o'clock for an experimental period on all crosstown streets in Manhattan to determine whether the system would work as successfully nere as it has operated in other cities and many small towns throughout the country . Deputy Police Commissioner Philip D. Hoyt in charge of traffic directed the operation of the progressive signal lights and will watch the system closely during the trial period . The central traffic control system has been adjusted to flash the green light at one avenue after another , so that a careful motorist may proceed continuously with the green light . Police officials denied that this adjustment had had anything to do with the erratic working of the signal system on Thursday night of last week when traffic uptown was snarled and many minor accidents were caused . Work Five Weeks on Plan . Commissioner Mulrooney said that the Police Department had been working for five weeks on the new progressive system , but that it did not necessitate any very complicated changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going crosstown from First to Eleventh Avenue under the old system would require eighteen minutes , which was considered too long . Under the progressive light system , he believes , the time will be greatly reduced . The experiments with the " stagger " light system are designed to eliminate the long waits of motorists , particularly at the avenue crossings . Should the progressive light system prove successful , it probably will be put into effect all over Manhattan , so that motorists , by maintaining the proper speed could travel from one end of the island to the other without being halted . Little Change in Times Square . With traffic fairly heavy in Times Square last evening , traffic policemen reported that the new system had made no very noticeable change in the movement of traffic . They suggested that the success or failure of the system could not be determined until it was operated in heavy traffic . Generally , traffic policemen believed that the " stagger " lights would speed up traffic . South of Forty-second Street traffic police explained that the progressive system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocks instead of a block ahead , nevertheless had greatly speeded up the movement of traffic . Casual observations disclosed that on the crosstown streets only a few cars which had been caught by the red light were forced to wait . At the central control headquarters , 138 West Thirtieth Street , operators of the signal control mechanism reported that everything was working smoothly and that no complaints of tie-ups had been received . Traffic policemen in Harlem said that the new progressive system had greatly complicated east and westbound traffic on the first night . It caused many snarls attributable largely to the difficulty in making left turns with traffic moving forward on the green light . Traffic policemen feared worse conditions in heavier traffic this afternoon and tomorrow evening . Mr. Mulrooney , accompanied by Mr. Hoyt , went on a tour last night for first-hand observation of the working of the system . " We will make adjustments as conditions arise , " he said , before starting . " We have yet to learn the effects of this system , but if we think it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions . " Commissioner Mulrooney 's announcement of the plan follows : " Preliminary tests of proposed new timing schedules for Manhattan traffic lights will be made beginning tonight by traffic officials of the Police Department . The new timings are particularly designed to speed up the crosstown movement , but are also expected to aid the north and south movements . " Details of the new timing plan depend upon the result of the tests , which will probably require about a week . As soon as the tests are complete full announcement of the plan will be made . " This notice is being given to drivers in order that no confusion I may result from the timing experiments , some of which involve the operation of lights on a ' stagger ' plan instead of a synchronized plan as at present . Under the stagger plan the lights may be green on some avenues and red on others at the same time . Drivers crossing an avenue with a traffic light system should watch for the lights on that avenue I and not be guided by the signals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 