@@700754

txt Business and labor leaders and government officials having to do with trade made a mid-August appraisal today of prospects for a Fall pickup in business and reported that they found reason for optimism . A moderate Fall pick-up " that could be very much accentuated if President Roosevelt could give business more assurances " was predicted by Henry I. Harriman , president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . He declared , however , that business leaders were worried about many factors in the situation . William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , predicted " a very substantial increase in business " supported " by the tonic of the continuing NRA . " A revelation today by Secretary Perkins that 6,951,523 had been placed in private or public employment through the public employ . ment service organized in July . 1933 , was regarded as encouraging . However , 7,065,277 applicants are still in the " open- file , " Miss Perkins said , some having gone back on the lists when temporary employment ended . These figures , Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as unemployment statistics , of which none exist . " Only 1,305,873 Got Private Jobs . Of 12,634,974 applicants , only 1,305,873 were placed in private employment . Of the others , 4,123,000 obtained employment under the Civil Works Administration , since discontinued , 1,403,000 on public works and 118,000 in State , city and county jobs . Department of Commerce figures today placed the business level in general .4 per cent higher than in the four preceding weeks , but down 11 per cent from the mild boom of a year ago . An increase of 4.2 per cent in freight carload- I ings in the four weeks was cited as a favorable indication . Mx . Harriman remarked that " business is really better than we had reason to expect , " and added that there had not been " a full seasonal slump " this Summer . Labor unrest and continuance of " terrific expenditures " which , he said , lead to a belief the budget can not be balanced and to " consequent fear of inflation , " were mentioned by Mr. Harriman as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopeful signs . Few business men , he said , want to see the NRA disappear , most accepting " the basic idea of self-regulation of industry with government supervision , " which , he declared , is " sound . " He was pleased by reports of the form of reorganization contemplated for the National Recovery Administration . This indicated , he asserted , that the NRA would remain " within its proper sphere of regulating large manufacturers and ease up on regulation of service and distribution industries . " The housing program he saw as " a constructive measure , " while the Stock Exchange regulations just published were " as fair initial rules as could be hoped for and indicate a desire to permit legitimate business to operate . " " The drought , " he went on , " is a major disaster , but , on the other hand , the farm income will probably be slightly greater than the year before the drought and surpluses will be used up so that if we have a good crop next year I farmers can make a comeback @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Middle West is being turned into a desert . Conditions in that territory are decidedly spotty , with farmers in lucky areas getting high prices for their crops . " Miss Perkins declared that strikes were " fewer in number , more readily adjusted , and the loss of man hours of work less than in periods of recovery from past depressions . " " People naturally begin to make demands when a return to prosperity is being made , " she said , adding that " a lack of understanding generally of Section 7A of NIRA , providing for the right to bargain collectively , has contributed to present labor troubles . " " This is a new statute , and It Is not yet completely understood by labor or employers , " she proceeded . " There has been resistance to it based on ignorance , misunderstand ' ing , and sometimes , on the part of employers , on a deliberately superlegalistic interpretation of its provisions . " When employers get accustomed to the fact that Congress really did intend them to provide for collective bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is written , and abide by it , a great many of the present difficulties will disappear and a great many strikes will be averted . " Today 's Department a Commerce report showed that production was 79 per cent of the computed normal . The average for the months April , May and June was 84.4 per cent of normal . The index of spot prices of fifteen commodities advanced in the past week from 44 per cent above the level of Dec. 31 , 1931 , to more than 51 per cent , a new high for the recovery period . Department store sales declined more than the seasonal amount , but were 3 per cent above July , 1933.                     