@@700929

txt For the first time since its foundation , the National Academy of li Design , one of America 's oldest and most conservative art organizations , has expelled an associate Member . The announcement was contained in a brief statement issued yesterday by the academy : " The president and the council announce the expulsion of Stephen Bransgrove from associate membership in the National Academy of Design for conduct considered prejudicial to the academy . " It is with regret that the National Academy finds it necessary to make public this first expulsion since its founding in 1826 , but it considers it a duty to itself and a warning to others to make this action public . " Efforts to reach Mr. Bransgrove for a statement were unsuccessful . It is reported that he is now in Australia . Monroe Young of 806 Washington Avenue , Brooklyn , friend and New York agent of Mr. Bransgrove , declined to give out the artist 's address . Joined Academy in 1933 . Mr. Bransgrove was elected an associate member of the academy in March , 1933 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current Spring exhibition of the National Academy called " Clydesdales " had won the Ellin P. Speyer Memorial Prize of $300 , an award made for a painting or piece of sculpture in an academy exhibition portraying an act of humaneness toward animals or a painting or piece of sculpture of animals . Eugene Higgins , well-known New York artist , confirmed a report yesterday that it was he who proposed Mr. Bransgrove for associate membership in the academy , and that the proposal had been seconded by the late John Noble and voted for by ten other members of the academy . Shortly after winning the Speyer Prize Mr. Bransgrove sailed for Australia on a freighter and has not returned to this country , according to Mr. Young . Mr. Bransgrove 's expulsion took place at a meeting of the academy on Dec. 3 , at which he was not present . In accordance with its constitution , the academy had sent to Mr. Bransgrove on Nov. 3 in care of Mr. Young at the Brooklyn address a copy of the charges filed against him and notifying him to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to answer the charges . " Mr. Bransgrove failed to answer the summons either by letter or by appearance , " according to a memorandum issued by the academy with its announcement of expulsion . " After a hearing of the charges and inspection of evidence , Mr. Bransgrove was unanimously expelled from membership for conduct considered prejudicial to the National Academy . " According to this memorandum , Mr. Bransgrove 's expulsion developed out of the painting called " Easy Heights , " which he exhibited in the 1934 Spring exhibition of the academy , The academy 's attention was called to the fact that there seemed to be a resemblance be1 tWeen this picture and one which had been reproduced in a foreign publication called Table Talk Christmas Annual on Nov. 1 . 1927 , entitled " On the Moors , " by H. Septimus Power . Jonas Lie , who was elected president of the academy last Spring , began an investigation , during which be discovered that the painting " On the Moors , " by H. Septimus Power , was owned by the National Gallery in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1925 . Mr. Lie forwarded photographs of the painting " Easy Heights , " the prize-winning picture " Clydesdales , " and of the reproduction of " On the Moors " to J. S. , director of the National Gallery of Australia in Sydney . According to a copy of Mr. 's letter , as given out by the academy , he wrote in part : " The photographs which you sent me consist of one from an original by H. Septimus Power , one of a copy of it and one of a copy of another by the same painter , Both of the originals are in the National Gallery , Melbourne , in the State of Victoria . The first is called ' On the Moors ' and the second , I think , is called ' Noonday ( or Midday ) Rest ' . " The 1933 edition of the American Art Manual published by the American Federation of Arts lists Mr. Bransgrove 's address as " Care of the National Academy of Design , New York ; Swain Street , St. Peters , Sydney , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was born in Hobart , Tasmania , in February , 1900 , was a pupil of George Lambert , is an associate member of the National Academy of Design and a member of the Royal Art Society of Australia , that he won the Speyer Prize and has work in the National Gallery of Art in Washington , D. C. , and the Hobart Art Gallery , Tasmania . When inquiry was made at the National Gallery of Art in Washington as to what work of Mr. Bransgrove 's was owned by that institution , R. P. Tolman , acting director , said that there is not and never had been a painting by him in its collection . Mr. Higgins said yesterday that his attention had been called to the work of Mr. Bransgrove by the late Mr. Noble . " I remarked to Mr. Noble , " he said , " that I liked an example of the work of Bransgrove which had been shown in an academy exhibition a year or two before the hanging of the prize-winning canvas . This remark was repeated to Bransgrove by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about his art . " I knew nothing about him personally . He was a pleasant and likable fellow . He asked me to propose him for associate membership in the academy and I did so , little suspecting that he would be elected . " The National Academy of Design is one of the most widely known art organizations in the country . One of its founders was the painterscientist Samuel F. B. Morse , who served twice as its president , and it has had as members some of the most noted American painters , sculptors , engravers and architects . The academy has two ciassifications of membership , associate members and academicians . On first being elected , a member becomes an associate . Academicians are chosen from the ranks of the associate members , It was to the associate membership that Mr. Bransgrove belonged .                     