@@697682

txt It is easy to find fault with Mr. UNTERMYER 'S transit plan . His estimates of prospective earnings arel rosy . He has exaggerated the " iniquities " of the dual contracts , which Mr. WALLSTEIN thinks are actually a boon to the city today . He struck a bargain with the B. M. T. in terms which leave it open to attack . Born of controversy , shorn of public support by any official body , the plan stands at Albany like an orphan whom no one except Mr. UNTERMYER is ready to adopt . No wonder that the civic associations are divided on the matter . The Merchants ' Association and the Chamber of Commerce offer constructive suggestions . Mr. WALLSTEIN , counsel for the Citizens Union , has been so long a student of transit in New York that his opinion must carry weight with the legislative leaders , although they will not fail to note that he and Mr. MCANENY rest their case against the Untermyer plan on somewhat contradictory premises . Mr. WALLSTEIN argued that if left to their own devices the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact be working for the city . A few days ago Mr. MCANENY urged the Transit Commission to put off negotiating a final settlement until it had a chance to judge the effectiveness of municipal competition . But if that competition should adversely affect the existing lines , it would obviously lessen whatever advantage there may be in continuing the dual contracts . After all , the city is confronted not with a theory , nor even a condition merely , but an emergency . It is not in all respects the same kind of emergency that it faced in 1921 , when funds were low and new subways badly needed . But unification is now badly needed . Moreover , the city has at present a shining new subway without an operator . Mayor WALKER was not altogether candid when he said : " We will be in the railroad business " in less than a year unless you give " us this law . " As Mr. UNTERMYER pointed out , the city might , as an alternative , turn the new subway over to the B. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; private operation is to be preferred to municipal operation . But that scheme would fall short of complete unification , discard a virtual agreement on price , reached after long and painful negotiation ( which even Mr. MCANENY thinks may " happen " to turn out about right ) , plunge the city into competition with the Interborough and leave transit in politics . The Legislature can do better by the City than push it into municipal operation or whatever partial unification may prove practicable under the dual contracts and the legislation of 1921 . If the pending bill is not perfect , why not improve it ? Why not strip it of extraneous matter down to the bare bones of what is needed to accomplish real unification ? Mr. UNTERMYER and Mayoz WALKER both indicated willingness to make concessions . The author of the plan had no objection to erasing from it the provisions regarding operation of the city subway alone by the Board of Transit Control , should the companies , fail to enter the new house of unity . As for the power of appointing members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " where are you going to put it if not in the Mayor ? " But , while determined to retain that measure of control , Mayor WALKER is apparently ready to consider any reasonable modification of the bill , which now contains a foolish clause requiring borough representation on the board . Having shorn the measure of excrescences , the Legislature would be in a position to heed the Mayor 's request to " give it to us " and let those who do not like the " tentative plan come to the proper " forum to make known their views . "                     