@@701294

txt The British Government , on the strength of what it has heard from Anthony Eden , British Minister for League of Nations Affairs , has the gravest anxiety concerning the ItalianEthiopian dispute . War between those countries by October is now considered not merely a possibility but a strong probability . The time limit in this dismal British speculation is based on the fact that the rainy season in Ethiopia ends by the first of October and the further fact that Premier Mussolini at the present feverish rate of preparation will be ready to strike in another three months . The fear  --  which is now almost a conviction  --  that this is going to be the outcome is based on the complete failure of Mr. Eden 's mission to Rome so far as Ethiopia is concerned . The test of the young British Minister 's reputation as a conciliator was too severe when he confronted Signor Mussolini with arguments in favor of such objec-1 tives as peace , justice , European stability and the future welfare of the League of Nations . Free Hand Given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals to Rome , but went there with a free hand to negotiate as circumstances seemed to suggest on the spot . He was authorized to suggest that Great Britain might grant to Ethiopia a railroad right of way through British Somaliland to the port of Zeila on the assumption that that would compensate the African Emperor for such concessions as might satisfy Italy . But neither that suggestion nor anything else concrete that Mr. Eden mentioned had any weight with Premier Mussolini , and the Italian leader turned down absolutely flatly all pleas based on mere international ethics . He insisted on having his own way in Abyssinia to the extent that that country would become a virtual vassal State or protectorate of Italy . In view of the fact that Ethiopia is a sovereign and independent State , a member of the League of Nations and , therefore , technically and theoretically of equal status with Italy or any other European power , Signor Mussolini 's demands are considered preposterous and absurd by Britain . A fair analogy would be a demand by Germany for a protectorate over Belgium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The situation , which was anxiously debated in the British Cabinet today , bids fair to develop into one of the most awkward situations this country has had to face in a long time . She can not or will not go to war with Italy to protect Ethiopia and she will have a lot of explaining to do to the world and her own people if she leaves Ethiopia in the lurch and sits by while war between two member States of the League destroys one of them and puts an end to all future credit or usefulness of the Geneva organization . Not the least cause of British anxiety over the reports from Mr. Eden concerns the future of the League itself , which is the bedrock of British foreign . policy . Twelve years ago , when Italy made virtual war on Greece by the bombardment of Corfu and the League failed to take effective action because Premier Mussolini threatened if it did to withdraw from Geneva , the prestige of the League as an instrument for world peace was most seriously impaired . The " late Viscount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole League principle might be completely destroyed by the defiance of Italy and by the failure of the League adequately to meet the challenge . The League is a much weaker concern in 1935 than it was in 1923 , and now , as then , Signor Mussolini is defying both it and Great Britain . Once more he threatens to resign from Geneva . For weeks before Mr. Eden ventured to Rome on his errand both Premier Mussolini and the whole Italian press had been attacking not only the British Government for its cautious demurrers concerning Ethiopia , but had been pouring personal insults and invective on Mr. Eden for the part he played in temporarily patching up the Italo-Ethiopian quarrel at Geneva . As it turns out , that part of Mr. Eden 's " victory " in the League Council seems to have been barren and worthless . Next to their fears for the League , the British have grave anxiety lest Signor Mussolini 's invasion in Africa will be a direct cause of reshuffling European loyalties and alliances in such a way as to upset all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of better Franco-Italian relations , it is feared in London that the logical development of Premier Mussolini 's approaching campaign in Ethiopia will be a coming together again of Germany and Italy in a manner antagonistic to the Anglo-French program . Italo-Reich Accord Suspected . It is an easy assumption in London that Premier Mussolini would not transport huge armies to Africa without having some understanding with Germany about Austria . Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler already see eye to eye regarding Geneva . Italy 's underlying motive for conquering Ethiopia is , of course , colonial expansion . That is also something on the cards for Germany as soon as Europe has managed to swallow and digest her acquisition of other assets that were forbidden to her by the now discredited Versailles Treaty . It is the fear of London that there is more practical reality in such bonds between Italy and Germany than in the somewhat forced friendship between Italy and France . Put in its most brutal terms , Italy 's policy , as understood by Britain , is that the Ethiopians are just a lot of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of white men , and their lands are destined for white exploitation . Both Brit ' ain and France got a generous share of the Negro people before such acquisitions became internationally unfashionable or unethical , . and now Italy is believed to take the position ' that she has got to catch tip with them to maintain her status as one of the great civilised , powers . British official opinion is not so unanimous concerning the results of an Italo-Abyssinian war as it is that such a war is going to he.1 fought . It is true Italy is much better equipped with bombing planes and other modern implements of war than the Ethiopians and , technically at least ; Italy ' ought to be able to terrorize the natives ' into submission by quick and widespread slaughter from the air . Handicaps for- Italians . gut it may not work out that Way . Both the climate and terrain will be heavy handicaps against the Italians , and the precedent of their last venture into Ethiopia is not reassuring . After the nine years , between 1887 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italians were completely overwhelmed at the battle of Adowa and driven out of the country . The Italo-Ethiopian matter was before the House of Commons very briefly today on questions from members . Geoffrey Mander , Liberal , asked if an Ethiopian concession to Great Britain to construct a dam at Lake Tsana was in accord with the Anglo-Italian agreement of 1925 . " The member is under a misapprehension , " replied Sir Samuel Hoare , Foreign Secretary , " No such Concession has yet been granted by the Ethiopian Government . The conditions governing the construction are still a matter of negotiation with that government We are not aware of any concession having been granted either to this country or Italy and arising out of the exchange of notes of December , 1925 , between Italy and the United Kingdom . " A Labor member asked if it was not a fact that the quarrel between Italy and Abyssinia was " over a few gallons of water . " " No , " replied Sir Samuel . The Times of London apparently is as- depressed as the British Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow ; " Premier Mussolini obviously is determined to deal only on the most comprehensive terms with the Ethiopian Emperor and to demand a special position in Addis Ababa , which that spirited monarch is most unlikely to concede . Beyond doubt the Italian dictator is fired by the example of imperial Rome , and he may well have in mind also the work done by Marshal Lyautey in Morocco or by British administrators in other parts of Africa . " But apart from the fact that since those times the League of Nations has come into existence and that Ethiopia is a member of the League  --  with its guarantee of territorial integrity  --  Premier Mussolini has chosen singularly flimsy excuses for threatening the independence of Abyssinia . "                     