@@700673

txt The Seventy-third Congress adjourned sine die at 11:45 o'clock tonight .. The Senate adjourned at 11:05 P. H. The House , despite its adopt tion of a resolution frowning on post-session parties , engaged in. merrymaking and adjourned at 11:45 . Both houses had just acted finally on the National Housing Bill and sent it to President Roosevelt with the compliments of a Congress that had fulfilled with but few exceptions every desire of the executive department . Moreover , it had wiped the legislative slate as clean as re . membered by the oldest members or employes of either house . As its very last act Congress de-. creed that interstate shipment of machine guns and sawed-off shot . guns will be allowed only by - goy. ernment permit . The conference report on the Housing Bill was approved by the House at 10:36 P. M. and by the Senate at 10:40 P. M. Earlier the House concurred in minor Senate amendments to the Crosser-Dill Railroad Labor Bill , completing Congressional action . Two Days Behind Schedule . The Congress approached its final curtain two days later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? sisted in doing more for labor than proposed in President Roosevelt 's program and more for the farmer than is contained In the multifold provisions of the Agricultural Ad. justment Act . Among the final enactments , completed today , were the Railway Labor and Farm Bank . ruptcy Bills , neither of which was upon the President 's calendar . By 7:30 o'clock tonight neither house had anything to do but await the conference report on the Hous ? ing Bill , then in the process of drafting , The adjournment reso. lutlon already had been adopted , ' marking this legislative day as the last for the session . One-Man Filibuster Fails . The Senate reached this happy , stage after weathering a one-man filibuster by Senator Hastings against the Crosser-Dill Railway La. bor Bill , which the body had voted by 76 to 2 to take up . The Dela ? ware Senator privately told friends he expected to speak until past midnight if necessary to force the leadership to withdraw the measure , He abandoned this fight after an hour , however , when it became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate . Once he had taken his seat the bill was quickly passed without record vote Previously , both houses had adopted the conference report on the Deficiency Appropriation Bill , , carrying more than $2,000,000,000 for relief and rehabilitation ; the Senate had completed action on and sent to the President the Kerr Tobacco Control Bill , providing a penalty tax for tobacco grown in excess of agreements under the AAA ; the House had set itself again for a farewell songfest and Senator Bulkley had withdrawn the Omnibus Banking Bill , thus en ? abling the Senate to break the jam that stopped adjournment on Saturday night . Smith Blocks Anti-Lynching Bill . Furthermore , the opportunity had been given in the Senate to take up for consideration a racing bill for the District of Columbia , this being killed on objection of Senator Capper , and the Federal anti ? lynching measure , which was stopped by the objection of Senator Smith . Long before the Senate found itself faced with an abortive fill* buster , both bodies had rushed along with pending legislation in an effort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was able to recess at various times , waiting for the Senate to break through and join in the adjournment resolution . This resolution was passed by the House and reported to the Senate early in the afternoon , but its arrival in the upper body found members in a snarl over the Railway Labor Bill that developed into a serious threat to all adjournment plans and then disappeared as suddenly as it had begun . While the Senate remained in the temporary jam , a victim of its own " liberal " rules , the House , at its numerous short sessions , passed various and sundry bills , reporting them back to the Senate in blocks . The Senate very early abandoned any attempt to act on these or any other minor bills until the larger matters before it were decided . Whether this was the decision of the entire body did not matter so much , as Senator La Follette had announced he would object to any measure being taken up by unanimous consent , until the controversial Railway Labor Bill had been disposed of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would demand a strict enforcement of the rules by which a Senatdr yields to another , stating that he would take him from the floor on the first breach of these regulations . Agree on Housing Bill . The Housing Bill , the final big administration measure on the " must " program , was agreed upon by Senate and House conferees soon after 6 P. M. , more than eight hours after they met this morning . It was modified in conference as finally approved by the conferees , was in exactly the form in which the President wished it when he first outlined a private $3,000,00u,000 program of home renovating and building with Federal supervision and assistance . Senator Bulkley , whose failure to with employes joining or refusing to join any organization or union . The choice of representatives of any craft must be determined by a majority of employes voting on the question . The measure was , according to its sponsors , designed to rewrite the Railway Labor Act and make farreaching and important changes in operation of the adjustment boards to settle grievances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastman , Federal Coordinator of Railroads , wrote the measure and it had administration support , but in the face of expected opposition , President Roosevelt did not consider it feasible to pass it at the present session . Senate sentiment for the bill was , however , overwhelming . Senators La Follette and Wheeler served notice that adjournment would be prevented until a vote was had on the measure . On a test vote to bring the bill up , only Senators I Hastings and Norbeck objected , while seventy-six Senators clamored for a test . From then on , the administration leaders were forced to prepare to wear Mr. Hastings down until the final vote could be assured . The fight for the bill began early in the Senate 's hectic day . As soon as the Deficiency Bill conference report loomed in the offing , Mr. La Follette tried to sidetrack it for the Labor Bill , but was beaten by a narrow vote of 41 to 39 . He , Senator Dill , whose name the bill bore . and Senator Wheeler were insistent continuing their demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The bill creates a national adjustment board with four divisions , each composed of an equal number of representatives of railroads and employes and each permitted to select a neutral member . Establishment of regional or system boards of adjustment are permitted if the carriers and workers wish to set up such boards voluntarily . Further the present Board of Mediation of five members is supplanted by a national mediation board of only three . Voluntary settlement of disputes is hoped for through the proposal for the establishment of regional or system adjustment boards . Some of the advocates of the bill believe the fact there is a compulsory board to which grievances may be taken will greatly increase settlement of troubles by the voluntary adjustment boards . The drive for quick adjournment was revived in the Senate after a conference of leaders had again decided to trim the program to two main bills , the Deficiency Appropriation and the Housing bills . Carrying out his part of the interparty agreement , Senator Bulkley withdrew his omnibus Banking Bill even before a quorum had been called . It was Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the collapse of leadership in both parties when adjournment was in reach Saturday night . But simultaneously with this break in the adjournment jam , labor advocates , who had helped wreck the week-end plans , urged the Senate to carry on until at least the Crosser-Dill bill , providing an additional system of mediation for railway employes , had been acted upon . The first effort by this group to force through more labor legislation than had been urged by the administration came a few minutes after the Senate convened . ' The Deficiency Appropriation Bill was laid before the Senate and a motion made to take it up . Senator La Follette and others , speaking for the labor advocates , urged that the Senate refuse to consider the Deficiency Bill , even though it carried more than $2,000,000,000 for relief of the unemployed , until the Railway Bill had been acted upon . Revolt Broken by Close Vote . Administration forces , augmented by the more conservative Republicans , succeeded by a narrow margin in breaking the new revolt . The motion to take up the Deficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new adjournment plan was followed by another when Senator Long resumed his crusade for the Frazier-Lemke Bill for settlement of farm debts . He insisted that the Senate pass upon a conference report on this bill and took the floor to speak until the report had been laid before the Senate . It developed that the conference papers , prepared hastily in the feverish session of Saturday night , had been lost . The Louisianan remarked that it would be easier to locate and capture Dillinger , the outlaw , than to find the conference papers . Senator Robinson of Arkansas , the Democratic leader , admitted that the papers had been mislaid and attempted to substitute a new copy . This was objected to by Senator Thomas of Oklahoma because Senator Robinson would not agree to a final vote on the Farm Debts Bill before adjournment . Slakes Pact With Long . Senator Robinson indicated that he favored the measure , but declined to be drawn into agreement for action on any measure on which a filibuster might be started . Furthermore , he had agreed with the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by it at all odds . Senator Long halted his speech temporarily under the promise of Senator Robinson that he would cooperate for a vote on the farm debt plan if another conference report could be drawn . Mr. Long scurried out of the chamber to write a duplicate of the report that had been lost . The Senate then adopted unanimously the conference report on the Deficiency Bill after Senator Dickinson had spoken in criticism of a minor feature . This left only one major fence to hurdle , the Housing Bill . While the Senate awaited the Housing conference report , Senator Robinson had difficulty in meeting the drives of many Senators for various bills . ? Tobacco Bill Passed . The Kerr Tobacco Bill , providing a more strict control of production under the Agricultural Adjustment Administration , was passed after a few minutes ' discussion and with little opposition . Senator Robinson moved for an executive session to clear away the list of Presidential appointments as well as to consume some time . The nominations were quickly confirmed , and the Senate went back into legislative session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wheeler , La Follette and others for the Railway Labor Bill . Senator Dill moved to take up the Crosser-Dill bill . This set off an extended debate , principally from Senator Hastings and other conservative Republicans . Senator Long came bounding into the chamber with his duplicate conference report on the Farm Debts Bill to find the Senate on an entirely new schedule . call a conference on this bill Saturday night was largely responsible for the failure of Congress to adjourn that day , charged in and out of the committee room today at sporadic intervals . The conferees , after recessing from 1 P. M. to 5 , finally succeeded in signing a conference report which the House had recessed to await . The provision for a single administrator of the act was approved . This will permit the administration to coordinate all government housing programs under one man in this giant project to let private industry and initiative take up the work of subsidized relief agencies . Harry Hopkins , Relief Administrator , who is mentioned as probable head of the housing program , stood outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board was scrapped . The 32,000.000,000 borrowing power of the Home Owners Loan Corporation was increased by $1,000 , - 000,000 as the President wished , instead of by varying larger sums voted by the Senate and the House , and the $300,000,000 approved for HOLC loans for repairs was included in this billion instead of being a separate item as before . The limit of $200,000,000 to which the Federal Government was authorized to guarantee $1,000,000,000 in private loans for home repairing was left unchanged , but the President was authorized to ' raise it at his discretion , which would make possible a vast increase in private loans . Billion for Private Loans . One billion dollars was left as the maximum for private loans for building new homes which are to be guaranteed by the government up to 100 per cent of mortgages on 80 per cent of the home 's value , but the President was also authori.ted to raise this armee+ if he : a fit . The government does not expect to take any substantial loss on these mortgages , since home-builders are to pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance was maintained . The $500,000,000 in loans to building and loan institutions , provided for in the House bill , was eliminated . The President would not accept this provision , since he wanted the program carried out with a minimum outlay by the government . Building and loan associations will pay up to one-half of 1 per cent of their total loans as insurance until they have a fund representing 5 per cent of their total loans , which is considered adequate Insurance . Striking benefits for labor are provided in the Railroad Labor Bill . Railroads are prevented from interfering in any manner whatsoever                     