@@700844

txt The assassin who killed King Alexander of Yugoslavia and Foreign Minister Louis Barthou of France yesterday in Marseilles effectively concealed his identity and his motive , the French police admitted today . His death , immediately after the shooting , prevented any disclosures by himself of secrets that may have died with him . However , enough has been learned to establish the painstaking preparations , in which the assassin had financial support and probably the help of several accomplices . It was not a crime of an insane fanatic , but the outcome of a carefully planned plot by a man who had determined to sacrifice his own life to preserve his secret , the French investigators believe . In an effort to uncover that secret , wholesale raids were conducted in Paris among Yugoslav political exiles . In the Marseilles underworld and in a dozen parts of France and Europe arrests also are being made of persons possibly implicated or able to give information . Assassin 's Passport Forged . It is definitely established that the passport the assassin carried was forged and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false papers , he carried no other marks of identification except the weapons he used . These were a Mauser automatic pistol , discharging an uninterrupted load of twenty cartridges , and a Walter pistol . Both weapons are recent expensive models , showing he had funds at his disposal . Examination of the cartridges he used showed they either had been specially made for the crime or that all marks of caliber and manufacture had been effectively effaced . The slayer wore a new suit of clothes , purchased at a men 's outfitters In Parts . Much attention was given to symbols tattooed on the assassin 's arm . These were a skull and crossbones with the letters V. 0 . R. 0. , which some Yugoslav witnesses interpreted to signify the motto " Liberty or death . " The tattooing was believed to indicate the man was a member of a secret organization of Macedonian outlaws . Belgrade reported that Kalemen was believed to have been recently tried and acquitted in Yugoslavia of the murder of the Croatian Minister of Agriculture , Dr. Mirko Neudorfer , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Hungary . Malemen 's Movements Traced . The police , in attempting to trace the assassin 's movements , received a large number of depositions of persons who said they recognized Kalemen from photographs . Among these was the proprietor of a small hotel in Rue Mazagran , who said that on Oct. 3 he had a client who gave the name of Suk . He testified a suit had been delivered to this lodger from the department store that sold the clothing worn by Kalemen . This man was accompanied by two other foreigners . At Aix another hotel owner said Kalemen and two others stayed there Monday night . Kalemen did not register , but the others said they were Kramer Egon , a Croatian , and Chalny Sylvester , a Czechoslovak . It was established from the passport that Kalemen entered France through Switzerland at Vallorbe . He is believed to have spent some time in Paris before going to Aix and Marseilles . The Paris police raided the homes of Zvetozar Prebitchevitch , former Yugoslav Minister of the Interior , and Vladimir Raditch , son of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Belgrade . A great number of other Yugoslav refugees also were rounded up and questioned . Among the consequences of yesterday 's shooting will be severe surveillance and restrictions for foreigners , as well as reform of the police guard at public ceremonies . Already there is a strong outcry in the press against the freedom with which foreigners enter and remain in France and a demand for wholesale expulsions . The Ministry of the Interior replied that the control of foreigners has been made more strict throughout this year , and stressed that while during 1933 expulsions from France totaled 5,340 , in the first nine months of 1934 France had sent 6,728 undesirables across the borders . It is probable some new measures for the protection of official ceremonies will be adopted . The police are studying the system established in Belgium , where the police and troops lining the streets face the crowds instead of facing the procession . In this way they are better able to prevent assailants from running out into the street , as Kalemen did at Marseilles .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     