@@701934

txt Judge Oscar Nelson of the Superior court declared to his fellow judges yesterday that he is determined that Bobby Arnst , a musical comedy actress , shall have her divorce from Attorney Robert Cavenaugh ? even though he has to violate the rules of his court 's procedure to grant it . Nelson formerly was a Democrat . He then became aldermanic leader for a former Republican mayor and only recently was put on tin . Republican ticket and elected judge . Also he is a delegate at large to the Republican national convention . The divorce action was taken before Judge Nelson yesterday , about five minutes after it was filed . Usually a couple of months ensues before a hearing can be reached on these matters . Judge Nelson , after listening to brief testimony to the effect that Mr. Cavenaugh was cruel to Miss Arnst , announced that he would sign a decree for the divorce . Dispute Over Assignment . If he does so , it will be contrary to the wishes of Judge Walter P. Steffen , head of the Superior court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of assigning divorce cases to judges other than Joseph Sabath and Rudolph Desort , who compose the divorce division . " I shall not sign an order giving that case to Judge Nelson , " said Judge Steffen . He refused to elaborate on his reasons for this . " I said I would sign the decree and I shall sign it , just as soon as it is presented to me , " said Judge Nelson . Usual Procedure Differs . Judge Sabath explained the customary procedure . " The cases come to me as they are filed , " ' he said , ' and my system is to divide them half and half . Then I toss up a nickel and see whether Judge Desort gets the first half or the last half . If there are more cases than we can handle , the rule is to have Judge Steffen assign those which are of an emergency nature to judges sitting in the law branch of the court . " He added that he supposed the Cavenaugh divorce would be handed to him for assignment this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of it . When the case was taken into Judge Ngissves court his clerks Dan Wilkens son , said he would get an order from Judge Steffen for the hearing by this judge . A case then being heard was interrupted and the Arnst-Cavenaugh hearing held . Judge Desort recalled that ' a divorce decree he signed while sitting in the Criminal court had been voided by the Appellate court , although he had heard the testimony while sitting as divorce judge . This case , it was said , might furnish a precedent for the voiding of the Cavenaugh decree , although this could happen only if one of the parties appealed . Cavenaugh did.not contest the suit , however , and his wife , who was formerly married . to Johnny Weissmuller , swimming and movie star , was said to have received a settlement .                     