@@700963

txt The Seventy-fourth Congress will convene at noon tomorrow , faced with tasks which may extend its first session well into the Summer . On Friday evening after he has delivered his message President Roosevelt expects to receive a small group of leaders of each House for a discussion of the legislative program . The signals for formal opening will be the falling of Vice President Garner 's gavel in the Senate and the calling to order of the House by its clerk , South Trimble , who will preside until a Speaker has been elected . Representative Byrns of Tennessee was unanimously nominated by the overwhelming Democratic majority at a party caucus today , so there was no doubt that he would be the new Speaker . The opening sessions in both branches are expected to be short and devoted primarily to organization in preparation for receiving President Roosevelt 's message , which he plans to deliver in person Friday at a joint session in the House chamber . Neither body Is expected actually to make any progress on legislation until the President has delivered both his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with legislative leaders at the White House Friday night . Bonus First Major Issue . Regardless of the President 's obvious grip on Congress , strengthened still further today when the House Democrats voted to repeal their liberal discharge rule , it appeared a certainty that his first experience with the new Congress would be a fight over immediate cash payment of the veterans ' bonus . Mr. Byrns virtually promised members of the Democratic caucus that the bonus would be brought to an early vote . He wanted to get this issue behind him , he said . He did not commit himself on the merits of the bonus proposal nor did he indicate that ' the administration was ready to compromise to avoid an upset in the House . A bonus bill already has been filed with the Clerk of the House by Representative Patman of Texas . It is No. 1 of a list of more than 2,200 measures ready to be introduced in the House tomorrow . It will be referred immediately to the Ways and Means Committee and some legislative observers have predicted that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Barred to Callers . The day was devoted to preparations for tomorrow 's sessions . Party organizations in the House and Senate held meetings . The little group of Progressives and Farmer-Laborites in the House held a meeting and designated their candidate for Speaker , Representative Schneider of Wisconsin . The stress of last-minute preparation was evident also at the White House , where President Roosevelt locked his door to callers while he concentrated on putting the final polish on his messages . He interrupted this work only for a brief press conference and later to confer with Donald R. Richberg , Director of the National Emergency Council , which has been designated as the " clearing agency " for all legislative proposals for recovery and relief . This , of course , embraces virtually all major legislation to be laid before Congress by the administration . Mr. Roosevelt reaffirmed today his intention to deliver his principal message to Congress in person . It will be comparatively short , probably between 2,500 and 3,000 words , and it will be broadcast over national radio hook-ups . The budget message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to till a large volume , as usual . The-House Will hold the  --  spotlight in ceremonies tomorrow , as that body must be organized anew . After Mr. Trimble has called it to order the chaplain will offer a prayer , the roll will be called and nominations opened for Speaker . The three candidates will be put forward , Mr. Byrns by the Democrats , Representative Snell of New York by the Republicans , and Mr. Schneider by the Progressives and Farmer-Laborites . Following the election of Speaker , all members will be sworn in , the other officers of the House formally nominated and elected and members of the Ways and Means Committee will be designated by resolutions of the two party leaders . The House then will notify the Senate that it is organized and ready for business , and will designate a committee to join with a similar committee from the Senate to notify President Roosevelt that the Seventy-fourth Congress has been convened and awaits his message . New Senators to Be Sworn In . A briefer session of the Senate will be held . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayer is offered , the thirty-four newly elected Senators will be sworn in , in blocs of four to six . Thirty-one of them will serve the customary six-year terms ; three will serve for two . years each . The President pro tempore and the Senate officers will be elected , after which a resolution will designate the Senators who are to join in notifying the President that Congress is ready for business . Other resolutions will notify the House that the Senate has organized and will agree to attend the joint session on Friday . After word had been received that the President has been formally notified , the Senate will recess . Although nothing more than routine business of organization is expected , Senators may introduce bills . Until steps to be taken under the administration 's program are decided upon next week by the Policy Committees of Senate and House , 1 the World Court protocol and legislation for immediate payment of the soldiers ' bonus are expected to occupy the attention of Congress . Support for President Is Seen . Vice President Garner was being quoted- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would sustain a Presidential veto of the American Legion bonus measure , which provides for cancellation of interest on certificate loans . If a more careful survey shows that the President can command enough Senate votes to uphold his position , Democratic leaders were saying tonight , no compromise will be sponsored by the administration . Thus , in the first few days of the new Congress two controversial questions will be under consideration . While the House is wrestling with the bonus bill , the Senate is scheduled to take up the World Court protocol . Senator Pittman , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , said the committee was scheduled to report the protocol favorably to the Senate on Jan. 9 . This action was decided upon in the last session . The Ser : . , tor was confident that advocates of the protocol had enough votes for ratification . The proposal has had the endorsement of three Republican Presidents . Johnson Leader in Old Fight . Discussion of the World Court is sure to bring up again some of the arguments used during the Wilson administration against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefs of that battle will be leading the opposition to American membership in the court . Senator Johnson of California will be in charge of the opposition forces , and Senators Borah , Wagner and Lewis will help him . Senators Pittman and Robinson will carry on the fight for ratification . Senator Pope 's announcement that he will offer a resolution to put this country into the League has inflamed the " bitter enders " and strengthened their opposition to adherence to the World Court . They , however , are not hopeful of preventing ratification . According to leading members of the Foreign Relations Committee , the League of Nations resolution will not be reported to the Senate .                     