@@702390

txt Church bells rang today in the State of Vera Cruz and eager people filled the churches after the State Legislature late last night repealed the law preventing religious ceremonies in the State . The Legislature 's action was taken after President Lazaro Cardenas yesterday instructed the Secretary of the Interior personally to investigate the killing of a girl and the arrest of more than seventy Catholics , including a priest , when the police broke up a clandestine mass in a private home in the town of Orizaba Sunday . Vera Cruz has been one ? of the States where religious persecution has been the most unrelenting and the Mexican press interprets the action of the Legislature as having been caused by President Cardenas 's determination to permit the freer holding of masses in all ? Maxico . It is thought in some informed circles that President Cardenas will and perhaps already has brought pressure for similar action on the Legislatures of such States as Tabasco , where a priest can legally officiate only if married ; Chihuahua , where only one priest is permitted to officiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Repeal Held Retroactive Just how the Legislature of Vera Cruz succeeded in acting in such quick fashion upon President Cardenas 's insistence is unknown , since no press dispatches from the State capital indicate that the body met . It is presumed , however , that the repeal law will be held retro-I active and that Sunday 's tragic mass will be declared legal so the offenders will not be prosecuted . The girl killed Sunday , Leonor Sanchez , already is regarded as a martyr in Catholic circles here since it is widely felt that her death will open a new era with re-gard to holding church services in Mexico , already .. permitted on a much freer scale than heretofore under the Cardenas administration . More than a hundred Catholics of Orizaba sent the following telegram to President Cardenas congratulating him on the Legislature 's action : " The Catholic people of Vera Cruz and especially of the town of Orizaba are proud of having an Execu- tive like you . In this way the greatest Mexican family will be united . Complete your work , Mr. President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cardenas were busy investigating Sun-day 's day 's occurrence , and all the police were confined to their barracks . Troops were still being head in readiness in case public indignation should boil over It was generally felt , however , that the President 's quick action had averted possible outbreaks . According to the non-Catholic newspaper , IT1 ti ma.s Noticias , " workers and farmers and in general all social classes of Orizaba rushed into the Catholic churches , some shedding tears of joy , since all the churches had been closed in Orizaba since July , 1935 . " President Cardenas has consistently held that the Mexican church problem must be relegated to the background and that the only sure metbrod of doing this is to permit once again the free holding of mass . He is understood to believe his predecessors were forced to take strong measures in order to remove the Catholic church from a strong economic and political position , but that that must be regarded as a I past era . Since he announced the new governmental policy a year ago President Cardenas has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many State politicians upon whom he depended for support and because of the fact that in Mexico , as in the United States , States have certain rights with which the Federal Government can not interfere . The President is understood to have believed it politically inexpedient to change the Federal law severely restricting Catholic activities in Mexico , but worked instead toward ? gradual relaxation . The Orizaba case has given him an excuse to act drastically . Amnesty Affects 10,000 About 10,000 persons either abroad or in hiding here are expected to benefit by President Cardenas 's amnesty decree , promulgated with Congressional permission yesterday . About 4,000 cases connected with military rebellion and acts of civil disobedience , which have been on the books since 1922 , are now erased . The most prominent exiles are General Jos ld Gonzalo . Escobar , leader of the 1929 rebellion , who is believed to be in Canada , and General Pablo Gonzalo , who is believed to be in San Antonio or Laredo , Texas . Families and . friends of many p exiles besieged public offices today to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is exceedingly broad . General Plutarco Elias Calles , former President , and his henchmen are not included because they were deported without charges for " reasons of public safety . "                     