@@698425

txt It was one of the tenets of Mr. ROSEN WALD 'S philosophy of philanthropy that large sums of money should not be stored up for use centuries hence , but should be spent either during the giver 's life or , at most , within a single generation after his death . Like the manna in the wilderness , it must be used within the day or the evening of its gathering . He himself refused to purchase a certain kind of immortality by thrusting his name upon generations unborn through his be quests . ' He has even declined , against the unanimous wish of the trustees of the industrial museum which his contributions made possible of being no doubt the greatest museum of its kind in the world , t4-Igt hit mum be . kept by , so generously open in its giving , closed upon none of his wealth in his death . He believed , that he could do more for those who came after him by doing all he could for those of his own time . He contended that it did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepting or denying this theory , it is demonstrable that the best test of the wisdom of men who make great fortunes is what they do with them after ? they have made them . Whatever Mr. ROSENWALD may say in disparagement of his genius in acquiring riches , he showed himself wisest of men in the spending of what he amassed through the years since the days of his boyhood in a humble home in Springfield , Ill. , not far from LINCOLN 'S . It is of special interest that he gave vast sums to improve tile condition of the Negro , the first step in whose emancipation was taken by LINCOLN . He mightily helped the children of the shadow to become children of the lightl through literacy and industry and the training of their teachers . The fund which he established for this particular purpose has contributed to make possible 5,000 rural schools for over 600,000 Negro pupils . His own gifts have brought pittances from the Negroes themselves in ' greater total and led the public to appropriate in a double sum . His benevolences have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberally to the Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A. as well as to Jewish causes . No movement for the welfare of his own city or of his native State was without the support of his personal interest and of his sub-1 stance . The purity of his motive in helping to righteous ends made him insensible to the construction that might be put upon one of his special efforts to improve political conditions at home . It was done without thought of any personal or partisan advantage . He was called in times of emergency to give counsel and personal service in Washington and was sent abroad during the war to undertake a mission for the Government . Above all , he will be remembered for the great-heartedness and the disinterestedness of his devotion to mankind as shown in the relief of the suffering of his own day and generation : in his direct gifts of millions to the charities of his own city , to the University of Chicago , to the Museum of Science and Industry , to the well-being of those in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who suffered in the war-devastated areas . His charity which began at home embraced continents . He was beloved by his own generation . For those who come after , this word of his should give them more gratification than any gifts he might have passed on to them : I have confidence in future generations and in their ability to meet their own needs wisely and generously . He was one of the great merchants of his time , ministering to millions through his vocation in a unique and a most worthy way . But he will outlive his own time in what he did out of love for his fellow-men ? even and especially the least of them . His memory will be as of a wood in which roses clambered among the trees . He won by right of his useful and benevolent life the name into which he was born .                     