@@698081

txt The full text of the report of the bankers ' committee on German finances , which is today in the hands of the Governments represented at the re- , vent London conference , provides an experts ' blueprint for relief . not only of Germany but of the entire world . Germany 's crisis , the bankers unanimously agree , is essentially a part of the larger problems of international commerce and international debts . On this point the committee , which had the services of Mr. Albert H. Wiggin of New . York as chairman and the assistance of a group of distinguished financiers , makes two important observations . One is that in order to revive demand and thus check the downward movement in prices it it necessary that the normal process of the investment of fresh capital be resumed with a definitie economic purpose  --  increase in the purchasing power of the world . Second , the committee ' points to the situation in Germany as a civil illustration of the fact that in recent years nations have been pursuing two contradictory policies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment of large sums by debtor to creditor countries , while at the game time choking the free movement of goods by high tariffs . Provisions for Germans , If economic prosperity is to be recaptured , the committee concludes , there must be a drastic change in this policy , and world commerce . must be allowed to resume its natural course . Other essential conclusions in the report dealing particularly , - with Germany 's own requirements , are : 1 . That the existing volume of Germany 's foreign credits must be maintained . 2 . That ' at least a part dt ' the capital which has been withdrawn must be replaced froth foreign sources . 3 . That any additional credits provided should be in the form of a long-term , loan , and that such parts of the existing short-term debt as may be suitably treated this way should be converted into long-term obligations . 4 . That a political understanding Bankers to Aid Germany TWO groups of intermftional financial experts have been meeting at Basel to devise plans to restore Germany 's credit and monetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking countries , was appointed by the World Bank on recommendatiop of the recent London Conference on the " Hoover holiday . " The second was composed of delegates from international bankers who were Germany 's short-term creditors . The Wiggin report ? proposals are : The existing volume of Germany 's foreign credit should be maintained . Part of the capital which has been withdrawn should be replaced from foreign sources . Additional credits provided should be in the form of a long-term loan , and existing short-term debts should be converted into longterm obligations , so far as possible . Conversion of a portion of the short-term credits into long-term credits by raising a long-term loan depends upon public confidence in the country . Nothing can be accomplished until relations between Germany and the other European powers are firmly established on the basis of sympathetic cooperation and mutual confidence and until the German external obligations cease to grow In snowball fashion , " so establishing a lack of proportion between exports and imports and threatening economic prosperity . Governments concerned are urged to take immediate measures to bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world  --  to obtain sorely needed assistance . The second conference ? of Germany 's creditors  --  agreed to prolong existing short-term credits to Germany , amounting to about $1,200,000,000 , for six months . Relief accorded to Germany 's Reichsbank balances is to be gradual . Credit extension also Is conditional upon a 90-days ' renewal of the $100,000,000 credit granted to the Reichsbank jointly by the Bank of England , Bank of France , Federal Reserve Bank , and Bank for International Settlements . Credits in marks held abroad against Germany will remain as they are until November , so halting withdrawal of capital from Germany . between Germany , France and other countries of Europe must be deepened before fun financial recovery can be made or necessary steps to that end adequately initiated Definite Plan Unfeasible " The clearly defined and technical investigation , to which we have confined our attention , " the committee says , " does not permit us to offer suggestions of a political character , but we have felt it to be our duty to point out reasons why it is impossible at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credits . " We wish , however , to add that if a situation were brought about in which confidence of the investing ' public in the future economic and political stability of Germany could be restored we are satisfied that a consolidation of a part of its short-term debt and the provision of additional working capital needed by its trade and industry would present no serious difficulties . " There are many ways in which this object could be achieved . If we refrain from putting forward detailed schemes to this end it is only because of our conviction that action which lies outside our p'rovince must first be taken before any long-term German bonds , however well secured , can be sold . " With respect to a long-term loan ( for Germany , the report observes that investors must necessarily look for three conditions ? a good general economic situation in the country , a i favorable balance of trade , and a sound budget . The situation in Germany on all three points ? the bankers agree , is by no means urifa% orable . The report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of confidence in Germany " is not justified by the economic situation of the country . " And the committee , pointing to the speedy recovery of Germany 's export trade in recent years , shares this view . Funding of the excessive short-term indebtedness would itself improve the position , the bankers declare , but they point to two remaining fundamental difficulties . The first is the political risk involved until the relations of Germany and other European powers are firmly established on the basis of sympathetic cofiperation . The second difficulty concerns Germany 's external obligations . On this point the report states : " So long ? as these obligations are such as to involve either continuous increase in the foreign debt of Germany alternatively a misproportion between its imports and exports on such scale as to threaten the economic prosperity of other countries , Investors are unlikely to regard the situation as stable or permanent . " We feel certain that the Government representatives at the London conference , in recommending to the bankers of the world that they should by concerted measures maintain the volume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully realized that their proposal was not a solution of the problem , but a means of gaining time during which steps for reestablishing the credit of Germany might be taken . " Franco-German Parleys On Political Questions Forecast by Bank Pact By Cable to The Christian Science Monitor GENEVA , Aug. ** political negotiations between representatives of France and Germany , ' preparatory to another financial conference just preceding the date of the forthcoming disarmament meeting , are forecast by observers here as a result of the Basel financial agreement and latest decisions of French and German statesmen . This week , It is reasoned , marks an important stage in the evolution of . negotiations which have engrossed world attention during the present summer . With conclusion of the Basel agreement , it is understood , German attempts to obtain large scale credits will be deferred if possible until the turn of the y'sr , when fundamental examination of the entire question of reparations and war debts will become inescapable . The understanding reached at Basel , it is pointed out , has now insured fixation of present credits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures of self-reform which expert advisers consider necessary . The next question  --  that of seeking whatever new credit German Industry and finance require  --  may be deferred until a more auspicious occasion , it is concluded . Therefore , all international signs point to a new financial . conference preferably , indeed almost necessarily , preceding the disarmament conference , as a climak of present developments on the international scene . But in preparation for this meeting , which the Hoover plan itself necessitates in order to determine the regime which shall succeed the present moratorium , it will be necessary to work patiently upon . the political relations between France and Germany . Such preliminary negotiations , it is clear , are equally necessary Co prepare for the disarmament conference itself since reparations ' revision to succeed the Hoover year goes hand in hand with the general problem of disarmament . Postponement of the visit of French Ministers to Berlin until after the September Assembly is taken here to indicate in some meas-. ure that preparatory Franco-German talks may take place during the Geneva week ' when statesmen have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation of the postponement is modified by descriptions of a sequence of events in Paris which reach here upon well-informed authority . The French , Prime Minister , M. Pierre Laval , it is stated , was prepared and eager to proceed to Berlin this month as soon as he saw the results of the Prussian referendum had been favorable . But certain subordinates of the French FOreign Minister , M. Aristide Briand , it is stated , spread in the semiofficial press reports that the visit could not take place until after the Assembly . This episode reveals again , it is considered here , the profound tits- , agreement between M. Laval and M. Briand . While their difference of viewpoint is nothing new , at the present moment it affects the League of Nations vitally because of M. Briand 's maneuver which postponed the Berlin visit until the end of September was made , it is contended , in order to save the League 's prestige from blows which private visits give to this center of general cooperation . Growing dissension within the French Cabinet has been watched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laval will come to Geneva this September himself in order to represent that group of French opinion which today is apparently in ascendancy . M. Laval , as . Minister of Economy , was a subordinate delegate to M. Briand at the Assembly last year , it is ironically recalled here . He was then a completely inconspicuous , unnoticed and unheard figure , but he watched the proceedings carefully and is believed to be well prepared for another session . The League today , more than ever before in its history , is only what the individual nations choose to make of it , and in the midst of the present dramatic sequence of events it obviously can play a great rOle if members desire to utilize its facilities . The decision rests with them and responsible observers here feel that the League 's future hangs critically upon events of the coming six weeks .                     