@@701579

txt Secretary Wallace today assured the Ilfarmers of the country that the reciprocal tariff treaty agreed upon with Canada would improve their lot in the long run . Dairymen 's representatives , however , appeared to be divided on the merits of the treaty so far as that industry is concerned . On ' the other hand , representatives of the lumber industry denounced the pact . Wilson Compton , manager of the National Lumber Manufacturers Association , contended that the forest products in dustries and their employes " have been sacrificed for promised benefits to other industries or other interests regarded as more ' deserving . ' " A statement issued by Secretary Wallace said : " The United States has always had a greater volume of trade with Canada than with any other country except the United Kingdom . " This extremely profitable mutual relationship , amounting on the I average to over a billion dollars a I year , was rudely broken off by our Tariff Act of 1930 and by the retaliatory Canadian tariff shortly thereafter . It is my opinion that the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and especially to farmers . Better Domestic Market Foreseen . " There are a few groups which will fear they are being hurt by the new agreement , but actually in those cases the tariff reductions are moderate , and in addition there are quota restrictions of such a nature that imports from Canada can not affect the American price structure by more than 1 per cent . " This small effect , in my judgment , will as a rule be more than offset by the increased payrolls of industries established along the northern border and in the Northeastern States , " he said . " These increased payrolls will stimulate the demand in the United States for most of the farm products in which there has been a slight reduction in duty . " I am thoroughly convinced that the Canadian treaty will prove of benefit to the whole of American agriculture , and that no particular branch of farming will be seriously , if at all , disadvantaged . " Secretary Morgenthau said that the United States will be able to obtain at reasonable prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty from $5 to $2.50 a gallon which the agreement included . United States distillers have not yet on hand any considerable stock of aged whisky , Mr. Morgenthau indicated . Stocks on July 1 amounted to 4,000,000 gallons more than four years old , while national consumption was running at the rate of 5,000,000 gallons a month . " Reducing the duty will supply a need we can not take care of , and I am glad to see the whisky come in , " said the Secretary of the Treasury . It was apparent that American officials , in their satisfaction over the agreement , are not going to be tempted to outline the concessions gained from Canada in too glowing terms , for fear of jeopardizing prospects of ratification by the Canadian Parliament , which will not meet until late in January . Meantime , plans to complete an agreement with the Netherlands within the next ten days were rushed by the State Department . Jonkheer H , M. van Haersma de With , the Minister of the Netherlands , took a Dutch delegation of foreign trade experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When they left he expressed hope for an early completion of the pact , on which negotiations have been in progress for some time , Other Farm Groups ' Reactions . Some spokesmen for dairy interests and fruit growers were among those who were agreeably surprised at the treaty 's provisions . A. M. Loomis of the National Dairy Union said the reduction of duty on cheese from 7 to 5 cents a pound might cause some disturbance in the dairy industry . Re predicted , however , that the competition would come , not from Canada , but from New Zealand under the expected generalization of the concessions granted in the Canadian agreement . The National Cooperative Milk Producers Federation foresaw increased competition with American butter , or in the case of imports of fresh cream ( a piling up of our own Middle Western butter stocks . " Great distress " for the cheese producers of Wisconsin , Minnesota and Oregon also was forecast . Florida fruit growers , who had criticized the Cuban agreement , which lowered duties on certain seasonal fruits , felt that the Canadian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damage which they claimed the earlier pact caused . The admission of oranges free of duty to Canada in January , February , March and April , with a 50 per cent reduction in Canadian duty on vegetables effective during the whole year will open the Eastern Canadian market to Florida growers , just as the Cuban agreement opened the Eastern American market to Cuban growers . Since the population in the Eastern United States greatly exceeds that of Eastern Canada , the fruit men said that they are not fully compensated , but that they were grateful for what they did receive . Nevertheless , there was no announcement of a change in the plans to challenge the constitutionality of the Trade Agreements Act in a case to be brought by the Florida growers protesting the Cuban tariff reductions . The lumber interests of the Northwest were the most outspoken critics of the concessions . The competition in this industry is largely centralized in Washington , Oregon and British Columbia . NRA and wage disputes following the enactment of the Wagner Labor Disputes Act have forced wage levels on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents an hour , while Canadian lumber men pay only 35 cents , it was asserted . Lumberman Attacks Treaty , Mr. Compton , In his statement for the National Lumber Manufacturers Association , said : " The 50 per cent general reduction on tariffs on all lumber is a stunning blow not only to the promising tide of recovery in the forest products industries but also to the tens of thousands of employes awaiting an opportunity for reemployment . " The consequences are the most destructive in the Pacific Northwest only because Washington and Oregon are more completely dependent upon forest products than are the Northeastern and Lake States , where products are similarly affected . " Nor is there any substantial reciprocity . There is no substantial opening of Canadian markets to American woods ; no break in the vicious system of preferential tariffs in the British Empire by virtue of which Canadian lumber has virtually eradicated American lumber from many of its former principal foreign markets ; no safeguard against automatic extension of lumber tariff reductions to other lumber-exporting countries which , like Russia , are known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although not broadcast , of penetrating the American market with Russian lumber eventually to the extent of billions of feet . Not " Good Neighbor " Act , He Says . " To describe as an act of good neighborliness a transaction which deliberately sacrifices one industry and those dependent on it for livelihood for the benefit of other industries is lacking in candor . " Good . neighborliness at home , although perhaps less spectacular , is just as important as good neighborliness abroad . The tens of thousands of persons who are dependent for a livelihood upon the lumber and timber products industries , which heretofore have been vigorously seeking to maintain the higher wage and labor standards , conservation progress and security of employment urged upon them by the government , are dumbfounded by this evidence of the willingness of the government , through use of its discretionary powers under the Trade Agreemeats Act , to deprive these indus tries of the principal protection for these *higher industrial standards . " The force of the blow is not lessened by the obvious fact that these industries have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value to other groups ambitious for further extensions of their products into foreign markets . Increased international commerce bought by these means is purchased at a high price . " Olson Sees Blow to Minnesota . " The trade treaty with Canada is nothing but trading Minnesota 's market for seed potatoes for the industrial markets of the East , " said 1Governor Floyd B. Olson , who was in the capital , " The concessions which Canada gives us will not offset the injury I done to the Northern Minnesota potato grower . Rye and other commodities have been coming in over the tariff wall . Now the administration lets down the barriers so potatoes can pour in too . " Former Senator Clarence C. Dill of Washington attacked the Canadian agreement . It made of the Northwest lumber and fishing industries sacrificial lambs on the altar of an experiment called reciprocity , he said . " It is mighty poor business , " he declared , " for our government to appropriate billions of dollars to employ the idle and then , by reducing tariffs on those things of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural employment which such production of our own necessities would afford . " The bitterness of the reduced lumber tariff pill is apparently sugar-coated by the limitation a 250,000,000 feet on fir and hemlock , but the sugar-coating is only apparent . " What it really means is that 4,000,000 man-hours of labor are to be transferred from Washington and Oregon to the cheap labor of Canada , including the Orientals . " Senator Davis , Republican , of Pennsylvania , said : " Our relations with Canada have always been pleasant and I hope will continue to be , but only a clairvoyant should attempt to forecast the good or evil , the gain or loss , which will come through the trade agreement which the President admits is revolutionary . A similar proposal some twenty-five years ago acted as a political boomerang on the Chief Executive .                     