@@700768

txt Grover A. Whalen promises " the greatest protest of business men in New York 's history " at City Hall at 2 o'clock this afternoon . Under his leadership , the protesting business men are to appear before the local laws committee of the Board of Aldermen to make only one request  --  a week 's delay in the tenfold multiplication of the present city tax of one-twentieth of 1 per cent on gross business . The argument to be advanced for the postponement is that other forms of taxation , putting less load on business and on the cost of living , would raise the funds admittedly necessary for unemployment relief . The week 's delay is to be asked in order to enable these business men to offer such a taxation program . Mr. Whalen 's position as protest leader ? he was chosen unanimously last Friday by 300 business organizations representing 100,000 business men with 1,000,000 employes doing $1,000,000,000 of business annually ? is that the Mayor acted precipitately in pushing this tax through the Board of Estimate last Thursday on an emergency message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ push it through likewise after the hearing today . The Mayor has announced that he would take the responsibility alone thereafter of receiving any protests or substitute tax programs , and in signing the law . The protesting business men , however , in such influential organizations as the Chamber of Commerce , Merchants Association , Board of Trade , Stock Exchange , Real Estate Board and similar bodies , all insist that responsibility rests also upon the Aldermen . They expect today to impress the Aldermen by a display of numbers which can not easily be disregarded by any elected representatives . Business men who have never taken part in a mass demonstration before have pledged themselves to appear at City Hall wearing tags in the coat lapels , " Do n't Ruin Business , " and to file petitions of protest circulated since last Friday and bearing signatures estimated as well over 100,000 . With such support , Mr. Whalen said , a request for a week 's postponement can not well be denied . It has been possible to mobilize mass demonstration swiftly enough to match the Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the existence of the business organizations which were able to bring their members Into immediate action , and because of the headquarters facilities of the Sales Tax Committee of One Thousand which has been figl'ing such a tax for the last two years under Mr. Whalen as chairman . Experts to Be Named . If the week 's postponement of Aldermanic action is obtained today , the business organizations propose to name a committee of experts to ' formulate a substitute for the business tax . Contrary to the general impression , the business tax was not recommended to Mayor LaGuardia by the joint committee of the Board of Estimate and the Board of Aldermen which studied the raising of relief revenue , according to Alderman Lambert Fairchild , Republican candidate in the primaries for the Controller 's nomination . The joint committee simply gathered together all tax suggestions and summarized discussions concerning them , he said yesterday , and handed them all to the Mayor . The selection . of the business tax for emergency passage was entirely the Mayor 's , according to Alderman Fairchild . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over , Alderman Fairchild requested all those interested in a 2-cent tax on each transit fare to appear at the Aldermanic committee hearing this afternoon to support his demand for consideration of such a transit tax bill which is now resting in that committee . " Every member of the Board of Estimate and of the Board of Alder , men believes that an increased fare has got to come in some form or other , " he said . " Two cents extra would take $9,000,000 from nonresidents who are carried below cost at the expense of the city . It would take a little political courage to advocate it , but I think it could be passed . Sentiment on the 5-cent fare has grown more enlightened since the days of Mayors Hylan , Walker and O'Brien . Puts It Up to Mayor . " I remember that Mayor LaGuardia came into my district during the election a. year ago and asked the voters not to elect any more rubber stamps to the Board of Aldermen . They took him at his word . Now I think Mayor LaGuardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage to favor a transit tax . I hope Mr. Whalen , who Is a potential candidate for Mayor , will be for it . I myself , as a candidate for Controller , am the father of the Two-Cent Transit Tax Bill . " Other Aldermen received practical indications yesterday that it would not be easy to shift responsibility for the business tax to Mayor LaGuardia by-passing ' it in a hurry as he requested . All the Aldermen1 face election this Fall and several found yesterday that candidates for their seats had already seized on the tax as an issue . Leopold Rossi , who is contesting the Democratic nomination in the Thirty-second Aldermanic District of Brooklyn , was one who declared against the tax . Among the Democratic Aldermen , who constitute the majority of the board , there was increased doubt yesterday as to the political wisdom of the original plan to give Mayor LaGuardia his business tax as fast as he wanted and thereby put him " in a hole " with organized business . The majority Aldermen began to fear they were occupying the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their homes . The suggestion gained ground that a better way to embarrass the Mayor after all might be to block his business tax and get the credit for saving business and the cost of living , - or that the Democratic Aldermen might at least grant the requested week 's postponement to business and wait and see . Whalen to Broadcast . The protesting business organizations , in addition to directing telegrams and letters to the home addresses of each of the sixty-five Aldermen and circulating petitions to be deposited at City Hall , have arranged for a broadcast tonight by Mr. Whalen over station WOR to report to the public what happened at aldermanic hearing . " In March of this year , " Mr. Whalen said , " the Sales Tax Committee conducted a referendum among consumers on the question , ' Are ' ou in favor of the sales tax ? ' Within a week we had received 139,361 votes against it and only 2,380 for it . No public official can mistake the temper of the people . Just as they were against the sales tax , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very similar reasons . " The Sales Tax Committee of One Thousand made public a number of quotations from speeches by Mayor LaGuardia when he was a Representative as recorded in the Congressional Record . On March 12 , 1932 , Mr. LaGuardia , said : " A sales tax by any other name is just as odious even if it is called a manufacturer 's tax . The manufacturer is going to pass it on to the ultimate consumer . There are three ways only of paying a sales tax of this sort : first , the consumer ; second , if absorbed , it is taken out of wages ; third , it is taken out of the cost of raw materials . Undesirable in any way . " Quoted From Mills . On March 17 , 1932 , Mr. LaGuardia read into the Congressional Record- a statement made a few months earlier by Ogden L. Mills , then Under-Secretary of the Treasury , which said : " The Treasury had rejected a general sales tax , or turnover tax , not only because it bears no relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the enormous administrative difficulties and the almost inevitable pyramiding of the tax in the course of successive sales . " Methods of financing relief mehtioned yesterday as alternatives to the business tax were a bond issue , a municipal lottery and - an occupational tax on ? those who ern their living in New York but reside and spend their earnings elsewhere , as well as the 2-cent subway tax . In a letter addressed to the Mayor , the suggestion was made yesterday by Dr. Harry W. Laidler , Socialist candidate for Controller , to have the State increase the income tax in the higher brackets , to tax the surplus , but not the deposits of savings banks , and the net income of commercial ' banks , and to tax public utilities more heavily .                     