@@702123

txt In a speech addressed primarily to the South , President Roosevelt told thousands of persons at a great " Green Pastures Rally " today that the depression had been conquered without any infringement by the Federal Government on the rights of the States . The Federal Government , he said , had only exercised the functions which it alone could utilize , and thereby had removed " from the red and into the black , " in bookkeeping terminology , most corporations , agriculturists and wage earners and the great majority of State , county and municipal governments . Speaking in religious phrases , he quoted a portion ef the Twenty-third Psalm and stated in allegorical terms that the New Deal had guided the United States back into the " green pastures " of security . " I speak to you today , " he said , " as common-sense American men and women . You will agree that from the material aspect this nation 's consuming power has been rapidly restored . I trust that you will likewise agree that better conditions on the farms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading us to the spiritual figure of the Psalmist , green pastures and still waters . " Shower Soaks Roosevelt No speech has been delivered by Mr. Roosevelt under more adverse circumstances of weather , but this condition seemed to heighten the reaction to his talk rather than to hurt it . The President spoke while standing drenched through by a heavy shower that struck here at 5:45 P. M. ( E. S. T. ) , just about the time he , in his open car , began to drive through the city . His listeners , numbering between 35,000 and 50,000 , who packed all of the 16,000 seats in a new municipal stadium , stood shoulder to shoulder in its open bowl and in all of the surrounding streets , were equally wet , but apparently unmindful of the weather . The rain slackened to a drizzle only a few seconds before Mr. Roosevelt stepped before the micro-phones arranged to carry his speech to every part of the country , and a rainbow stretched for a while across the sky . The speech came as a climax to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party drove 140 miles from Asheville . Mr. Roosevelt left there after expressing appreciation for his reception and then plunged into a series of sporadic demonstrations in every town through which he passed , including strike-torn Gastonia . Political Elements in Speech While the speech here had been announced as another " non-political " utterance by the President , it contained in it almost every element which is expected to enter into the direct campaign arguments he will begin using soon . Since the speech was delivered in the South he put the first emphasis on the results of the agricultural program in raising the prices of cotton and tobacco . From there he went on to describe benefits given to workers , principally through the National Recovery Act , and finally he dwelt on the solvency of governmental subdivisions as a result of the upturn in values in business and agriculture . Some observers saw in his statement of a combination of improved conditions , or what he termed in a recent extemporaneous talk an " integrated whole , " a hint of the arguments he will use to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the provision of more jobs for workers . President Roosevelt quoted from the Twenty-third Psalm the passage , " He maketh me to lie down in green pastures ; He leadeth me beside the still waters , " to emphasize the axiom that " happiness is most often described in terms of the simple ways of nature , rather than in the complex ways of man 's fabrications . " " The ancient kings and prophets reverted , just as we do today , " he observed , " to the good earth and the still waters whey they idealized security of the body and mind . " Dwelling momentarily on the Implications in the words " green pastures " to the farmers in the drought area , and on the meaning of " still waters " to those who dwell in Eastern regions periodically swept by floods , the President took up his favorite topic of conservation . " If history . gives a name to the age in which we are , living , " he said , " I hope it will call this the era of rebuilding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we , in our generation , start to rebuild , the Americans of a century hence will have lost the greater part of their natural and national heritage . " Relates Cotton Price Aims As a person who had lived long in the South , the President argued that he knew the problems of this section swell , pointing out with a laugh that he once became a columnist for a:Georgia newspaper in order to fight for conservation of farm wbodlots . Speaking as one with practical farming experience , he said he long ago developed the conviction that cotton was a speculative crop . Mr. Roosevelt revealed that he had set an objective for cotton prices , based on elimination of excessive surpluses , in 1933 , when he told Secretary Wallace he wished to raise the price of cotton to 10 cents a pound " during our first year in office , " and to get 12 cents a pound for growers in the next three years of the administration . " I ask you in simple fairness , " he continued , " have we attained that goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applause from Southerners who had seen the 1932 crop of their great staple drop as low as 5 cents . In the case of tobacco , the President said he had the same objective ' to obtain for farmers prices that would yield " a reasonably decent living out of their main crops " so that they could afford to cooperate in the " second step " of modernizing production methods . Second Steps Under Way " Today , because of better prices for farm commodities , " Mr. Roosevelt went on , " we are actually and actively engaged in taking these second steps . Not only have we aroused a public understanding and approval of the need of ending soil erosion and water run-off , but we have enabled the public , through a practical prosperity , to begin to pay their debts , to paint their houses , to buy farm tools and automobiles , to send more boys and girls through school and college , to put some money in the bank and , incidentally , to know for the first time that the money in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to aid the South , Mr. Roosevelt broadened his topic to include the national picture and to argue for the benefits which he stated that his administration had given . to the country as a whole through a generally higher wage level . The President said that he thought the National Recovery Act , although since invalidated by the Supreme Court , " during its short term of life accomplished as much for the restoration of prosperity through the establishment of the minimum wage , the shortening of ho , rs and the elimination of child labor , as any law put on the statute books of the Federal Government in the past century . " In this statement he hit particularly at the old industrial methods and low wages and a farm tenantry system of the South , arguing that " a family that tries to subsist on a total wage income of $400 a year is just as much a drag on the prosperity of America as the farm family that seeks to subsist on a yearly cash income of $100 . " Growth in Business Cited As proof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of- the great mail order houses reported the greatest increases in sales in 1934 as occurring in the South , after the NRA operated to increase wages , especially in the textile mills , parallel with the enhancement of crop values that year . Turning from the field of agricultural and business economy to that of government finances , the President contrasted the low state of tax receipts , Federal , State , county and municipal , four years ago with their condition today . Stating as his " original thesis " in 1933 the belief that agricultural and crop values anti the wages of workers had to be built up " if that now historic corner was ever to be turned , " Mr. Roosevelt said : " History will record that by the year 1936 a very much larger number of individuals are back in the black , so are most of our small business men , so are most of our corporations and so are almost all of our municipal and county and State governments . " History will also record that individuals and corporations and governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than at any time in the history of the American Republic . " Hailed as Next President President Roosevelt was presented to the crowd , which had waited while the weather detained him more than half an hour , by Governor Ehringhaus , who spoke of him as follows : " Voicing , as I know I do , their undoubted adoration and affection , I present to a grateful and gracious people the Gideon of Democracy , who worthily wears its shield and buckler and valiantly wields the shining sword of its consecrated service , our leader , our captain courageous , our present and next President . " This introduction was sufficient in itself to dispel the last atom of " non-political " atmosphere which might have lingered in the crowd . Seated on the platform behind the President , already aware of the introduction Governor Ehringhaus would make , were , among others , Governors Sholtz of Florida , of Tennessee , Johnson of South Carolina , and Senators Bailey and Reynolds of North Carolina , Byrnes of South Caroline . and and Bachman of Tennessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The delegates to today 's rally were said to have come from seven States , North and South Carolina , Virginia , Georgia , Florida , Tennessee and Alabama . The organization of this rally was begun more than a year ago to demonstrate the loyalty of the old South to President Roosevelt in contrast with the " grass roots " convention held at that time by Governor Talmadge or Georgia . Addresses 10,000 in Asheville Mr. Roosevelt left Asheville for the long drive to Charlotte at noon , after speaking briefly to Berne 10,000 or more persons who gathered in McCormack Park , a baseball field , to greet him and bid him farewell . The President had spent yesterday touring the Great Smoky Mountain National Park and had slept last night at Grove Park Inn , at Asheville . The forenoon was bright and clear and gave no hint of impending bad weather , and the President spoke from the open tonneau of his car to the throng at Asheville . " Yesterday and today , " he said there , " I am carrying out a promise I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , the last time I was in Asheville , I wanted to go up into the Smokies . " He laughed as he recalled that such a trip would have been impossible then in an automobile " or even in a horse and buggy . " The President then added that he hoped to come back for another visit , " but whether as a public servant or as a private citizen makes little difference . " From Asheville Mr. Roosevelt and his party drove about thirty miles to Lake Lure , a hill-locked expanse of water where luncheon had been prepared for the party , at a resort lodge . Mr. Roosevelt and his son John sat at a table for four set on the lawn of the lodge , as the guests of Governor and Mrs. Ehringhaus , while the remainder of the party , about fifty persons , were served in the dining room . Here , during luncheon , the first clouds appeared , and when departure was taken at about 1:30 P. M. , the police escort speeded up to miss what were anticipated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed through Rutherfordton , Spindale and Forest City , all grouped around cotton spinning mills , where employes ' were enjoying a half-holiday , and children had been released from school . Instead of seeking shelter these people , aggregating several thousands , stood in closely packed ranks at the edge of the road , their clothes soaked , merely to catch a glimpse of the President and cheer as he rode by . Drenched in Downpour The worst of the rain had ceased by the time Mr. Roosevelt reached Shelby , but persons waiting there obviously had stood through a heavy downpour , and the same sight was repeated at Kings Mountain and finally Gastonia , only twenty-one miles from Charlotte . The President was far behind schedule at Gastonia , reaching there when he was supposed to be at the stadium in Charlotte , but he rode at a fairly slow pace ' through many streets of this city , cutting off from the main thoroughfare to visit the " mill town " section , where he received a great ovation . After passing through Gastonia. he made a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established for crippled children . At this point , the rain having stopped a quarter hour before the President arrived , it had been ' possible for nurses to move about thirty of the young patients ' beds out on the terrace by the road , so that they could at close view see the President , who had suffered from disability much akin to their own . Mr. Roosevelt made no speech there , but he remained for two or three minutes , waving to the youngsters , who in their turn called out greetings to him . With the pause in the rain the procession stopped once more so that the top of the President 's automobile could be put down for his ride into Charlotte . The job was not completed before more drops began to fall , but when chauffeurs and Secret Service men started to put the top up again , he said , " Leave it down . " For a while the renewed rain was little more than a shower , but just as Mr. Roosevelt entered the city limits of Charlotte , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stadium , the skies literally began to Pour . Thus , in a soaked blue suit , with his collar wrinkled and his tie a shapeless string , the President waved a wet and battered hat at the throngs who lined the streets of the city . His action caught the imagination of the crowd , and persons called to him , " ' At 's a boy , " and other exclamations such as , " You can take it . " Immediately after his speech Mr. Roosevelt went to a special train awaiting him here , the one that carried him from Washington to Knoxville , Tenn. , where he began his tour yesterday morning . He left for Washington at 7:10 P. M. ( Central standard time ) , facing a busy day in Washington tomorrow , including the delivery of an important speech before the International Power Conference , holding a convention there .                     