@@700895

txt Secretary of Treasury Henry Morgenthau , Jr . was named by President Roosevelt yesterday to supervise the flow of loans through the score of channels the government is using in its attempt to pump money and credit into the country . His title will be coordinator of lending agencies . This step lifts him to a plane with Donald R. Richberg , who. as direcimr of the emergency council , is charged with the duty of quickening the recovery of business tied industry . Tnese two men virtually become chief counsellors of the New DeaL Morgenthau will head a subcommittee of the emergency council . It will attempt to smooth out difficulties that arise when so many federal agencies are engaged in lending and granting money . Other members of the committee are Secrets ' -y of Interior Ickes , who also serves a the C , presenta.tive of the emergency administration . ot public works and of the emergency public works housing administration ; W. I. Myers , governor of the FCA ; John H. Fahey , who represents the Federal Home Loan Bank Board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . administrator of the AAA . George N. Peek. president of the export-import bank . Lynn P. Talley . president of the Commodity Credit Corp. ; Leo T. Crowley. chairman of the FDIC . Jesse H. Jones , RFC chairman : Marriner S. Eccles. governor Federal Reserve Board , and James A. Moftat. federal housing administrator . The President stressed that through this committee he hoped to avoid over-lapping activities on the part of these multiple lending agencies . Jones Plan ? ? - In Old Theory ' President Roosevelt stated Wedne. ' sty that the plan of Marvin Jones , chairman of House Agriculture Committee , for revising the agricultural control laws . especially with respect to cotton to provide for benefit payl. , ents on production for domestic use and leaving production for export free from r est r ? c Lions was an old theory . The President made the statement in reply to questions as to his view : : on the sub-it et . Queried as to whether there was anything new regarding a prospective government post for Robert . M. Hutchins. president of the ' University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could say respecting this situation at this time . President Roosevelt stated that the question of dissolving the HOLC insofar as lending power Is concerned must await decision in January He said not too much should be written about this subject at this time , leaving the door open for either continuance or abolition of the agency next year according to the emergency necessities at that time . Queried as to whether the HOLC decision tr ? receive no more loan applications reflected a desire on his part to wind up all lending agencies , he replied that it would be premature to say that npw . It is likewise too early to draw the conclusion that the HOLC action can be duplicated by the farm credit administration , be warned . In answer to questions , President Roosevelt asserted that he doubted if the Department of Commerce foreign trade service would be expanded in any way in connection with reciprocal tariff moves and general foreign trade improvement efforts .                     