@@699344

txt By his proposals for a reorganization of the structure of the New York City government and their seemingly favorable acceptance by the public , former Governor Alfred E. Smith has automatically stepped into the leadership of those who wish to wrest control of the city government from the present leadership of Tammany Hall . Mr. Smith 's suggestions for the consolidation of offices , a step designed to prevent waste and bring about increased economy and efficiency in administration , has been accepted in Tammany as an indication that Mr. Smith may be willing to join in a movement to weaken the leadership of John P. Curry , to whose election as leader Mr. Smith was opposed , or even to join with disgruntled elements in Tammany to oust Mr. Curry from the leadership . It is the general opinion , even in Tammany , that events of the last six months have weakened Mr. Curry 's grasp on the leadership greatly . It is the belief of many in Tammany that Mr. Curry has erred in judgment on almost every occasion during that time and no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his power . Mr. Curry opposed the nomination of Governor Roosevelt for President at the Democratic National Convention . Governor Roosevelt was nominated . He opposed thelomination of Lieut . Gov . Herbert I. Lehman for Governor at the State Convention at Albany . Colonel Lehman was nominated and Mr. Curry was deserted , not only by John H. McCooey , his Brooklyn ally , but even by some of his own district leaders . Walker Case Hurt Curry . The resignation of former Mayor James J. Walker , while under charges , also dealt a blow to Mr. Curry 's leadership . Mr. Curry , it was reported , and not denied , had agreed to renominate Mr. Walker for Mayor but was unable to keep this promise . Mr. Curry picked Surrogate John P. O'Brien for Mayor and Mr. O'Erien was elected . But 232,501 voters indicated their dissatisfaction with the Tammany government of the city by writing in the name of Acting Mayor Joseph V. , whom Mr. Curry refused to nominate for Mayor . There are few in Tammany who believe that the organization will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his administration should turn out to be better than generally expected . Mr. Smith has long been credited with a desire to dominate Tammany and to attempt some measure of reform from the inside . It is not generally believed ' that he desires the titular leadership , but there is another way to gain control of Tammany than by the prescribed method of election by the district leaders . The election of a Democratic Mayor unfriendly to Mr. Curry would make his leadership of little value , and the real leader of the Democratic party would be either this Democratic Mayor or the man who brought about his election . Mr. Smith , In the opinion . of some of the most astute members of Tammany , might obtain control of Tammany either by being elected Mayor himself or by backing Mr. for the Democratic nomination for Mayor and bringing about his nomination . Should either Mr. Smith or Mr. become the Democratic nominee for Mayor , it was held , his election would be certain . Believe Smith Might Be Drafted . Mr. Smith has told friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The sincerity of this declaration at this time is not doubted . But many of Mr. Smith 's friends believe that he can be drafted at a time when the city 's financial situation in particular and the political and business situation in general demand a strong man at the helm . Development of a demand for him to accept the Mayoralty is certain , and in the present situation neither his nomination on the Democratic ticket nor his election would seem to be doubtful , regardless of possible opposition from Mr. Curry . A movement for him would be started overnight by business and real estate interests , , with tremendous popular support , if there should be the slightest indication that he would run . Persons familiar with politics and with an intimate knowledge of Mr. Smith 's methods of reasoning , believe that when the time comes he will be more likely to run for Mayor than to back Mr. . For one thing , his nomination would be virtually certain , while Mr. , even though backed by Mr. Smith , might be beaten in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fact , the nomination of Mr. Smith for Mayor in the Democratic primaries would appear to be so certain that it is not likely that Mr. Curry would dare to name a candidate against him but wouldNadvocate his nomination instead . Would Ignore Titular Leader . Once Mr. Smith were elected Mayor , it would make little difference during the next four years who was the titular leader of Tammany Hall . There would be no orders to City Hall from Seventeenth Street and Mr. Smith as Mayor would be the " boss . " The same would be true if Mr. should be elected Mayor on the Democratic ticket , but Mr. at City Hall would not have the same dominance over Tammany that Mr. Smith would have . There is little reason to believe that Mr. Smith would join in any antiTammany fusion movement connected with the Republicans . He always has been an organization Democrat , was elected Governor four times as such and has been the party 's nominee for President . Mr. , on the other hand , might accept a Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight in the Democratic primaries , particularly if he should ? have the backing of Mr. , Smith . The majority of the district leaders of Tammany would not ** to see either Mr. Smith or Mr. elected Mayor next Fall , but they might prefer either to a Republican or an anti-organization Democrat . Fear of the passing of the political scepter to the Bronx would make them extremely reluctant to accept Mr. . Mr. Smith is a real Manhattanite and a product of Tammany and would be very acceptable to its rank and film There is little doubt in the minds of many members of Tammany that Mr. Smith can have the Mayoralty , and the only question to them is whether he will take it .                     