@@700314

txt A . sloreland investigation of the State Insurance Department 's administration of mortgage guarantee companies was ordered by Governor Lehman in Albany yesterday immediately after it had been requested by George S. Van Schaick , State Superintendent of insurance , in a letter to the Governor . Mr. Van Schaick , informed of the Governor 's action just before he departed for Washington to seek relief from the RFC for distressed certificate holders , made this com-ment : " That 's fine . " At the offices of the State Insurance Department it was explained that an impartial investigation was I desired to allay the fears of certificate holders who might have been induced to sacrifice their securities in a " gyp market " by recent propaganda on the mortgage situation . Meanwhile , Charles S. Colden , District Attorney of Queens , announced that he had appointed two assistants to organize a bureau to receive complaints . The Bronx County grand jury is investigating its third case of the alleged improper sale of mortgage and guarantee securities . In the first two cases the Bronx grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to divulge any names . With a large number of complaints already received , Mr. Colden has appointed T .. Vincent Quinn arid J. Irwin Shapiro to take charge of the special investigating bureau . The two Assistant District Attorneys have conferred with representatives of the Attorney General 's local office concerning the proper method of obtaining evidence and drawing complaints . Investors are appearing at the special complaint bureau in Queens independently and by direction of the insurance department . VAN SCHAICK 'S LETTER . In his letter to Governor Lehman , Mr. Van Schaick said : " I appreciate greatly your confidence as expressed in your cordial and helpful letter of yesterday . " You appreciate the magnitude of the problem and responsibility placed upon this department . " From time to time I shall communicate with you further through interim reports keeping you informed as to the progress of the proceedings with especial reference to the matters referred to in your Iletter and in answer to your question as to further assistr.nce by you . " As it ) the investigation of im- proper practices I shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters disclosed call for appropriate action by him . " I am in close personal touch with efforts at Washington to provide some simple workable arrangement for advances to certificate and other guarantee holders . I am fully in accord with your expressions as to the imperative importance of speedy relief to the public in that respect . It is my belief that substantial progress is being made . Statutory Revision - Urged . " There is , however , a wider aspect of this whole matter that I want to lay before you at this time . The administrative policy of this department , so vast in its ramifications , together with the conduct and policy of this department in the period prior to the rehabilitation program , is of vital interest and concern . In addition to this the need of statutory revision to meet a new situation is presented by the economic crisis in this field and calls for searching and exhaustive study . " I most earnestly urge the exercise by you of your powers as Chief Executive under Section 8 of the Executive Law in the appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigating the management and affairs of this department in relation to this whole problem of the mortgage guarantee companies . " The appointment of such an impartial commissioner with ample facilities to make sweeping inquiry as to the administration of the Insurance Department in this field in the light of the powers given by statute and the facilities provided under the budget , for such etonstructive action on your part and on the part of the department as may be indicated , will be of inestimable public benefit . " I assure you that as your Superintendent of Insurance , I would welcome the most thorough and sweeping investigation possible of the conduct and administrative policy of the department . " Bondholders ' Case Heard . Supreme Court Justice William T. Collins reserved decision yesterday on the application of Mrs. Bertha W. Lann to examine officials of the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company and - the Prudence Company , Inc. , before .. trial of her action against both companies to remove the trust company as trustee of the collateral given by the Prudence Company to secure an outstanding issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suing on behalf of herself and other bondholders , Mrs. Lann demands that the trust company be required to pay a judgment of $4 , - 080,835 , the net value of a mortgage which she alleges that the trust company accepted as part of the collateral for the bonds when the mortgage was unacceptable as collateral . Mrs. Lann further demands that the trust company pay $700,000 which she alleges it permitted the Prudence Company to withdraw from collateral after the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals had refused to sanction such withdrawsil . She ' asks that the trust company be compelled to pay 6 per cent interest on $4,800,000 in cash on deposit with the collateral . Certificate holders who have invested between . $2,000,000,000 and $3,000,000,000 . in the securities put out by the mortgage and title companies , including many who repeatedly have visited the offices of the State Superintendent of Insurance with tales of distress , were heartened when they learned that Mr. Van Schaick was going to Washington last night to consult with officials of the RFC with reference to advances to certificate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was very hopeful of success in his mission . Max Steuer , who has brought an action before Supreme Court Justice Alfred Frankenthaler to replace the Superintendent of Insurance with trustees to administer the affairs of mortgage guaranty companies defaulting on their issues , declined to comment on Mr. Van Schaick 's move for a Moreland investigat ion . Joseph Nemerov , counsel for the Mortgage Bond Protectorate , 521 Fifth Avenue , who is ' supporting Mr. Steuer 's effort , had this to say : " If a Moreland investigation is held it should serve to reveal things as they existed when the mortgage and guaranty companies with all their assets frozen continued to sell bonds and mortgages while the Superintendent of Insurance did nothing to stop them . " The companies should be called to account and compelled to show what they did with all that money . ' The Investigation should serve to , bring- some kind of relief to the certificate holders . It would , perhaps , cause the certificate holders to have more confidence in his securities and prevent him from sacrificing them in- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has referred . " I still hope that the Federal courts will take charge and admin-. aster the properties represented by the underlying bond issues in the interest of the certificate holders through trustees accountable to the , court . " Samuel J. Schur of Greenbaumt Petitioning certificate holders . - against hysteria , the Real Estate Board. , ( if : ' Nevi ' York issued this statement : , Tire Rea Estate Board is deeply concerned . by unwarranted statements calculated . to - upset the minds - of holders of guaranteed mortgage certificates , into which they have put their savings , that their investments are worthless . " An intimation or statement that first mortgage or participation certificates in first mortgages on New York City real estate have no value is so far from the true state of facts that it seems almost impossible that any responsible person would dare to make it . " Such mortgage or mortgage certificates , of course , depending upon the size of the mortgage or the amount of the issue and the properties securing them have a difference of value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortgages with such participating certificates , in fact a high percentage of them , t.re today paying their operating costs , taxes and the full interest rate on the mortgages , and undoubtedly when conditions better themselves will be able to satisfy the mortgages 100 cents on the dollar . - " Many other properties which have not , been in so satisfactory a position are now benefiting by expert supervision and - management , and the earnings to be applied or interest payments are increasing . " This is no time for hysterics or the part of the holders of those mortgages or mortgage certificates , nor for relaxing ' .. he efforts of those who are honestly trying to help them . The situation is already badly muddled , and it is not being helped by " those who for their own reasons are interjecting themselves into the situation with ill-advised utterances .. It is the advice of the Real Estate Board of New York that holders of suet : Mortgage certificates exercise the greatest caution about depositing them with an , -1 , individual or firin ; " Wolff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of certificate holders organizing under the Schackno Bill to protect their interests , pledged his cooperation in.the investigation ordered by the Governor . Morris L. Ernst of that firm is counsel to Superintendent Van Schaick . " As far . as the clients we represent ? are concerned , " said Mr. Schur , " we will be glad to furnish any records at our disposal and cooperate with the commissioner to , the fullest . " Samuel L. Chess , 17 John Street , who with Samuel Untermyer represents certificate holders with investments . aggregating well over $1,000,000 in. the case of S. W. Straus &; Co. , which before the courts , . said , he woul be happy to give any information or - suggestion 's of help to a Moreland investigation . . Warning.Against Hysteria .                     