@@701503

txt It may be doubted whether Italians were really convinced of the inevitability of sanctions until today . Up to yesterday most of them were willing to concede cheerfully enough that they thought the discussions at Geneva had taken such a turn the League had not much option but to take measures of some sort . But the very cheerfulness with which this opinion was expressed showed hope still existed , however faintly , that something might happen at the last minute to avert this danger . Today even this faint hope vanished with the vote at Geneva , and Italians realized for the first time that not only will sanctions be applied but that possibly they may be more severe than expected . The first symptoms of real uneasiness are visible in Italian public opinion . Whenever people meet their first question is to ask the latest news from Geneva , and from there their conversations naturally turn to asking themselves what Premier Mussolini will do . Faces Growing Longer . The cheerful confidence with which the future was considered is no longer so much in evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of touch with international affairs are beginning to understand that difficult and perhaps dangerous times are ahead . It is noteworthy , however , that . among the many different ways out of the present situation one hears suggested on all sides . the one which is advanced least frequently is that Italy abandon her East African venture . Those who believe the League of Nations will find the strength and unanimity necessary to oblige Italy to withdraw empty-handed from Africa are still in an infinitesimal minority . Almost every one is of the opinion that dissension will begin at Geneva as soon as the . first attempt is made to set down 1 in black and white the actual measures that are to be taken . The majority , when asked to consider the possibility that severe sanctions may eventually be applied , reply that Italy must get ready to fight rather than withdraw from Africa . This state of Italian public opinion is a factor in the situation that must be held in due account . The campaign in East Africa is no longer merely the focus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and demographic problems that beset her but has become a matter of national pride . " Disgrace " Is Feared . The general feeling is that Italy can not withdraw , however much pressure may be brought to bear upon her , because if she did so she would be everlastingly disgraced before the whole world . To recall the troops from Africa , especially now that they have won their first successes , is regarded as utterly inconceivable . Rather than to do such a thing most Italians are ready ? as long as their present mood lasts  --  to fight any power or all powers which attempt to interfere with her . It Is possible , of course , that public opinion may change gradually as the hard realities of the situation are driven home . But as things stand at present there is no doubt that Italian public opinion in the vast majority is favorable to going ahead whatever the cost may be . Even Britain 's 420,000 tons of warships in the Mediterranean have not proved an effective deterrent . And Mussolini , whose ear is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and crosscurrents of public sentiment , can not but be aware how tremendously disappointed the Italian nation would be if he gave any sign of wavering at this juncture . Two Main Hopes . As they look into the future , Italians have two main hopes . The first is that the nations at Geneva may never reach agreement about the measures to be applied . Many nations , it is pointed out , are very brave when it is merely a matter of speeches , but are less brave when called on to run actual and immediate risks for the principle of international collaboration . In any case it is believed Premier Laval of France can be relied upon to do his very best to see that the sanctions which may be eventually approved are kept within reasonable limits . The second hope springs from the fact that both Premier Laval and Anthony Eden , British Minister for League of Nations Affairs , in their Geneva speeches have made broad and obvious references to the possibility still existing that a satisfactory compromise may he reached between Italy , France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are placed in conjunction with a statement made by the spokesman for the Italian Foreign Ministry that though military operations in East Africa undoubtedly will continue , this does not exclude the possibility of diplomatic negotiations between the three principally interested European powers . From all this an inference is drawn that negotiations between London , Paris and Rome are still in progress , and may still succeed in solving the present situation . Viewpoints Still Far Apart . It is pointed out , on the other hand , that the British and Italian viewpoints are still so very far apart that the probability of a way being found to reconcile them is so faint as to be almost nil . It is furthermore declared by some that the negotiations would be made very much more difficult if sanctions became operative before they were concluded . Even a compromise which might be considered acceptable by Italy today would become unacceptable when sanctions had been applied , has been attacked as well as in Africa , where our soldiers , however , have advanced to solve the situation . " The Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ethiopia , though virtually broken , were not yet actually so . Both the Italian Minister to Addis Ababa and the Ethiopian envoy to Rome have received their passports , but have not yet left their posts . Commenting on today 's League proceedings , the spokesman said with irony : " Laval 's speech was very calm and able and entirely in accordance with what Italy wished . Eden 's speech was violent , bitter and entirely in accordance with what Italy expected . " because Italy 's pride would suffer ' from the appearance that she was being driven by force into welcoming any terms she could obtain . It is thought , in other words , that the first effect of sanctions would be to increase rather than decrease Italian intransigeance . The League continues to be the main object of Italian hate . Of interest in this connection were the words with which the correspondent of the newspaper Messagero opened his dispatch describing yesterday 's proceedings at Geneva . Dislike of Geneva Told . " When one returns to Geneva from Italy , " he said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of repugnance and disgust at setting foot again in this home of the League , which brings a caravanserai a large hotel or inn where a caravan rests for the night to mind . " Then one is seized almost by a sense of shame and humiliation at having been sent up here , and one would almost beg the readers ' pardon for an intention they may perhaps attribute to us Geneva correspondents of wishing to distract their attention from the reports of our happier and more fortunate colleagues who have been sent to ' Africa to follow the victorious ad-1 vance of our troops . " But Geneva is also for us Italians a battlefront , and the phases and developments of this absurd . bad , underhanded , vile and disloyal guerrilla must be set down on paper in order that the attitude of each nation may stand in the light of this historical moment . " The chains of committees , which are renewed and follow each other from one morning to the next , from one afternoon to the next , have in vain handed down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would have been sufficient for the gentlemen sitting on these committees to have looked each other in the face or to have remembered their instigators and they would have no difficulty in finding the real aggressor . " The League is the real aggressor . It is the League that here in Geneva has attacked or attempted to attack Italy on Britain 's instigation and on the instigation of the sorry band of Socialist and Masonic anti-Fascists who still have the secretariat in their hands . It is here , here in Geneva , that Italy                     