@@700258

txt One of the Following the report of the Hofstadter committee , of which he was a member , Assemblyman MOFFAT submitted a new draft charter to the Legislature . When it was defeated he joined with Senator DESMOND in proposing a local referendum on charter revision , only to see that measure also go down to defeat , in spite of its support by Governor LEHMAN . It was at this point that Mayor O'BRIEN introduced his " lame-duck " Charter Commission Bill in the Municipal Assembly , which in turn was defeated at the recent election , leaving the field open to a new approach . In an address at Yale the other day Judge SEABURY observed that the reforms to which the administration is committed will require the cooperation of the Legislature of the State or of the Municipal Assembly of the city . In both these bodies opposition is to be anticipated , because there are strong forces in both of them which will be interested in the return of machine government and opposed to any reforms which will tend to make nonpartisan governm'e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revisions important structural changes in the government of New York City should be made so as to eliminate useless boards , bureaus , departments and officials . The administrative affairs of the city must be coordinated and redistributed so as to eliminate expensive and ineffective overlapping of functions which now exists . Shall revision be attempted this time by legislative fiat , or through a commission specially appointed for that purpose , or at the hands of the Municipal ' Assembly , with suitable provision in any event for a popular referendum ? There is a difference of opinion on that question . It was reported that at a dinner given by Mr. CHADBOURNE to the successful Fusion candidates immediately after election " the consen " Zus was that the 1934 Legislature " should enact a new charter to obviate " the delay that would result if the " task were turned over to a local " commission . " Senator DESMOND announced his sympathy with that reasoning . From the Canal Zone word came a few days ago , however , that Major LAGUARDIA would " ask the Leg " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission , whose " report would be submitted to the " voters at a special election in the " middle of the year . " While it is not a matter to be determined offhand , and there are strong arguments of a practical order for leaning heavily on the Legislature , especially in the initial phases , some such arrangement as Mr. LAGUARDiA proposes has much to commend it . So long as Tammany was in power an appeal to Albany was the only recourse . With Fusion in the saddle , another attempt at home rule might be again in order . Nor has there been the full popular discussion of some of the more controversial proposals which their importance warrants . Only a few experts , like Governor SMITH and GEORGE MCANENY , appeared at the so-called " constructive " hearings before the legislative committee . Judge SEABURY 'S suggestions had to be rather hurriedly thrown together ; his gun was loaded for bigger game . Now that the hunters are home again , there is a fine opportunity to conduct an inquiry into needed changes in local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposure or electioneering . Such a commission would serve both to sift the various reforms and to educate the public as to the need for their adoption .                     