@@698398

txt President Hoover was at his desk early this morning perfecting his plan of campaign for the earliest possible action by Congress on his entire economic program . The President , it was stated at the White isiouse , will exert all the influence at his command for the prompt passage of the bills to create the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , increase the capitalization of the Federal Land Bank System , enlarge the discount facilities of the Federal Reserve System , revise the banking laws to afford greater security to depositors , and increase taxation which he regards as necessary in the existing financial emergency . The President , it was stated , had ended his holiday . One of the moves to expedite legislation will be frequent conferences during the holiday period with leaders of both parties in the Senate and House in the course of which the President will stress the need of quick action on the relief program which , it was declared , was " uppermost in the President 's mind ' at this time . " The first of the President 's conferences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranking minority member of the Committee on Banking and Currency , and Senator Swanson of Virginia , who will be one of the members of the delegation to the general disarmament conference at Geneva . The talk with Senator Fletcher had to do with the economic legislative program , and that with Senator Swanson with the disarmament problem . Mr. Hoover also will find time to discuss with Ambassador llawes , Senator Swanson and Miss Woolley the questions which will come up for the consideration of the nations at Geneva . Plans Individual Conferences . The holiday conferences with Republican and Democratic leaders will be mostly of an individual nature . It is not expected that any large breakfast consultations will be arranged while Congress is in recess . Instead , the President will talk with the leaders one by one , among them Speaker Garner ; the majority leader , Mr. Rainey ; Chairman Collier of the Ways and Means Committee ; Chairman Byrns of the Committee on Appropriations ; Representative Snell , the minority leader ; Representative Hawley , ranking Republican on the Ways and Means Committee , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee . The Senators will include Senator Watson , the majority leader ; Senator Robinson , the minority leader , if he returns to Washington in advance of the reconvening of Congress , and key members of the Committees on Finance , Banking and Currency and Agriculture . So far the President has not fixed the time for his contemplated conferences . For the next few- days he will devote most of his time to a study of the whole situation . The conference today with Senator Fletcher , it was said , was an " unscheduled " though welcome one . On leaving the White House Senator Fletcher said that the President was confident of the enactment of his program and added that in his own opinion " all the measures will be enacted promptly and substantially in the form recommended to Congress . " Senator Fletcher is a member of the subcommittee of the Committee on Banking and Currency , now whipping the - Reconstruction Finance Corporation legislation into shape for presentation to the Senate . He said that the members of the committee are in virtual agreement on all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the matter of the Federal Land Banks , Senator Fletcher said that the ' increase in capitalization might be fixed at $125,000,000 . As passed by the House of Representatives , the bill provides for an increase of $100 , - 000,000 . Senator Fletcher expressed the opinion that this legislation would prove a great boon to agriculture . Asked if he thought that Congress by-recessing for so long a- period has delayed the enactment of the relief program , Senator Fletcher reVied in the negative . ; While he had favored a short recess , he expressed the belief that the longer recess would not materially delay action due to the fact that the committees in charge of the legislation are continuing with their work so as to have the measures ready for the floor soon after Congress reconvenes . Senator Swanson , who saw the President after Senator Fletcher left , said his talk , which was a short one , related to the Geneva conference . The discussion he described as general in character . Asked as to what he thought the outcome at Geneva would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are all hopeful , " he said , " that the burdens of armaments can be reduced . " Choice of Miss Woolley Praised . The President continues to receive many messages commending him for his appointment of Miss Mary Emma Woolley , president of Mount Holyoke College , as one of the American delegates . The National League of Woman Voters commended the appointment in the following statement : " The National League of Women Voters has always believed that women contribute a needed point of view to government , " said Miss Belle Sherwin , president . " It has , therefore , urged the appointment of qualified women to governmental positions in this country and upon commissions and other bodies having international representation . " In appointing Dr. Mary E. Woolley as a representative of the United States at the Geneva Conference the President not only recognizes her distinguished leadership and wide experience , but also the great interest of the women of the country in reducing armaments by international agreement as a means of guaran ? teeing world peace . " The President may name two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to be Hugh Gibson , Ambassador to Belgium , while the other probably will ' be a Republican Senator ,                     