@@704082

txt The perennial problem of water pollution by sewage deposits throughout Greater Boston was tackled before the Legislative Committee on Metropolitan Affairs this morning with a vigor that promised for the first time in 10 years of legislative discussions to bring victory to the towns and cities which have fought incessantly to remove this menace . Backed by officials of the United States Coast Guard who pointed out that under the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 , the dumping of raw sewage into navigable waters is a Federal offense , representatives from Quincy , Wollaston and other communities of the South Shore argued for the immediate construction of three sewerage plants in Boston Harbor , one each on Deer Island , Moonhcad Island and Nut Island . Rid Boston Harbor The sewerage plants in question were included in proposals by a special investigating commission of the Legislature , which also recommended that Boston Harbor be cleared of the refuse which pours into the Bay " at the rate of 250,000,000 gallons every 24 hours " and keeps the " bathing waters of Quincy beaches in varying degrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission today referred to their proposals that ** be expended at once to rid Boston Harbor of the sewerage menace . Of this sum , 614,695,000 would be spent for pollution prevention along streams pouring into Boston waters and S10,022,000 for the three sewerage disposal plants . The streams to be cleared would be the Charles , Mystic , Malden and Aberjona Rivers and the Alewife Brook . Urgency of Issue The urgency of the sewerage issue was emphasized by Representative J. L. Whitten of Quincy who said that it would take at least a year of concerted effort to remove the sewerage nuisance once these efforts are actively launched . Representative Thomas S. Durgin of the same city said that Quincy could well afford its share of the project even though the assessments would be large , since the benefits to the entire Quincy shore would be marked . At no time are Quincy waters free from sewerage deposits , he said . Declaring that the removal of pollution is the most important issue before the Legislature at this time , William A. Bradford , former mayor of Quincy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid enough to carry off the present disposals He described the Quincy waters as " concentrated sewerage . " Opposition came chiefly from Henry Parkman , Jr. , Corporation Counsel for the City of Boston , who said that his City 's finances did not justify any heavy outlays at this time . He proposed that the three plants might be built now and the stream projects be carried on later . The burden of the whole project , ' he said , would mean an assessment of ** upon Boston to be paid off in 40 years .                     