@@703058

txt A new British declaration on the unsolved Palestine problem , with plans for a new commission of inquiry . involving further long delays , has been issued id the form of a dispatch from Colonial Sect etary William G. A. Ormsbv-Gore to Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope. retiring High Commissioner in Palestine . The dispatch , which was published here today , indicates that an effort is to be made to meet objections raised , especially by the Arabs , to the " partition " scheme as put forward by the Peel Commission last , July . This scheme provided for the creation of independent Jewish and Arab states and the retention of a small British mandated at ea around Jerusalem , with corridor to the sea . The British Government states definitely that it is no sense committed to approval of the plan " of the Peel Commission , also , that it has not accepted the commission 's proposal for compulsory transfer in the last resort of Arabs limn Jewish to an Arab area . " It is hoped that this will tend to alleviate fears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transferred under the Peel scheme . Objection Met The dispatch also says that " 101 some time to come , any action taken will be of an exploratory nature . " This is to meet the point ? raised by the Pei manent Mandates Commission at Geneva , which opposed the idea of the immediate creation of the proposed independent states . The dispatch gives the tetras reference for a fact-finding commission as outlined by Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden at Geneva last July . This commission is to proceed to ' Palestine to look further into the entire question . It is hoped that it may start in March if the League Council appr oyes the scheme at its January meeting . While " taking into account " the Peel plan , the commission is to have " full liberty to suggest modifications of that plan . including variation of the areas recommended for ictention under British mandate . " , Among other tasks , it is " to recommend boundaries for the proposed Arab and Jewish areas . " It is also to investigate the problems of " inclusion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area and vice versa " and the " possibility of voluntary exchanges of land and population . " Regarded as Important These declarations al'e regarded as important for several reasons They show that the British Govei nmcnt is fully awake to the difficulties of the problem which  --  as was pointed out by the Mandates Commission  --  must arise from the transfer of population from Jewish to Arab territory if the partition plan is adopted . They show also that the Mandate Commission 's further recommendation of sonic " prolongation of the period of political apprenticeship constituted by the mandate " Is to be adopted . They show Au the , that the Jewish complaint of the future of the 70,000 Jews In JC1'llsalmi is to be considered . They confirm also the statement made by Mr. Eden at Geneva that the proposed coininission would " negotiate with Arabs and Jews with a view to submission of a detailed scheme of pal Litton. "                     