@@703701

txt An embargo of totalitarian theories of racial superiority , class differences and other contemporary concepts as unadaptable to the Americas was declared on behalf of the Western Hemisphere today by Secretary of State Cordell Hull and Jose Maria Cantilo , Argentine Foreign Minister , in keynote addresses at the eighth International Conference of American States . Both statesmen , however , declared that it was the ideas , not the nations ; the individuals , not the peoples , that they had in mind . The Secretary of State , outlining the forces and ideals he considered inimical to American ides : ; , said that " their ominous shadow falls athwart our own hemisphere . " Senor Cantilo advocated " combined and direct action against everything that implies a threat to American order , to every infiltration. of men or ideas that reflect or tend to implant on our soil and in our spirit concepts foreign to our ideals . " Measures Up to Each State However , both speakers agreed that the measures to carry out the kecommended quarantine must be left to individual American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves and be indifferent to the happenings of the rest of the world . Mr. Hull especially went out of his way to make clear that he was condemning only outworn philosophies that " for centuries held men in bodily slavery and spiritual degraI dation , " and he hoped for the adI herence of " all other nations or groups within nations which , at times against great odds , and in the face of heart-breaking difficulties , are working for a better world . " The similarity in tone of the two leading speeches of the first business sesbion of the conference revealed a spirit of unanimity , but it equally pointed to limited accomplishments . When Argentina and the United States reach the same middle-of-the-road position , approaching the question from opposite poles , it means that little that is concrete will result . Senor Cantilo was speaking directly in support of the anti-propaganda proposal that the Argentine delegation intends to present , but the North Americans understand how difficult it would be to translate such a project into terms of law in the United States so long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States ' rearmament policy , bidding the world not to misunderstand the combined and unbeatable opposition that any military or even doctrinaire invasion of this hemisphere would meet . Military Defenses Cited Here again he diverged to explain that each American nation would have to determine its own defensive measures . He said that the United States would " maintain adequate defensive military , naval and air establishments . " Following the theme Adolf A. Berle Jr. , Assistant Secretary of State , used last night , Mr. Hull was attempting to minimize the undercover conjectures concerning the armaments of the United States and possibly the resurgence of the imperialism that the good-neighbor policy was supposed to have renounced . Dr. Carlos Concha , Peruvian Foreign Minister and president of the conference , welcoming the delegates in the name of the Peruvian Government , kept largely to the same theme , expressing gratification that no ' " racial " antagonisms separate the American peoples . He declared that the accelerating rhythm of recent times had touched the Western Hemisphere and had hastened to place America in the world 's center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthen their solidarity on the basis that a threat to any one of them menaces the security of the entire continent . This was the only portion of the was understood to be directed nst German anti-Semitism . It emned " all religious and racial ecutions " as " opposed to the ntial tenets of democracy : " xican and Argentine delegates working behind the scenes to ulate a definite proposal for iation of the Spanish civil war . hoped to get unanimous apal of it before the measure ld be submitted in resolution ess M we speech that was applauded by delegates . Dr. Concha added . usual reservation that solid must not imply impairment of right of each nation to govern i freely and according to the n and wishes of its people . Without referring to him by name , Dr. Concha paid a graceful tribute to Mr. Hull 's efforts to implant in the American nations liberal trade practices in their dealings with one another . He said that the future would see the Americas still supplying their raw materials where they were needed to relieve misery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the riches of the industrialized portion of the world . He warned against implanting artificial methods of commerce on this continent in an unmistakable reference to the barter deals that Germany is so active in promoting in Latin America . Business Plans Take Form It was interesting comment from the Foreign Minister of a country carrying oh an active trade with Germany . The business arrangements of the conference began to take shape this morning when the Commission on Initiatives , which serves as the steering committee , held its first meeting . The commission decided to hold the last session on Dec. 27 . This program , if successful , meets the wishes of Ir . Hull , who is desirous of sailing for New York on that day . Mr. Hull 's speech was a personal triumph . As the Secretary of State arose to address this , his third PanAmerican gathering , a storm of applause broke out that continued long after he had taken his place . When he was finally able to speak , most of the delegates reached for their earphones in order to listen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in the English text that had been distributed by the secretariat . During the speech prolonged applause greeted the passages where Mr. Hull said the Americas would not permit the invasion of this hemisphere by any power or group of powers and also the declaration that the United States intended to arm against such a contingency . His hearers also applauded the declaration that the Americas would not permit the invasion of activities " contrary or inimical to this basis of relations among the nations . " At the conclusion of the speech Senor Cantilo rushed toward the rostrum and warmly greeted the Secretary of State as he descended and escorted him to his seat . Mr. Hull had to rise twice after he resumed his place on the floor to acknowledge the plaudits. 1Pti eds Cuban Resolution Pushed LIMA , Peru , Dec. 10 UP ) . ? The speeches today by Secretary of State Cordell Hull , Jose Maria Cantilo , Argentine Foreign Minister , and Dr. Carlos Concha , Peruvian Foreign Minister , were the only formal business before the conference as a whole . The steering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and approved for consideration a Cuban resolution against " racial persecution " and decided to have it circulated among the delegates . ' , The resolution named no nations ,                     