@@703376

txt The American Government 's sternest protest to Japan to date , against the bombing of American - owned Lingnan University on the outskirts of Canton , coincides today with publication of hitherto withheld documents revealing a secret clause in the Lansing- Ishit Agreement of 1917 under which Japan promised not to interfere with Mho nations ' positions in China . The sectet clause , like the whole Lansing-Ishii Agteement , was terminated after the Washington Conference of 1921-22 , although the Nine-Power Ti ea ty contained substantially the same undertaking a ' . embodied in the sectet clause . So till sectet understanding has no direct effect now in bringing premure on Japan to respect . sights of other nations in China . But the broad effect , ' the Intel ence , is that Japan is now violating obligations which formerly accepted fully  --  both in ' , secret and openly . Had the existence of the secret1 clause been officially known in 19771 and the years thereafter , it might have mitigated American criticism of the agreement , which seemed on its surface greatly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ; wish of Japan , which did not care to reveal to its people a unilateral declaration of policy to the advantage of Western Powers . Adt ? illy Phrased The secret agreement was in these words , adroitly phrased in order to justify its secrecy : " In the course of the conversations between the Japane.1 Special Ambassador and the Secretary of State of the United States which have led to the exchange of notes between them dated this day , declaring the policy of the two Governments with regard to China , the question of embodying the following clause in such decimation came up for discussion : " ' They ( the Comments of Japan and the United States ) will not take advantage of the present conditions to seek special rights or privileges in China which would abridge the lights of the subjects or citizens of other friendly States . ' " Upon careful examination of the question , it was agreed that the clause above quoted being superfluous in the relations of the two Governments and liable to create erroneous impression in the minds of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was , however , well understood thrst the principle enunciated in the clause which was suppressed was in perfect accord with the declared policy of the two Governments in regard to China . " Still Binding on Japan Henry L. Stinson , Former Secretary of State , has recently told , in recording a conversation with Chief Justice Hughes , who was Secretary of State in 1922 , how the secret agreement , came to be placed in the Nine Power Treaty . While Shim Root was drafting the Nine Power Pact , the Chief Justice said , he ? Mr. Hughes ? produced the secret promise made by Japan in the Lansing-Ishii Agreement . This agteement the Chief Justice describes as " a secret promise made by Japan . . . that site would not interfere with other nations in China . Mr. Root " without saying anything to anybody " put the age eement into his draft , and it became verbatim the corresponding obligation in the Nine Power Treaty . Hence the secret promise is still a binding obligation on Japan , for the Nine Power Treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treaty has expired . The consent of Japan had to be obtained before the agreement could be published , in today 's flotilla ' issuance of the two latest volumes of ' Foreign Relations of the United States , " 16 years after their currency . American diplomatists have long insisted that this Government was a patty to no secret agreements , and it might be argued that this one was a unilateral promise proffered by Japan . Other instances of similar undeistandings in American diplomatic history were not recalled here today . The latest protest to Japan , most emphatic in a series , v ? as delivered by Ambassador Joseph C. Glow to the Tokyo Foreign Office . Time bombs were chopped on June 8 , the State Department said , 200 yards from houses occupied by Ameimans , of whom 37 are now in residence at the University . The campus is clearly removed from the City of Canton and its urban areas . Senator George R. Norris ( Ind. - Rep. ) of Nebraska approved the State Depat tment note , and suggested that American arms shipments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curb air attacks He asked for figures showing exports to China and Japan , and If the latter were greater , pioposed they be embargoed . Senator William E. Borah ( R ) of Idaho thought the bombings were prdoucect by Japan 's " desperate situation , " stating : " Japan must win this war before the rains conic or she will be sunk . "                     