@@701471

txt A program designed eventually to weed out all weak banks in the nation , has been undertaken by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation . Much of the preliminary work , in fact , has been completed . Two major phases of the program yet remain . One phase will be signalized by mergers , incitient to which the corporation will acquire the assets of weak institutions , separate the good from the bad and then merge them with stronger institutions . The second , and probably more painstaking work , will be ' that of making a nationwide canvass of all banks within the FDIC membership with a view to weeding out all banks which do not have a sound economic reason for existence . Several mergers , it was learned yesterday . which will be involved in the process , are now under contemplation . Canvass of Banks Starts Soon The nationwide canvass of its entire membership , designed to disclose possible sore spots in the banking structure . will precede the coast-tocoast weeding operation of the FDIC . This work will complete the job which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the last session of Congress . It will be started soon , it was said . The insurance agency here is keeping secret the sore spots in the banking structure , but admits there are a few which will be taken care of under the new program . Tinder the program the FDIC is permitted to buy in sufficient of the assets of a bank in difficulties so that it will be in a position to merge with a stronger institution in the community without causing the stronger bank to suffer any hardships by the transactions . Tina procedure will be followed in communities which are overbanked as well as where a smaller institution is having difficulties as a going concern in view of competition from other institutions in the community . Few Withdrawals The deposit insurance corporation originally set at 1 , , the extent of state non-bank withdrawals from the insurance system under authority I granted in the Banking Act of 1935. which permits a state non-member bank to withdraw by September 23 . Originally . it was believed that such withdrawals would not exceed 75 out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the total will not exceed 50 . Up to date the FDIC has received 37 applications from state nonmember banks wishing to v.-Ithdra ? - Comparing the number of withdrawals with applications for membership the FDIC ands that the latter are running well ahead . Since the first of June 50 new banks have been admitted to the insurance fund . while the total of withdrawals is 37 . In addition . applications for membership which have not been acted upon total 25 Members of the FDIC have to submit a certified statement of their daily a%erage deposits for October with the insurance agency here before November 15 . This statement will be used in assessing the banks on the 1-12th of 1* ; * . rate contained in the new law to carry them through January 1 , when the regular semi-annual assessments will start . It is stated that approximately 90 , i- of the members of the FDIC have a credit in the $40,000.000 fund created under the temporary assessments which will permit them to remain insured for approximately a year and one-half without putting up more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small share of this fund compared with the amount of their assessments under the new law , and it is anticipated that these will be the only ones to put up cash to cover the insurance of their deposits from September to January . Conferences with auditors on the certified statements to be filed with the banks were held here last night by officials of FDIC . Conferences between auditors of New York banks and Boston banks on the certified statements will be held shortly in New York , it is stated here . The assessments to cover the members of the FDIC for the period from September to January will aggregate about $12,000,000 , it is estimated .                     