@@703278

txt Construction of a renewed three-power bloc in Europe , linking Britain , France , and Italy . appeared within the realm of diplomatic possibility today . As Britain neared conclusion of formal details of its new accoid with Italy , it was learned in London that a common Anglo-French policy is in the making . At the same time there were reports in Paris that France is to begin conversations with Italy , calculated to produce a treaty similar to the one which Premier Mussolini is concluding with Prime Minister Chamberlain . Though these new moves as yet are nebulous in form , they are in line with the French effort to provide a definite counter-weight to increasing German influence on the continent . The position of France was materially strengthened as an end of the strike wave appeared imminent  --  the Metal Trades executive ? agreeing to send 160,000 workers back to their jobs in response to strong action by the Daladier Cabinet . Britain and France Arrange Conference On German Attitude fly n Staff Correspondent of The Chriltinn Science Monitor LONDON , April 15 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked out when Premier Edouard Daladier and Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet come from Paris on their London visit as it is now planned they shall do on April 22 , The Christian Science Monitor is informed . During the preliminary talk which the French Ambassador . M. Charles Corbin , had with the Foreign Secretary , Viscount Halifax , here yesterday , the program for the meeting was discussed . The two countries are seeking to define their attitude toward Germany 's demands , both in the European and colonial sphere . Mere is reason to believe , howeiRr , that the British plan for early talks with Germany has been abandoned m grounds that they would only exacerbate the situation at the present time . Franco-Italian Rapprochement The Anglo. - French negotiations will also cover the method by which Britain can use its good offices in tringing about a Franco-Italian rapprochement based on the Anglotalian agreement which it is ? lamed to sign Saturday . In addition , arrangements are to te made for a resumption of the Anglo-French staff talks , Including not only the question of military cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that British experts are strongly of the opinion tnat France ought to concentrate for the time being on developing its air force which has fallen below the usual high standard of French military preparedness . Efforts to make the economic resources of the two countries readily available to both are to be made in this connection and in the supply of munitions generally . There is also reason to believe that British naval experts  --  hitherto rather averse to planned co-operation with the French  --  have now come round to the view that the French fleet should be concentrated chiefly in the Mediterranean , leaving Britain to look after the Atlantic and North Sea on behalf of both countries . This , however , is a somewhat intricate matter since it is generally regarded here as imperative that Britain should not let the Mediterranean fleet fall below the standard needed for defense of the Suez Canal , Egypt , Palestine , and Cyprus against any force that could be brought to bear in that area . Another question which has to be decided soon is what to do about the Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that after May 1 there will be no funds for the payment of observers who are working the control scheme for ships proceeding to Spanish ports with innocuous cargoes . none of the countries whose subscriptions are in arrears have shown any signs of paying . It is stated that M. Corbin broached this question to Viscount Halifax yesterday but without any decision being reached . France Begins Move To Woo Mussolini Away Front Hitler PARIS , April 15 ( IP ) ? France will begin conversations with Italy next week , sources close to the Foreign Office said today  --  in an effort to woo Premier Mussolini from his cliptomatie alliance with Germany . Quickly following the successful Anglo-Italian negotiations , to be concluded by the signing of an agreement Saturday in Rome , Pleader Edouard Daladier hoped to e at a similar agreement before the League of Nations Council meets 9 . This would allow France to follow the British lead in discussions be-foie the League on Ethiopia 's status tinrier Italian domination . Besides recognition of the Duce 's African Empire , other specific questions which probably would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mediterranean status quo , foieign volunteers In Spain and financial arrangements concerning the French-owned railroad from Djibouti to Addis Ababa . The decision to negotiate with Italy was understood to have been taken at the first meeting of the powerful Inner council of Cabinet Ministers since Parliament armed then with virtually dictatorial pow-elS The French belief that Signor Mu=solini was not altogether pleased be Germany 's annexation of Austria , and the swift conclusion of AngloItalian negotiations , convinced M. MIL-idler that the time was ripe for , caution of Franco-Italian problems in the Mediterranean . A definite French proposal , it was understood , was only awaiting selection of an envoy who would remain as Ambassador after conclusion of a pact with Italy . PARIS , April 15 ( W ) ? Premier Edouard Daladier 's effort to halt 1 the current strike wave appeared on the verge of success today as the Executive Committee of the Metal Workers Union announced it would send 160,000 strikers back to work next Tuesday in compliance with the Government 's demand . Speedy solution of differences between the metal workers and employers  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although strike leaders had not given orders for evacuation of more than 100 factories occupied by strikers . Arbitration of disputes was expected to get under way at once . The Metal Workers ' Union said the Government proposals were approved as " constituting bases for immediate solutions of controversies in the industry . " Earlier today aviation workers and employers signed a collective bargaining contract under the supervision of Pierre Jacomet . Permanent Undersecretary of the Defense Ministry , whom M. Daladier had named as a super-arbiter . At the same time striking employees of privately-owned airplane motor plants agreed " to conform strictly " to M Daladler 's demand that they evacuate the factories and return to work after the Easter holidays . Taking full advantage of the power concentrated in his " National Defense " Cabinet . Premier Daladier. who also is master of the French war machine , within three days ended the long-drawn strikes in both nationalized and private plane and aviation motor plants . The Cabinet had laid down terms under which the remaining strikers were to evacuate the factories today and be back at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Paul Ramadier " invited " employers and workers to reach a solution along the lines of the Cabinet 's terms . halo-French Pact ROME , April 15 ( IP ) The Italian Foreign Minister , Count Galeazzo Ciano , and the French Charg ? d'Affaires , Jules Blondel , today signed a commercial accord designed to reestablish normal credit relations between France and Italy . A Government communique said that the agreement ended the present system of clearing and provided means of assuring " the progressive liquidation of the French commercial debt . " ' The exchange balance and application of the accord will be controlled by a mixed commission . Announcement of the accord followed quiet negotiations which have gone on behind the smoke screen of a press controversy between the two countries over political differences . The agreement responded to the evident desire of Italian merchants for a relaxation of trade restrictions , clamped on as a part of Italy 's economic self-sufficiency program . The French press observed that the smoothness with which a Franco-Italian commercial treaty was concluded indicated a sure success for a political accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            