@@697780

txt Senator Nye wants the anti-trust laws moditied , and has announced his Intention ( according to the " United States Daily " ) to introduce a bill at the next session or Congress " aimed at modification of the law for the protection of the small manufacturer , producer and merchant . Itsaim , be said , is to deal with the situation by vesting in the Federal Trade Commission powers of correcting by enforcement conditions discovered by them in trade practices investigation . . . ' Our government has taken a stand against monopoly , ' he said , ' and when competition is destroyed the and the producer alike will suffer . We should not permit any group of individuals to become so strong that they can at will destroy thousands of homeowned enterprises . ' " In the April issue of the " American Bar Association Journal , " Mr. David L. Podell thus sums up the fundamental purposes of our antitrust laws : " The aim of our anti-trust laws is to preserve inviolate the principal of free , fair and open competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law , has the right to go into any business and conduct it as he chooses . freely according to law and according to his own best lights . Under these laws we shut out no man from any business or industry no matter how over-crowded that industry might be . We aim to keep wide open the door of opportunity to large and small business and to the individual . " At the same time the laws seek to protect the consumer so that he may purchase his commodity at competitive prices in a free and open market . These may be said to be the fundamental aims of our anti-trust laws as distinguished from the basic principles of cooperative or communistic programs which submerge the individual and make him an infinitesimal part of a grand scheme of business conducted by government . " clempetition Leaves a Winner and a Loser The above italicization of phrases is this writer 's . These phrases seem to exhibit in sharp relief ' Senator . Nye 's misconception of the purpose of these laws , and of-the. - erect - of competition . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thelaw to assure to the " small manufacturer , producer and merchant " not the opportunity to go into business but the right to succeed in that business . Competition means a struggle , a contest , a winner and a loser . Other things being equal , the " large " manufacturer , producer and merchant will win over the small , yet as Mr. Podell tells us , the law is designed to ensure equal opportunity to large and small , and as the Supreme Court told us in the suit against the United States Steel Corp . case mere size in itself is no violation of law . Senator Nye will have to find a way to make size a - violation before he can secure for the " small " man the " protection " that he seeks . Our attitude toward the " anti-trust " question is a psychological survival of the economic theory which in the early days of the " industrial revolution " was unchallenged , and that was that by free and unlimited competition of individuals the greatest good of all was assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orthodox , " opposed the principle of complete cooperation . The effect of the industrial revolution in its latest development , and especially in the development of transportation , has been so to split up and divide the essential processes by which the world gets its living as to make the industrial and commercial structure in fact highly cooperative . The Invisible Division of Tasks If it . were possible for one to count up the number and realize the variety of the individuals and the tasks that they perform in connection with the things that one uses in the daily routine , the result would be staggering . It is not the " Cooperative Commonwealth " of the Socialist vision , ; or within that structure the keenest competition for the task and for reward still rules ; moreover the existing cooperation is a result of much competition in the various processes , rather than a planned and coordinated division of tasks . Nevertheless , so far as the visible structure itself is concerned it is well on the way to the structure contemplated by orthodox Socialists . The difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , as Dr. Luther pointed out in his Leipzig address , that the modern ( i e. , mark.tteirthschaftliche ) concept bases upon individual effort , responsibility , risk and profit , and a free exchange of commodities in a free market . The modern problem is to preserve that principle and reconcile it with the principle of cooperation which nature has imposed upon the world as regards the production and distribution of necessary commodities and services . Somehow , the necessary planning must preserve the largest freedom possible for individual action and the largest possible incentive for individual effort , so as to bring into play the largest possible percentage of the existing individual ability-potential . Mr. Podell proposes four amendments to the law : ( I ) To require all combinations of corporations with more than a specified capital to report in fullest detail to the Government ; ( 2 ) To permit a central Governmental agency to approve or to disapprove a combination in. advance of its formation ; ( 3 ) To permit such an agency to approve or disapprove in advance a Trade Association proposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To consider a licensing of Trade Associations so as to immunize them against penalties , conditioned upon continuous full disclosure of activities to Governmental authority . All reasonable suggestions , but none of them . seems to offer increased assurance of " success " of the " small " man in competition with the " big " corporation . And that is seemingly what Mr. Nye  --  and many others  --  want the law to do .                     