@@699842

txt The Chicago utility companies are ready to make a voluntary reduction in rates to gas and electric consumers . This was learned tonight following a conference between Gov . Horner and James Simpson , head of the cont. parties . To make possible a reduction in rates to consumers the companies say they are prepared to reduce the dividends to stockholders . If the plan is accepted it will be the second reduction in dividends made since the retirement of the Insult management a year ago . Three Companies Involved . Mr. Simpson Ss chairman of the Commonwealth Edison company , the Peoples Gas Light and Coke company and the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois . The former CMpanies serve the city of Chicago proper while the Public Service company furnishes gas and electrical energy in the metropolitan district surrounding Chicago . Each of the companies is prepared to adjust its present charges to customers . Mr. Simpson conferred with the governor today for an hour and a ' half . He arrived here by plane acCompanIed ' by ' George A. Bonney , vice chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Ranney and Benjamin F. Lindheime ? , chairman of the corn . Inerce commission , parUcipated in the conference . Mr. Simpson told Gov . Horner that his companies were uppused to several of the features of the Sinnett-LInd. heimer utility control bill which the administration is aggressively sponsoring in the house . Oppose Added Control . In Mr. Simpson 's view , tile particularly objectionable features of the bill are those granting sumptuary powers to the commission over utility rates and operations . Mr. Simpson told tile governor that the companies are willing to sit down with the commission and discuss an adjustment of rates . Following the conference Mr. Simpson departed immediately by plane for Chicago . He declined to comment on the meeting . He referred all inquiries to Gov . Horner . " Mr. Simpson requested the interview and he and Mr. Ranney , like any other citizen and taxpayer , were entitled to a hearing . " Gov . Homer said at the conclusion of the meeting . " Mr. Simpson assured Ine , " the governor said , " of his willingness to sit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates . Time for Voluntary Reduction . " I. told him I was glad to hear it and that there ie still time for a voluntary reduction . Also I reminded him that my desire for a reduction was well known and that there has been plenty of opportunity for such voluntary reductions by the utilities during the five months I have been in office . " The financial positions of the Chicago companies were discussed in general terms 4y Mr. Simpson and Mr. Ranneyi ? , , They pointed out that there had been a considerable reduction in business and that the federal government has imposed a tax on manufacturers withal ) added to the expense of the utilities . I told them that the commission should properly . take that into consideration ( in , ngiiring the cost of production .. ? The governor said he told Mr. Simpson that he would- use all his power to put through his legislative program on utilities regulation : " We did not discuss the Sinnett bill in detail , " he added . " Mr. Simp-son said he had no information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill . " Nettled by Delay . The governor expressed dissatisfaction at the - delay encountered , by - ( the bill in the house , committee . , It there is further delay the house should take the bill away from the committee , he said . It was reported about the statehouse today that consider-able coolness to the bill has developed among Democratic leaders in the legislature . The reduction in rates by the three rtomoanies ; wilf necessitate a reduction of about 25 per cent in dividends , it Is understood . Commonwealth Edition and . Peoples Gas are now paying dividends at the rate of $fi yearly as enmpared with the old rate of $8 annually during the Insult regime . These dividends will Probably be cut to $4 a year , it is said . Public Service company 's present ' ' rate Is $3 and will be cut to around $2.50 under the present plan . Opposition in Bill . Representative John IL ' NleSweeney ( Dem. , Chicago ! chairman of the sob ? committee named to consider the Shiflett bill , held a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing opponents of the legislation , bot did not accomplish other results . No vote was taken , but said , that there might be a report to the full committee tomorrow . The most important witness was Harry Dunbaugh of Chicago , repre-senting the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois and the Commonwealth Edison company . Lials Ills Objections . Dunbaugh objected to the following sections of the bill : 1 . Provisions placing the burden of proof upon the utilities in rate cases . 2 . The section giving the commerce commission the right to enforce temporary rate reductions . 3 . The section placing the cost of appealing rate reductions on con , . ponies . 4 . The proposed section giving the commission the power to halt ctiVi ? dends when in its opinion the credit structure of the companies wonld Impaired by payment . When he had finished . Sinnott asked , " Ca n't you fellows get to . gether ? " referring to Dunham-tit and Irwin Rooks , attorney for the corn ? mission . " There 's not a chance . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do its duty . The tillity companies have taken this position : ' Why should we do anything to help : the commission do its dittyr Daily Denies Charge . Mr. Daily was brought to his feet by this remark . " 1 do n't want to listen to such a characterization . " he " It is n't true . We think this bill is vicious , pernicious and utterly bad . " " Arid I repeat the charge . " said Rooks . " The commission Is not try ? log to get at the little companies . This bill is aimed at the giant panics organized to defraud the people of their rigid . The governor wants this bin annul the commission Wants to do its duty . I think the committee should report it favorably. "                     