@@701127

txt SAN FRANCISCO , April 5 . ? Two events of the last week  --  the conviction of eight of fourteen Communists tried at Sacramento for viola-1 tion of the State Criminal Syndicalism Law and the success of Upton Sinclair 's followers in nominating ten candidates for the City Council and three candidates for the Superior Court bench in Los Angeles ? have aroused keen discussion in California . The future of communism in the State and of the Sinclair EPIC movement forms one ofl the main topics of speculation . While the conviction of the Communists is hailed by conservatives as signalizing the end of the Communist party in California , the liberal press condemns the outcome of the trial at Sacramento as a violation of the common-law principle that no citizen should be penalized for anything said or written unless it can be shown to have incited to some overt criminal act . Before convicting the defendants for violation of the Criminal Syndicalism Law the jury first acquitted them of direct violation , finding that evidence was lacking that they personally advocated in speeches or literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect a political change . It then convicted them of conspiracy . Sentences Next Week . All of those convicted will be sentenced next week to indeterminate sentences of from one to fourteen years . When they enter San Quentin it will be the first time in nearly ten years that the prison has received men and women whose offense was to join a revolutionary political organization . Whether the convictions will encourage authorities to indict and prosecute other Communists throughout the State is a matter of conjecture . In San Francisco Attorney Matthew Brady has consistently refused , during his sixteen years in office , to invoke the Criminal Synicalism Law . A strong protest against the prosecutions and a demand for the repeal of the law have been voiced by a group of liberals headed by Edward L. Parsons , Bishop of the San Francisco Diocese of the Episcopal Church . Twenty-three ? members of the lower house of the Legislature from Southern California , all members of Sinclair 's EPIC group , jointly sponsored a bill to repeal the law , and although the Judiciary Committee of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought up on the Assembly floor . Sinclairites Join Bloc . The EPIC group at Sacramento is ably led by State Senator Culbert Olson of Los Angeles , who is also Democratic State chairman . It has joined Progressive Republicans in a bloc to oppose Governor Merriam 's tax program , which proposes to raise 70 per cent of the $150,000,000 of additional revenue required during the ensuing two years by consumer taxes . A production-for-use bill introduced by Olson was barely defeated in the Senate on April 1 by a tie vote of 19 to 19 . Attempts by the EPIC members to carry out more extreme features of the Sinclair program have been perfunctory , and they have surprised their colleagues by their moderation and willingness to go along on a compromise program . On the whole , EPIC prestige has gained by the behavior of the legislative bloc , as also by the success of the Sinclairites in the primary election in Los Angeles . If Governor Merriam should succeed in carrying his program of consumer taxes , including increased retail sales taxes , through the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to order for him and that EPIC might stage a revival . If , on the other hand , the Progressive bloc defeats the Merriam program , much of the wind will be taken out of Mr. Sinclair 's sails .                     