@@701431

txt William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , declared today that labor insists upon adoption of the 30-hour work week . He spoke at a Labor Day celebration here . He reveiwed the course of the depression and the developments in legislation and asserted that a better day is at hand , with the basis of a better social and economic order laid . He pointed , however , to the Supreme Court decision invalidating the National Recovery Act as a setback to workers which had thus far adversely affected 5,000,000 of them . There has been widespread reduction in pay rates and increases in work hours , he said . In discussing the demand for a thirty-hour week he declared : " The mind of labor is centred upon the solution of the nation 's unemployment problem . Would Cut Day and Week . " Labor proposed a remedy for unemployment which , while opposed by some employers , is being more widely accepted by all classes of people . We hold that the permanent solution of our unemployment problem can be brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day and per week so that the amount of work available may be more widely distributed , and through the development of mass purchasing power , so that the consuming ability of the nation may more nearly correspond with its facilities of production . The mechaniztion of industry and the extended use of power , which in operation increased the efficiency and productivity of individual workers , has displaced working men and women and has constantly increased the army of unemployed . " Our country must choose between the maintenance of a permanent army of unemployed , dependent for relief upon our government , or the creation of work opportunities , through an adjustment in working time , so that self-respecting working men and women may earn a living for themselves and their families . " Labor makes its choice . It pre- fers to see men and women employed , earning a livelihood , rather than to be fed as the wards of the government . ' For this reason labor insists upon the acceptance of its sound economic philosophy , the thirty-hour work week and the payment of high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchasing power . " He paid tribute to the morale and patriotism of the ! American working people as demonstrated through the depression . " Only brave , courageous men and women can pass through such an ordeal and , at the same time , maintain their faith in the existing social order , " he said . " Through all the sad experiences met during the long period which has intervened since the financial and economic collapse of 1929 , labor maintained self-control and demonstrated its unswerving loyalty and devotion to the nation 's institutions . " Now the economic horizon is becoming brighter . We can enter into the spirit of Labor Day this year firm in the belief that better days are at hand ; that even though slowly yet surely we are moving toward the realization of a better economic and social order , increasing and enlarging work opportunities and improved conditions of employment . The basis for this better social and economic order has been laid . " Fictitious values are being liquidated , speculation is being ended and the nation is becoming social-minded . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the legislative bodies of the nation have assumed in the consideration and enactment of security and social justice legislation . The mind of the nation comprehends , more fully now than ever before , the social obligation of industry and the owners of industry . He predicted extensive gains for organized labor , saying : " Working people , everywhere , are understanding , as never before , the potential , as well as the actual , power , strength and influence of organization and collective bargaining- . They know that the mobilization of the economic strength of workers in all lines of industry is necessary in order to protect them against exploitation and to sustain them in any aggressive effort they may make to secure and enjoy higher standards of life and living . " The spirit of organization has been and is being manifested in the growth and establishment of organization in industries and among workers who never before had been organized . " I predict that the tide of organization will continue to rise , covering a wider industrial field until approximate equality in bargaining power will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those Nyho work for wages and are employed therein . A fair appraisement of all the facts available leads to the inevitable conclusion that millions more will be added to the organized labor movement et the nation within the next few years . "                     