@@697572

txt The League of New York Theatres , which was launched on July 21 with Alfred E. Smith as representative of the public to end ticket speculation and to protect . playgoers from the gougers , has given up its fight , in its present form , at least , to control ticket distribution . At a meeting yesterday of the board of governors of the league at its offices in the Paramount Building officials of the league and representatives of a dozen Broadway producers agreed that speculation could not be eliminated under present conditions and accepted the resignation of Harlow D. Savage , executive secretary , who had asked to be relieved of his duties . It was reported last evening along Broadway that several of the member managers already were conferring with ticket brokers on the return-to the " buy " system , against which the league had directed its sternest efforts . One revue was said to have completed arrangements last night for a " buy " of sixteen weeks ending on May 16 , and other similar arrangements were in negotiation . Price War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war between the socalled " group " of large agencies selling tickets at 75 cents above the box-office price and the coalition of Joe LeBlang and the Postal Telegraph Company , selling tickets at a 50 cent advance . Despite advance reports that the league would disband at yesterday 's meeting , it did not do so . Its action , rather , was in the nature of a retirement to a previously prepared position . The league announced its capitulation in the war against gougers , but that it was broadening its activities and enlarging its program , and that Dr. Henry Moskowitz , who has served the league as alternate to exGovernor Smith , would remain as its adviser . This nt : program , according to league officials , involves : 1 . Pressure for legislation to curb ticket speculation . 2 . Study of the stage censorship problem . 3 . Study of the road situation . 4 . Study of the inroads of the talking films on the legitimate theatre . In addition , it was said in theatrical circles last night , a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with the demands of the theatrical unions . " We have tried to control the ticket distribution without legislation and we have not been successful , " said Dr. Moskowitz . " So now we shall endeavor to get legislation . " Dr. Moskowitz would not say what form such legislation would take , but it was indicated that it might include a provision to make the reselling of a ticket bought at a box office a misdemeanor . Dr. Moskowitz also would not predict the policy of the league on the censorship problem . He will attend the meeting of the censorship committee of three actors , three dr4ma- fists and three producers , organized by Frank Gillmore , president of the Actors ' Equity Association , which will be held in the next few days . He will be accompanied by Lawrence Langner , a director of the Theatre Guild and a member of the board of governors of the Theatre League , who represents the producers on the censorship committee . Dr. Moskowitz insisted that the league had been in no wise a failure , notwithstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of the league 's work , " said Dr. Moskowitz , " more people than ever before have enjoyed the benefit of buying seats at low premiums . The four agencies which have been selling seats at low premiums will continue that policy . That is one very worthwhile accomplishment of the league . " These agencies , Dr. Moskowitz said , were the Sullivan-Kay , , Postal-LeBlang and Equity . League Explains Stand . Yesterday 's meeting lasted two hours behind closed doors and at its conclusion the following statement was issued : " The League of New York Theatres at a meeting today decided to broaden its activities and secured the services of Dr. Henry Moskowitz to put into effect its enlarged program . The resignation of Harlow D. Savage , the executive secretary of the league , was accepted . " Dr. Moskowitz has been active in the league for the past year , acting as alternate for former Governor Alfred E. Smith , who is the public 's representative on the league 's governing board . " The league and Dr. Moskowitz will concentrate their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation which will secure State and Federal cooperation on the problem of ticket speculation . In the opinion of all concerned , this is a necessity in order that speculation can be curbed . Until such time as supporting legislation can be secured , the theatre league has temporarily relinquished its supervision over the distribution of theatre tickets , believing that a voluntary cooperative movement must be supported by legislation if it is to succeed . " The experience of the theatre league has convinced the various factors in the theatre of the value of organized effort in the solution of the , general problems of the theatre . " The further program of the league includes the study of such problems as censorship , general theatrical conditions on the road and the inroads of the talking pictures into the business of the theatre . " Will Seek More Data Dr. Moskowitz , in an interview after the meeting , said that it would be inaccurate to say that the old conditions in the distribution of tickets would be resumed and said the league 's withdrawal from its war on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system was back . He said that his first work as adviser would be to get at the facts . " One of our troubles , " he said , " has been that we did n't have the facts . Sometimes the facts have been distorted and sometimes people have confounded their prejudices with the facts . The league will still function and the organization will remain the same . Arthur Hopkins , president of the league , presided at yesterday 's session ,                     