@@698936

txt Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City , floor leader for former Governor Alfred E. Smith at the Democratic National Convention and head of the group that tried unsuccessfully to block the nomination of Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt for President , will give Governor Roosevelt active and loyal support . Despite his prediction at the convention that Governor Roosevelt , if nominated , could not be elected and could not carry any State in the East , a prediction now explained as having been made solely for political purposes , Mr. Hague with the aid of the Democratic organization now expects to carry New Jersey for Roosevelt and will make every effort to do so . This became known yesterday when it was learned that in addition to ratification of the Roosevelt and Garner ticket by the Hudson County Democratic organization at a meeting tonight , Mr. Hague plans to have a State-wide ratification at a " Roosevelt Day " at Sea Girt about the middle of August . Roosevelt to Attend Rally . Governor Roosevelt will be present on this occasion and it is the intention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey this year even more of a demonstration than was Smith , Day in 1928 , when more than 100 , - 000 Democrats gathered at Sea Girt to ratify the nomination of Mr. Smith for President . Mr. Hague had intended to hold this State-wide ratification meeting late in July but the desire to have the Presidential nominee there in person has made necessary the selection of a later date . The meeting of the Hudson County Democratic organization , the most important unit of the Democratic party in New Jersey , for the ratification of the nomination of Roosevelt and Garner will be held tonight in the Grotto Auditorium in Jersey City . At the request of Mayor Hague , Joseph E. Colford , county chairman , has requested every member of the Democratic county and city committeees to be present . Mr. Colford will preside . The speakers will include Mayor Hague ; Representative Percy H. Stewart , candidate for United States Senator ; Representative Mary T. Norton , who seconded Mr. Smith 's nomination at the Chicago convention , and James A. Hamill , Corporation Counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be adopted . Get Cheering Tidings . Information that Mayor Hague and the Hudson County and New Jersey State organizations would give complete support to the national ticket was perhaps the most encouraging news received yesterday by the local Roosevelt headquarters , although the receipt of telegrams from the Far West expressed the opinion of the senders that Roosevelt and Garner had an excellent chance of carrying the three Pacific Coast States , Washington , Oregon and California . Whether these three usually Republican States will be found in the Roosevetl column in November is as yet , of course , doubtful , but Governor Roosevelt 's advisers have decided definitely to make a fight for them and branch headquarters of the Democratic National Committee will be established in Los Angeles or San Francisco . It is likely that the national campaign in Arizona , Nevada and Idaho will be directed from the California headquarters and that the supervision of the campaign in the other Rocky Mountain States will be from the headquarters to be established in Chicago . James A. Fley , Democratic national chairman , has been advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and his informants have drawn a parallel between the situation they believe now exists in that part of the country with that which existed in I1916 , when Woodrow Wilson was reelected President by the electoral votes of the South and West , with I the important difference that the Democrats hope to carry New York , New Jersey and other Eastern States which were won by Charles E. Hughes , the Republican Presidential nominee , in 1916 . Count on Independent Vote . In deciding to make a drive for the three Pacific Coast States the Roosevelt managers count on winning the eight electoral votes of Washington , where there Is a strong Democratic organization . Although thme is littiv akrabliUnt se a DA-10. ? cratic party in Oregon , the Republicans in that State are largely of the independent , progressive type , and the friends of Governor Roosevelt have been informed that he will receive the support of thousands of them . In California . home State of President Hoover , the Democrats , led by William G. , will make a special effort . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Texas delegations to give Roosevelt the two-thirds vote needed to nominate him , is a ? candidate for the Democratic nomination for United States Senator and is regarded as certain to win the nomination and run against Senator Samuel M. Shortridge , Republican , at the election . Mr. , who is the new Democratic National Committeeman , will lead the party fight in California , and his chance of election as Senator and the chance of Roosevelt and Garner carrying the State would seem to depend in large part upon the attitude taken by the supporters of former Governor Smith . Mr. Smith obtained 137,000 votes in the California preference primary last hIay , to 169,000 for Governor Roosevelt and 215,000 for Speaker Garner , who was backed by Mr. . P. M. Abbott , the Smith primary campaign manager , is a candidate for the Senatorial nomination against Mr. , and although he has little chance to win , the support of his followers would be important to Mr. and the Democratic national ticket at the election . Speaker Garner 's victory in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hearstnewspapers . The national ticket and Mr. will receive this support ; Governor Roosevelt 's advisers have been Informed , in the Presidential campaign .                     