@@704026

txt The city 's supply of perishable foodstuffs was imperiled yesterday by a strike of employes in twentytwo cold-storage warehouses here and in Jersey City . Sixty million pounds of meat , butter , eggs , cheese , poultry and fresh and frozen fruits and vegetables pass through the warehouses each week . Efforts by Nathan Frankel , Mayor La Guardia 's labor-relations secretary , to settle the walkout , which began at noon , had no immediate effect . The dispute grew out of a demand by the Inland Warehousemen 's Union , Local 818 , of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , an A. F. of L. affiliate , for a reduction in weekly hours from forty-four to forty with no change in-the weekly pay of $35 . Both sides agreed that the strike was 100 per cent effective among checkers , laborers and other warehouse employes . The tie-up was made doubly menacing by the refusal of truck drivers ; members , of the same international union , to take anything in or out of the plants while the strike continued . " Tremendous " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Port , of New York , representing employers , described the situation ? as " most serious " and predicted that if the strike were not settled at once chaotic conditions , accompanied by " tremendous losses " in food and in money , would be inevitable . When reports that a walkout was impending reached the 2,000 commission merchants and hotel and restaurant supply dealers for whom the cold-storage - plants hold food under a loan system , they began to remove as much food as they could haul away . But Alexander Moir , chairman of the association 's labor committee , said the perishables removed in this manner could not last longer than Monday , when conditions would become acute . " There will be a critical food shortage by Monday , " Mr. Moir declared . " Not one single piece of food has moved out of any of the warehouses since noon . " Edwin C. Maguire , counsel for the union , said he believed a crisis in the food supply would not set in for at least five or six days , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a settlement had been effected . The strike was expected to make itself felt most immediately in the servicing of restaurants at the World 's Fair , where-little refrigeration space . for the storage of food beyond a single day 's supply is available , and in the provisioning of outbound ocean liners , which stock their larders from the storage warehouses here . William FeHowes Morgan , Commissioner of Markets , declined to comment on the tie-up or on the possibility of averting hardship on consumers in the metropolitan area . - Other city officials f.iggested that the gravity of the situation might be relieved somewhat by shipments of food from Buffalo , Philadelphia , Boston and other Eastern warehouse centers . Meat and other commodities could be sent here in refrigerated freight trains and picked up in the railroad yards by the merchants , hotels or restaurants to which the food was consigned , these officials said . They conceded that the cooperation of all locals of the teamsters ' union in the walkout might interfere with this plan . The number of men directly involved in the strike was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 800 . There was no disagreement , however , on the fact that the strike had produced a walkout of all the men employed in the warehouses . A one-year closed-shop contract between the association and Local 818 expired at midnight Wednesday . Negotiations for a new agreement , which began May 1 , became deadlocked on the issue of wages and . hours , and the intervention of Mr. Frankel Thursday and yesterday failed to bring the two sides to . gether . Mr. Frankel explained that he was brought into the dispute at " the eleventh hour " and that the only thing he was able to accomplish in the time available was a six-hour ' postponement in the time for the strike call . The men were originally scheduled to walk out at 6 A. M. , but Mr. Frankel persuaded them to wait until noon . He said he had advised the emproblems before the State Mediation Board , but that neither side had informed him of its intention to ask the board to step in . The Mayor 's aide said he did not plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the union presented alternate proposals for the consideration of the warehouse owners . One called for a cut in hours from forty-four to forty with wages unchanged and the other for an increase in pay from $35 to $40 with hours unchanged . The employers offered to compromise with $37.50 for forty-four hours . must know the lots where the foods are stored or confusion results . " The storage warehouses do not handle milk or bread . A major part of fresh produce from near-by agricultural centers , especially green vegetables , does not enter the warehouses , but such ' other commodities as meat and poultry do in enormous quantities each day . About 10,000,000 pounds of perishable foodstuffs comes into the city daily , 70 per cent of it by- rail and 30 per cent by truck , the warehousemen said . The rail goods can be kept in refrigerated freight-cars for a short time , but the warehouses can not be responsible for any of it for.long . Among the largest plants are those of the Merchants Refrigerating Company , at Beach and North Moore Streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eleventh Avenue . Including a plant in Jersey City . that company employs 350 men . The Manhattan Refrigerating Company likewise occupies an entire block ? next to the West Washington Market , at Gansevoort , Horatio , Washington and West Streets , and another opposite Wallabout Market in Brooklyn . Mr. Moir said the forty-hour week was impossible because the warehouses must remain open half a day on Saturday . He said " business has been terrible " and that any further concessions would mean ruin for the companies . The strike has been peaceful so far , he said , the men having simply walked out at the lunch hour . They would be allowed to return whenever they wished , he said . The owners closed the warehouses and policemen were stationed outside them , but there was no picketing . The present rate of pay amounts to 791 , cents an hour , Mr. Moir said , and the increase demanded would bring it ? to 871/2 . The men also want two weeks paid vacation in place of one . On Oct. 24 , Mr. Moir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours anyway by the Wages and Hours Law . He said Mr. Frankel had " done his level best " and expressed the belief that the strike could be settled by the Mayor 's intervention . A further conference with the union is scheduled for today , he said . Letter Sent to Strikers In a letter sent to all the strikers last night , Nathaniel Phillips , counsel for the owners . said the union negotiators had agreed to accept the compromise on Wednesday , but had turned it down on Thursday . The letter warned that a prolonged stoppage would result in permanent loss of business and curtailed opportunities for employment . As representative of the union , Mr. Maguire said the workers were seeking the same terms granted to employes in the " dry " warehouses , where cereals and packaged foods are stored . The owners of these warehouses signed a contract recently providing for a forty-hour week without reduction in weekly pay , Mr. Maguire said . Thomas J. Lyons , international organizer for the Brotherhood of Teamsters and president of the Central Trades and Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a member of a committee of labor leaders to escort Tom Mooney to the World 's . Fair City Hall , had to go to the regular City Hall instead at Mr. Frankel 's request to assist in efforts to end the strike . Little likelihood ' that the strikers could be replaced in the interest of public health and welfare was seen by employer spokesmen . Though the warehouse employes are technically unskilled laborers , the low temperatures at which they work make it difficult to find effective substitutes on short notice , Mr. Moir said . " Some of the men work at temperatures from 15 to 20 degrees beployers and the union to put their low zero , " he pointed out . " They                     