@@700783

txt A renewed contest between repi esentativel if organized labor and automobile manufa.cturars on the methods by which the collective bar . gaining guarantees of the National Industrial Recovery Act shall be practically applied in the motor industry looms as the possible outcome of present differences on the terms for renewal of the automobile manufacturing code . This controversy has been the dominant issue in the disputes between the industry 's ex. ecutives and labor officials since the enactment of the NIRA . President Roosevelt 's recent order extending the auto code for 60 days to Isrovem-. ber 3 is recognized as a temporary expedient allow time for further negotiation . The extension in effect applies the existing code . as approved in August of last year . to the balance of the active 1934 production period . Tin November , most automobile manufacturers wilE have begun changeovers preparatory to produc . Lion of 1935 models . A. F. of E. Wants New Section Ruling In its campaign to organize the automobile workers . the American Federation of Labor has consistently sought for recognition of the prin ciple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control in the automotive labor field . This issue was fundamental in thei threatened automobile strike last spring and IS an important factor in the present insistence by . labor representatives that extensive changes in labor provisions be incorporated m a renewed automobile code . The President 's automobile settlement . which prevented the threatened strike in l  --  farch , recognized the right of employes to organize into more than one group and provided for a system of proportional representation on collective bargaining committees in instances where employee were represented by more than one group . These provisions have been encountering increasing opposition among labor spokesmen recently despite the fact that the settlement was accepted by official labor representatives at the time of its promulgation . ? ? Nlerit Clause " Disliked by Labor The automobile code 's merit clause . which permits the manufacturers to " exercise their right to select . retain or advance employes as the basis of their individual merit without regard to their membership or non-membership in any organization " has also been a constant sore point in labor 's attitude toward the code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific stand in connection with the renewal of the code . However . the little comment which has been made together with the known attitude of the industry 's leaders toward labor problems indicates that the industry is prepared to resist strongly any important deviation from the existing standards of labor relations and collective bargaining procedure now legally established in their field . Further Complications In Picture Preservation of the existing labor procedure in the automobile field is further complicated by the apparent conflict between the terms pr. - scribed in the President 's settlement and the recent decision of the National Labor Relations Board that representatives chosen by a majority of employes in any one unit shall be the x-elusive collective bargaining agency of all employes . " The outspoken opposition of the industry s executives to dealing with American.Federation of Labor officials as the sole representative of automobile workers was the dominant factor in its stand during the threatened strike in the spring when the joint action of members of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce in shortening the working week in their plants by 10r ; - and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour and wage issue from the controversy at that time . Whether the pressure of labor representatives on the NRA for drastic changes in the labor provisions for the industry can be reconciled with the views of the motor industry to provide the basis for a renewal of the code on November 3 is a question which can not ha answered at this time . The alternative of allowing the code to lapse would raise complicated legal questions since the language of the National Industrial Recovery Act apparently contains no specific reference to the procedure available in such an eventuality . Also involved would be the questions of the applicability cf Section 7A or of Public Resolution 44. providing , authority for labor boards , to industries no longer under a code . A further complicating factor in the present situation is the pressure being exerted on the A. F. of I .. leadership from within the automobile labor ranks to adopt a more aggressive attitude . As has been the case in various other industries , some opposition to the A. F. of L. policies has developed within the so-called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a secession movement in certain of the automobile plants . Evidences of considerable discontent on . the part of certain labor factions with the functioning of the Automobile Labor Board is also a factor here , as this discontent is embarrassing to the position of the A. F. of L. leaders in having agreed to the terms under which the board was established last spring . The Automobile Labor Board was established prior to the passage of Public Resolution 44 and hence lacks much of the power delegated to the boards appointed under that authority , such as the National Steel Labor Relations Board . The specific function of the automobile board is to pass on all questions of representation , discharge and discrimination , as prescribed under the terms of the President 's automobile settlement .                     