@@698444

txt The " call to arms " of the Democratio party in preparation for the Presidential campaign , heard all over the country at threescore " Victory Dinners , " was sounded here last night by Governor Roosevelt , who. pleading for a campaign free from prejudice , deplored the present tendency " to blame all our present troubles on the President . " He regretted that there were those who had forgotten their sense of fair play to the extent of making the President the subject of jests , and said that the President " is perhaps the victim of a theory which holds that control of the Republican party reins entitles the holders to use that historic party for the purposes of personal gain . " " He and his associates have perhaps shown incapacity to contribute leadership in the solving of a national crisis , " the Gov governor added . " The battle of democracy , " said Mr. Roosevelt , " is pointed not at the rank and file of the historie Republican party , but at those who today direct its policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heaped against the person of the President of the United States . " Dinners Open National Drive . The dinners throughout the country last night marked the beginning of the party 's drive to raise $1,500 , - 000 to wipe out its present deficit and to carry it to victory in the Fall . Gifts and pledges totaling $225,000 are already in hand , it was announced last night . The call for the party to unite in this effort was made first at the dinner at the Hotel Astor last night by John W. Davis , Democratic standard-bearer in 1924 , and was sounded again during the evening by Charles H. Sabin , the toastmaster ; Representative Henry T. Rainey of Illinois , floor leader of the party in the House , and Governor Roosevelt . Senator Robert F. Wagner , scheduled as a speaker , sent a. telegram of regret , in which he declared that " with victory behind it , and victory before it , the Democratic party is alive with the will to win ; and it is thoroughly conscious of the obligations of victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoided any direct reference to his own candidacy for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency , but he made clear , for the first time , one of the " economic issues " which he will emphasize if he is nominated , when he called for a getting together of the States and the Federal Government to put the taxing system of the entire country " on a business basis . " " We have heard much in recent years about business in government , " he said , " and yet I note that those who have been loudest in proclaiming that government should be conducted by business men have had neither the courage nor the intelligence to suggest that the whole taxing system of America be put on a business basis . The time has come , when driven by necessity , if for no other reason , America must face this task . " The time has come for the fortyeight sovereignties which have created . the Federal machinery of government to say to Washington : " ' Let us follow the original principle established in the Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government certain specific powers and reserve to themselves all other powers . Apply that to the great problem of taxation . We , the forty-eight sovereignties , must say to each other and to the Federal Government , let us counsel together ; let us establish for times of peace a definite apportionment of the whole field of taxation , to the Federal Government we will give adequate sources of taxation to meet the administrative needs of the Federal Government , as a government of definite delegated powers . All other sources of taxation we , the States , reserve unto ourselves . When that is accomplished , it will be possible for the State sovereignties to scan this reserve field of tax sources and to determine which elements in that field can with propriety and justice be allocated as tax sources to local governments ? to cities and counties and villages and towns . ' " The Governor , in his concluding remarks , declared that " the destinies and welfare of ourselves and our children are profoundly involved in the initiative and the vision of those charged with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Democratic party , " he said , " asks that responsibility in no spirit of overconfidence , in no spirit of mere partisanship . It seeks to lead because it is more representative of the people as a whole . It believes that in greater measure it can bring to the people attainment of their welfare and of their ideals . Here is a victory dinner . Let us pledge ourselves to a victory not for party alone but for the good of the American people . " Governor Roosevelt 's address was well received by the audience , but the major ovation of the evening was accorded former Governor Alfred E. Smith , although he was not present to hear it . It came when Mr. Davis read a telegram from Mr. Smith from Boston . and it lasted for more than a minute . The entire program of the dinner was broadcast by Station WOR , with the fifteen-minute address of Mr. Davis heard on a nation-wide hookup of the Columbia Broadcasting System from 9:15 to 9:30 o'clock . Davis Tells of Appeal . Mr. Davis , outlining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is my earnest hope that this present effort will broaden the financial base on which the party rests , by enlisting in its behalf the personal support and personal contributions of every Democrat throughout the country who believes that a Democratic victory is needed at this time . Indeed , when the returns are in . I shall be more interested in the number of contributors than in the amounts they have given ; for here , as elsewhere , the rule applies that wheresoever one 's treasure is there will his heart be also . ' " There should be stimulus enough to every patriotic Democrat in the call to service which the present situation makes upon the party , and encouragement enough in the growing promise that a Democratic President will be elected on the third day of November next . To meet this call and realize these promises preparedhess is the indispensable thing . " " History of Resurrections . " The call for the party to hark back bo the principles of Jeffersonian democracy , stressed by Governor Roosevelt in the early part of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Sabin and Representative Rainey . " The history of the Democratic party , " Mr. Rainey said , " is the history of resurrections . An all-wise Providence , at crucial periods during the present century . restores to power and to control the party of Jefferson . " He reviewed the history of the Pemocratic party during the World War and declared that , " fortunately for this country , the Democratic party had been in control of both branches of the National Congress and of the executive office " prior to this country 's entrance into the conflict . so that the country was prepared financially for the emergency . In the present session of Congress , be said , " every Democrat has been in his place on the floor when crucial votes were taken : during that time there has not been a single quorum call , a record without parallel in the history of the American Congress . " We have enacted into law during the present session more major ropositions than any other Congress ever enacted in a like period of time during my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rainey declared . " On Saturday of last week we passed through the House by a majority vote of twenty-eight our Democratic tariff bill . Every Democrat voted for it , or was paired for it . The Republicans , disorganized and ineffective , sat in their seats , or made weak futile attempts against the bill . and many Republicans voted for it . " Cites Task of Party . To Mr. Rainey fell the task of reViewing the record of the Republican party during the three years of the Hoover administration , and he cited the tasks that lay before the Democrats , to restore the country to prosperity . The budget must be balanced , although it will take three years to do it , factories must be reopened . the railroads bolstered and retaliatory tariffs of other countries must be done away with , by the lowering of tariff walls here . " Republican high tariff rates and moratoriums march grandly down , arm in arm , through the corridors of time , and our factories are idle , and seven million men are out of employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address opened the dinner , declared that " never in our history has it been so imperative that we nominate our best , and hold ourselves and them to our highest loyalty and our most energetic efforts . He reminded the audience , as did the other speakers , that the victory was not going to come by default , but at the conclusion of a hard-fought campaign . " Tonight we enter upon a campaign , not for our party alone but for our country and , though I de not wish to speak bombastically , fox the whole disaster-ridden world . " Common sense bids us admit the validity of the fundamental Democratic doctrine of human values , bids us make clear that there is nc national good fortune in which all do not share ; that prosperity depends upon the ability of the mass to purchase the products of the farm and the factory ; that production can only be soundly based on consumption ; that there must be buying power and intelligent distribution as well as low cost production if business is to prosper and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legis ? lative enactment or government in. tervention . On the other hand , corn . mon sense forbids us to kill the goose that lays the golden egg  --  to tal capital beyond its capacity to pay and profitably produce . " Common sense requires us to recognize and admit that we can not sell to world neighbors in whosE bankruptcy we concur , or collect for eign debts while raising prohibitive tariff walls against foreign goods and services . " Wagner Sees Will to Win . Senator Wagner 's telegram follows : " Official duties in Washington , and particularly several pending emergency measures , compel me to deny myself the pleasure of participating in the victory dinner . That is a matter of the keenest disappointment to me , but I have no alternative . Tonight 's effort in publicly launching the party 's national preparedness drive to assure the much-needed election of a Democratic administration next November is a helpful innovation in the methods of our party . I am behind this movement wholeheartedly . I extend to you and to all those who are joined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the undertaking . " The 1932 victory dinner symbolizes not only a hope but an accomplished fact . With victory behind it , and victory before it , the Democratic party is alive with the will to win . And it is thoroughly conscious of the obligations of victory . It will be our duty and our opportunity to rehabilitate this land , to restore it on the road of progress In the direction of peace and prosperity . " Seated on the dais at the dinner at the Astor , in addition to the speakers . were John J. Raskob , national chairman ; Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr. , Tammany Leader John F. Curry , Robert E. Dowling , Abram I. Elkus , James A. Farley , Democratic State chairman ; Secretary of State Edward J. Flynn , Surrogate James A. Foley , James W. Gerard , former Ambassador to Germany ; Samuel Levy , Borough President of Manhattan ; John A. Lynch , Borough President of Richmond . Also Norman E. Mack , National Committeeman ; John H. McCooey , Kings County leader ; Conservation Commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Richmond leader ; John Theofel , Queens leader ; State Controller Morris S. Tremaine , former Police Commissioner Grover A. Whalen and Matthew S. Woll , vice president of the American Federation of Labor . MILITeNT PARTY DEMANDED . Democratic Leaders in Messages to Dinner Here Predict Triumph . Telegrams from leaders of the Democratic patty , speaking at other " victory dinners " throughout the country , were read last night at the New York dinner . The telegrams follow : Senator Joseph T. Robinson ? It is of primary importance that every Democrat give cordial support to the campaign to raise an adequate victory fund for the Democratic party. , The success of your labors will attest a militant party spirit . The existing debt should be promptly paid off and the necessary amount provided for organization and publicity purposes . Appeals for contributions should be responded to with promptness and liberality , for essential government reforms depend upon recognition of Jeffersonian principles in the control of national affairs . Newton D. Baker  --  to the Democratic party the call to service has now come . These are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to equip ourselves for the greater battle and the greater victory which are just ahead of us . Melvin A. Taylor , Chicago banker ? Under our system of government by political parties the citizen 's opportunity for registering his desire for change in administration can be expressed only in the success of one or the other of the major parties . Party success , however , is dependent to a very great extent upon party organization . In a country as large as ours the maintenance of efficient party organization is very expensive . At the present time it appears that a very large majority of our citizenship desires an administrative change which can only be brought about by the success next November of the Democratic party . It therefore behooves all citizens desiring a change regardless of past party affiliations to subscribe liberally to the Victory Fund to the end that the Democratic party organization may be established and maintained throughout the country as the surest means of securing administrative change . James M. Cox , former Governor of Ohio and Democratio Presidential nominee in ** is an impressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State groups stretching from sea to sea . Naturally our pride is stirred to see the country turning to the philosophy of Jefferson , and it is reassuring to observe the spirit of our party . It is thinking soberly of responsibilities ratherthan exulting over the prospect of a , certain victory . After all , we must think voficveictory only as the means to serGovernor Albert C. Ritchie of Maryland ? It is a privilege to express warm greetings to the Democrats assembled this evening on the launching of the Democratic Victory Fund drive . Never before were the prospects for party success so bright and never before was party success more deserved or more essential to the welfare of the country . This is a time when the interests of the American people require that harmony and constructive effort in the Democratic party be put ahead of every other consideration , and If this is done an overwhelming victory , 12 assured .. -                     