@@701143

txt Four tenants on the top floor of a three-story stucco building at 166 East Seventy-third Street , near Lexington Avenue , were rescued by firemen yesterday morning shortly before 7 o'clock when they were trapped by a fire of unknown origin which rapidly swept through the structure . During the fighting of the fire . which was not under complete control until three hours later , eight firemen of Engine Company 44 were overcome by smoke in a second floor corridor . They were rescued by members of Hook and Ladder Company 16 and were treated for smoke inhalation and scorched eyes by Dr. Muscanto of Metropolitan Hospital . Art Exhibit Destroyed . The structure , three stories In front and two in the rear , is occupied on the ground floor by the Club , whose members are literary , musical and artistic people . In the main auditorium of the club a group of etchings , recently borrowed from the Grand Central Art Galleries , 15 Vanderbilt Avenue , and which was to have gone on exhibition yesterday afternoon , was destroyed . , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by James Whistler , entitled " La Vieille aux Logues . " Other artists whose etchings were burned included A. W. Heintzelman , Kerr Eby , Gordon Grant , Childe Hassam , Frank Benson , Albert Sterner , Roland Clark , Grant Reynard , Carl Oscar Borg and R. Stephens Wright . The Fire Department first received notice of the fire when an unidentified person turned in an alarm at 6:47 A. M. Three engines and two truck companies responded under the command of Deputy Chief James Turbidy , who immediately put in a second alarm , which brought four more engines and one truck company . The fire , which swept rapidly through the building , gave the four top-floor tenants no chance to escape unaided . An aerial ladder was quickly raised , however , and all were carried to safety . Those Who Were Rescued . Those rescued are Mary Wright , Mrs. Louise Potter , custodian of the building , and her son , John , and Viola Juhkin , who was affected by the smoke and treated by Dr. Muscanto . The firemen overcome are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Peterson , Arthur Drummond , Joseph Gadder , Patrick Kennelly and Andrew Baron . All returned to duty after treatment . For a while the fire , fanned by a strong breeze , threatened a fifteenstory apartment house next door . Flames shot through the rear of the burning structure . The fire was not under control until 9:30 A. M. While no estimate of the damage has as yet been made , Mrs. E. P. Squire , secretary of the club , said the etchings represented a loss of more than $3,000 . Mrs. Squire said the club had held the last of a series of Winter dances in the auditorium Saturday night . Nearly 150 guests attended until about 4 o'clock yesterday morning . She gave the opinion that the fire had been caused by spontaneous combustion or a burning cigarette carelessly thrown away by a guest . Eight persons were carried down ladders by firemen early yesterday morning during a fire in the threestory brick building at 223 Kingston Avenue , near Sterling Place , Brooklyn . Battalion Chief John Farrell , who said he detected the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported the blaze ? was of suspicious origin . The building was bodly damaged . The fire started about 4:20 A. M. under the stairs leading to the basement . The ground floor of the building is occupied by a store , While two families live on the second and third floors . Thurlow Biters , 33 years old , who lives on the top floor with his wife , Genevieve , 25 , and their three children , Phyllis , 19 months ; Richard , 3 years , and Donald , 5 years , discovered the fire when he returned home . He tried to ring the door bells , but they were not working . Shouting for aid , he ran to the roof of the building at 227 , and crossed to the roof of the burning structure . Meanwhile a passer-by had heard his shouts and had turned in an alarm . As fire apparatus was arriving Ellers called down to his wife to open a rear window to let out the smoke . She obeyed but the draft that was created fanned the flames . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while firemen put up a ladder and then carried them down . Captain James Walsh of Engine Company 254 , who took part in the rescue , and the three children were overcome by smoke but responded to treatment by an ambulance surgeon from Swedish Hospital . After the Ellers family had been rescued , firemen brought down the occupants of the second floor apartment , Mrs. Helen Maloney , her daughter , Margaret , 15 , and two boarders , Michael Tracy and Steve Kelly . Firemen said the rescue work was made difficult because there were no fire escapes at the rear of the building . There have been several other suspicious fires in the neighborhood In the last few months . Fire Marshal Thomas F. Brophy , is , investigating . The building is owned by Samuel Cohen of 1,055 Park Place , Brooklyn .                     