@@698878

txt Earnings covering a considerable portion of its annual dividend requirement of $1.20 a ? share apparently will be shown by Canada Dry Ginger Ale , Inc. , in the third quarter , ending June 30 , of Its present fiscal year . Since the current quarter and the succeeding one , ending September 30 , usually are Canada Dry 's best two , officials of the comnanv feel that . riven favorable summer weather , the year 's earnings should cover the present dividend rate or better . April 's net practically met one quarterly dividend installment of 30 cents on the 1505,287 no-par capital shares , and May and June should provide the equivalent of , or more than , another payment . After showing good resistance for two years to the general business depression , Canada Dry felt the effects of the slump in the late summer and early fall months last year , business reaching its low point In October . The December quarter , regularly one of the company 's less profitable ones , went into the red , the loss , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ etc . Since October , each succeeding month has shown a gain over the preceding one . The March quarter was again in the profit column , showing eight cents a share earned , and erasing the effects of the preceding three months to register a net of 318,131 , or three cents a share , for the first half of the fiscal year . Made Good to New York City Currently , officials state , Canada Dry 's bus ! ? nem continues good especially in the metropolitan New York and the Philadelphia districts , which In May considerably exceeded their corresponding 1931 Madness . In some of the other districts , results compare less favorably , although the Pacific Coast is decidedly on , the uptrend . The company 's business there will be helped appreciably by the opening about the middle of next month of a new leased plant , now being built for Canada Dry by outside capital and rented on favorable terms with renewal and purchase options . With the opening of the Los Angeles plant , the company ? will be able to eliminate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more effectively promote sales there . Entering a new sales field in January this year , the company began placing on sale at soda fountains ttt five cents a glass Canada Dry ginger ale made from a syrup identical with its secret formula syrup used to bottle its product at its own plants . Tried out locally at first in a minor way , the experiment gave promise of success on a national scope , with the result that at present some 10,000 soda fountains throughout the country-2,500 in New York ? , have Canada Dry " on tap . " Designed as a " plus " business , tapping a sales field that had been untouched , the new made-to-order drink , rather than cutting in on sales of bottled Canada Dry , has advertised aril spurred the sales of the latter . The reception of the soda fountain syrup by wholesaler , retaller and public , 1 ' . D. Saylor , president , says , " has been most gratifying , with repeat business developing practically unanimously . Results to date indicate that the sale of soda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits . " May Absorb New U. S. Taxes Canada Dry probably will itself absorb the tax of six cents a gallon on fountain syrup and five cents on syrup for bottled products fixed by the 1932 revenue hill , rather than pass it on to the consumer . The company has effected certain economies internally which it believes will offset the tax cost . There also is a tax of four cents a pound on carbonic gas . but the total amount of this product employed is not considerable enough to affect earnings . Tax schedules similar to the present ones , it is observed , were In effect when the United States company was formed in 1923 and did not greatly affect its results then . Canada Dry 's Canadian business has been good , with sales and profits in the six months ended March 31 above those of the corresponding period of 1931 . This is interesting in con ? nection with prospective United States beer legislation and the effect that the legalization of alcoholic beer might have on Canada Dry 's business . The Canadian results apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is possible steadily to increase ginger ale sales . Canada Dry 's management . however , has not been unmindful of the possible effect of beer on ginger ale sales , and currently is working on plans to expand its business in accordance With any legislative or constitutional change in liquor restrictions here .                     