@@697041

txt The most turbulent day of the dressmakers ' strike began yesterday morning with two riots involving left and right wing workers , twenty-three arrests and an attack on an openshop manufacturer , who died at noon from a fractured skull . It ended last evening with a settlement of the dispute between the union and the " inside shop " manufacturers and an agreement between the union and the contractors . Unless unforeseen obstacles arise today it is expected that the troublesome issues between the jobbers and the contractors will be adjusted , and that by tonight a tentative agreement ending the strike of approximately 35,000 dressmakers may be announced . The vanguard of the 7,000 employes of the Affiliated Dress Manufacturers , Inc. , the " inside shop " manufacturers , are expected , according to Louis L. Schwartz , president , to be back at their machines by Thursday . The union will delay settlement with the independents and will carry on the strike against the open-shop manufacturers who have resisted demands for union recognition . At a meeting of the general strike committee in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union had completed its contract with the submanufacturers and that no difficulty was expected today in winding up the negotiations with the jobbers , the third of the employers ' associations . The terms of the agreement with the " inside shop " manufacturers were explained to the strike committee , which ratified them . Reds Attack Parades . Twenty-three persons were arrested as an aftermath of the mass picketing demonstration , which the police estimated involved 15,000 men and women . The riots , in which knives were wielded and sawed-off billiard cues swung down on the heads of combatants , were said by the police to have been caused by massed attacks by left wing and Communist elements against the paraders , members of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union . The clash which resulted in the death of Jacob Rothenberg , an openshop dress manufacturer of 1,412 Broadway . started near his place of business . Mr. Rothenberg , a member of the firm of Anna Scheer-nothen berg , Inc. , suffered a fractured skull when he fell to the sidewalk after being struck on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chauffeur , of 173 Eldridge Street , was locked up charged with felonious assault , which was changed to homicide at noon after Mr. Rothenberg died in Bellevue Hospital . Rothenberg Lured to Death . Friends of Mr. Rothenberg said last night that the dress manufacturer yrs lured to the southwest corner or Broadway and Thirty-ninth Street by a telephone message at 9 o'clock in the morning . He said he would return to his shop in a few minutes and went to the corner just south of the , Metropolitan Opera House , where he was attacked . Mr. Rothenberg was popular with his associates , belonged to the clubs in the trade and was , a leader among the manufacturers in the building where he had his office . He leaves a wife and three children , with whom he lived at Bay Second Road , New Rochelle . Union officials said they did know not Ashkenas , the alleged assailant . The first riot of the day occurred in front of the Metropolitan Opera House about 9 A. M. and the second on West Thirty-fifth Street half an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 36 , of 1,450 Clay Avenue , the Bronx , was arrested on a charge of felonious assault on the complaint of Samuel Kaplan , 21 , of 16 East 118th Street . Kaplan charged Presser with slashing him in the face with a knife . Kaplan was attended by a New York Hospital ambulance surgeon and went home . 2 Accused Under Sullivan Law ? Benjamin Konigsberg of 1,102 Longfellow Avenue , the Bronx , was arrested on West Thirty-fifth Street and the police said they found a knife with a spring blade in his pocket , Samuel Axelrod of 1,242 Intervale Avenue , the Bronx , was picked up and accused of possessing a sawed-off billiard cue . Both were charged with violating the Sullivan law . Three arrests were made after a raid by fifteen men and women on the dress loft of Max Kula , at 253 West Twenty-sixth Street . The raiders drove Kula 's thirty-five employes out of the loft and ripped the telephone from the wall . Patrolmen responding to cries for help caught three men , who were charged with disorderly conduct . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street ; John Brunt , 2,860 West Twenty-fourth Street . Brooklyn , and Meyer Adker , 86 Avenue B. Seventeen of the twenty-three persons arrested on disorderly conduct charges were freed on suspended sentences in Jefferson Market court . Axelrod , Konigsberg and Kaplan were held in $1,000 bail for further examination . The two riots started shortly after Lieut . Gov . Lehman boarded the train for Albany , concluding his busy week-end in negotiations to end the dress dispute . Main Pointe of Agreement . Ratification of the agreement between the union and the " inside shop " manufacturers will be voted'on today by both sides . The jobbers and contractors will meet at noon to settle those points still at issue between them . Here are the most important terms of the agreement between the inside manufacturers and the union : Establishment of impartial machinery for the adjustment of disputes similar to that existing in the cloak industry . Formation of a commission to study the dress industry and to make recommendations for stabilizing the trade . A two-year contract . Strict enforcement of the fortyhour week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a half for overtime on Saturday for piece workers . Single time for piece workers and double time for week workers in overtime operation during the week . . Discussion of the union demand for unemployment insurance is deferred for one year . The inside manufacturers agree to settle the vexed question of " limitation " of work along the lines worked out between jobbers and contractors . The latter have demanded that jobbers have their dreases made up only in shops affiliated with the contractors ' association . Ingersoll Discussed for Post . Raymond V. Ingersoll , impartial chairman of the cloak industry , was discussed informally yesterday for the post of impartial chairman of the dress trade . Those present at the final unionmanufacturer conference at the Hotel Commodore in the afternoon were : For the employers , Louis L. Schwartz , president ; Fred Greenberg , Saul J. Finger , Joseph M. Baum , M. E. Zipser and Jack Herzog ; for the union , Benjamin Schlesinger , president ; David Dubinsky , Julius Hochman , L. Antonini , I. Nagler , J. Breslau , S. Perlmutter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside shops , " said Mr. Schwartz after the session . " We hope the workers will be sent back on Thursday . I hope that the impartial machinery will begin to function as soon as the contract is ratified . "                     