@@698142

txt A far-reaching plan for the stimulation of the American agricilitinal export trade by extending credits to foreign bunts Is being pushed by President Mover in cooperation with Mr. Eugene Meyer , governor of the Federal Reserve Boa d . Under the proposal , American banks , presumably those of the Fedeial Reserve System , would extend private loans to imeIgn industrialists for the purpose of buying American agricultural commodities , By this means the Administration Proposes to overcome what are described as " credit barriers " to American trade , that Is , the lack of finances by foreign purchasers to obtain American raw materials , such as , cotton and wheat . These so-called " barriers " are declared to be unrelated to the tariff question , and as arising out of the general economic sluggishness that has most of Europe in its grip . By providing European manufacturers with the means of obtaining raw materials not only will international trade be energized , the Administration holds , but European workers will be given employment and they in tutu begin buying more and the American grower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan is to dispose of this year 's surplus of cotton , estimated at around 2,000,000 bales . Mr. Meyer is understood hash ? attempting to sell 1,000,000 bales on this credit scheme to European industrialists . It is known ' that he has already laid his plan before German , Polish and French authorities , the last primarily for Informative puflToses . The French do not lack credit . The Germans , Poles , Rumanians , Austrians , and other smaller European countries are expected to weleome this opportunity of obtaining needed raw materials on long-term credits . While the Government here is pushing the plan through the governments abroad , the actual transaction , it is emphasized , is to ho of a strictly private business nature . The American bank will make a loan to the foreign industrialist , who will then purchase the cotton from an American dealer . The transaction will be wholly between non ; governmental agencies , but through the instrumentality and with the approval of the interested govern-ments , Cotton is being pushed for several reasons , it is explained , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater possibility of foreign sales because of greater demand for , this commodity at present In Europe . The Farm Board is taking no part in the new plan , as It does not hold any of this year 'S cotton crop , and it is not the purpose of the Administration to dispose of any of last yedr 's stabilization stock through this method for tile present . It is expressly explained in Administration quarters the credit extension plan eontempintes only the sale of this year 's cotton surplus . It Is expected that Increased textiles demand In the United States will bring the consumption of cotton this year up to 13,000,000 bales .                     