@@701075

txt Inventions and new products have led many Chicago industries into broadened fields , and this streamlined , air conditioned era finds many an enterprise expanding into new lines and new goods to serve new demands , ' to create more markets and to promote employment . A few instances indicate the trend : The Stewart-Warner company originally made automobile supplies , specializing in speedometers . It expanded into the field of radios and refrigerators and many other products . Fairbanks , Morse ' as " Co. became world ? known - as makers of scales . New ' the company - is also - engaged - in the manufacture of Diesel engines , and has expanded into air conditioning equipment . The Chicago Flexible Shaft company originally specialized in sheep shearing machinery  --  now it also manufactures electric irons and various farm ' accessories . Those Enemies of iVaste . The meat packers , to utilize waste products , developed many specialized lines , and as a source of medicinal products of animal origin Packingtown became medicine chest for the world . The Kohler company of Kohler , Wis. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten years ago expanded into the - mantifaciuns - of small light and power plants . The company did not  --  want to be dependent on building and construction ' alone to keep its plant going . It also aimed to:reduce seasonal fluctuations by having , two lines . Originally the light and power plants were for the farm market . Agriculture has been depressed for years , but the company has built up a business in its apparatus for emergency lighting . These products go to the navy , for battleships . cruisers , and submarines ; to the coast guard , to theaters . Its plants are used on . airway beacons . in summer homes , on farms . and on the new streamlined trains . Sows Widely ; Still Reaps . The International Harvester company is another enterprise that has constantly . diversified to keep up with the machine-power age . Had it stuck to its original business of making and selling - harvesting machinery ; it seems cafe to venture it would no longer be a leading industry . Today the company 's output includes 89 : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making tractors , first for farm use , later for industry . They find-s , market for road building , forest conservation , snow plowing . Farm machinery has been constantly unproved and ? new machines devised . The company had the problem of adapting all of its farm machinery to power operation . The company embarked on the manufacture of light trucks , and this branch has : been increasingly important . The company now produces a full line of motor trucks , from the half ton . model : to the ten ton unit . Trucks Prove a Backlog . When the company went into truck manufacture it was with an idea of selling modern transportation to the farmer . The trend , however , has  --  been towards greater . industrial use , and today farmers buy only 25 per cent of the company 's output , with 75 per cent being sold for industrial and other use . During the years when farm machinery sales felt the crippling effect of the reduction in farm buy .. ing power , , the truck business grew in importance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cited as another example of expansion to keep pace with invention . Originally - it made sleeping cars : Some years ago it went from wood to all , steel construction . When the new allo 's came along , Pull . min turned ' out the first cars . in this light weight material , and ' out of . its shops last October rolled the. - first lightweight , streamlined - train with sleepers for transcontinental service . Now it is building more lightweight streamlined trains . As to the oil industry , it is a notable example of how the research laboratories of prbiktei induatry have ' been utilized to battle the depression by turning out new and improved products without which 200 miles an hour aircraft and high power , high speed automobiles and trains : would not be possible                     