@@701594

txt A continuation of the battle which the independent stockholders ' committee , headed by C. W. Nichols , made late in 1933 against the management of the Allied Chemical &; Dye Corp. , of which Orlando F. Weber was then chairman , is seen in a letter which Mr. Nichols has mailed to all stockholders . Mr. Nichols charges that " immunity of the management to check by independent directors persists in the face of responsible warning . " Mr. Nichols  --  his father the founder of Allied and himself one of the largest stockholders ? urges stockholders to Join him in insisting upon the election to the board of directors of " two or three persons of standing in the community . independent of but cooperative with the management " He declared that Allied is dropping behind in its established field and that the company has remained " relatively stagnant " while competitors have been going ahead Mr. Nichols played a leading part in his committee 's efforts two years ago to force the management to accede to the demands of the New York Stock Exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs . Direetorm ? Meeting The next directors ' meeting of the company is scheduled for tomorrow . According to Mr. Nichols . " the fact remains that for two years the directorate has not been and is not now of a character to afford independent protection to the stockholders . Mr. Nichol 's letter to common stockholders follows ' " I am writing you on a phase of our company 's affairs which causes me serious concern . It relates to the future as distinguished from the present or past . " The immediate financial position of the company apparently presents no problem . Cash and liquid assets appear sufficient to retire the preferred stock and , for the time being , to pay dividends on the common stock at the present rate or even a higher rate . This , however , is a heritage of the past . No company can long live on the past . It must constantly adapt itself to the present and be planning ' for the future . Stockholders who judge our company from this viewpoint can not but have misgivings . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly develops new uses for existing products and new products for existing uses . Our competitors are actively devoting their time , money and effort to such research work . To them new and promising vistas are opening up . Allied has remained relatively stagnant . Even in our established fields we seem to be dropping behind . " I am not alone in this concern for the future . I hear the same concern expressed in many quarters . Indeed , the market for our stock over the last two or three years clearly demonstrates that the two other great American chemical companies are considered to have a more promising future . Our stock has appreciated much more slowly and a much higher current yield is required to attract buyers . I am an investors , not a speculator . As such I am indifferent to current stock market fluctuations . But comparative market trends over a period of years provide a reliable measure of informed investment judgment . Antiquated Policies " The antiquated policies which threaten our business future also mark the attitude of the management toward the stockholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners of the business and as such entitled to be informed regarding company affairs . It was obviously reluctant to comply with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Act requiring the filing of information . At the annual meeting last April . the president declined to make any statement to inquiring stockholders defining his intentions , and the stockholders were left in uncertainty whether or not their stock would continue to be listed on any exchange When the management finally decided to register , it withheld or imposed a condition of secrecy , with respect to much essential information contemplated by the Act to be disclosed to stockholders . The inadequacy of the registration statement , even as now amended , is such that it still is uncertain whether it will be acepted as sufficient by the Securities and Exchange Commission . The management thus persists in the reactionary policy which , in 1933 , jeopardized the maintenance of an open market for our stock . At that time I became chairman of a committee designed to secure compliance with Stock Exchange requirements regarding information to be furnished to stockholders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approaching 40% of the . stock did the management accede to the requirement which had long been accepted as normal by other companies . Recent developments make is particularly important to review plans and policies for the future . Mr. Weber has resigned both as chairman of the board and director . This retirement of one who for years had been chief executive , would , in the normal case , have been the occasion for the board of directors carefully to review the management and its policies with an eye to the future . However , at that time the constitution of the board was such as effectively to prevent any objective and independent scrutiny of the management itself . Seven of the twelve directors'elected at the immediately preceding annual meeting were part of the man . agement or employed by it . Thereafter certain of these directors apparently withdrew , but the fact remains that for some years the directorate has not been and is not now of a character to afford independent protection to the stockholders . " Immunuity of the Management " " This immunity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of responsible warning . The committee acting on behalf of stockholders in 1933 , when it had achieved its objective , stated : ' The immediate danger is past However , we remain of the opinion . originally expressed . that the board of directors as now constituted , is inadequate . The small independent element on the board should be augmented by new directors of standing . ' " The recommendation then made has for two years passed unheeded . Indeed , the ' small independent element on the board ' has been even further reduced . The stocicholciers can not feel that the board is an effective agency for assuring that our policies are enlightened and efficient . " My father was the founder of Allied . I have myself been a director and am a large stockholde ! . I hope that the affairs of the company will be managed so that I can , with confidence in the future ? retain my large stock interest . I feel , however , that it is imperative that there be introduced into the board of director.r persons of fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such that we can feel confident that Allied will not become merely a monument of the past . " I have no desire , and it should not be necessary . to disturb the company 's affairs by a proxy fight If , however , you would like to see the board strengthened by the addition of two or three persons of standing in the community , independent of but cooperative with the management , I ask you to sign the form of letter attached hereto . I wish to bring the matter informally to the attention of the management , in the hope that the management itself will voluntarily act to remedy the present situation . "                     