@@701413

txt The administration lost its fight today for discretionary authority to embargo export of war munitions under which it could cooperate with the league of nations to boycott Italy for making war on Ethiopia . The most the President was able to obtain from the house foreign affairs committee was an amendment to . the senate bill terminating the mandatory embargo legislation March 1 next . Under the terms of this compromise the President , in the event of war between Italy and Ethiopia , would be obliged to stop the shipment of " arms , ammunition , or plements of war " to both countries . Inasmuch , however , as Ethiopia presumably would not be buying extensively in the American market the embargo would in effect be directed at Italy . Cooperation Is Permitted . If the league of nations should invoke economic sanctions penalty for treaty violations against Italy the Roosevelt administration would be enabled to cooperate to the extent of a liberal interpretation of the phrase " implements of war , " which certainly would include cotton and copper and possibly breadstuffs . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annex of the league in dealing with the African crisis , if not with intent to put us into the league eventually , figured in a stormy meeting of the foreign affairs committee from which the compromise emerged . When the committee met Representative Sam D. Dem , Tenn. , chairman , read a memorandum of the conference at the White House last night in which the President expressed his opposition to the senate bill making mandatory the embargo of exports a war supplies to all belligerents in a war . The President wanted unfettered authority conferred upon him to embargo shipments to one or all belligerents , as he might see fit . Such authority would enable him to cooperate fully with the league in declaring one of the belligerents the aggressor to be coerced by economic sanctions . British Pressure Charged . Representative George Holden Tinkham Rep. , Mass. charged that the President was seeking to play the game of the league and is acting in the present instance as the tool of the British foreign office . " The British are maneuvering to commit the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sanctions to Italy , " said Mr. Tinkham . " Hence they want the President to have discretionary authority to embargo the export of commodities to Italy . They also want the embargo to be purely discretionary so that the President would not be compelled to embargo exports to Great Britain if Great Britain should become involved in the war . The President did n't say he wanted an embargo to hit Great Britain , did he ? " Doubts Senate Acceptance . Chairman made no reply , but turned the discussion to the question of a compromise with the senate . Eventually Senator Key Pittman Dem. , Nev. , chairman of the senate foreign relations committee , was called . He was of the opinion that the senate would not accept the discretionary authority desired by the President Thereupon Chairman drafted an amendment to the senate bill which would have the effect of terminating all embargo proclamatons under the act on Feb. 29 , 1936 . In effect this is a limitation of the mandatory embargo provision voted by the senate to the next six months . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again and can consider neutrality legislation anew . Late in the afternoon the house committee reported favorably the senate bill with the compromise amendment and Chairman said he would try to call it up in the house tomorrow . Congressman Tinkham and the other Republican members voted against the limitation . They favored the permanent mandatory embarge ' of the senate bill . Mr. Tinkhain argued trt , as under this bill all embargo authority will terminate March 1 , belligerents will be free to obtain war supplies in this country . If by that Great Britain is involved in war she will argue as in 1915 and 1916 that imposition of an arms embargo by America would be an unfriendly act . " WM Get Us Into War . " " Such legislation will get us into more wars than it will keep us out of , " Mr. Tinkham told the committee . It was learned that in the White House conference last night the President argued that legislation providing for mandatory embargoes would tie this country to a rigid policy . It Would be known that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be shut off on the outbreak of war and consequently the United States would cease to be a factor in the situation pertaining to the oncoming conflict . Mr. Roosevelt took the position that such legislation would tie the hands of the executive to such an extent that he could exert no influence toward averting war . Would Name Aggressor . He indicated his interest in cooperating with other powers in singling out one of the belligerents as the aggressor . To embargo the shipment of arms to all belligerents , he argued , actually would discriminate in favor of the aggressor nation if it should be the stronger and in need of importing arms and munitions . Other administration officials frankly stated that opposition to the mandatory embargo of the senate bill revolves around the consideration that if Great Britain and France were to become involved in war the United States would be compelled to deprive them of our assistance . " Under the senate bill the President is not permitted to use his judgment in invoking an embargo which might prevent war , " said one official . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States is not interested in anything that may happen outside . " Further , the new bill may drive American foreign trade off the seas in the event of war . It would enable neutral nations , not tied by such rigid regulations , to act as brokers for American commodities at low prices and sell them to embroiled nations at war prices . "                     