@@697651

txt With the coming of this morning ( making no allowance for New and Old Style ) dawns the first full day of the 200th year since the birth of GEORGE WASHINGTON . It should be a Washingtonian year in the calendar of every community , of every school and of every civic organization , to the end that every citizen of the Republic , which WASHINGTON was foremost in establishing , every alien who is within our gates , and especially every child coming into consciousness of the past of the land into which he has been born , should become more fully cognizant of the supreme part WASHINGTON had in the making of America . There is no community so remote or small that it should feel excused from taking an active part in the national celebration . It is a year in which every one should read or re-read , either in brief or in more extended and searching study , the story of our beginnings . For those who do not know our language it should be a year in which they will become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or the Constitution of the United States . It is in promotion of a nationwide celebration which places the accent on individual enlightenment and community patriotic spirit that the Bicentennial Commission , of which President HOOVER is chairman , has undertagen the publication of the " Writings of George Washington " in twenty-five volumes . In his introduction , the President refers to WASHINGTON as " the greatest " political leader of his time and the " greatest intellectual and moral " force of the Revolutionary period . " Everything that he is known to have committed to paper is to be included in this voluminous and now imperishable record . It is to be hoped that the publication will be advanced so rapidly that the entire series will be available in this period of preparation and intensive study . There is the more need of such literature because there is to be no central exposition as there was in marking the 400th anniversary of the discovery of America by COLUMBUS . It is to be a centralized celebration in the hearts of the present generations . And there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suggest variety in the community observances . For example : up in the Blue Ridge Mountains it will be well for the people there to remember that he said in a darkest period of the war for independence that " if all others " failed him , he would plant his " standard on the Blue Ridge of " Virginia and make his last stand " for the liberties of the people " there . " What WASHINGTON did to help bind the West to the East offers another theme of special interest to the West . But these thousands of communities will all be tied together at intervals by the radio , making it possible for the President and others to reach the entire population at one and the same moment . When today 's celebrations are ended , plans should be begun at once in every community to observe the whole Washingtonian year as a great national anniversary .                     