@@697856

txt While establishment of a new low for copper of Sai , i cents a pound delivered is disconcerting to many , t should be remembered that the weakness in price is the result of a situation that long has been developing . Furthermore , in the opinion of many welt able to judge , it is a constructive development . While all hope 5 , S. , cents a pound will be bottom in the decline , not a few feel that price must go lower . In the opinion of many , the breaking of the former low of 9 cents delivered is a step toward forcing curtailment of copper production below consumption , such as has been going on during recent months in lead and zinc At 9 cents a pound or under , none of the mines can make money at present rates of production after paying taxes and charging off depreciation . The average daily production of copper for the world in April was 4 2S9 tons , and for the first four months of this year , 4.360 tons a day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1930 of 4,950 tons . In other words , production of copper is down only 12 ' ' " ; - . from the average of 1930 , apparently less than the recession in industry as a whole . Further Increase in Stocks Likely Despite the lower production of copper during the last few months , and some reduction in stocks of refined copper during earlier months of the year . refined stocks of copper in April increased almost to the high of November 1 . 1930. before any curtailment started . The indication is that stocks will increase further in Slay . As long as copper is taken out of the mine and remains in producers ' hands , it must have a depress.ng effect upon the price . If producers refuse to curtail sufficiently to balance produet , on with consumption , then the price must tall and force the curtailment , unless the industry be much hotter coordinated than it is at present . The copper producers discussed the situation in November , 1930 , and decided to curtail world production 20 000 tons a month . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Subsequent events show that 30,000 tons should have been cut off production last November . But it was with difficulty that even a 20,000-ton reduction was realized . Possibilities of Further Curtailment Discussed There have been some discussions recently looking to further curtailment , but not discussions among all the producers , such as those in November . The situation has demanded action , and not discussion , but it is difficult to get action when most of the larger producers of the ' United States and South America have curtailed production so that they are operating around 40 ' , of capacity . The men retained at such mines are working about two-thirds of the time , and at the lower wage rate now prevailing . It is impossible for the miner operating at 40 , ' , to reduce much further without cutting their forces drastically . The industry as a whole is operating at about 65 ' : - of capacity . Any further decline in the rates of prodtction will increase materially the expenses of the higher cost mines , which also want to hold their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make it difficult to curtail further , and so the industry has been drifting , hoping for the best . Such drifting can result only in some such situation as developed last November . The copper industry , many think , should have begun to curtail output in May , 1929 , and one large producer did begin to curtail at that time . Unfortunately , other producers would not follow . They refused to recognize the even clearer indications of the need for drastic curtailment shown early in 1930 , and curtailed only moderately , so that by November , 1930 , they were forced to curtail drastically . This worked great hardship , which was tempered , somewhat by rotating mine crews so that the men retained worked two-thirds of the time . The curtailment should have been enforced in May , 1930 . Being laid off with summer approaching is far easier on the men than being laid off in the winter . Possibly , if the curtailment had been drastic enough , the situation might have been in hand by last winter , without the price being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new low price apparently is the market 's way of bringing about the delayed curtailment . If the decline in price does force further curtailment , as it no doubt will if it continues , the result will , in the opinion of many competent to judge , result in the cleaning up of copper stocks by November of this year , and put the industry in such a position that miners probably can be employed this winter instead of being laid off or their working time reduced as in 1930 . Curtailment will not be immediate . Probably price will have to work lower and stay there long enough to discourage high-cost mines from holding on . The low price of lead , silver and zinc have forced the curtailment of lead and zinc output , and apparently , further drastic curtailment is about to be forced in copper . Apparently , the industry can not make headway until stocks again are reduced consistently . The outlook probably is not so dark for copper as many seem to think . There is good reason to believe that , with concerted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such regulation of production as would result in price stability , the consumption of copper throughout the world can be increased more rapidly , with the return of more normal times , than that of any other major metal . The industry has depended upon the brass demand from major industries and the copper wire demand from electricity to take care of production . No thought has been given to creating good will among users . No attempts have been made to get copper screens and miscellaneous copper and brass products into the hands of the smaller user here they abroad at reasonable prices . As a result , they have used zinc or galvanized products or aluminum articles and the like . Undoubtedly , a large tonnage of I copper has been and is being prevented from going into consumption by the high prices that the small consumer must pay not only for the copper products themselves but for their installation . A properly coordinated industry that would see that copper was made available at reasonable prices in finished and semi-finished articles here and abroad could , in the opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consumption of copper . It is doubtful whether the new production that is to come in during the next few years can be coped with successfully if reliance is placed . as in the past , solely on expansion of electrical use of copper . It is quite possible that the present trials of copper and the drastic decline in price may result in the healthy coordination that the industry needs . Accompanying chart shows yearly range in price of copper since 1861.                     