@@699698

txt In The American Political Science Review for April Professor STUDENSKI of New York University reviews Professor MEI/ma:Ws latest book on the government of the Metropolitan Region of Chicago . On the very next page Professor of Columbia sums up the various proposals now under discussion for the reorganization of the government of the City of New York . Comes also in the mail a neat gunmetal-gray pamphlet , with blue lettering , describing the municipal activities of Cincinnati in 1932 . The temptation to do one of those old-fashioned " Studies in Contrast " is irresistible . After all , comparisons are not always odious . They may even be helpful . As New York looks down on Chicago and up at Cincinnati this much buffeted metropolis may lay some unction to its soul that its government is not so bad as it might be , even if it is not yet so excellent as it is capable of becoming . Look first on this picture of the city of lakes , fairs , parks , drainage canals , Wacker drives , stock yards and racketeers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Professor MERRIANI of its own favorite university . Everybody knows the city 's present plight , but to what is it due ? Well , it is due in part at least to the fact that the needs of the region are attended to by some 1,642 governments of one kind and another , town , county , city and nondescript , most of them enjoying the taxing power , many of them overlapping or working at cross-purposes , a jerrybuilt structure with no plan or purpose , wasteful , incompetent ? a veritable paradise for politicians . The inner city of Chicago alone has twenty-seven of these more or less independent governments , Cook County 438 of them . Professor MERRIAM dreams of the day when complete consolidation of the governments of the city , the county and the sanitary district may be accomplished by constitutional amendment , and perhaps even accorded independent Statehood . The very nature of the proposals made by Professor MCGOLDRICK and other municipal reformers for amendments to the charter of the City of New York shows how far it has already progressed . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so well off , the city and the counties and boroughs which compose it have already obtained many of the benefits of consolidation . However the boroughs may tug at the leash , they acknowledge one master . However obsolete the county governments , their budgets are voted at City Hall . There is only one local body with authority to levy taxes . While the budget-making machinery could well be improved , the administrative departments reorganized and appropriate means devised to shake the grip of the dominant political machine , New York even now enjoys many of the essential structures of good municipal government . If it aspires still higher , it might profitably study the experience of Cincinnati  --  even if it does not choose to experiment just yet with either a steam railroad of its own or a city manager . Cincinnati has earned the enviable reputation of being one of the best governed cities in the United States . It made a beginning some years ago by getting rid of its old bossridden government . It has been fortunate in its city managers ; they have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is able to report that in a year which brought many American cities to the brink of financial disaster  --  some of them went over the brink  --  Cincinnati is still collecting taxes and selling bonds . She has as low a tax rate as any other large city and yet manages to continue the social services so necessary in these hard times . Mr. DYKSTRA is proud of this encomium from a hardboiled credit agency like Bradstreet 's : As waste in expenditure had already been largely eliminated at the beginning of the depression , further economies have been the result of scientific planning and adjustment which indicate admirably the possibilities of constructive retrenchment.                     