@@703801

txt High Admirustration otncials hope that Dr. Oswald() Aranha . Brazilian foreign minister , will be only the first of a procession of distinguished Latin American visitors who will discuss the prospects for closer economic ties and improved trade with fiscal advisers and department heads of the United States Government . Dr. Aranha arrived in New York yesterday morning and immediately came to Washington to confer with President Roosevelt on problems affecting both countries . Intensive study of the present situation with respect to Brazil has been under way in Washington for some weeks and while it can be said on excellent authority that no specific plan or program has been worked out there has been considerable looking into the question of what can and what can not be done in cooperation with Dr. Aranha 's government . Basic facts of the case , boiled down to barest outline , are that Brazil is a country that has borrowed about $1.000.000,000 from the rest of the world , roughly one-third of this amount having been obtained in the United States ( but not from the Government ) ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brazil has a strict system of foreign exchange control and only about $33.000.000 in a gold reserve , all of which has been produced by its domestic mines in the last four or five years ; that merchandise imports almost exactly balanced merchandise exports in 1935 , leaving no apparent margin for debt service ; and , finally , that Brazil is a country still in need of economic development . Not an Insuperable Obstacle In the opinion of responsible officials here , Brazil 's defaults on past obligations held by private individuals and organizations in the United States do not constitute an insuperable obstacle to fresh credits . The view is based on two considerations : In the first place , it is believed that a flat refusal to lend further financial assistance . to Latin American countries will not do defaulted bondholders any good at all and might only result in the development of economic ties elsewhere . Secondly , it is believed that medium term credits , tied directly to commercial transactions with U. S. exporters , will prove sound and . in the long run , improve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , some difference of opinion among high officials as to how far political considerations should be allowed to influence economic policies . In others there is a distinct tendency to let the economic facts rule and put political influences in second place . It is recognized here , of course , that the claims of defaulted Brazilian bondholders can not simply be ignored , even though the United States Government is not directly involved . The State Department has been working on this question . The Foreign Bondholders ' Protective Council , Inc. , a non-Governmental organliation. is available to represent the Brazilian creditors without any official connecting link with the department . Business Reorganization Some officials here look at the Brazilian problem as something not entirely unlike a business reorganization in that there are old obligations to be taken care of somehow , there is a need for new working capital and new equipment ought to be supplied . The limitations of this theory are recognized , of course , and nobody in Washington thinks it is possible to put any Latin American country through bankruptcy in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington . which Congress has been asked to extend to early 1941 is probably the agency through which any new Latin American trade credits will be made available . It has wide powers to do almost anything that can be related directly or indirectly to exports , although its total credits outstanding would be limited to $100.000,000 under the proposal to extend its life now pending . The bank has about $25,000,000 in credits outstanding now and has tentative obligations of perhaps another $25,000,000 . On the bank 's board of directors are represented the government departments and agencies most directly concerned with credits , foreign trade and foreign policy . These include the State Department . the Treasury Department . Commerce Department . Department of Agriculture and the Reconstruction Finance Corp . Financed Some Transactions The bank has already financed some transactions involving exports to Brazil and it has authorized a number of credits that have not actually been used because the manufacturers or exporters who asked for accommodation failed to get the business . One of the transactions carried through involved railway equipment . The bank is empowered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy has been to share the risk with the exporter on a 50-50 or 60-40 basis . but it has made exceptions and has extended credits without any recourse at all . In effect , such credits amount to a government loan . Dr. Aranha negotiated the so-called Aranha Agreement of 1934 under which the Brazilian government , without , in fact , any agreement with the bondholders concerned , divided Brazilian debts into eight different classes and offered full interest and amortization only on the first designated class . Other classes fared differently , on a downward scale , to class number eight which was to receive neither interest nor amortization in any amount . This agreement was to have been , followed by another plan beginning in 1938 which would have been a bi-lateral affair that the creditors themselves would have something to say about . In 1937. efforts to reach such an agreement did not succeed . Late that year the Vargas government came in through a coup d'etat and state and municipal debt service was suspended . Brazilian federal debt default became complete in March , 1938. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this type of obligation . Non-Convertible Standard Legally , except for short periods , the Brazilian currency has been on a non-convertible paper standard for fifty years or more . There ? has been an increase in currency in circulation of about 80% since 1930. and this was not the first period of sharp currency inflation . Foreign exchange control has been in effect in Brazil in one form or another since 1931 and restrictions have been especially strict since the fall of 1937. in 1933 and again in 1935 there were periods , despite control , when payments due abroad backed up on the exchange authorities and required " unfreezing " agreements . ? Only a liberal interpretation of the U. S.-Brazilian trade agreement of 1934 , renewed automatically at the end of 1937 , has kept the foreign exchange clause of that pact from cancelling the whole thing . At times since 1937 , payments abroad from Brazil have been held up three or four months by the control because imports slipped ahead of exports and the supply of exchange was insufficient . Payments are now reported to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills of exchange in which payments are made has been extended somewhat .                     