@@701523

txt France has replied in the affirmative , but with some typically careful ' Laval reservations , to the British demand for a yes or no answer to the question whether she is ready to carry out her obligations and to give her support as laid down in Article XVI of the covenant of the League of Nations in the event of any act of aggression by Italy against any power applying sanctions approved by the League . That answer was conveyed both verbally and in writing in an interview this morning between Premier Laval and Ambassador Sir George Russell Clerk and also in London through Ambassador Charles Corbin . As a first result , the tension which has marked the past few days has considerably calmed down and it is expected here that the effect in Italy will be important in forcing Mussolini to a reconsideration of his demands . Britain Makes Concessions . Having secured this diplomatic success , it is understood the British Government has informed the Quai d'Orsay that it will willingly reduce its Mediterranean force , to the extent , at least , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on her side obtain from Mussolini the withdrawal of his forces from the Egyptian border of Libya . In making his reply today Premier Laval changed completely the procedure which he proposed yesterday . Then in his interview with Ambassador Clerk he was content to repeat a general promise that France would remain faithful to its League obligations , but would only promise a definite reply for Monday or Tuesday , after the Senatorial elections and consultation with his Cabinet . It is understood that it was pressure from London through the French Embassy there which expedited the reply being given today . In it it is carefully stipulated that assistance will he given in the course of the application of economic sanctions approved by the League if any one of the powers acting for the League is subject to attack by Italy . On the British side it is understood Ambassador Clerk repeated that the British Government had no intention of going beyond the League 's recommendations , that it would not attempt without the full approval of Geneva any blockade of Italy , that it would not in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Red Sea and that it would not institute any system of search on ships continuing trade with Italy . After seeing the British Ambassador this morning and giving his reply Mr. Laval had an interview with Italian Ambassador Vittorio Cerutti and informed him what he had done , at the same time urging once more that the Italian Government should make some contribution on its side to relieving the tension in the Mediterranean . It is understood that in reply to Mr. Laval 's previous request for a plain statement from II Duce himself of the minimum concessions which he demands in Ethiopia an answer had been received which , in tone , if not in fact , shows considerable modification of the Italian attitude since n Duce refused the Anglo-French proposals last August . French Modify Comment . There is considerable modification also today in the French comment on the somewhat altered attitude of Premier Laval since he replied to the first British request for a statement on the French attitude in a note which entirely omitted any mention of the Mediterranean situation and propounded only in vague terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of any act of aggression during the period of debate and before the Geneva mechanism had done its work . No definite reply satisfactory to London was given regarding the actual situation and as Italy has now been declared to have broken the covenant the English Government considered the situation sufficiently clear to merit a definite answer . Until now the French attitude has been that the British fleet in the Mediterranean was there on its own responsibility and not as an agent of the League but today 's reply undoubtedly recognizes , within perhaps some limits , that it will henceforth be regarded as acting for the League . At the same time stress is being laid here on its Italian protestation that the utmost care would be taken to avoid any incident with British vessels . Reply Vague in Part . It is understood that the French reply , which is somewhat voluminous , is not quite as definitely affirmative as , perhaps , London would have liked . There are certain conditions attached to Mr. Laval 's promise of assistance , all of them , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France 's recognition of the legality of the British fleet 's presence in the Mediterranean depends on the fleet being used strictly in accord with Geneva 's decisions . It is thus repeated that it should not be used for blockading purposes or to interfere with the free use of the Suez Canal , and there seems some uncertainty in British circles , at least , whether the promise of assistance is immediately effective or becomes so only at the end of the month , when sanctions are applied . In expediting his reply and not waiting the approval of his . Cabinet there is reason to believe Mr. Laval only forestalled the wishes of his Ministers , for during the past few days several , even of those who have been inclined to be sympathetic with the Italian case , have become alarmed over the widening rift between England and France and have been urging the Premier to give London the assurance it has been asking . News From Rome Is Good . At the same time as this promise of closer cooperation between Paris and London has been obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Ambassadors Charles de Chambrun and Sir Eric Drummond in Rome last evening , Il Duce today received the British Ambassador and an arrangement is being reached for a ' mutual withdrawal of what may be called the aggressive forces . To Paris this news is especially satisfactory , for it fully justified the recent efforts of Mr. Laval to relieve the tension in the Mediterranean and seems likely to provide ground for claims of diplomatic success all round . To Mr. Laval such an improvement in the situation will prove invaluable , for it can be legitimately pointed to as a personal success , while the fact that he has consented to the application of the third paragraph of Article 16 of the covenant in accord with its interpretation by England can at the same time be presented as further proof of France 's loyalty to the League . To the rest of the world it is likely to be a matter of indifference who is responsible as long as an extension of the Ethiopian war is avoided , and the belief that good progress in that direction is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case is beet summed up by Le Journal des Debats , which says : " France , which has so often pleaded for recourse to collective action , will keep all her engagements . But she believes that instead of pursuing matters to the extreme it is better to furnish Italy with an occasion and a means of getting out of an evidently troublesmile situation in which she has placed herself and from which she I can derive no happy result , either militarily or politically . "                     