@@702061

txt The governor 's commission on unemployment submitted a report to Gov . Herbert H. Lehman today in which 26 of its 31 members recommended against adopting work relief as a permanent method of meeting the problem of large scale unemployment . The 112 page report summarized two years of research and was the ' seventh and last of a series of formal reports submitted by the commission , of which Major Allen Wardwell is ? chairman . The factual data were . gathered by a staf under the direction of Hugh R. Jackson , executive secretary and director of research for the commission . . Urge Future Consideration . Without touching on the question of the WPA , which is a federal enterprise , the report urged , however , that consideration be given to the problem of work relief in preparation for the day when the federal government either will withdraw entirely from this field or introduce ? a modified form of work relief based on federal and state coOperation . In an analysis- of work relief as locally administered under state supervision ' the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As against the view of the majority , the minority took the view that work relief is " one useful method of meeting destitution arising from unemployment " and favored retention of the legal authorization now in the Wicks state relief act for localities to engage in work relief - projects with the regular 40 per cent state reimbursement . Favor Gradual Curtailment . Both the majority and the minority of the commission believed , however . that work relief should be discontin tied if the size of the relief burden should fall to the pre-depression level Both thought any curtailment in work relief should be gradual . In urging against continuance of work relief as a permanent institution , the majority report pointed to a decline in the moral value of work relief as against home relief as well as in the skill preservation qualities of work relief . Eleven disadvantages of work relief , as seen by the majority of the com mission , were given as follows : " It costs more than home relief . " It is less efficient , as a means of doing work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducted on a scale sufficiently large to accommodate a relatively large proportion of the present needy population , and if centered upon projects of such character as to be beneficial to the morale of the workers , and of economic value , it is inevitably competitive with public enterprise and , in a few of its activities , with private enterprise . Available Construction Limited . " It is limited in the amount of available construction projects which may be undertaken unless it swings into substantial improvements , using a relatively large amount of materials , thus increasing costs . " It fails to provide adequate incentives for the workers to put forth effort as dilligently as they would normally be expected to , since most of the elements of competition are lacking . There are fewer dismissals for inefficiency than in normal enterprise . " It causes the workers , in some measure , to become accustomed to work relief- and to fail to seek private employment . " It has seriously disturbed special assessment financing . This is particularly manifest when it is attempted to launch current improvements by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . " The popular control over work relief activities is not as easy of realization as in the case of other governmental operations . . " It has affected adversely the contracting organizations which engage in public works construction . " It has attempted to combine the giving of relief with the doing of governmental work and has ; thus had dual objectives which give rise to some confusion and ' conflict . " It has tended to be cumulativeand self-perpetuating because it proirides a distinct economic advantage to local communities to do their necessary work through work relief . "                     