@@699051

txt The sharp fall of the yen to a record low of 55 per cent below parity , together with the serious problem of balancing the budget , according to a recent statement made by Mr. Korekiyo Takahashi , Minister of Finance , have not affected Japan 's vigorous policy in regard to Manchuria . The coming speech by Count Yasuya Uchida . Foreign Minister , before the Diet is expected to enunciate " Monroe Doctrine " for the Orient , with the Asiatics their own masters in Asia and to withstand meddling by the League of Nations . It is believed Count Uchida will declaie that the only way to secure peace in the Orient is for Japan , China and Manchukuo to strengthen their national power and maintain the most amicable cooperation . He is certain to maintain the policy of recognition of Manchukuo in due course , regardless of the attitude of the League and others . Gen. Nubuyoshi Mute , in charge of all of Japan 's agencies in Manchuria , sent a statement to Chang- dints , in which he said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fulfillment of the hopes of Manchurians and success in the heaven-appointed task of our race in providing a guarantee of the future security of our national existence . The ' kingly way ' which will guide the policy of Manchukuo is being identified with the glorious regime of a benevolence and justice peculiar to our Empire , destined to contribute to the moral and spiritual advancement of the world . . . . " Manchukuo has now entered a constructive period and the moment is close at hand for Japan to extend formal recogntion , . . . If there is any attempt to obstruct solution of the Manchurian problem , we shall combat it relentlessly . . . . The Manchus must help themselves , but Japan is their sole friend and must have unreserved cooperation . " The Foreign Oflice denies the reported new Japanese-Soviet pact " Our original plan . " the Minister continues , " was to have the deposits bureau ( a department of the Finance Ministry ) and other such institutions take bonds to cover the ordinary budget deficit and to have the Bank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expedition . The MO was to keep up bond prices . " Now , however , we face a situation where merchants , farmers and manufacturers also are demanding relief . Hence our plan must be enlarged . We will have to ask the general public to subscribe to the bond issues to the , full extent of its ability . " Civil-Military Split - The tenor of the Finance Minister 's remarks indicated a widening gap between the Government and the military , which insists on unlimited funds to cover its expenses on the Asiatic mainland and also upon relief of the rural population , which always has borne he brunt of taxation in Japan . Farm taxes can not be decreased , Mr. Takahashi indicates , and taxes on industry and wealth should not be Increased , he says , as the military desires . Confiscation of wealth , such as a section of the military suggests , would merely ruin the country . " Persons of wealth are not letting their money Ile idle , " Mr. Takahashi says , " blt are investing it in industries which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wealthy are taxed more heavily industry will suffer . The minister adds , however , that if the Government finds wealthy persons hoarding their funds these persons " will be asked to make contributions to the state . " While the did not say so , it is generally known that he meant he will support the army 's contention that idle wealth ought to be confiscated " in the interest oil national welfare . "                     