@@704095

txt Following its action earlier in the week in reducing the admission fee from 75 to 50 cents for groups of 500 or more , the World 's Fair Corporation yesterday announced a cut from 50 to 25 cents for parking at the seven World 's Fair parking fields and the one New York City field adjacent to the Fair Grounds . The reduction was made by agreement between Grover A. Whalen , president of the Fair Corporation , and Park Commissioner Moses , in charge of the city parking field . The new parking rate will be effective today . Like the decrease in the group admission rate , the slash of the parking fees in half is expected to increase the attendance at the Fair , which has been dropping badly this month , and is about 100,000 a day less than is needed to make the Fair a success . Yesterday saw the downward trend in attendance figures still in progress , with one of the smallest crowds since the Fair opened on April 30 on hand . The announcement failed to satisfy a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are still losing money because of the low attendance , although they had expected the tide to turn after July 1 . They want the Fair to cut its admission charge to 50 or 25 cents for everybody , at least after 10 o'clock at night , when the main exhibit area closes and only the amusement zone remains open . After holding three meetings during the week to formulate their grievances and demands , the concessionaires appointed a committee that conferred with Mr. Whalen last night . The committee is understood to have brought a number of suggestions for improving attendance at the Fair and business in the amusement zone , besides the plan for lower admission charges . Mr. Whalen was understood to be against changing the 75-cent rate any further , but to be more willing to consider plans to liven up the amusement area than he has been in the past . The meeting between Mr. Whalen and the special committee of the Amusement Concessionaires Association ended on an optimistic note . Harry G. Travers , president of the association , was so impressed with the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest showman in the country . " After a three-hour conference , Mr. Whalen announced that there would be additional transportation facilities in the area , that a conference committee would be appointed by the association to meet regularly with the amusement control committee of the Fair Corporation and that " certain business matters affecting the amusement area would be given immediate consideration . " Mr. Whalen declined to discuss other matters that came before the conference or to amplify his announcement . First announcement of the reduction in parking charges came from the Department of Parks , which told of the action taken at the city parking field and said it was done " in the hope of attracting more motorists to the Fair . " When Mr. Whalen was informed of this yesterday afternoon , and asked whether the Fair 's parking fields were to follow suit , he seemed surprised and said the announcement was " the result of a misunderstanding on the part of the city . " " It was on my suggestion that the rates were reduced , " he added , " but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . " Later in the afternoon , however , Mr. Whalen issued the following formal statement : " In accordance with an understanding with the Park Department concerning the price to be charged at official parking fields adjacent to the World 's Fair , I discussed with Commissioner Moses last ( Thursday ) evening the question of reducing the parking field fee to 25 cents . " This was agreeable to Mr. Moses for the official city parking field and accordingly the seven official World 's Fair parking fields will charge 25 cents for parking beginning tomorrow , Saturday , July 15 . The fee of 25 cents entitles the owner to park his car for the day . " It was learned that a week ago the Fair Corporation had considered a trial period for the 25-cent parking rate , but dropped the matter until Thursday . The reduction in the rate , it is understood , was aimed not only at attracting more motorists to the Fair but also at offsetting the competition of numerous small independent parking fields in the vicinity of the Fair , which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the independent fields have been parking an average of 3,000 cars a day , compared to an average of 4,000 a day , and 9,000 on Saturdays , Sundays and holidays , parked by the seven Fair fields , and a maximum of 5,000 at the city field on July 4 . Capacity 36,000 Cars The total capacity of the Fair and city parking fields is 36,000 cars at one time , with a daily capacity , allowing for normal turnover , of 50,000 cars . The city field is the largest , with a capacity of 12,000 cars at one time . It is located on Roosevelt Avenue , north of the Fair Grounds . The Fair operates two large parking fields at the south end of the grounds , the Sixty-ninth Road and Main Street fields , and a third large field south of World 's Fair Boulevard and west of Grand Central Parkway . It has three smaller fields along the south side of Roosevelt Avenue north of the main exhibit area , and another on the west side of the grounds in front of the Corona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials there would be a heavy demand for parking space and that the parking fields would earn $1,700,000 during the Fair . Consequently a force of 300 men was employed at the fields . With traffic much less than expected , it was understood it cost the Fair corporation about 70 cents to park each car for the first several weeks . Since then the force has been decreased and it now costs the Fair about 8 cents to park each car . Fair corporation records discloses that since April 30 through last Thursday a total of 466,300 cars had used the fields , including 162,917 on the city parking field and 303,983 on the Fair fields . In releasing these figures the Fair corporation announced that the " comparison of attendance and parking figures indicates that a steadily increasing proportion of visitors are coming to the Fair by automobile ; out-of-town motorists using the fields are also on the increase and now account for more than 50 per cent of the daily totals . " Fair officials said the heaviest day at their fields was May 21 , when 6,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city fields , they said , there was plenty of room for motorists to park , and they need not fear congestion even with the 25-cent rate in effect . Before the Fair opened , city officials shared the fears of Fair representatives that there would be heavy motor traffic to the Fair and parking congestion . This resulted in a warning by the police to motorists to leave their cars in Manhattan and come to the Fair by train or subway . This warning proved unnecessary . $87,500 Collected The Park Department had expected 300,000 cars a month to Ise the city field , but in the two and onehalf months the Fair has been opened it has collected only $87,500 , meaning that 175,000 cars have used the field . It had feared the field would be too small , but that has not been the case even on week-ends and holidays . The Hotel Association of New York City announced plans yesterday to take advantage of the new 50-cent group rate to the Fair , by holding a Hotel Association Day at the Fair within the next few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 50 cents and children for 10 cents . Ralph Hitz , president of the National Hotel Management Company , has been appointed chairman of the committee in charge . James A. McCarthy , executive secretary of the association , urged all businesses in the city to " get behind the Fair and help give it the success it deserves . " The Exhibition of American Art at the Fair announced a cut in its admission price from 25 to 10 cents on Saturdays and Sundays . The charge will remain 25 cents on week days . " The purpose , " said an announcement , " is to make cultural exhibits at the Fair available to a large popular audience at a price within easy reach of all Fairgoers . The exhibition has had more than 60 , - 000 paid admissions , besides many thousands of school children admitted free .                     