@@701390

txt Again there is  --  a feeling of nervousness such as from time to time pervades Berlin , sometimes with the subsequent justification notable in a large class of the population . The immediate occasion seems to be fear of unpleasant developments next Thursday when Julius Streicher a leader of the Nazi anti-Jewish campaign makes his first public appearance in the capital as the chief figure in a monster demonstration in the Sportspalast . Mr. Streicher 's invasion of Berlin , an ambition he has long cherished but which the opposition of General Hermann Goering , Air Minister , and Admiral Magnus von Levetzow , former Berlin police chief , formerly delayed , has become a success from his viewpoint . The temporary ascendancy of regional radical leaders has enabled him to fortify hiS Berlin organization to an unexpected degree . Anti-Jewish Papers on Display . Red-painted display cases , in which his newspaper , the , Stuermer , and allied anti-Jewish publications are posted behind glass covers , are now a familiar sight even in residential sections . Thursday 's Sportspalast meeting is the crown of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Jewish jamboree , and unless Count Wolf von Helldorf , the youthful new Police Chief of Berlin , succeeds in curbing the Streicher crusaders , the indoor exuberance is likely to overflow into the Kurfuerstendamm , the favorite setting for anti-Jewish demonstrations . Mindful of recent happenings , Jews in Berlin have been admonished by their leaders to observe all possible reticence and reserve on this occasion . Another source of nervousness is less specific . Recent visitors to Berlin have noted a recrudescence of activity on the part of the Storm Troops . It is a fact that more brown uniforms are seen on the streets than formerly . In the suburbs also marching bodies of Brown Shirts are again a familiar sight in the evening . No official explanation of this is forthcoming . Moreover , it would be a waste of breath and shoe leather to seek one . Such matters are supposed to be a private , not public , concern . It might be surmised , however , with some justification that permission to wear a uniform and demonstrate in unison is one method of allaying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disquieting news from the provinces . The position there of those minorities not in favor with the regime is not a happy one . The position of Jews is becoming more desperate . According to reports reaching Berlin , everywhere , but especially in the smaller towns and villages , local Nazi bosses are decreeing - ordi-  nances calculated to isolate completely the few Jews left in their communities . It is now the ? common practice among ; " Aryan " ' alio &; of all kinds to inform Jews they can not be served . - Not only .. does this apply as regards commodities not directly affecting their daily existence , but foodshops are being included in the embargo , thus literally compelling Jews to seek devious ways of obtaining food . The situation is forcing them to smuggle food from outside points . Relief Recipients Intimidated . Jewish relief committees that have been established in the larger centres are unable to ease the situation confronting Jews in smaller towns where the boycott against them is being pushed . The favorite intimidation weapon now being applied consists of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support will be withdrawn if the beneficiaries are discovered patronizing Jewish shops . The National Socialist Correspondence , an official publication , advances the contention that the Nazi party program now has the force of law and forms the Constitution of the Third Reich . It repudiates the " liberalistic " doctrine that the twenty-five theses in the program , in which anti-Semitism figures strongly , must first be converted into law . In the interest of legal security , it says , the government is gradually converting the party program into specific law but actually the entire program has attained legal force since the Spring of 1933 . And the publication warns courts not to forget this but to give the party program precedence over any surviving old law . Especially , it says , is this the case respecting Jews , who , according to the party program , are ' neither " racial comrades nor State citizens but rather stand under the law regulating aliens . " This may be an indication that the point will be further emphasized at the approaching party conclave in Nuremberg . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Storm Troopers are State officials in the proper sense . It strongly recalls to ? the court Chancellor Hitler 's dictum at the last party conference , " The party commands the State , " and advises it to decide accordingly in the future , Peasants Restrict Jews . Meantime discriminatory acts against Jews .. Continue all over the country . A new feature is a bar to Jews owning or renting any real estate , even farms . " Anybody who rents German soil to a non-Aryan to earn money shows egotism is stronger in him than the voice of blood . " ' So Division Leader Abel of the peasant organization in Oldenburg is cited ? , as declaring . He is being echoed by other peasant leaders and in many towns . Gustav Giesecke , peasant leader in Brunswick , has forbidden all peasants in his district to deal with Jews and has called on his subordinates to report for further action any peasant who thus " betrays " his own blood . The newspaper Angriff begins today a series of articles " exposing " efforts of Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Aryan managers . It sets out by scaring Nazi customers from a large food shop in Berlin , carrying a neutral name , by showing it is really Jewishowned . Some other newspapers have established regular departments listing daily actions undertaken by Nazis against their many " enemies . " This , of course , is done in Nazi propagandistic style . In the listings can be noted the following : Pastor Vonckenberg of Schwarzenhasel was arrested because he tore off a Streicher pornographic poster from its display box . Catholic Church Desecrated . The Catholic Church of St. Antonius in Amern was desecrated last night and collection boxes robbed . The notice of this hints , in line with Propaganda Minister Goebbels 's posters against Catholics , that it was an act by provocateurs trying to discredit , the Nazis . A Jewish boarding house keeper in Dortmund with his wife and daughter and two other Jews living in the house were arrested on charges of " race ravishing . " Another Jew and several " Aryan " women are being sought by the police on the same ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , charges of paying too low wages , of being anti-social toward his employees and molesting women employes . The total arrests of Jews in Berlin on racial charges is now put at twenty-four . A Jewish lawyer in Glogau was arrested on charges of providing poor housing for hired help at his country estate . Several fruit and vegetable dealers in Boest were arrested with others and barred from the market on charges of having tried to buy from agricultural ? producers direct instead of through - the local collection agency of the National Socialist agrarian estate established to control the market . In connection with official protestations against misrepresentation of conditions in Germany by resident correspondents of the foreign press , a suggestion has been made  --  although naturally not from a German source  --  that the process of " depoisoning " the international atmosphere might begin in Germany . A start , for instance , could be made by refraining from attacks such as those upon Jews ; Catholics and other so-called reactionaries , because while they continue they are legitimate news , which correspondents can not avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             