@@699467

txt James A. Farley arrived here today prepared to compel the ousting of twentytwo Senate employes selected by the O'Connell brothers , up-State allies of Tammany . In their place . choices of the national and State chairmen are to be substituted . The Farley group 's program , calling for a clear-cut showdown in the struggle for control of the balance of power in the State Democratic organization , was learned as Mr. Farley , accompanied by Edward J. Flynn , Secretary of State , and Vincent Dailey , Mr. Farley 's aide , reached Albany to dine with Governor Lehman . In the meantime Patrick H. O'Connell , clerk of the Senate and one of the three brothers , named three more adherents of the Albany County organization to posts . These appointments , with the twenty-two made yesterday , complete the list of employes . While the O'Connell brothers continued to defy the national chairman as well as the Senate , the Farley program was drawn to include two major moves in the warfare early next week . On Monday night the Farley group will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transfer the power to appoint minor Senate attaches from the clerk to John J. Dunnigan , the President pro tern . The chairman voiced his confidence tonight that the bill will pass both houses . Farley Accepts Challenge . With Senator Dunnigan thus in control of all the Senate patronage he is expected to wipe from the slate the names of the twenty-two chosen by the O'Connells for the places which were to have gone to Chairman Farley , as State leader . The contemplated action would constitute a direct acceptance of the challenge to Chairman Farley 's leadership offered by the O'Connell brothers and their up-State associates . On the other hand , it is understood that the Albany leaders , known as fighters , do not intend to sit idly by while a frontal attack is made on their political prestige . When the bill comes up Monday night the battle lints will be drawn . Twenty-six votes will be needed in the Senate . The Democrats have just that number , but one , that of Senator William T. Byrne of Albany , will be on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but Mr. Farley expects it , pointing out that Senator Fearon and his associates the other day voted for the resolution transferring the power . With John F. Curry , Tammany chieftain , and John H. McCooey . Brooklyn leader , both absent on vacation trips , the attitude of the Senators from their districts , was considered important . However , on behalf of Mr. Farley it was predicted that the New York Democratic Senators . having also voted for the resolution , would vote for the bill with the Republicans to insure Its passage . In this connection it was contended that it would be difficult for Mr. Curry to direct an aboutface because he had taken the initiative in suggesting that Mr. Farley 's group control the twentytwo posts . Assembly Support Expected . In the Assembly it was expected that combined Republican and Democratic votes would get behind the measure . Mr. Farley and Mr. Flynn made no special visit to the capital for the battle . Their appointment to dine with Governor Lehman was made ten days ago before the patronage battle came to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two leaders ? Mr. Flynn is the Democratic chieftain of the Bronx which Senator Dunnigan represents ? said that no special topics were discussed with the Governor . They are leaving Sunday night to visit President-elect Roosevelt at Warm Springs . The skirmish over the petty Senate posts between powerful county leaders and a national chieftain , who will have distribution of 65,000 Federal posts , in itself is a minor event , but on both sides the fight is accepted as the symbol of the larger battle for State organization control . The struggle began last year when the Democrats prepared to exercise control of the Senate according to the generally accepted version , Mr. Curry informed Mr. Farley that , as State Chairman , he could have control of distribution of twenty-two of the 200-odd minor posts to up-State leaders .. O'Connell Completes List . Then the O'Connell brothers , Ed , Dan and Patrick , took a hand . They contended Mr. Farley , in selecting appointees , was ignoring county leaders who had opposed Mr. Roosevelt at Chicago and Governor Lehman at Albany . As Patrick O'Connell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday , defied the power of the Senate to take away his authority , and named his twenty-two appointees .                     