@@698902

txt If France and England decide to grant further aid to Austria in the ? form of a credit , there will be political no less than economic strings attaching to their action . Austria will have to put through a number of drastic intetnal reforms and she will once again have to foreswear the Anschluss or economic union with Germany . The latter renunciation will surely be involved in any credit of which France sabacribes the major portion . The Anschluss will have to give way to some kind of economic union between the Danubian states . Though the Tardicu Plan was defeated at the outset by German and Italian opposition , mainly political , it attracted no great enthusiasm in any of the states mainly concerned and was in fact strongly opposed in Austria . A preferential tariff system covering the Danube states meant putting Austrian agriculture at a disadvantage and did not appear to offer compensation to her in other directions sufficient to justify abandonment of the traditional policy of refusal to join any group which should exclude Germany . But conditions have changed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French idea has a far better chance of success than it had before . German Attitude Towards Tardieu Plan In Germany the Anschluss was always much more a doctrine of the democrats than the Right parties , and the class to which the present government in Berlin belongs is apt to think of Austria as an incumbrance . Von Papen and Schleicher are credited with being ready even to give up German claims against Poland In order to reach an understanding with France to be directed against Bolshevism . The German opposition to the Tardieu Plan would therefore probably be overcome . Similarly in return for certain favors , of which trance can offer many , Italian opposition would be withdrawn . On economic grounds Italy had never any Case like that of Germany for insisting on her , inclusion in a Danubian preferential tariff system . Her resistance to it may well have been due to the desire to wring concessions from France . But Austria always took shelter behind Germany and Italy in resisting the Tardieu Plan , and if the overwhelming majority of her population , comprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to joining any system whi.h excludes Germany , it may well be doubted whether she would continue to fight the plan without allies abroad . Industry is idle , commerce in many branches at a complete standstill , the transient trade has been killed by exchange restrictions In every direction , unemployment has never before been an high at this time of year , and misery in extending rapidly beyond what used to be the workers into all classes . In such conditions the will to resist is undermined . To escape disaster the remote prospect of economic union with Germnny might well be surrendered In favor of a chance for slow improvement within a Danubian economic system . Austrian Internet Polities The new Austrian government under Dollfus is itself a sign of yielding to French pressure . In a chamber of 165 it has the backing of only 65 Christian Socialists . P Agrarians and R members of the Heimatbloc . IL faces the uncompromising opposition of 72 Socialists , and its existence depends on the benevolence of 10 ? Pangermans , who have so far refused to join the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of , preservation of the Anschluss idea at all costs . But the Pangermans are serious citizens , unlike the leaders of the Hitler and Heirnwehr movements outside the Chamber , and in case of a crisis threatening the country with immediate disaster they would not be likely to overthrow the government for accepting a plan backed by all the powers except Germany and opposed by Germany only in lukewarm manner . Even the Socialists have other worries than the cause of economic union with Germany , which is merely a plank in their platform as In those of all other parties but one to which they have never given prominence . The latest turn In German politics , moreover , can not increase their enthusiasm for it . In short France had never a better chance of moulding the Central European structure according to her wishes . In the Austrian people there is no further power of resistance . LAUSANNE ti. " .15 ? A temporary moratorium on all of Austria 's interest payments on foreign loans and foreign trade payments has become effective pending further financial assistance from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League Mixed Commission failed to obtain French participation in a 300,000,000 schllling loan to Austria . Austrian Chancellor Engelbert Dolfuss was understood to have outlined to Premier Berriot the political consequences of French failure to aid Austria . The arrangement was explained as not constituting a full moratorium , but suspension of trading in foreign exchange , which automatically prohibits the payment of all foreign accounts . France was understood to have promised to aid Austria if and when the reparations conference is successful .                     