@@700744

txt President Roosevelt returned to the White House today , tanned and cheery and greatly improved in general health and spirits by his long cruise to Hawaii , though fatigued by his strenuous seven-day inspection tour of the Northwest . During the past week he has traveled more than 2,500 miles by train and on each day has taken a long automobile tour , usually over dusty roads under a blazing sun . He has delivered at least one talk each day . The President left Washington on July 1 , driving to Annapolis to board a cruiser for a trip to Hawaii via the Panama Canal that was to take him a tc4-al of 13,000 miles over sea and land in the course of fortyone days . The special train that brought Mr. Roosevelt from Portland , Ore. , where he landed a week ago at the end of his cruise , arrived at Union Station here at noon . Only a few hundred persons had gathered , and this obviously relieved him , for thousands had greeted him , headed by formal reception committees , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Working at Desk . He went immediately to the White House , which he found in disarray as the result of work going forward for enlargement of the executive offices . The President 's office had been transferred for the time being back to the residential quarters in the library on the second floor . Within a few minutes Mr. Roosevelt was at his desk , sorting a large pile of reports of activities during his absence ; these had not been considered of sufficient importance to be transmitted to him through code messages . He examined these hurriedly and then spent several hours with Marvin H. , assistant White House secretary , going over accumulated correspondence . Secretary Morgenthau was the only official caller . Chairman Jones of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation visited the White House , but did not see the President . Secretary Hull was invited in for tea . Taking Up the Drought Problem . Foremost among the problems awaiting Mr. Roosevelt 's consider . ation was that of the drought , the ravages of which he had seen as his tour . The drought damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Federal agencies are now swinging into the twofold task of giving emergency relief while planning for the permanent rehabilitation of the farm ars . Mr. Roosevelt hoped to be able to comp-ess into the next fortnight urgent matters that must be handled here and to depart about Aug. 25 for a month 's tay at Hyde Park . I. Y. When he goes to Hyde Park he will take with him most of the White House staff and will conduct routine business there as he does here . However , he wishes to reduce personal conferences at Hyde Park to a minimum by holding them In Washington He also realizes that many officials in the emergency organizations find it difficult to leave their offices long enough to go to his Summer home . Changes in White Rouse . Under , the makeshift arrangements the White House is now substantially as it was during the administration of Theodore Roosevelt before he had built the office wing that is now closed for enlargement . The entrance lobby of the main building is again a public lobby into which any one may walk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been placed in the large ball , and newspaper Correspondents work in a room leading from it . Mr. Roosevelt went to work In the upstairs library known as the Oval Room , where Abraham Lincoln had his desk . Folding screens have been placed across the rear of the hall and before the entrance of the small " family " dining room so that members of the President 's family may have as much privacy as possible .                     