@@699816

txt Every state is to be asked to choose a project for community betterment In which the aid of both rural and city women can be enlisted , according to plans presented today by Mrs. Edward Bevins of Helena , Ark. , speaking before the council meeting of the General Federation of Women 's Clubs . Mrs. Bevins recommended such things as beanch libraries , county libraries , book vans in every county , beautification of public school grounds , the " adoption " of state institutions , home products displays at state conventions , and codpernlive marketing projects , with the work of rural women sold at the meetings of city clubs . " Make a survey of your fireside industries , " Mrs. Bevins urged , " and then when you find out what work your rural women can do , help them to sell it , quilts , or rugs , or basketry , or preserves . " The best program on community service submitted tp the chairman of the committee , ' Mrs. Albert E. Jones of Lisbon , N. D. , will win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given In honor of Mrs. Jones . Industrial Forums Planned Industrial forums are to be held throughout the coUnt ( Y . Flext year under the auspices of the division of industry , of which Mrs. Clare= E. Fraim of Wilmington , Del. , Is chairman . Mrs. Fraim described her plans to the convention today saying that the forums are designed to bring together groups concerned with industry , the producer , the worker , the distributor , and the consumer . ' The consumer Is the largest group and the federation Is the largest organized group of consumers , " said Mrs. Fraim . " Women as purchasing agents have a great responsibility in helping to make the new deal a square deal for the worker and the producer by refusing prison-made and sweat-shop goods . " This is the present task of the women , according to Mrs. Fraim , and their task at the end of two years will be ' to see that the structure which has been set up for the emergency is withdrawn , leaving a new and non-governmentally controlled industrial set-up which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country for the next decade and which will guarantee that no such debacle as we have seen will be repeated . " " The sun never sets on the General Federation of Women 's Clubs , " said Mrs. L. V. Hubbard of Upper Montclair , N. J. , extension secretary for international clubs , who reported a membership of 62 clubs under 24 flags . Five new clubs have been added this year  --  Pretoria , S. At. , Monterey , Mex. , Tampico , Mex. , Cordova , Alaska , and the Canal Zoue . Mrs. W. H. Lunt of Shanghai , Mrs 0 . H. Charles of Manila , Mrs. C. A. Hearne of Cristobal , Mrs. George 4 . Curry of Havana , and Mrs. P. S. Higginson of Montreal brought greetings , emphasizing the union of women 's clubs for world peace . Better home care for Indians and the building of a comprehensive library on Indian life were stated as major activities of the division of Indian welfare by Mrs. Michael Conlan of Oklahoma City , chairman . The federation is cooperating with the Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian home-yard care , home care , homemade furniture for homes , and better bedding . Fifteen reservations in seven states were reported as working on these projects . Welfare Based on Justice Child welfare work must go further than immediate relief , said Dr. Ellen Potter of the Department of Institutions and Agencies of New Jersey , in a speech before the conference of public welfare . in which she stated , " We must align ourselves with those whose efforts are directed to the development of a new social and economic order in which the freedom , security and creative opportunity for childhood and youth is securely based on social and economic justice . " Abolition of poverty will precede abolition of crime , said Mrs. Arch Trawick of Nashville , Tenn. , chairman of the division of correction Reform must be made in county jails , chain gangs , road camps , city , state and federal penal institutions , she declared . The federation has worked this year for a uniform narcotic law , expulsion of aliens and preservation of health and educational services . said Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legislation . Following the days of private philanthropy there has come definite recognition that unemployment is a national problem and relief of destitution a concurrent national obligation , Mr. Frank Bane , director of the American Public Welfare Association , said In a speech describing national relief measures . Genuine Thrift Defined An appeal for the right kind of thrift , coupled with a rapid-fire statement of the aims of the federation , was given over the radio yesterday by Mrs. Grace Morrison Poole of Brockton , Mass. , national president , assisted by national chairmen . Mrs. Poole urged adequate support for schools and government agencies , stating that saving may in the long run prove too costly . " A great enemy threatens the future of our land , " declared Mrs. Poole , " the enemy of indifference and selfish shortsightedness . I call upon the club women of our beloved land to rouse themselves and save the tomorrow of civilization . " At a luncheon conference Mr. David Lawrence of the United States News , Washington , D. C. , told the women that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 era of " irresponsible debauchery . " Mr. Lawrence pictured the present months as the most vital period in the history of democracy and declared that regeneration is taking place with an emergence of people as more respOnsible , more conscious of the need for character-building , and stronger . What is needed , he slid , Is a great trinity , the church teaching unselfishness , the schools fundamental ' knowledge , and the homes character Thethree together constituting the greatest influence in an effective democracy . Larger Profession of Education Dr. Edward Payson Smith , commissioner of education for Massachusetts , forecast that out of the present conditions of unpaid teachers and inadequate school equipment there will arise a greater , larger profession of education that will serve more children for a longer period in such a way as to help each child give his best contribution to cis-Elution . Any elimination from the schools , said Dr. Smith , should be the things brought in during the seventeenth century and not those of the twentieth century . The nation 's sport bill amounts to $650,000,000 a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Mr. Harry B. Hawes , former United States Senator from Missouri , in urging conservation . Representative Charles Tobey of New Hampshire talked on the interdependence of citizenship , and Mr. Thomas Lomax Hunter of Richmond on the press . The speakers were introduced by national chairmen , Mrs. Fred L. Pigeon of East Boston , Mast. , Miss Emily Louise Plumley of Glenbrook Conn , and Mrs. Arthur G. Christensen of Lincoln , Neb.                     