@@700578

txt Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , President of the Reichsbank , today issued official invitations to representatives of Germany 's long-term and medium-term creditors to meet in the Reichsbank Building in Berlin at 3 P. If . on April 27 for the new debt conference agreed upon last January . The original purpose of this conference was to bring about a permanent settlement of her debt which Germany could and would observe and put an end to discriminations between creditors . against which the American and British Governments protested . Preliminary discussions in Basle revealed , however , continued differences not only between the creditors and debtor but also among the creditors . Because of the many differences and the strained financial position of Germany the conference faces a situation which is even worse than that in January and the meeting is expected to become a free-for-all fight in which Germany will be against the creditors and the little creditors will be against the biggest , the United States . Neutral Chairman Is Sought . Because of the threatened clashes it is proposed to appoint a neutral chairman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been suggested for the post . Germany 's position was stated at Basle by Dr. Schacht , who said a complete transfer moratorium , presumably including the hitherto exempted Dawes and Young loans " seemed unavoidable under the circumstances . " The view was reiterated in an inspired statement appearing in the press today . It stresses that developments would of necessity lead to an " even stronger regard for Germany 's foreign exchange position . " The newspaper statement emphasites Germany 's object is " openness and frankness . " It foresees a " favorable atmosphere for the conference " and concludes with the expectation of " a sensible understanding of Germany 's position " by the creditors . Germany also seeks to combine the debt conference with a new export drive in which she will use her debt and her market as her strongest weapons . A strong play will be made for American support and for new American credits . Germany , the statement says , is willing to meet all her obligations if other countries are willing to admit additional German goods . She is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if she is permitted to pay for them with her exports . Imports for Arms Denied . Charges that Germany 's strained foreign exchange position has been caused , in part at least , by increased imports for rearmament are denied as " malicious products of a foreign press that is unwilling to recognize Germany 's situation . " Fortunately , the statement continues , there le a growing understanding in some foreign , expert circles . The increased raw material imports , says the statement , are needed for the labor creation program to fight unemployment . They are in line with the efforts of the raw material producing countries , especially the United States , " which is literally choking in cotton , " it asserts . Germany has already been forced to curtail her raw material imports and use domestic substitutes . A further curtailment would be contrary to the interests of those attempting to increase raw material sales and prices , the statement continues . The inference is that Germany and the United States should get together . The statement argues that Germany can not pay for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easier and more fluid exchange trade " which would benefit both creditor and debtor . That means increased German exports , for which proposals have already been made to Washington . The quarrel among the creditors results from the insistence of Switzerland and Holland that they be paid in full , whatever happens to the other creditors . Because of their trade balance with Germany they could enforce payment and threaten to do so unless their special agreement , ending June 30 , is renewed . Great Britain is in the same advantageous position and is likewise renewing her threat to establish a clearing system and pay herself . This leaves the United States holding 50 per cent of the entire German debt . The favorable United States trade balance in dealings with Germany makes a clearing system inapplicable and no suggestions of other means have been made .                     