@@698924

txt Senator BORAH 'S demand for arbitrary increase in the paper currency occurs under circumstances which illustrate his habitual position of political isolation . He would not consider himself bound by the plank in the Republican platform which asserts that " relief by currency infla " tion is unsound in principle and dishonest in results . " The Democratic platform declares for " a " sound currency to be preserved at " all hazards , " and its adoption was accompanied by refusal even to consider currency-inflation planks . Mr. BORAH could not find in any quarter a formal declaration in line with his own opinion  --  which doubtless provided a strong motive for making it on his own account . Like the authors of most of the unsuccessful " inflation measures " in the House , the Senator appears to hold the positive belief that the existing depression is due to lack of sufficient circulating money . It is an old illusion , always familiar in troubled times like these . Those who are subject to it do not adduce facts or figures , from which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the last report , stood at $43.85 per capita , as compared with $38.57 a - year ago and $39.52 in 1929 . Nor do they distinguish between a rise in prices due to- natural causes and a rise in one country caused by the fact that its currency has depreciated . The one idea that seems to appeal to minds infatuated with such remedies is that when the farmer has failed to earn a profit he can not get money , and that therefore the lack of currency in his hands is the cause for the absence of a profit . Senator BORAH is of opinion that " we have sufficient gold in this country to justify upon a sound " ' basis currency expansion to ' the " extent of billions . " But he ought to know that an increased Reserve note currency can not be circulated except in response to the requisitions of going trade , and that if it were possible to put it in circulation in excess of such requirements , the result would be to cause export of the gold which serves as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the slightest reason for supposing that , if such an expansion were to be effected , the currency would go into the hands of people who are unable to obtain it now . The Senator speaks indignantly of the existing currency which " refuses to help " in this " national crisis , " because it is " hidden , hoarded and cornered . " Whatever he may mean by " cornered " currency , there is no doubt of " its being hidden and hoarded . But what was the result ? In proportion as these great sums of currency were - buried away where they could not serve their normal purposes , demands of existing trade and industry were able to replace the loss through normal operation of the Reserve System 's machinery . With all of this year 's slackening in business activity , Reserve notes now in actual circulation exceed by $1,017 , - 468,000 the amount outstanding a year ago .                     