@@700593

txt There has been some slowing up in demand for rayon goods in recent weeks with a result that stocks of woven and knitted goods have accumulated in the hands of mills . No unduly large stocks have been built up , but the slackening has been sufficient to indicate a probable slowing clov. -n in rayon yarn mill operations in the near future There even has been some discussion of a price reduction in the trade , but at the moment there is no indication that any such action will be taken . Strikes now under way will , of course , curtail output . Demand was good in March and in the Brit ten days in April , one of the largest producers having sold about 85% of production during this period but the former boom demand under which yarn mills could not fill their orders has temporarily slackened . In view of the continued high rate of rayon operations for a long period some slackening is not surprising , and no severe recession seems indicated at present . Low Silk Prices Cause Worry Strong efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to regain at least a part of the ground lost to rayon in recent years . A number of complicating factors enter into the situation at the moment . The comparative price stability of rayon , for example , generally an advantage . is working against rayon for the time being since competition in woven goods has become so keen that margin of profit has been squeezed to a minimum . Asa result some broad silk mills are turning to silk at present low prices , hoping to reap an inventory profit in an advance over the next 60 to 90 days . It is of course also possible to hedge silk inventories while this can not be done with rayon unless price guaranteps are given by manufacturers . The Japanese are making strong efforts to recover a larger portion of their markets and in doing this may be expected to keep silk at a reasonably low level . This in turn is apt to bring lower-rayon'price% within " the-next six months-or so , if rayon is to hold its position . Silk is now around $1.30 to $1.35 a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with some factors in the trade looking for a price of $1 a pound over the next month or so . This price is obviously getting uncomfortably close to the price of high grade rayon . Increased Labor Costs Felt Another factor influencing an increase in silk buying is that labor costs on cheap dresses under the NRA . now comprise a much larger proportion of the total cost so that it has been necessary to advance the price about 50% . In order to put over this increased price to the consumer silk is being used instead of rayon , to give a so-called quality appeal . Competitive conditions are also developing within the rayon industry between the new dull multi-filament viscose yarns and acetate yarns which was the cause for the recent price reduction in acetate yarn . There is no indication of any Serious interruption in the progress of the rayon industry this year , but a slowing down this summer now appears probable .                     