@@701967

txt Finance Minister Auriol yesterday presented the Blum Government 's program for meeting the French financial crisis . Paris observers hailed its conservatism of tone . In an overtime session last night , the French Chamber of Deputies adopted a. bill authorizing the Sank of France to advance a. maximum of 10,000,000,000 francs to the French Treasury to meet its immediate needs . French selling of the franc suddenly lessened following government threat to confiscate foreign holdings of French exporters of capital . Franc quotations rallied . Additional gold was engaged at Paris for shipment to New York prior to the declaration of policy by M. Auriol , after which such preparations ceased . Authorities here were not yet convinced , however , that pressure on French gold reserves had permanently abated . SY CnAitins R. FIARGROVE PARIS  --  The plan which was announced Friday by Finance Minister Auriol for meeting the present political and financial crisis in France is remarkable for its conservative nature . He asserted that the policy of deflation carried out for the past several years has failed to solve the problems facing France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the franc furnished no solution . Power to pull the country out of its economic troubles lies with the people themselves , he claimed . The program amounts to an appeal for cooperation on the part of the entire public who are going to be asked to subscribe to a new type of loan , the details of which have not yet been made public but which , according to rumor , may take the form of bills or bonds , convertible into cash at any moment . Threatens Exporters of Capital The French government is seeking to persuade the people to come to its assistance , and not to compel . The only threat it has made is against the exporters at capital . Under existing legislation people who send funds abroad are bound to declare under oath their holdings abroad for taxation purposes , but the majority have failed to do so . The government , therefore , has now threatened confiscation of their holdings abroad and even the loss of civic rights , but whether the threat will be sufficient remains to be seen . Auriol hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a system of international control , but the realization of the hope is exceedingly doubtful . It may be presumed , however , that the French government has other weapons up its sleeve , such as examination of bank accounts . etc It is noted , moreover , that among the bills introduced is one authorizing the Minister of Finance to repress severely all attacks upon the credit of the State without reference to the intentions of the authors of the attacks . This would seem to imply that very wide powers will be applicable , even to the extent of penalizing persona exporting capital . and the minister 's reference to the Roosevelt precedent of 1933 ( Nssioeeseeetieu of Gold ) is probably significant . Financial circles remark that Auriol 's program might have been put forward by any of his predecessors . He diners from them only in opposition to deflation- They hoped to reconstruct the national finances and credit and defend the franc by spending less . Auriol hopes to do the same by spending more . But he and his predecessors are alike in that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of confidence and business and refuse to launch either a devaluation program Or exchange restrictions . Atariol 's Argument Speaking before the Chamber of Deputies . Finance Minister Auriol began his remarks with a demonstration that the deflation policy of the past years has failed to restore French finances . He declared that the budget deficit in 1934 amounted to 8,800,000.000 francs and in 1935 to 10.000,000.000 francs , and it is estimated 1936 will show 7.000. e00.000 . In addition the treasury is obliged to meet in the matt six months payments amounting to 10-900.000,000 francs , including the sterling credit , whereas of the 22,780,000.000 franca of treasury bills authorized there has already been issued 21,940,000,000 , of which 14.000.000.000 are now with the Bank of France . In addition to the government 's own difficulties , the treawary may need to advance railroads between four and five billion francs . bringing total needs to 15.000.000,000 francs at a time when the present borrowing power is exhausted , be said . During the past four years , he continued , if the perpetual debt has been cut by 44,000,000. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 75.000,000,000 and the medium and short term debt has been increased by 16,000 , - 000.000 francs , involving massive maturities in the coming years now totaling 32.500,000.000 francs while the floating debt has been increased by 20,000,000,000 francs and now totals 66,000,000,000 francs . Deflation , he continued , can not be applied to public debt or the national defense charges and thus Is ' limited to expenditure for public works , salaries , pensions , and social charges . Fatal Circle Set Up Wholesale prices have fallen greatly but retail prices have resisted the trend because they include taxes , transport and capital charges Consequently there nos been a fatal circle set up inasmuch as the reduction in the private spending power of the masses and the reduction in public expenditures accentuate the fall in wholesale prices and this involves a shrinkage in national revenues Auriol disclosed that his plan for recovery consisted of five measures , namely : I. Legislation calling for the declaration of all holdings abroad by July 15 , under severe penalties including even confiscation and loss of civil rights . 2 . Issuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of France designed to carry the treasury until the bonds are taken . 3 . Reformation of the Bank of France . placing it under direct control of the state ; reorganization of the banking system ; and general retionalizing of the credit system . 4 . Lowering of interest rates . 5 . Revision and simplification of the tex system . He emphatically rejected devaluation of the franc , however , and left no doubt that the present government would employ all other possible means to meet the financial situation which has brought the gold stock of the Bank of France to the lowest level since 1931 . The minister pointed out that revalorization of the Bank of France 's gold stock would yield only 16.000,000,000 francs of which 14,000,000. - 000 francs was needed to amortize advances to the state . Therefore , be explained , the state would benefit by only 2,000.000.000 francs - Should we in such conditions engage in monetary manipulation which would only be an adventure counter to opinion in the country ? " he asked . " At present there is only one policy ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and save its currency . " He indicated he would strive to bring capita. / out of private hoards and home from abroad . Figures on Capital Exported After refuting arguments for devaluation . Auriol said that there is only one policy . namely , to call on the nation to save itself and its money . To prove that this is possible be cited figures . French capital which has been exported abroad since January , 1935 , he stated , amounts to 26,000.000,000 francs , which is now held abroad in gold , foreign currencies and securities . Private hoardings of gold bars and coins has risen from 4,500,000,000 to 6,000,000 , - 000 francs . Bank of France notes that are hoarded amounts to 30.000,000.000 francs . Thus the actual amount of French capital withdrawn from the national economy is over 60,000,000,000 franca . He pointed out the insecurity of gold and foreign exchange as refuge for capital , citing the 1935 Roosevelt measures compelling the surrender of gold bars and offered amnesty to exported capital , if it is declared before July 15 . After that date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even confiscation of equivalent sums and civic degredation . Re will undertake negotiations with foreign governments in order to help suppress evasion of the fiscal measures . He added that if capital nag been exported through fear or hope of devaluation the declarations made by toe government would end that fear and hope . Measures of defense will also be applied to the stock market . He proposes to make an immediate appeal by the sale of short-term bonds of small denominations throughout the country by banks and postoffices , but in the meantime , he will frankly demand extension of credit to the state from the Bank of France repayable immediately if the issue of baby bonds succeeds . Reforming Bank Policies The second stage of financial reform consists in the reorganization of credit and taxation . The Bank of France will not be placed under dependence of the state for needs of the state but economic , and agriculture interests will be represented on the board of control . The government will nationalize private banks , but will control them as well as business companies . The Finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade by the development of the use of international clearing checks . Regarding taxation , be stated that the government will readjust the proportions between consumption taxes and taxes on income and capital and will seek a compensation for the necessary reduction of taxation by means of suppression of tax evasion , In addition to simplification of the entire fiscal system down to a system of new and simple levies solidly based and rigorously collected . Fnally be told the Communists that it would be dangerous and imposssible to establish a levy on capital which they demand and which the Socialists have proposed in a period of prosperity but which would mean death to sickly private finances . " It is for the country to save itself , " he declared . " We can only show the way " Hr appealed to the controlling classes to consent to the necessary sacrifices for the salvation of the country .                     