@@703993

txt Apparently seeking to assure steel consumers of a stable price level . United States Steel 's chief subsidiary . Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp .. last night announced reaffirmation of current prices on products for delivery during the third quarter . Other major producers are expected to follow in the near future . The move by Carnegie-Illinois  --  the nation 's biggest steel maker  --  comes at a time of marked price uncertainty in the industry , with daily reports of " bargain " quotations availavle in the important Detroit area . Trade circles saw in the action an attempt to prevent a general decline in prices and a repetition of the price war of last fall which had major repercussions on the level of steel company earnings . Actually , while there has been price weakness apparent for some time , the steel price structure has not yet met a real test . This is expected to come when the automobile companies and other large-scale consumers of flat rolled products put out attractive inquiries . The motor industry is expected to begin taking fair sized quantities for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that time , an important steel maker grants a concession , it is quite certain that the other big producers will meet the competition by reducing their quotations on actual sales . Definitely reflecting the present unsettled price situation . was a further announcement by Carnegie-Illinois that , effective immediately , it is discontinuing all quantity discounts and reducing the base price of its products accordingly . This action constitutes a recognition of an existing situation which found some cornpanie4 extending the usual quantity discounts to small as well as large orders . Officially , steel makers had been granting a reduction of $3 a ton on sheets and strip and S2 a ton on some other products to any consumer placing an order for 75 tons or more of one product . Actually , some consumers obtained the concession on smaller purchases , in effect a price cut- Carnegie-Illinois has now met this situation by eliminating the troublesome discounts and rscli  --  eing the haze price of its products . Thus , for large steel consumers . the action means no reduction in actual price . Carnegie-Illinois ' quotations for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarter ( including the change in base price because of elimination of discounts ) were announced by the company as follows ( per 100 pounds ) : Hot rolled carbon steel bars Production rates in several leading steelmaking centers will hold steady this week . Pittsburgh operations are scheduled at 37 ' 1- of capacity , unchanged from last Monday : Chicago output will start the week at 45 , , up .6 of a point : Shenango Valley operations will hold about unchanged . An important factor in the steel market in the past day or two was a " hold-off " order received on the 100,000 tons of corrugated . galvanized sheet recently placed by the British Government and designed for construction of air-raid shelters . While no explanation was given , H. is believed in some trade circles that the British decision to delay might have been motivated by some easing of international tension . New bookings of steel rails are falling off rapidly . Estimates are that between 675,000 and 700.000 tons have been ordered by the carriers for 1939 delivery . There is some disappointment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests maintain that current lack of interest on the part of the railroads has been due to a general weakening in the business picture and contend that any improvement will stimulate rail orders . Most branches of the steel industry currently are showing a downward trend in demand . What orders are coming into the market are small . The soft coal strike  --  now largely settled  --  was still a factor last week and induced caution on the part of potential buyers . At the moment , tin plate and structural steel are the two best markets . Activity in these lines promises to hold above the general average . Tin plate output now is slightly above 705 , of capacity .                     