@@698253

txt The Chief Issue . To the Editor of The New York Times : I was an ardent supporter of Governor Smith in 1928 , and my desire to have a good Democrat elected in 1932 has been greatly intensified by the almost abnormal incompetence for his office which , in my judgment , President Hoover has exhibited . Governor Smith 's exhortation , therefore , to Democrats that they should roll up a great majority for the party ticket in New York next Tuesday , so as " to hearten and give vim and vigor to the hosts of Democracy throughout the United States that are awaiting the opportunity to enter the battle in 1932 , " makes a strong appeal to me . Nevertheless , I am thoroughly convinced that the overshadowing issue here in Tuesday 's election is Tammany ; and I am sure that there are many thousands of Democrats who , like myself , will feel it their imperative duty to record not only their sentiment on the Tammany scandals , but also their purpose to do what in them lies to assure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effected only by voting for Republican candidates for the Legislature . Nor , if Tammany should be soundly rebuked , will there be much danger of the country failing to understand the verdict . When so straight a Republican , so definite an anti-Socialist and so close a friend of President Hoover as Mr. Wickersham comes out for Norman Thomas as Borough President of Manhattan , everybody can understand that the situation in our local affairs is so serious as to demand that action shall be based upon that situation , however strong may be the temptation to be influenced by national party considerations . I trust that many thousands of Democrats will act in that spirit ; and if they do , I am sure the country will perfectly understand what it is that has happened . FABIAN FRANKLIN . New York , Nov. 1 , 1931 . Democrats and the Inquiry . To the Editor of The New York Times : As a Democrat I am mortified at the opposition on the part of Democratic members of the Legislature to the Seabury inquiry , which has amply demonstrated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to party . It is of the greatest importance that it should not be checked or hampered . I hope that the voters will see to it that no candidate of either party is sent to the Legislature who has not declared himself as heartily in favor of the continuation of the investigation . LAURENCE ARNOLD TANZER . New York , Oct. 29 , 1931.                     