@@702654

txt WASHINGTON , D. C. ? Democrats as well as Republicans in congress are alarmed by the administration 's continued support of C. I. 0 . Lewis aids boast that four departments of the government are on their side . ( Details on page 5 . ) FLINT , MICH. ? More than 100,000 workers were forced into idleness and a community of 450,000 was denied light and energy for fifteen hours by 400 C. 1 0 . strikers employed by a power concern . Strike called off on word from Washington . ( Details on page 3 . ) MONROE , MICH. ? One hundred war veterans sworn in as special police will aid steel workers enter plant of Newton Steel company to resume work . C. I. 0 . pickets announce plans to prevent entry despite workers ' vote of 782 to 32 . Peace parley today . ( Details on page 3 . ) WAUKEGAN. ? Judge Forby denies freedom on bail to 32 Fansteel strikers pending an appeal from jail sentences . He holds that the defense attorneyalailed to makeproper legal motions before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) WASHINGTON , D. C. ? Representative S. B. Pettengill , an Indiana Democrat , asks his colleagues in congress : " Is the Democratic party going fascist ? " ( Details on page 5 . ) State 's Attorney Courtney yesterday assigned a third assistant , Mal Coghian , to the staf engaged in investigation of the riot of May 30 in South Chicago , during which eight persons were killed in an attack on the police fomented by radical agitators in the C. I. 0 . steel organization campaign , Two other assistant state 's attorneys , Alexander Napoli and Morris G. Meyers , are already engaged in the investigation . Yesterday , it was reported , they obtained a confession from a second participant in the riot : First Statement Corroborated . The details of the confession were not made public , but it was understood that it corroborated a previous statement obtained from another member of the mob which attempted to attack the mill of the Republic Steel company . The first confession said that the attack had been carefully planned in advance by professional revolutionaries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned to the investigation . The Chicago police have confined themselves to the preservation of order in the steel strike area , while investigations and prosecutions will be handled by the state 's attorney 's office independently of the police . Unable to Find Krzycki . Yesterday state 's attorney 's detectives , it was learned , were engaged in investigating some of the statements made Tuesday night at the massmeeting arranged at the Civic Opera house by a group of radicals and leftists . At that meeting violent attacks were made on public authorities and the police for their actions in resisting the attack of the rioters led by professional radicals . Despite a special search made for him , the investigators have been unable to find any trace of Leo Krzycki , the C. I. 0 . organizer to whom witnesses attribute the most inflammatory , statements made at the massmeeting which preceded the riot . It was he , according to their statements , who urged the march on the steel mill . Krzycki is known to have appeared briefly in Milwaukee the day after the riot . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Courtney 's men have been able to determine , he has not tarried long enough in Illinois to be served with legal processes . Speech Flans Arouse A. F. of L. The announcement that John L. Lewis , leader of the C. I. 0. , will come to Chicago June 17 to address a massmeeting aroused the ire of several local leaders of American Federation of Labor unions , already resentful at the split in the labor movement of the country . Van L. Bittner , local director of the Steel Workers ' Organization commit- tee , C. I. 0 . subsidiary in the steel organization drive , announced the Lewis plans yesterday . Lewis ' projected appearance , combined with the massmeeting arranged by C. I. 0 . sympathizers of the parlor pink class , confirmed the impression that violence having failed , propaganda is to be the next measure tried to capture Chicago labor for the left wing movement . Mayor Kelly 's and Gov . Horner 's stand last winter against sitdown strikes , at a time when sitdowners had set up in . Michigan an unofficial government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bolsheviks undermined the liberal government of Russia which preceded their regime , was the first setback suffered by the C. I. 0 . in this territory . Lewis Tactics Denounced . Among the labor leaders who denounced Lewis ' tactics of violence in the Chicago area and elsewhere were Walter Sheffer , business agent of the electricians ' union ; George Mitchell , vice president of the teamsters ' joint council , and James C. Petrillo , president of the Chicago Federation of Musicians . " A mob movement never got anybody anywhere , and that 's what John L. Lewis ' C. I. 0 . is today , " said Mr. Sheffer . " You ca n't sell unionism with ballyhoo alone and expect it to stand up under the wear and tear of actual conditions . " We 're running into a situation like the one in Spain , where two mobs are murdering one another , unless we head it off . Lewis is n't working with logic or reason , but with the sort of flag waving  --  and it 's a red flag now  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " If employers would do some real thinking , they would know that it is to every one 's interest for them to deal with level headed organizations and not with groups which are subject to a new uprising every few days . " Lawless Leadership Assailed . Irresponsible leadership of labor was also denounced by Mr. Mitchell , who said : " Union leaders of long experience are able to look ahead and see the dire effects upon labor of irresponsible and lawless leadership . It is this kind of leadership which is drawing thousands of working people toward a precipice beyond which lies the ruin of the labor movement . " John L. Lewis and his organizers have exemplified a ruthless disregard of consequences in guiding their hastily recruited followers . The pity of it is that the workers must pay for the selfish mistakes of their leaders . " Petrillo Fears Setback . " It 's time for the honest , hard working union men of Chicago to wake up and realize the menace of John L. Lewis ' campaign , " said Mr. Petrillo . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the C. I. 0 . continues its drive in this area . " The union worker only needs to examine John L. Lewis ' record to satisfy himself that I know what I 'm talking about . All that Lewis has done for thirty years is to levy assessments . Right now he 's taking S1,000,000 a year from the members of his mine union and turning it over to agitators in the automobile and steel trades . " His organizers have records as communists . Ninety per cent of them have been turned down when they applied to the A. F. of L. Green wo n't have men of their stamp in the union ranks . Rights in Danger . " A great many union workers and their leaders have been sitting back , taking no part for or against the C. I. 0 . strike in this area . I 've decided that 's the wrong policy for us to take . We 're permitting communistic agitators from other parts of the country  --  none of the C. I. 0 . leaders in the present strike are native Chicagoans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and stir up dissension and spread misery . We 're letting them blacken the labor movement . " We union men who live in this city and region , pay taxes here , vote here , educate our children here , know that law and order and business and our own rights are in danger when these imported troublemakers are on the loose . " I 'm tired of hearing them assail our Chicago leaders , attack the police , and foment dissension among our workers . The Chicago A. F. of L. leaders who have worked for years establishing unionism on a firm , hon. est basis in this city should rise up and drive these imported riotmakers out of town . " Honest unionism does n't organize marchers and arm them to attack police . , True unionism is against commUnism . Chicago 's labor movement does n't need these imported rabble rousers . " ' Green Studies Situation . At Washington William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , was engaged in study of comprehensive reports of the Memorial day riot here . Green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. I. 0 . organ . liers and the organization 's sitdown tactics , had no immediate comment on the Chicago situation , pending further study , he said . ? During the day he sent a letter to all loyal A , F. of L. union locals , asking them to begin immediate payment of art emergency assessment of one cent a month per member toward a ' war chest in the federation 's war against the C. I. 0 . ' The assessment was approved two weeks ago at a Cincinnati meeting of A. F. of L. union heads . It will be used for the double purpose of organizing unorganized workers , whom the federation is now signing up at the rate of thousands weekly , and of combating raids by the C. I. 0 . on unions loyal to the federation .                     