@@699017

txt Credit for a brightening business outlook was claimed for the Republican Administration today by Mr. Everett Sanders , chairman of the Republican National CoMmittee , on the eve of Mr. Hoover 's acceptance speech tomorrow night , at which the course of business developments in the past three years will be discussed . Mr. Sanders has arrived in the capital along with other prominent Republicans from all over the nation , to hear the acceptance speech . Portions of the speech have been read to different leaders and a tone of optimism . prevails over the effect of the utterance . Senator Felix Hebert ( R. ) of Rhode Island , a wet , read parts of the speech yesterday dealing with prohibition , and declared that they satisfied him . He forecast Republican victory in the East , particularly New York and New England . Mr. Sanders 's declaration on the business situation followed claims by Democrats that the stock market was going up in anticipation of Democratic victory . " I have no doubt , " said Mr. Sanders today , " that as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result of the reconstruction program of Herbert Hoover , rather than the prospect of the election of Roosevelt and Garner . " A meeting of the Republican Executive Committee is scheduled for tomorrow . Radio arrangements that will blanket the United States have been completed . Republican gatherings in every state of the Union to hear Mr. Hoover 's speech have been arranged . The demand for seats at Constitution Hall tomorrow far exceeds capacity . Mr. Sanders stated that Vice-President Curtis is expected to take an active part in the campaign this year as four years ago when he stumped the country . Aggressive organization of personnel will start after the speech tomorrow , he said , but the major concentration of speakers and publicity will not occur till about the middle of September , under present plans . Mr. Sanders will return shortly to Chicago to preside at the notification ceremonies for Mr. Curtis on Aug. 18.                     