@@704252

txt Antiaircraft guns are booming west of Berlin and searchlights are hunting enemy planes early today following an official announcement late last night that one enemy observation plane had succeeded in ? penetrating Oranienburg , fifteen miles northwest of the capital . The plane was flying at 21,000 feet and was repulsed by anti-aircraft fire , it was stated . About 10 o'clock last night Berlin heard a detonation and heavy explosions from the northwest , followed by the constant low roar of heavy anti-aircraft artillery . Searchlights immediately flared up along the - low-hanging clouds while constant flashes of guns lit up the horizon . Berlin 's air-raid sirens did not sound but the distant prolonged firing of guns was clearly audible . Radio Stations Suspend ' Official quarters offered no explanation of the single heavy explosion , which was clearly heard in THE NEW YORK TIMES office in the center of the city . Berlin radio stations , which stopped broadcasting immediately after the first detonation , were said to have gone off the air " because of the possibility of an air raid " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The official statement regarding air activity over Berlin reads : " A plane of unknown nationality , which since it was flying dt an extremely high altitude could only be identified by the sound of its motors , was taken under fire by antiaircraft artillery at various places Saturday ? evening . " It was not certain whether one or more planes participated in this flight to Berlin . At any rate , this was the first time Germany has officially admitted that enemy planes have flown over Berlin . Why airraid sirens were not sounded to warn the populace remains unexplained . Shooting Started at 9:30 BERLIN , Oct. 14 ( UP ) ? Anti-aircraft guns protecting Berlin went into action twice tonight , at 9:30 P. M. and again more than an hour later , against what the government described as a lone , unidentified plane flying high over the capital 's outskirts . Searchlights of Berlin 's air raid defenses swept the skies during the firing to the west and north , so close that flashes of the gunfire were visible from central streets of the city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broke out about 9:30 P. M. to the west of the city . At 10:45 P. M. the loud sound of firing came from the north and flashes of the fire were visible , continuing for about fifteen minutes . Residents in many parts of the city heard the firing and saw the flashes . The United Press correspondent at Hamburg reported that there had been no evidence of enemy planes there . British raiders probably would fly over or near Hamburg to reach Berlin . Tse sky was clear with few clouds , ideal for an air raid . Shortly after the first sounds of firing Berlin radio transmitters ceased broadcasting and radio authorities explained that a " technical disturbance " had caused the interruption . Before the firing authorities had moved to prepare the capital for any eventuality in the belief that , with the apparent failure of Adolf Hitler 's proposals for peace , the danger of air raids was increased . Blackout regulations " which will be enforced with iron strictness " were tightened . The Berlin police , increased since the start of the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regula1 tions every night . A recent British announcement that British reconnaissance planes flew over Berlin and suburban Potsdam , dropping anti-Hitler pamphlets , was ridiculed by German officials at the time . No Information in London LONDON , Oct. 14 ( UP ) ? The Air Ministry said tonight that " we have no knowledge of the royal air force being involved in any attack on Berlin this evening . "                     