@@698434

txt A Congressional investigation of conditions in Honolulu is likely to grow out of the murder of Joseph Kahahawai , the arrest in the case of Lieutenant Thomas H. Massie , U. S. N. , and his mother-in-law , Mrs. Granville Fortescue , and the subsequent order from the Navy Department that men of the United States fleet shall be barred from landing at that city in the course of the Pacific manoeuvres next month . A resolution calling for a sweeping inquiry will be introduced in the Senate this week by Senator of Tennessee . He said tonight it would call on the War and Navy Departments and the civilian authorities of Hawaii for a complete and detailed report on conditions which Federal authorities deemed of so grave a nature as to warrant the issuance of an order " forbidding American naval officers and enlisted men to land on American territory . " Cites Admiral Stirling 's Report . The report of Rear Admiral Yates Stirling , commandant at Pearl Harbor , convinced him , said Senator , that the country was entitled to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an explanation of why action was not taken long ago to end a situation so terrible as that painted by Admiral Stirling . " " The case of this young American woman , " he added , speaking of the assault on Mrs Massie which led to the Kahahawai murder , " is one that cries to heaven for redress , yet , according to the newspapers , it happened back in September , 1931 , and today the persons responsible , with the exception of the one killed the other night , are at liberty in Honolulu . " We have one of our principal army garrisons in Honolulu , we have one of the most important of all our naval stations at Pearl Harbor , and I understand we also have there a force of marines , yet , despite the presence of these forces , apparently little , if anything , has been done to correct a situation so grave that the government is afraid to permit our officers and enlisted men to go ashore for fear it may lead to bloodshed . " Mr. said his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assault on women of record in Honolulu since Jan. 1 , 1931 , and the action taken by the authorities in each instance to bring the perpetrators to justice . He will request a report on the action taken by Governor Lawrence Judd of Hawaii and the other insular authorities to control the situation , and what action , if any , the Department of Justice has taken to expedite the restoration of law and order on the Island of Oahu , on which Honolulu and the Pearl Harbor Naval Base are situated . Whether the resolution would direct the Committee on Territories , of which Senator Hiram Bingham of Connecticut is the chairman , to take the steps necessary to obtain the information or will direct the government departments involved to report to the Senate , Senator said , would be decided tomorrow or Tuesday . He indicate4 he had strong support on both sides of the chamber and was of the opinion that the resolution would meet with little , if any , opposition . Senator Bingham of Connecticut , whose Committee on Territories has jurisdiction over legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and legislative authorities of the Territory would act- promptly in dealing with the " deplorable " conditions in the Honolulu 4istrict pictured by the report of Admiral Stirling . " If the Hawaiian authorities fail to deal adequately with the situation , " he declared , " Congress should , and in my opinion , will act .  - -  If - the Territorial government does not promptly put the sheriff and policemen on a better basis for law enforcement , then the present Congress can provide for the appointment of law enforcement officers by the President of the United States , to be confirmed by the Senate . Favors Home Rule on Islands . " I am in favor of the islands Managing their own affairs and would dislike very much to deprive the islands of their present powers . Only three Territorial officers , including the Governor , are appointed by the President , Thy othIrjainglaaiatibr cers , as well as the Legislature , are elected . " The United States Government does not control the selection of juries . There has been considerable trouble with juries in the Honolulu district for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Congress to enact legislation restricting the present powers of the islanders under the organic act . But we will certainly have to do so if they fail to remedy the situation promptly . " I am glad THE NEW Yonx TimEg today printed the full text of Admiral Stirling 's report and the announcement by the Navy Department . In doing so it rendered a public service in showing just how bad a situation has existed . " Hawaii is our chief strategic outpost in the Pacific . It is obvious that we must maintain large military and naval forces there at times and that the officers and men of our army and navy must be able to live at peace with the inhabitants of the territory . " Representative Fred A. Britten of Illinois , ranking Republican member of the House Naval Committee , said tonight he favored an immediate investigation of the Honolulu situation in its bearing on the plans of the Navy Department for holding naval manoeuvres in Hawaiian waters . ? " Congress certainly has the power to investigate any conditions that have made it unsafe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . " I favor an immediate investigation into the cause for any changes in plan for the manoeuvres . I also favor putting marines into Honolulu to assure law and order . " Naval manoeuvres in Hawaii are absolutely essential to developing the efficiency of our navy . Nothing should be allowed to interfere with them . If anything does interfere Congress should investigate and correct the situation . " In the meantime , the navy has taken no steps to return Lieutenant Massie , Mrs. Fortescue or Seaman Lord to . thecustod the civil au-Paw-DM in " naval custody " for safekeeping , the Navy Department announced this afternoon . Lieutenant Massie has not been suspended from duty , despite the fact that the Honolulu police have lodged a charge of firstdegree murder against him , his mother-in-law and Lord . Navy Hopes to Aid Accused . There is no doubt the navy Is hopeful a way can be found to hold Lieutenant Massie and his co-defendants in its jurisdiction and that if a trial by jury is ordered a change of venue can be bad to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably be ordered held in the Federal District Court at San Francisco , Los Angeles or Seattle . The statement issued late this afternoon by the Navy Department read : Word has been received frcup Rear Admiral Stirling that Mrs. Fortescue , Lieutenant Massie and ' E. J. Lord are being represented by one of the most eminent lawyers in the islands . The department is waiting further dispatches from Rear Admiral Stirling . Secretary of the Navy Adams has approved Admiral Stirling 's action in taking the three accused under naval custody . Further action in the case by the department will depend upon arrangements made in the islands between naval and civilian authorities . The number of assaults on women in the Honolulu district - since Jan. 1 , 1931 , remains in doubt here . Admiral Pratt , in his statement yesterday , said they numbered more than forty . In the files of the Navy Department there is a report from Lieut . Commander R. W. Bates , chief patrol officer at Pearl Harbor . It gives Dr. Osman . of the staff of the Emergency Hospital in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time his report was filed that hospital had received for treatment sixty five women , - all victims at Ski tram.lt-girattaantrad avian &;                     