@@701888

txt Amid almost frenzied applause by his Socialist supporters , Lion Blum today assumed leadership of the democratic majority in France in terms that implied that leadership would be not far removed from the dictatorial . " In a battle like the one in front of us , " he said in a speech to the executive council of the Socialist party , " a chief is needed . His command should be under your control , but he must have full power . Until now what credit I have had among you has been due to conciliation and persuasion . Today is different . In face of the present circumstances another kind of man must take the place of the man I have been . " But you will find in me the same resolution , the same courage , the same loyalty . I have sought what has happened and am not afraid of my responsibility now . Let us be wise , but let us be bold . We must succeed . " Voices Warning to Foes In large past Mr. Blum 's speech was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once he sounded a note of warning . To those who might threaten to defeat , with violence the maierity vote of the country on the last two Sundays , he said : " I do not wish to employ here ' any menacing tone . Threats are dad when they are useless . But we are not an isolated few . Behind us are the masses of the people , to whom we would not need to appeal twice if . there . should be any insurgency against their wishes . " A considerable part of the speech was devoted to another appeal to the Communists to take part in the government . In this situation there is something ironic , for Mr. Blum , as leader of the Socialists , has constantly refused to collaborate with the Radical Socialists . Now he holds the engagement of cooperation entered into by all the members of the Popular Front last July is binding on the Communists to come in . " Little Soviets " Shunned But Maurice Thorez , the young Communist leader , has refused , and the origin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall in with his plan for setting up " little soviets " in every town and village of France under the guise of " Popular Front committees . " To the Radical Socialists , and even to the Socialists , the constituted authority of Parliament comes first , and they are showing themselves wary of these village committees , which would be constantly organizing political demonstrations and would probably come to be dominated by Communists . Mr. Blum wants to attack the problem from the other end and begin by instilling a true republican spirit into the administration . He wants the civil service to be " devoted body and soul to public liberty . " Fascism must be broken in high places , he held , and France must be made invulnerable to its influence . Ile said his immediate task and that of his government would be to bind up the wounds both of France and of Europe . On the day after Premier Benito Mussolini 's blow at the League of Nations by his annexation of Ethiopia , the neat French Premier de-1 clared : " Our objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , to give back to the League of Nations its material and moral cohesion and to awaken again the hope contained in the indissoluble ideas of ' effective mutual assistance and progressive disarmament . ' " Speaking of the financial and monetary difficulties that he will have to face , Mr. Blum said that at least they were less grave than the issues of war or peace and misery and unemployment . In one report Mr. Blum was quoted as having said that no matter what had been the result of the elections , there would have been speculation on the Exchanges , bringing nearer " that devaluation to which we always have been and to which we remain resolutely hostile . " Mr. Blum did not , however , pretend to be able to predict - what would be the outcome of the nervousness created by those seeking to safeguard " their own interests . " He warned the little bondholders joining in this panic movement that they might be the big victims and he said his government , which would need to appeal to the country for credits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a state of alarm . One needed reform to which the government will give immediate attention , Mr. Blum said , is simplification of the taxation system , with a view toward reducing the margin between wholesale and retail prices . He declared his regime would seek to be a government for the common good and that State intervention in industry would be directed toward giving more suppleness and vigor to the general economic life .                     