@@701771

txt As a defense of the Administration , Secretary HULL 'S speech at Baltimore was perhaps the best yet made . This is because it was not extravagant . It was moderately reasoned . It did not claim everything , nor deny that mistakes had been made in the rush of emergency treatment . And through the whole speech runs Mr. HULL 'S evident conviction that economic forces and the work of private enterprise and industry are more effective than any mere legislation could be . In this respect the Secretary 's address at Baltimore renews and deepens an impression of the man already cut clear in the public mind . It is that of one who has formed his opinions of commerce and finance and currency upon years of careful study and reflection , and who declines to change them at the bidding of every newcomer . He remains constant to them , even when they have to be held temporarily in abeyance . A violent convulsion in the financial world may for the moment cause his compass to oscillate , but always the needle returns pointing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Secretary 's remarks about foreign trade . It is a subject which has had his earnest thought for years , and he sees no reason to alter the views at which he arrived maturely . How to recover a part of the overseas trade which this country has lost during the past seven or eight years has been one of the great questions with Secretary HULL . He would doubtless agree With Lord HUGH CECIL that economic nationalism has been raging like a pestilence in Europe . He certainly would not deny that its ravages have extended to the United States . The needlessly high American tariff led to restrictions upon our trade abroad which are still felt seriously here , and will be until some method is devised of permitting international commerce to flow more freely . The reciprocal trade agreements which have been negotiated by Secretary HULL are a useful move in that direction . Smoothly conducted foreign trade requires stability in foreign exchange . This is a point which Secretary HULL has not overlooked and which he stressed in his Baltimore speech . In his judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading currencies of the world should be sought and obtained . For the Washington Government , Secretary HULL renewed the pledge that America would put no obstacle in the way of such a desirable and even necessary attainment . It is nearly three years since President ROOSEVELT joined with Prime Minister MACDONALD in demanding that an end be put to the " chaos " of unstabilized currencies . Nothing has since been done to bring about that result , except as Great Britain and the United States and other countries have made use of equalization funds and other devices to prevent wild fluctuations in their currencies . If we may take Secretary HULL 'S statement as an earnest of the intention to resume an interna- tional effort for stabilization , it will be felt in the commercial and financial world to be of good augury.                     