@@699584

txt At the same time that he was being hailed in Chicago yesterday ns " the world 's most distinguished and uncompromising anti-war leader , " Dr. Albert Einstein , was reconciling himself to an indefinite period of self-exile front his home land of Germany . The decision of the Einsteins not to return to Germany according to previous plans , but to go to Belgium instead , was made known by Frau Einstein during their brief stop in Chicago on the way front California to New York . Their fete . hours here were filled in by several important events , and in between Frau Einstein revealed that they had given ap all present , plans to return to Germany . " We are going to Belgium , find a little place and hide ourselves away at last while the present Government is in power , " Frau Einstein said . " We do not even go back on a German boat . There is too much danger for us to go to Germany . " It had previously been reported that the Einsteins planned to sail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctor 's only reference to his reasons for staying away front Germany was found In a brief statement In which he replied to a question about the status of pacifism in Germany . " The pacifist can not function openly in Germany ; if he does ' he may be killed , " he said . As a tribute to Dr. Einstein on his birthday , a group of local peace advocates , many of whom are well known for.heir pacifist activities , met at the Standard Club and presented him with a memorial bearing the following inscription : " The undersigned Chicago peace advocates welcome and salute you as the world 's most distinguished and uncompromising anti-war leader . You have reinforced the peace movement with the momentum of your fame as a natural sel1 elitist and thinker , have stimulated It with convincing and unanswerable arguments and have lifted the I downtrodden word pacifism to the plane of benevolent and practical philosophy . Your versatile qualities of genius have made you par excellence the first citizen of the world . As such we tender you our homage , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago . " Among several score of signers of the memorial were Mr. Salmon 0 . Levinson , author of the doctrine of the " outlawry of wa ? , " now embodied In the Pact of Paris ; Mr. Clarence Darrow , prominent criminal lawyer ; the Rev. Preston Bradley , pastor of the People 's Church of Chicago ; Mrs. Anna Wilmarth Ickes , member of the Illinois Legislature and wife of the new Secretary of the Interior , Mr. Harold L. Ickes , and Mrs. Lola Maverick Lloyd , who served as chairman of the meeting . Dr. Einstein talked informally on the subject of peace , declaring that In the final analysis world peace must be established in the hearts of men , and that no manner of law will accomplish the purpose unless the desire to maintain peace rules the individuals who make up society . " The moral strength of society lies In the Individual and not In the law , " he said .                     