@@700887

txt A thorough investigation of charges by Senator Borah that there has been " shameful " waste in distributing relief funds was ordered today by Harry L. Hopkins , administrator . After Mr. Borah made the charges yesterday Mr. Hopkins called upon him for a bill of particulars . Today Mr. Hopkins decided to take the initiative . He ordered his chief investigator to " go the limit " and , in a note to Mr. Borah requested an interview for the investigator . In comment on the investigation order , Mr. Borah exclaimed , " That 's fine ! " He indicated that he would not press for a Congressional investigation pending the outcome of that by Mr. Hopkins . " I have every respect for Mr. Hopkins , " he declared , " and I do not think there should be any other investigation until he has completed his own . Of course , there might be some question about a man investigating himself , but I repeat , I have great respect for Mr. Hopkins . " Text of Correspondence . The note from Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers indicate that you stated that you had evidence of a shameful waste of relief funds . " I have asked Mr. Dallas W. Dort , our chief investigator , to make an Investigation of these charges and would appreciate it very much if you will make available to him the evidence upon which these charges are based so that we may make a prompt and searching inquiry at once . " You can be sure that no conditions which you state exist will be tolerated for a moment . " Mr. Borah said in his reply : " I shall be glad to talk with Mr. Dort at any time during the coming week . It may be that after talking with Mr. Dort I should like to talk with you personally . " May I be permitted to say that I do not question the concluding sentence of your letter . " Confers With President . The position of the relief administrator , who conferred last evening with President Roosevelt , is that if any of Mr. Borah 's allegations are correct , the condition should be remedied at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be quickly made clear . Mr. Borah charged the greatest " political scandal " of modern times , declaring that relief money was used to obtain political advantage . The developments give the administration its first opportunity to deal in a specific way with opposition campaign charges . ? Mr. Hopkins has maintained that the 17,000,000 persons on relief must be taken care of and that he is doing his duty without regard to political considerations . If any political activities have crept into the local administration of relief , he declares , he wants to correct the condition at once . Most complaints about the relief administration have drawn no reply from Mr. Hopkins , who has regarded criticism from some quarters as , under the circumstances , both natural and inevitable . On several occasions , however , he has boiled over and expressed himself emphatically on the subject . Reviews Basic Aims . " It is easy for people sitting around a good dinner table to criticize the way we are taking care of certain people that they think should not be on relief , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the position of people who are in dire need . " Unless it is proved otherwise , we go on the assumption that it is better to help a few who should not be getting help rather than to cut off many who should be on relief lists . We are exercising all possible care . " He believes that , in conducting investigations wherever - charges are advanced , and in cutting off peremptorily officials proven guilty of graft or improper administration , he has done everything possible to eliminate poor administration of relief work and funds . Several drives have been conducted to " clean up " the relief rolls and drop persons who have " crept " on without justification . Mr. Hopkins expressed himself as willing to see people prosecuted criminally who had obtained relief when they had private incomes and promised " quick action " in any administrative abuses that may I be discovered .                     