@@701009

txt The British and French Premiers and Foreign Ministers , who have been considering for two days a plan for joint action with regard to Germany 's rearmament , reached an agreement late last night . It is understood that the agreement reached is based on the British plan , which the conference assembled to consider . It is further understood that the provisions envisage nullification of the military clauses of Part V of the Versailles treaty in exchange for Germany 's return to the League of Nations , but that nullification will not include ending the demilitarization of the left bank of the Rhine . On the other hand , it is understood that a defensive air convention has been agreed upon between France and Britain to supplement the Locarno treaty , by which the French frontier is already guaranteed . Germany to Be Informed . The conferees left 10 Downing Street just before midnight . No communiqu ? stating the result of their deliberations was issued , but it is understood a long declaration embodying this result has been prepared and will be transmitted to Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon . Yesterday 's conference was preceded in the morning by a full meeting of the British Cabinet to consider the facts developed at Friday 's session . It is no ordinary situation that induces the British Cabinet to hold a Saturday meeting or that is penmitted to wreck the sacred weekend of British Ministers . Premier Flandin of France early yesterday gave up his intention to spend the night in the country and it was rumored that instead of finishing today , as was expected when the conversations began , they might continue till Tuesday . The morning was scheduled to be devoted to private conversations , but was given up by the British to the Cabinet meeting . Foreign Minister Laval of France called on Arthur Henderson , president of the disarmament conference , which is now in a state of quiescence , and talked with him for half an hour about its blighted hopes . M. Flandin received several callers , including some bankers . Halt at Night for Meal . At 3 o'clock in the afternoon the formal conversations at Downing Street were renewed . They lasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separated for a hurried meal . M. Flandin and M. Laval ate at the grill room of their hotel . At 9:30 the conference reassembled . Two authoritative statements came from the conferees in the course of the day . A statesman on the British side told a friend : " Everything is all right , but we may have to work tomorrow . " A Frenchman told an acquaintance , " It goes well ; it is all a question of drafting . " These seemed to indicate that an agreement or agreements were under way and disposed of the theory current on Friday that the conference was " deadlocked . " It is believed that some British illusions as to the chances of coming to terms with Germany were pretty well dissipated on Friday , at any rate in official minds , but there is still the difficulty that a large part of the British public has been led to believe there is such a. possibility . That belief , in view of the coming general election , is of po- litical importance here and has had to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on pretty good authority that one of the reasons for summoning the British Cabinet yesterday was the necessity of modifying the original British proposal . The Cabinet had approved the original , and therefore had to be consulted in the matter of modification . There is further good reason for the statement that . the French dossier of Germany 's military strength was presented to the conference Friday and went before the Cabinet yesterday and was an important factor in its deliberations.                     