@@702204

txt Heavy fighting was going on today in various sectors near Madrid , particularly south of the city . The Rebels launched a violent attack from Valdemoro , thirteen miles from the city and three miles south of Pinto , forcing the Loyalist militia to retreat from Pinto . Government troops were also forced back at Fuenlabrada , about nine miles southwest of the city . The militia is declared to be resisting at other strategic positions . The Rebels are also pushing on from Parla , eleven miles south of the city , and their immediate objective is now Getafe , about eight miles from the heart of the city . One of the two airports of Madrid is at Getafe . That suburb was shelled this afternoon . Three persons were killed and eight wounded , five of them seriously , in another air raid on Madrid today by Rebel planes . Five bombs were dropped on the Vallecas quarter  --  a workmen 's district  --  opposite the Andalusian Railway station . Rebel Troop Train Bombed A government air squadron bombed a Rebel train carrying troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Loyalist squadron , but there were no casualties . Later the same government planes discovered a Rebel airdrome south of Salamanca , where there were six hangars with five pursuit planes outside . They bombed the place and later reported they had caused much damage . Another government squadron bombed a Rebel airdrome at Escalona and attacked a column proceeding to the Aranjuez front . Meanwhile , Madrid is reinforcing its defenses . It is announced that 2,000 men forming four shock battalions entrusted with the defense of the city will leave for the front in a day or two or , at the latest , within a week . These 2.000 have been selected from among the best disciplined and physically fittest men responding to an appeal by the Fifth Militia Regiment . The men are well armed . Newspapers Disagree on War Two of Madrid 's most important newspapers at present  --  the Socialista , which is really a government organ , and the Mundo Obrero , a Communist organ  --  hold opposite views on the military situation . According to the Socialista , since the Rebels have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to do so . " The advance of our troops must and can be turned into a rout for the enemy , " it says . The Communist organ holds , however , that the problem of the defense of Madrid continues to be as urgent as before . " Those who think that from now on the war is going to be easy for us and that it will amount to a mere parade for our troops are mistaken , " the paper declares . " So far , Madrid has neither won nor lost . " The newspaper Ahora says that " if we were to come to any conclusion , ours would be the pessimistic one . " " From the military viewpoint Madrid is more seriously threatened than ever , " it adds . " Rebel troops have been advancing systematically and have arrived within a few miles of the outskirts of the capital . " " Blind Obedience " Is Urged The Claridad , the mouthpiece of Premier Francisco Largo Caballero , makes an energetic appeal for discipline on the part of those fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline and blind obedience to officers , " the paper says . " Without discipline and obedience there is no army , nor is victory possible against an enemy such as we are facing . Let this be well understood by the workers who are fighting the Fascist danger . Without discipline and obedience to officers we shall be beaten . " Our resistance may last somewhat longer and we may inflict on the enemy still more losses , but in the long run we shall be beaten . Only a thoroughly organized army can defeat an equally organized army . Even Soviet Russia did not triumph until she was able to organize a disciplined army  --  and that alter the death penalty had been resorted to . " In another article the Claridad adds that if the heroic resistance can be maintained for a few more days , the present danger will have disappeared .                     