@@704290

txt sound social attitude . " Dr. Einstein , now associated with the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton , N. J. , sent his message to be read before the New ersey Education Association , state-wide teachers ' and principals ' group holding its eighty-fifth annual convention here . There are four tasks the school should fulfill , Dr. Einstein said : time in the next few years to finding out how well its present program is working . Direct and sympathetic observation of what the pupils are doing and thinking about and interested in , outside of school , is the best test . " I suggest that each individual school assign the teachers themselves to this job , because they will make the best use of the information , and make up for this by letting them off from some other work . " Then , for the subjects and methods of teaching which have little to do with young people 's real problems , the school will gradually be able to substitute a program which tangibly t advances democracy in this country . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cornell University , told another group that " many unemployed youth are fed up on schools and do n't want to go back , because the school they attended did n't fit their needs . " " Yet most of them would like the chance to get some real training , in a setting that would really prepare them for a job , " he added . " We have not realized fully that the right kind of vocational education is the birthright of every individual in a true democracy . " Tolerance Not Neutrality Too many people in too many plces in this country are preaching indifference to the actions , motives and ideologies of nations which are opposed to the institutions of the United States , James H. R. Cromwell , of Somerville , N. J. , member of the New Jersey Tax Revision Commission told the Association . " The so-called tolerance which weighs on the same scale human freedom and human degradation , barbarism and civilization , cruelty and justice , aggression and peace . is not a mark of neutrality , " he declared . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neutrality of thought and speech demanded by some blind leaders of public opinion would be to place those who defend our institutions on a par with those who attack them . " It is foolish to suppose that a sane and inquring mind can be neutral on the issues of the present struggle . There is no basis for the unctions hope that once the economic hungers of seine nations are satisfied , dictators will begin to , boo like lambs and that the system of brutality , assassination and terror will be dropped like a soiled cloak . " We must educate our boys and girls to believe in human freedom , in a system of free men and the widest extension of civil liberties . It is up to you teachers to arm your graduates with information and reason , not only that we shall not be easy victims of demagogues , but that they may attack the traducers of democracy with the sword of truth . "                     