@@700328

txt Counsel representing the United Ireland party , that is the combined opposition to the de Valera government , obtained tonight a writ of habeas corpus calling for the production of General Owen O'Duffy , the party 's leader , before the High Court on Wednesday . General O'Duffy , who was arrested yesterday when he tried to address a meeting at Westport , County Mayo , while wearing a blue shirt , is still being detained in the police barracks at the scene of his arrest . He is to be brought , under heavy escort , tomorrow , to Arbour Hill military prison in Dublin , where he will await trial unless the High Court orders his release . With him will come two of his leading supporters , Captain Kilcoyne and John O'Sullivan , who were arrested with him at the Westport meeting . They also had appeared in the blue shirt uniform of Young Ireland , the association banned by the government and immediately dissolved by its sponsors . Captain Kilcoyne was released from prison only last week , after having served a term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pistol to defend himself against attack by Irish Republicans at a meeting at Tralee . O'Duffyites Expect Recruits . The expectation is they will be tried together and there is no doubt that the trial will further inflame political passions which are already gathering heat . The O'Duffyites regard the General 's arrest as worth several thousand recruits for their new League of Youth organization which has replaced Young Ireland and has already applied to a court to declare whether it is a legal body . The new situation , in fact , is one calculated to give the government some uneasiness . The government attained power by a majority of one vote in ' the Dail Eireann and has carried on by a working alliance with the seven Labor members . That alliance is still good because Labor here is distinctly anti-Fascist and the O'Duffy movement , in its outward form , at least , has taken on Fascist characteristics . But there are other considerations . The heart and soul of Eamon de Valera 's support are the bitter extremists ? the fighting Irishmen who love not peace and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , " as the picturesque terms the Irish apply to guerrilla warfare have it . Many of them have the Irish joy in being " agin " the government and serving a hero who is temporarily the under-dog . Now General O'Duffy is rapidly becoming a hero . In fact he is one in Ireland today . His bearing under arrest yesterday aroused the wildest enthusiasm . He refused to permit his supporters who far outnumbered the police and the military to rescue him lest bloodshed result . Willingly he became a martyr to a good cause . So the air rang with cries of " Up O'Duffy ! " and " Down with the Broy Harriers ; they ca n't fight ! " ? Colonel Broy being General O'Duffy 's successor as Police Chief and the phrase being a play upon the name of a pack of rabbit houpds celebrated throughout Ireland for their speed rather than their combativeness . Some young men who dared to raise a cheer for the republic were set upon by the Blue Shirts and had to receive police protection . Herein is food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Irish characteristics undoubtedly is thinking deeply . He is now the government and General O'Duffy , representing the Cosgrave Opposition , is the imprisoned hero . It is worth mentioning that this afternoon three armed and masked men entered the Dublin-Kerry train at a way station , held up a guard , seized all copies of Mr. de Valera 's newspaper , The Irish Press , they could find , strewed them in torn , crumpled sheets over the next six miles of countryside and departed unidentified . It is bad form in Ireland to identify masked raiders . It was British newspapers and organs of the Cosgrave government that used to have that experience . Is the tide turning ? it has led some to ask today . Case to Take Time . It will take some time to prepare the case against Gene al O'Duffy , for there is no statuth in Ireland that makes wearing a blue , a pink , a yellow or any other color shirt a criminal offense . Also the last thing that the de Valera government wishes to do is provide a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hangin ' Men in Ireland for the Wearin ' o ' the Green . " General O'Duffy will not be bailed , so the chances are he and his companions will spend Christmas in jail ? another grievance . Their life therein will not be hard , but it will provide ample food for that wit that plays so large a part in Irish politics . Political prisons in Ireland under this regime have provided much material for jokesters and cartoonists because they have housed chiefly the Irish Republican hothead whom the de Valera government regards with sorrow rather than anger and has no desire to aggravate by rough treatment . So life in the prisons Is quite tolerable . Sometimes Frank Aiken , the Minister of Defence , visits the prisoners and labors with them to make them see things right . The Prison Routine . General O'Duffy and his fellow prisoners will rise at 6:30 o'clock and wash out their cells . At 8 they will have breakfast of bacon , sausages and good Irish creamery butter . After that they will attend classes and learn Gaelic . General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to give a few points to the teacher . Next will come dinner ? soup , meat , vegetables and pudding . Afterward will come exercise , including handball , and then , before an equally substantial supper , an hour for reading and early retirement there will be the most interesting and pleasantest part of the daily routine . The prisoners receive class instruction in " modern Irish pistory " from a member of Mr : de Valera 's party who was taken recently from the ranks of the unemployed and now has a good job . In this history as taught at Arbour Hill Prison one Owen O'Duffy , who suppressed the Four Courts Rebellion and afterward became Chief of Police , is the villian of the piece . It will be interesting for General O'Duffy to learn at first hand in a prison class just how he is regarded by the present government 's historian . He may be converted , for it is related of the history lecturer himself that whereas originally he was of extreme republican leanings , his contemplation of political actualities in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only through the de Valera party . the Fianna Fail , which from the beginning has pursued the only possible patriotic course . This pleasant life in the " Grand Hotel of Aiken , " as the prison is popularly known in Dublin , is likely to endure for General O'Duffy and his associates well into the new year , so it will be on the whole a healthy and perhaps not Ill-spent holiday season .                     