@@700698

txt The joint committee of the Senate and Assembly created by the Legislature to investigate the public utilities in the State , and especially their political relations , met yesterday at the Hotel Roosevelt . At the meeting its membership was completed , the committee organized by electing Temporary President of the Senate John J. Dunnigan as its chairman and former Supreme Court Justice John E. Mack of Poughkeepsie as its counsel . Mr. Mack has been P. friend of President Roosevelt for forty years . He is a Democrat . At the Democratic National Convention in Chicago he placed Mr. Roosevelt in nomination for the Presidency . He sponsored him , too , in 1910 , when Mr. Roosevelt first entered politics , received a nomination from his district for the State Senate and was elected . The name of Mr. Mack , who has agreed to conduct the important investigation , was brought before the committee by Senator Thomas F. Burchill , New York City Democrat and chairman of the Senate Committee on Public Service . He was elected by unanimous vote after his nomination had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the upper house . Seabury is Rejected . This was after a vote had been taken on Ferdinand Pecora , favored by the Democrats , and ex-Judge Samuel Seabury of the Court of Appeals , who was backed by the Republican members of the committee for the post of counsel . Each received six votes , the committee being equally divided in its membership between the two parties . There was no prospect of the deadlock being broken when the committee turned to President Roosevelt 's friend . Anticipating the outcome , Senate Leader Dunnigan had been in communication with Mr. Mack . On Sunday evening the latter , reluctantly , it was said , yielded to the insistent pleas of the Senate leader and Senator Fearon and consented to undertake the laborious task now confronting him as counsel for one of the most important legislative investigation committees to function in this State . The suggestion that former Judge Seabury be named as counsel for the committee originated with W. Kingsland Macy , chairman of the Republican State Committee and for many years a persistent advocate of the inquiry that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when informed that Mr. Mack 's selection might be inevitable if the deadlock were to be broken , Chairman Macy had shown no enthusiasm , but raised no objection . Mr. Macy has explained that he favored the former counsel for the late Hofstadter committee , because he believed his selection would give assurance of a thorough investigation and give the committee the benefit of public confidence and popular support . His second choice , it is believed , was George Z. Medalie , former United States Attorney anda Republican . With the chairmanship of the committee going to a Democrat , Mr. Macy felt that in the event Mr. Seabury should not prove acceptable to the Democrats , a Republican should be picked for counsel as a matter of political give and take . While the Republican members of the committee deferred to Mr. Macy in the matter of counsel , knowing , perhaps , that Democratic objection would render impossible the selection of his candidate , there appears to have been no studied effort on their part to meet his wishes in the appointment of Republican members to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While there is reason to believe that Mr. Macy gave his approval to the appointment of Senator Berle jamin F. Feinberg of the Thirtythird Senatorial District , who was recommended by Senator Fearon , Speaker " appointed Assemblyman Harry F. Dunkel of Hamilton-Fulton district and General John S. Thompson of Medina , who represents Orleans County in the Assembly , and neither of whom is looked upon as being " in Mr. Macy 's corner " politically . General Thompson is chairman of the Public Service Committee In the Assembly . Chairman Macy , it is known , urged that a Republican Assemblyman from New York City be placed on the committee and in this connection suggested two names , those of Ernest Lappano , a RepublicanFusion member representing the Eighteenth Assembly District in Manhattan , and that of Assemblyman Sidney Jacobi of the Second Richmond District . Both , with the other Republican and Fusion members from this city , had lined up with Chairman Macy in his fight at the beginning of the year 's legislative session to supplant Assembly Clerk Fred W. Hammond on the ground that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ H. Edmund Machold and the power and utility interests . The two Republicans appointed by Speaker stood with the Speaker and against Mr. Macy for the re-election of Mr. Hammond . When in the course of that conflict a committee composed of seven Assemblymen was appointed to investigate charges made by Mr. Macy , Assemblyman Dunkel was made chairman of it . " I prefer to say nothing at this time , " was Chairman Macy 's reply when asked to comment on developments at the committee meeting . vice , financial set-up , banking relations , relations with subsidiary companies , holding companies and affiliates of public utilities in the State . Primarily the committee was intended as an agency to look into the activities of utilities in elections of and their relations with public officials , their lobbying activities at the Capitol and their influence in the Legislature , but the scope of the investigation was broadened through amendments to the resolution , until fear has been expressed in some quarters that if for any reason the committee should desire to sidestep what was to have been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Legislature will afford it abundant opportunity to do so . I Aside from the announcement of what the committee had done at its meeting , Chairman Dunnigan made only this brief statement relating to the selection of ex-Justice Mack : " He has been on the Supreme Court bench ; he is a man of fine character , exceptional ability and with high standing in his profession . " Mr. Mack is 60 years old . He has been prominent in Democratic politics in his home county and to some extent active in the affairs of the Democratic State organization . He was appointed to the Supreme Court to fill an unexpired term by Mr. Roosevelt when he was GoverI nor . When a candidate for the place in the subsequent election he was defeated by a Republican . Mr. Roosevelt also appointed Mr. Mack , with Martin Conboy , to study the evidence against exMayor Walker gathered by the Hofstadter committee , before the public hearing he afforded the Mayor on formal charges presented by Mr. Seabury . The services of Mr. Mack as counsel were sought by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of official misconduct on which Senator Warren T. Thayer recently was found guilty by the Senate , but he declined . Mr. Mack has been District Attorney of Dutchess County and has appeared as counsel in many celebrated cases . Make Up of Conunittee . The committee is composed of the following : Senator JOHN T. DUNNIGAN ( Dem. ) , chairman . Speaker JOSEPH A. of the Assembly ( Rep. ) , vice chairman . IRWIN STEINGUT , Democratic leader of the Assembly , secretary . Senators THOMAS F. BURCHILL of New York . JOSEPH D. NUNAN of Queens and JEREMIAH F. TWOMEY of Kings ( Dems . ) , GEORGE R. FEARON of Onondaga and BENJAMIN F. FEINBERG of Clifton ( Reps . ) . Assemblymen RUSSELL G. DUNMORE of Oneida , majority leader ; HARRY F. DUNKLE of Fulton-Hamilton and JOHN S. THOMPSON of Orleans ( Reps . ) ; JACOB H. LIVINGSTON of Kings ( Dem . ) . The committee met behind closed doors . Another meeting will be held at Albany , probably next Wednesday , when Mr .. Mack will be in attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected that the committee will be prepared to hold public hearings much earlier than September . In the meantime , while members of the committee will be held at Albany by their legislative duties , incidental to the extraordinary session , the work of assembling a staff and laying the foundation for examination of witnesses will be in the hands of ex-Justice Mack . Mr. Mack at his office in Poughkeepsie said after his appointment that he had accepted the place with the understanding that he would have an absolutely free hand in the investigation . " The place is not of my seeking . although I regard it as a great honor and an opportunity for pub ! lic service , " Mr. Mack said . " It was only last night that Senators Dunnigan and Fearon talked me into taking on this job . There is not I much that I can say until I have ' talked things over with the leaders and members of the committee , which I expect to do next week at Albany . " Headquarters to Be Here . The committee will probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of the resolution creating it , it may sit in any part of the State . The committee is directed by the resolution to investigate rates , ser-                     