@@704121

txt Unable to offer any hope for a general rain sufficient to break the drought in the near future , Dr. James H. Kimball , head of the New York Weather Bureau , announced yesterday that the present dry spell was the longest since the bureau began keeping its records . There has been only .06 of an inch of rain in the last twenty-six days , he said . Local thunder showers may reach the city today and put an end to the heat wave that has prevailed since Sunday , the Weather Bureau predicted last night , but there is little likelihood of their bringing enough precipitation to save the parched lawns and flowers of the metropolitan area . The last rain of any consequence was on June 30 , when 1.8 inches fell . The forecast last night was local thunder showers today and tomorrow , with little change in temperature . Fresh reports of widespread suffering , of crop damages mounting into many millions of dollars , of numerous forest fires and dwindling water supplier came yesterday from ten Northeastern States , and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dry weather were seriously threatening the wheat crop there . Although the temperature did not mount as high in New York yesterday as it had on Tuesday , the unusually high humidity made the day exceedingly uncomfortable . The maximum - temperature was 84 degrees , registered at 1:15 P. M. , and the average for the day was 78 , three above normal . The humidity stayed above 70 per cent most of the day . Two heat prostrations were reported here and one death was indirectly attributable to the heat wave . William Sullivan , 16 years old , of 302 Deems Avenue , Westerleigh , S. I. , died of a broken neck received when he dived into shallow water on Monday . Eugene Kelly , 46 , of 20 East 116th Street , collapsed in front of 90 Church Street and was taken to Broad Street Hospital , and John Donney , 45 , of 335 Crimmins Avenue , the Bronx , was overcome at Fifty-sixth Street and Twelfth Avenue and was taken to Roosevelt Hospital . All hope for saving the lawns in the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save the trees and shrubbery , John F. Walsh , head gardener of the Park Department , said yesterday . He said that the lawns would undoubtedly show the effects of the current damage for at least two years , as they would have to be re-seeded in September . A force of 3,000 men drawn from all kinds of jobs has been put to work watering the trees and shrubbery , he said , and although usually watering is done only after sundown , the crisis is so acute that now it is being carried on twentyfour hours a day . The Park Department is arranging to buy 10,000 additional feet of hose to supplement the 50,000 now in use . " But if the drought continues for another week , I do n't know what we 'll do , " he said disconsolately . The water table has sunk almost out of knowledge , especially in Brooklyn and Queens , the boroughs hardest hit by the drought , Mr. Walsh said . In those boroughs the lack of topsoil causes the water to run off , he explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so hard pressed in the emergency that it has borrowed spray tanks from the Sanitation Department to supplement its own hose and sprinklers , and that it has even had to form waterbucket brigades which carried water from park lakes to the places where it was needed . Drought conditions along the Eastern seaboard have decreased the production of hay in this part of the country 50 per cent below normal , Fred K. Sale , secretary of the National Hay Association , said in Buffalo , according to The . Associated Press . However , he said , there is no danger of a shortage because the crop in the Middle and Far West is above normal . Thirty-two new forest fires have broken out in New York State in the last twenty-four hours , bringing the total number burning to fifty-five , the State Conservation Department announced in Albany . The most serious was at Stony Kill Falls , near Ellenville , where 450 men were trying to check the blaze . Two deaths were blamed on the heat wave up-State , with temperatures of 98 in Utica , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those reported . Several communities had water shortages , with Tannersville , Prattsville and the village of Nassau pumping water from creeks after their regular sources of supply had gone dry . The " hunger stones " in the Susquehanna River , which according to Indian legend indicate a hungry Winter ahead , were visible yesterday near Lancaster , Pa. , for the first time in twelve years . The drought extended as far west as Denver , which was starting its second month without measurable precipitation . However , the Weather Bureau said that the situation in the Middle West was , in general , less acute than it is in the East . Martinsburg , W. Va. , by way of contrast , complained that soaking rains there were interfering with the harvesting . Serious crop deterioration was reported from the Canadian wheat Provinces , with Alberta , Saskatchewan and Manitoba all hit by a heat wave that has lasted twelve days , but the indications there were for relief in time to save most of the wheat crop . Truck farmers on Staten Island estimated that damage amounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crops , which usually bring about twice that total . Golf courses throughout the metropolitan area have been hard hit by the dry spell and the fairways of many of them are brown and hard despite regular sprinkling . Thirty inmates of the State prison for defectives at Napanoch , N. Y. , were released on their honor and escorted by eight guards to help fight a forest fire near the institution . With their help the fire was brought under control and not one of them made an effort to escape , according to John , superintendent of the institution . Because of the effect of the drought on the streams of Westchester , Rockland and Putnam Counties only the larger ones are being restocked with fish at present , according to Stanley C. Waters , head of the State Fish Hatchery at Cold Spring Harbor , L. I. He said that Long Island streams were not affected , however , as most of them were fed by springs and underground reservoirs . Westchester County farms , which number 428 in all , have already suffered losses of about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not come soon , county officials said yesterday . The greatest loss was at the 400-acre farm at Eastview of the county penitentiary , where the crop will be at least a third below the normal one of $70 , - 000 . The damage to the sweet corn crop , the principal vegetable raised in the county , will amount to $60 , - 000 it was said at the county farm bureau . County farms and poor farms elsewhere in the metropolitan area have all been hit by the lack of rain . The crop yield at the Nassau County farm at Hempstead will be about two-thirds less than last year . The crop on the seventy-acre farm of Essex County , N. J. , at Caldwell has been virtually ruined , although rain now might save a small part of it . William Smock , superintendent of the Bergen County farm at Paramus , N. J. , said that two-thirds of the crop had already been destroyed . The Central New Jersey potato belt will produce only about 60 to 65 per cent of its normal yield , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees are maturing too early beneath the baking sun , with the result that in many cases the fruit is dry and wrinkled . Howard Critchlow , engineer for the New Jersey State Water Policy Commission , issued a State-wide admonition to all persons to exercise care in the use of drinking water . He said that with careful use the supply of potable water in New Jersey would hold out for about another month without rain . Seventeen forest fires were extinguished yesterday in various parts of New Jersey , the State Forest Fire Service announced , but one bad blaze in the South Jersey pine belt near South Park , Burlington County , was still causing concern . Six forest fires burned yesterday in parched New England woods and brushlands , and more than a dozen of the hundreds of men fighting them were injured . Two fires burned sections of the Quabbin reservoir clearance project and threatened the town of New Salem for the second successive day . More than 500 acres were burned over . Other fires raged in the Taconic mountain range in Great Barrington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the White Mountain National Forest , and in dense woodland near the Williamstown-Northfield town line . With the Merrimack River at its lowest stage in years , Lawrence mills were using the river for only about one-third of their power . Unless rainfall swells the river before the end of the week , it is expected that its use for power will be suspended . It is estimated that the Massachusetts hay crop will be 500,000 tons under last year . Wakefield became the first Greater Boston municipality forced to conserve its water supply when town officials ordered the auxiliary supply , which is connected with wells , tapped . Officials in Maine said that , while the drought is a serious blow to farmers , storage reservoirs in the Androscoggin , Penobscot and Kennebec rivers are " well filled . " The flow of the Saco River is half normal .                     