@@704369

txt The ships have all departed and the men they brought from the New World to help the Old World democracies defend their freedom have been dispersed to training camps , and so the story of the arrival of the Canadian troops can now be told as it was witnessed by this correspondent from the quayside in a cold , gray west coast British port . It all happened yesterday , but because it was one of the greatest concentrations of ships and men in Britain since the war broke out the censors would not let the story pass until Winston Churchill , First Lord of the Admiralty , let the cat out of the bag tonight in a passing reference in his radio address . Scarcely any of the residents enjoying the Sunday peace and quiet knew the full meaning of the gathering in their harbor of destroyers , cruisers , battleships and the once proud liners all in dingy modern war-paint . Many thought it was a convoy of British troops home from the front in France for the Christmas holidays , but as they gaped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cowboy whoops and yells and songs that hinted at the truth . Tempting Target for Foe One by one the ships dropped anchor as British fighter planes roared and zoomed overhead in the murky , overcast sky ready to do battle with any prowling German reconnaissance or bombing planes that might happen by , for it was a tempting target for the enemy had the Nazis but known what was going on . Two hours or more passed before the first of a horde of warriors from Canada 's nine provinces began streaming ashore to be greeted and welcomed officially by Anthony Eden , Dominions Secretary , who read to them a special message from King George VI and saying on his own behalf that this war probably would be long and cer- tainly would be " tough " but that in the unity of all parts of the British commonwealth of nations lay the certain hope of final victory . Standing on the- gangway down which the yelling and shouting new World Legionaires had thundered just before , Mr. Eden welcomed them and thanked them for coming and received their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he read to them , follows : " On behalf of the country I extend the warmest welcome to the first contingent of Canadian forces to reach these shores . " The British Army will be proud to have as comrades in arms the successors of those who came from Canada in the Great War and fought with heroism that has never been forgotten . " 100 Americans in Contingent Among the Canadians were at least a hundred from the United States who must forfeit their citizenship for swearing allegiance to a King whose country is fighting for the democracy they cherish . Men of the Ojibways and Blackfeet were among them , as were a proportionate share of Quebec 's French-speaking citizens . Major Gen. A. G. L. , who had a distinguished record in the last war and who was subsequently chief of the Canadian General Staff , commanded the Canadian troops . The necessary secrecy with which the troops had left Canada , he said , was not easy to achieve . That the news had not leaked out , he said , was a tribute to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had seen the troop trains moving east from Canada 's westernmost reaches . and yet had kept their tongues so silent that apparently the enemy was unaware of what was going on and even the neighboring United States was left in the dark . Some of the troops from the Western Provinces had a five-day rail journey before boarding ship , he said , and one who hailed from Atlavik in the Arctic Circle had traveled for days before reaching a railhead to join his comrades . General said that the trip over had been uneventful and that everybody had settled down for a good rest , trusting the navy to get them over safely . He remarked upon the contrast to the crossing a quarter of a century ago when he had arrived at the head of the first Canadian forces which arrived here late in October , 1914 , after a twenty-eight day passage . U. S. Enlistment Discouraged Regarding the presence of former American citizens in his forces , the General said that Canada sought to discourage enlistment from across the border , first , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a breach of neutrality , and second , because so many Canadians had volunteered that it was difficult to find places for them in the first contingent which was a mighty earnest of the part Canada was preparing to play for the motherland . The little crowd that gathered on the wharf shouted , cheered and waved without quite knowing what to make of it all . Cigarettes were tossed to the troops as they lined up for the train , and one man asked if a division had come " with the permission of Colonel Lindbergh . " Later , from snatches of conversation overheard in downtown streets and a hotel lobby , it was apparent that few in town knew just what had arrived aboard those big ships anchored in the harbor . Several persons were overheard puzzling over the problem and remarking that while the men wore British uniforms they sounded like Americans , and one was reminded of the rumor in the last war that the Russians had arrived for the Western Front " with snow on their boots . " Once the troops had arrived at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the port of debarkation , General issued his first Order of the Day on British soil in this war . In it he expressed his appreciation for the care and vigilance of the navy , the air force , the railways and the merchant marine for the comfort and safety of his men . Americans Easily Spotted SOMEWHERE IN GREAT BRITAIN , Dec. 18 LT ) ? Cheering , singing and shouting , " Where the hell is Hitler ? " the vanguard of Canada 's contribution to the empire 's armies strode down transport gangplanks yesterday in a fogshrouded port . As the men poured down the gangplank in a stream of khaki , it was easy to distinguish the Americans . One from Chicago said he had enlisted " just for the hell of it . " Another from Fitchburg , Mass. , just smiled and shrugged his shoulders to the question of why he enlisted . They were Americans all right ? they wanted to know who would play in the Rose Bowl . Two others were from Belfast and Vanceboro , Me . General said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans . They 're good soldiers  --  and really alive . " All Provinces Represented , By FREDERICK T. BIRCHALL By Telephone to THE NEW Yomc OTTAWA , Dec. ** reached Ottawa this evening that yesterday the first contingent of Canada 's new army safely reached Britain and is now established in prepared camps for its final training before taking its place alongside other forces of the empire in the fight against Hitlerism and the Germany it has bent to its will . . Immediately the glad tidings were broadcast throughout the Commonwealth and there were little celebrations everywhere , because all the nine Provinces are represented in this contingent and almost everybody has some one , relative or friend , in its ranks . There will be other contingents going overseas , volunteers all of them , but none can be more representative than this first . And now can be told what all Canada knew but did not talk about lest some detail of use to the common enemy might reach him  --  that is , the story of the contingent 's well-organized assembly and successful departure . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seaboard some days ago  --  exactly when and exactly where is also known to all Canada but should be treated with respectful reticence  --  when the contingent set off on its dangerous voyage across the Atlantic . A great fleet of passenger vessels , the best and swiftest in the empire 's service , with an accompnaying flotilla of warships to insure its safety , was waiting . The transport ships are known throughout the world but the ordinary traveler would hardly have recognized them . Gone was their white paint and picturesque exteriors . In drabbest gray and brown camouflage , they looked like glorified colliers until one got , inside . There everything was spit and span and shipshape , especially in the engine rooms where extra crews stood ready instantly to accelerate to top speed at the first warning . And inside was luxury In comparison with the crowded quarters in which the Canadian Army was transported in 1914 . Instead of burtks and hammocks , the men traveled in cabins , usually three to a cabin . The food matched the quarters . One shipping company asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day and was told that , while it would be appreciated , an ample supply of beer in the canteen would be better . Railway travel to the embarkation point had been on an equally comfortable scale . Some sections of the contingent had come thousands of miles , but a carefully planned timetable brought their special trains in precisely two hours apart . As soon as the trains arrived at the embarkation point the men descended and marched aboard their transport . Their baggage was transferred and the way cleared for the next arrivals . A transport when loaded made way for the next . Not an untoward incident marked the entire proceeding . All in Full Battle Dress The troops went aboard in full battle dress , armed and equipped as no other force that ever left Canadian soil has been . The war ' ships led the way out to sea and closed and flanked the procession . In the great passenger fleet the rails , upper decks and rigging were lined with men giving lusty cheers , echoed back by the people ashore , and the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying over the leading transport , was a kilted Scots unit in the contingent , though its kilts likely to be superseded in Britain by the new battle uniform , and contrary to last time , there are no mascots . An order was issued forbidding them . Washington Hears of Exodus WASHINGTON , Dec. 18 ' ( .1 ) ? A 1917 statute forbids a citizen of the United States from serving in any foreign army unless he forfeits his citizenship and swears allegiance to the belligerent . Interest in the World War statute was revived here tonight with receipt of dispatches saying that a hundred or more United States men were among a Canadian contingent landing at a British port . on its way to be heard from next in action against the enemy . Prime Minister Mackenzie King wirelessed the Canadian people 's farewell as follows : " You go , each one of you , of your own free will , through the promptings of your own heart , at the dictates of your own conscience , that Canada may take her place at the side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world by force . With hearts full of gratitude and pride we bid you godspeed . " Major General 's reply expressed the gratitude of the troops that " our exacting requirements as regards organization have been met in full . There are dark days ahead but we have faith . " In the troops that Canada is sending to war are infantry , machine gunners , artillery , mechanized units , engineers , signals , medical and service corps and all their ancillary units . This Canadian force will be self-contained and complete , as are its supplies . It should be known that there is                     