@@703928

txt As a result of Chancellor Hitler 's decision to answer President Roosevelt 's " peace ultimatum " personally and to summon the Great German Reichstag in special session for that purpose , the press jubilantly proclaimed today that " the Axis powers have again seized the initiative " and " the world again looks to Berlin . " At the same time , part of the German fleet , including two pocket battleships , sailed for manoeuvres off Spain , and the appointment of the veteran diplomat Franz von Papen as Ambassador to Turkey , which Great Britain and France are trying to line up in their antiaggression front , was disclosed . It has been a cardinal principle of Herr Hitler 's political strategy to keep " the law of action " in his own hands and to keep others guessing what he would do next , which concentrated world attention on himself and immobilized his opponents . President Roosevelt 's surprise message has transferred this law of action for the moment to the other side and the desire to recapture it is therefore one motive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flustered As the German press presents the world picture , Herr Hitler 's action has again completely flabbergasted the democracies , whose war-mongers had jubilantly announced that the authoritarian States would let the indictment implied in Mr. Roosevelt 's message stand without answering it and who now face the prospect that Herr Hitler may turn the tables on them by precise counter-proposals that would , be hard to refuse ' and force the democracies rather than the dictators to show their hands . Although the German thesis is that fulfillment of the German demands must come before talk of disarmament , National Socialist quarters profess confidence that Herr Hitler is fully capable of turning Mr. Roosevelt 's message into a boomerang for the democracies . At the same time , Herr Hitler 's , asserted recapture of the initiative is to be strongly underlined by a monster military parade that will serve as the climax of his fiftieth birthday celebration Thursday . For this purpose three additional divisions , comprising some 50,000 men and including a tank division and a motorized division , are being moved up to Berlin to participate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secrecy unusual for such occasions , but it is understood that the troops are from southwest , west and northwest of Berlin , while those east of Berlin and along the Polish frontier will remain at their posts . In addition , it was officially announced today that from 7 P. M. tomorrow to 8 P. M. Thursday the air over Berlin would be barred to all planes , and regular passenger planes must approach Tedapelhof air field only from the south . " The prohibited territory , " says the announcement with unprecedented severity , " will be safeguarded by force of arms . " In view of the German-Polish tension , whipped up especially by the official National Socialist Danziger Vorposten , which charges Polish circles with aggressive designs against the Reich , this troop concentration causes some uneasiness in certain quarters , particularly those that recall that the announcement of a great military parade in Vienna preceded Germany 's march into Bohemia . Ridiculous , Officials Say Official quarters , however , declare that such uneasiness is ridiculous , pointing out that Albert Foerster , the Danzig district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making him an honorary citizen of Danzig Thursday morning . The preparations for these birthday festivities likewise provide an opportunity for the press to declare that far from being morally isolated , as President Roosevelt 's message endeavors to make it appear , Germany generally and Chancellor Hitler particularly will entertain special birthday delegations from twenty-four countries , including Great Britain and many other States that Mr. Roosevelt would protect from Germany  --  even if France and the United States will be conspicuous by their absence . American participation in the birthday festivities , it appears , will b .. limted to the presence of the Military and Naval Attaches in the grandstand during the parade . Another illustration that Germany has many friends , cited in addition to Field Marshal Hermann Goering 's ceremonious visit to Rome , from which he returned tonight , is the arrival today of Foreign Minister Grigore Gafencu of Rumania for a three-day visit . To emphasize the cordiality of German-Rumanian relations , Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop personally greeted his guest at the station and later received him at the Foreign Office . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had been found that there was " farreaching agreement of opinion on questions concerning both nations . " Hitler to Receive Him Chancellor Hitler is scheduled to receive the Rumanian visitor tomorrow . That M. Gafencu is going to other European capitals as well is not revealed to the German public . Meanwhile , the press continues a violent barrage against President Roosevelt , in whose case all pretenses of the courtesy due the heads of foreign States are dropped . The peak of the vituperation is achieved by Julius Streicher 's Fraenkische Tageszeitung , which calls Mr. Roosevelt " the firebug at the fire alarm " and declares his peace ultimatum to be a bluff . In this campaign Woodrow Wilson , his Fourteen Points and Versailles still hold the center of the stage , and in denouncing them as a warning against future credulity the newspapers cite with glee all that has been said in condemnation of them by otherwise despised democratic liberals whose views and morals the National Socialists reject for themselves . But there is no hint whatever regarding anything Herr Hitler may say in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual in Germany to speculate about a speech by the Fuehrer or a Reichstag session called by him . The Muenchener Zeitung voices the opinion , however , that the world faces a choice between " the Roosevelt-Stalin plan of inciting European nations against one another and the possibilities that the recognition of irrenounceable , vital rights holds out for the same States . " It concludes with this warning : " If , on the other hand , the present breathing spell should be utilized to intensify the development of political powers and factors , we can already assure today that Germany will then go the way that the safeguarding of her world position prescribes for her . " : Hitler Returns to Berlin BERLIN , April 18 ( l. ? Chancellor Hitler returned to Berlin tonight for his birthday celebration Thursday . He had spent ten days in his Bavarian mountain home ; in Munich , where he conferred about President Roosevelt 's week-end peace appeal , and in Austria , where he inspected progress in training Austrian soldiers along the Prussian pattern . A ban on photographs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate that a surprise might be in store for the foreign military attaches who will be guests at the military review that is part of the program . During a review when Admiral Nicholas Horthy , Regent of Hungary , visited here last August , the surprise was a group of sixteeninch howitzers , the biggest ever seen in Germany .                     