@@698180

txt ADAM SMITH AND SALES TAX Senator Reed 's Ideas Not in Full Accord With the Economist 's . To th , e Editor of The New York Times : With so much unemployment and a dreadful Winter just before us ; with so many industries barely showing signs ' of activity while . others are at a complete standstill ; with no one buying and ' millions unable to spend anything ; with wage reductions already announced and others looming all around  --  how will the government go about increasing taxes ? . Meanwhile , however , a gentleman from Pennsylvania appears on the national stage ' and with frowning brow shakes his finger at the whole country , telling it that it must " face the music . " The tune is a sales tax on most commodities so that even the unemployed , who are spending their last dollar to keep body and soul together , may contribute a fraction of it toward staving off the deficit . The storm of protest raised by Senator David A. Reed in advocating it should make it plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a sales tax now would be totally unwelcome . In his famous treatise , " Wealth of Nations , " Adam Smith formulated , more than 150 years ago , four maxims regarding taxation which have since been repeated in almost every - book on elementary economics . They are : 1 . The subjects of every State ought to contribute toward the support of the government as nearly as possible in proportion to their respective abilities ; that is , in proportion to the revenue which they respectively enjoy under the protection of the State . 2 . The tax which each individual is bound to pay ought to be certain and not arbitrary . The time of the ' payment , the manner of payment , the quantity to be paid , ought all to be clear and plain to ' the contributor and to every other person . 3 . Every tax ought to be levied at the time , or in the manner , in which it is most likely to be convenient for the contributor to pay it . 4 . Every tax ought to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the pockets of the people as little as possible over and above what it brings into the public treasury of the State . Discussing " taxes upon consumable commodities , " particularly those which he calls " necessaries , " Adam Smith said : " A tax upon those articles necessarily raises their price somewhat higher than the amount of the tax , because the dealer who advances the tax must generally get it back with a profit . Such a tax must , therefore , occasion a raise in the wages of labor proportionable to this rise ' of price . It is thus that a tax upon the necessaries of life operates exactly in the same manner as a direct tax upon the wages of labor . " If , between now and the opening of Congress , Senator Reed could read the " Wealth of Nations , " he would discover in it a wealth of ' information on the problem with which he is struggling . He would undoubtedly think a little more of economic laws and a little less of mere political expediency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 , 1931 . CONGRESS COULD DO IT . Methods Suggested for Lowering Deficit and Lifting Depression . T ) the Editor of The New York Times : The United States is deathly sick from depression . As a nation of intelligent people we owe it to ourselves and others to cast about and seek a cure . We must solve our own problem , and it can be solved only when all the citizens of this nation lay aside party and other prejudices , and work together toward a common goal in the sincere spirit of cooperation . Cooperation can be most effective in Congress , and the nation looks . to it to act as its medical prescriber . There are certain definite actions which a coalition Congress called by President Hoover could take to alleviate the present deplorable situation . First  --  When a corporation is losing money , one of the first actions it takes to recoup its losses is to cut the salaries of its employes . Why could not the government cut all the salaries of its elected and appointed officials , from the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ portion of his allowance this year . The government Treasury is facing a deficit of almost two billion dollars . A 25 per cent reduction in the salaries of all elected Federal officials , and a 10 per cent cut in those of Federal appointees , would be a substantial contribution toward meeting our deficit . This cut , of course , is not to affect classified civil service employes , who are neither overpaid , nor generally of great means . Second  --  There should be a horizontal lowering of the tariff by 25 per cent on all imports , with the exception of agricultural products , nonferrous metals and fuel , including oil and coal . This reduction of the tariff would enable foreign countries to do more business with the United States , and in turn enable them to build up financially . They will never be in a position to pay war debts and reparations if trade continues to be restricted as at present . Third  --  War debts should be deferred in such proportion as those nations entitled to reparations are willing to defer payment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The present oneyear postponement is as good as none at all . It takes time for a nation to build up economically .. An annual interest-rate , say , of 1 per cent on the amount of such deferred debts and 4 per cent on the amount of deferred reparations would not be too great a burden . War debts should not be canceled . We should , however , put our debtors in a position to pay . Fourth  --  The postoffice in recent years , and particularly in the year just past , has been running behind at a most startling rate . This , of course , is another great burden on the Treasury . Much could be done to lighten this burden , if not to remove it altogether . The existing postal rates on letters are ridiculously low and insufficient . There is no sound reason why the rates should not be raised . The public would not complain , as a slight raise would not appreciably affect ' its pocketbool:s . The postage on cards could be raised from 1 to 2 cents ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent from could be charged for at the rate of 4 cents each . Letters mailed to bordering States should require 3-cent stamps . Fifth  --  We should recognize the government of Soviet Russia . Our refusal to do so has cost us a great deal of money . Other nations have , and are now profiting by their trade with Russia . Why do we neglect to enter into commercial relations with the Soviets ? . The reason can not be that Russia has repudiated its debts . France repudiated 80 per cent of her debts , and Germany all of hers . Russia would furnish . a large market for American machinery and other domestic manufactures . Sixth  --  The Volstead act should be repealed and 4 per cent beer permitted . Why should there not be a tax on all beverages , except tea , coffee and milk , of , let us ' say , 1 per cent ? The government would realize great revenue throughout such a tax , with , Of course , a much higher tax on beer . The government must seek to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income taxes would be a mistake , as in the majority of cases incomes have fallen and in some instances have been altogether obliterated . Income taxes should be high in times of prosperity , not depression . JOHN H. STRASBOURGER . New York , Sept. 29 , 1931 . Assemblyman Potter 's Stand . To the Editor of The New York Times : The public should be grateful that a paper like THE Tans is so fair in its editorial comment . Two editorials on the unemployment relief bills recently enacted in Albany show not only a keen analysis of public opinion but a thorough understanding of the true situation at Albany . In your editorial of this morning you touch upon the fact that Mr. Macy urged the Republican legislators to support the essentials of the Governor 's program , and that in the end public opinion forced them to do so . In this connection we must not fail to remember that there was one member of the Assembly whom the third-degree methods of the caucus could not influence . Assemblyman Potter of Suffolk was the only iSne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his firm conviction that a conference should be called between the G. 0 . P. leaders and the Governor . Two days later his ideas prevailed , after Mr. Macy and public opinion had done their share . It is a sad commentary on the standard. ; of the Legislature when party regularity is so deeply rooted in its members that they can not leave the shadow of their leaders to follow the dictates of public conscience . JAMES BRADLEY SCOTT Jr . Newburgh , N. Y. , Sept. 22 , 1931 . The Late Dr. W. H. Nolens . To the Editor of The New York Times : Dr. William Hubert Nolens , Dutch Minister of State for thirty-five years , who died recently at The Hague , was well known in America for his participation in international labor legislation . He also took part in labor conferences at Geneva , where his collaboration was highly esteemed . He labored diligently to restore the balance of distracted society in the chaos of Europe 's institutions and governments . He was one of Holland 's epochal leaders , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ st a wise and trusty leader and guide . Some one has said that it is useless to be ' vise in Bedlam , but the serenity and sanity of this man ; holding fast to Christian principles in the midst of a " dissolving view " of anarchy , will surely live in history when the Almighty has re-established His sway and the nightmare of the ghastly shambles of the western front shall have faded from the diseased minds of men . RICHARD M. TOBIN . San Francisco , Cal. , Sept. 25 , 1931 . Not All News Neglected . To the Editor of The New York Times : So the Mayor of New York City thinks the newspapers are so busy with local sensations that they neglect world-wide news ! I am in the habit of clipping items from THE TIMES , daily and Sunday , and sending them  --  to a man who is stationed far away from the home grounds . I received a letter from him recently in which he says : " It is a delight to receive THE TIMES clippings . I learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My acquaintance with scientists throughout the world adds zest to THE TIMES publication of what they are doing from time to time . Nor is this confined to science , for I find that every time I receive a letter from you , those clippings carry world-wide news that keep me from becoming local or going stale . My household has christened you ' The Times Clipping Bureau . ' Keep up the good work . " GENEVA VIOLA WOLCOTT . New York , Sept. 26 , 1931 . As to Stopping Runaways . Tc the Editor of The New Ycrk Times : The hero who lately tried to stop the runaway , football style , by grabbing the horse 's hind legs , ought to have . . . Well , I think he ought to have a monument , only I ca n't think of a sculptor who could model the scene adequately . R. W. G. R.W.G.W. New York , Oct. 1 , 1931.                     