@@700761

txt Viewing public financial reports as " the key to the basic problem of protecting the small investor , " a special committee of the Commerce Department 's Business Planning Council urged more clear detailed balance sheets and income statements . The report was submitted to S. Clay Williams , council chairman . by Walter S. Gifford , Pierre S. duPont and W. A. Harriman , members of the special group , which was . named to study uniform accounting for industry . Uniform accounting practices for all industry were not recommended for two reasons . First , " to attempt now to standardize accounting procedures for all business would inevitably result in a standard far below the accounting practices of leading business concerns at the present time , and would tend to stifle the evolutionary progress which hag been constantly under way in accounting for many years . " Second . " except for well known basic principles which should find recognition in all accounting , the most effective accounting for fs : particular company must be a system cally designed to meet the peculiar requirements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniformity of methods within homogeneous fields of industry . In the event that business firms make public their accounting methods , as has been urged by the American Institute of Accountants , each published financial report should carry a statement of the method utilized , the Committee stated . Some Requirements The conclusion was reached that " a procedure of this kind would constitute a long forward step toward clearing up the entire problem of public financial reporting " Outlining the limitations which constantly changing affairs of a corporation place on a financial statement , the committee warned that to " regard every amount appearing on these statements as an indisputable fact is to attribute to the statements a greater degree of certainty than they can possess . " However , the point was stressed that the " necessity of using judgment in arriving at some items appearing in the balance sheet should not be considered as releasing the directors of a company or the accountant trom the responsibility for producing statements which can be used as a guide for investors and creditors . " The reader of the statements is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been made and that the judgment of a qualified person has been applied to them . In particular he is entitled to believe that the general impression conveyed by the statements was intended to be conveyed and that it is the right impression ; neither technical procedures nor anything else should be permitted to stand in the way of attainment of this fundamental objective . Furthermore , the reader should be able to assume , in the absence of notice to the contrary , that the generally accepted principles of accounting have been adhered to in the preparation of the statement . " Simple Statements Asked The committee found that some companies issue statements in simple , popular form designed to aid the expert analyst . A simple statement , with supplemental detailed analyses was recommended . Commenting on the reluctance of some business organizations to reveal detailed facts ' . ecause of fear of competitors , the reports stated that " experience has shown in many cases that these fears are exaggerated " However , the committee added that " this is a matter witch might well be allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ormial company reports were urged . The conclusion was reached that quarterly statements should not be audited , because of the delay which would result in publication . The audit of the annual report would serve es a check on the quarterly statements , the committee added . On the subject of fiscal years , the committee said : " Those who have the problem of determining a company 's annual closing date might well consider the natural date for closing , for example , as related to the end of the active season . It is well for an industry as far as possible to act as a unit in the matter , and for all companies within It to close on the same date . " Consolidated Reports Urged Turning to consolidated statements , the committee found that reports for the parent company alone do not give a full picture , " nor can such a picture well be obtained from the published balance sheets and income statements of the several controlled or subsidiary companies in conjunction with the parent company 's statements . " Procedure recommended was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parent company together with consolidated statements for the entire group in a combine , in which inter-company duplications are eliminated . Fixed assets should be reported on the basis of cost , and there should be either complete avoidance or full disclosure of any write-ups or write-downs , the committee stated . On the subject of reacquisition by a firm of its own securities , the report opposes listing of these as marketable securities and urges they be described as to market and par value . The amount at which they are carried should be stated , the committee added . It was emphasized that the policy with respect to reserves , and charges against or credits to them should be fully ' explained . In this regard , the report stated that " it is coming more and more to be felt that , granting that the nondisclosure of reserve provisions may in some senses be in the interest of stockholders , their interest in knowing what provisions have been made is greater . The trend is therefore in the direction of more disclosures and this seems desirable. ? That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and complete information on - gross sales and gross income . Operating and , non-operating income should be differentiated it stated . Charges applicable to depreciation and depletion should be listed separately , it was stated .                     