@@699629

txt As part of a general policy of the State in enacting its law to regulate and control the manufacture and sale of legalized 3.2 per cent beer , it was predicted today in a well-informed quarter that an intensive drive to close up speakeasies and other places where illicit traffic in beer and other alcoholic beverages is now being carried on , would follow soon after the State 's control law had gone into effect . While the Governor 's beer bill , now pending , contains no specific provision for enforcement machinery , the prospective " State alcoholic beverage control board under the terms of the measure will be vested with ample powers to create an agency to give assurance that the new statute will be respected and lived up to by those operating under it . State Enforcement Renewed . Of course , the police in cities and peace officers generally in counties and other localities , as now , will be charged with the duty of bringing to justice violators of the new statute , the first specific instrument created by the State since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In connection with this it was indicated here that the Governor would appoint as head of the State control board a man who not only will command the general confidence of the people throughout the State but will be especially equipped to deal with problems of every kind which are likely to arise . These problems will be not only to keep the traffic in legalized beer within bounds , but also to stamp out illicit traffic in beer and other alcoholic beverages . Whom the Governor will appoint to this and the other four positions on the board has not been disclosed or even hinted at as yet . Aim to Further Law and Order . The policy now foreshadowed was inspired not only , it was said , by a desire to protect the prospective revenues of the State from the licensed traffic in legalized beer against illicit competition , but as part of the general purpose of the alcoholic beverage control law . This purpose is set forth in Section 35 of the Governor 's bill in the following language : " The provisions of this article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote obedience to law and more effectively to prevent the unlawful manufacture and sale of beverages now prohibited ? by the Federal law . " In further elaboration of the State 's policy and the reasons for it , the same section proclaims all the powers to be vested in the alcoholic beverage control board and the restrictions imposed upon the manufacture and sale of legalized beer , inspired by a realization that the manufacture and sale of beverages having any alcoholic content at all might be conducive to the manufacture and sale of unauthorized alcoholic beverages . For that reason , the section states , it is the declared public policy rigidly to limit licenses within the discretion of the licensing authority ( the control board ) , both as to number and localities , in the light of how public convenience and advantage will best be promoted . Through the licensing power over brewers , the control board should be in a position to shut off effectively a supply of beer to places where the beverage is being sold illicitly . Under the terms of the law a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an establish ' ment selling beer at retail , whether for the family trade or for consumption on the premises , who at the time is not duly licensed to sell at retail , Strict Licensing Provisions . The bill , of course , contains a provision in Section 41 which will render it unlawful for any person to sell beer , to be consumed on the premises where purchased , without a license . The same section provides that no license for premise consumption shall be given to any establishment except " a bona-fide hotel , restaurant , beer garden , club , railroad car or vessel . " Elaborate provision is made with a view to shutting out persons at present engaged in the illicit liquor trade from obtaining licenses under the terms of the alcoholic beverages control law . The requirements with regard to information essential in applications for licenses are designed to bring to light , in the case of persons engaged in the speakeasy business , if attempting to come in under the protection of the new statute , not only the fact that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identity of their backers and the men " higher up " in the business of supplying liquor in violation ' of Federal law . An applicant must swear that he has not been convicted of a felony at ariy  --  time , nor within five years of the date of his application of a violation of the liquor control law , and that he does not as an owner or agent carry on or permit to be carried on , nor is interested in any traffic , business or occupation the carrying on of which constitutes a violation of law . Revenue Prospects Uncertain . Promoters of the beer control legislation . who have made as close a survey as possible of revenue prospects under the license tax rates determined upon , much to their regret have reached a conclusion that it is likely to fall considerably below some of the optimistic estimates made . The Governor himself has never looked upon the beer traffic as a great revenue producer . It is now predicted that the traffic in beer might not bring in during the first fiscal year more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the measure would revert to localities on a population basis . It was stated that if experience should show that the present admittedly low rates for licenses and taxation on the beverage should allow of too large profits on manufacture and sale of the 3.2 brew , the next Legislature would provide for sharp increases . There still remains , however , a prospect for an Increase in revenue from traffic in wine of the same voltage as the legalized beer . An order to regulate and control the manufacture and sale of this beverage , it was said , will be prepared and introduced , probably during the legislative week beginning tomorrow . From all information available , there has been no widespread demand for legalization of a traffic in wine from any part of the State . although in pre-prohibition days there was a considerable wine industry ill Western New York . The present demand , it was learned , comes from interests with processes for the production of synthetic wines , which readily can be held low in alcoholic content to conform with the 3.2 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become available for consumption in the State is a question propounded to lawmakers by their constituents , on the eve of final action on the Governor 's bill which should become a law before the week is ended . No one seems able to answer this question with any degree of assurance . There is much machinery to be set up and rules and regulations which in some instances will have the force of law , as in the matter of forbidden hours on Sunday and sales to minors , to be worked out after the members of the State Control Board have received their appointments and have gone to work . Under the Federal statute to liberalize the Volstead law , beer will become a legal beverage on April 7 . In this State , with a licensing law enacted , there can be no general sale of the brewers ' product until licenses have been issued . It is assumed that the first batch of licenses after the law becomes operative will be issued to take effect on the same date , and in a prediction made today that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meantime , however , under a provision in the bill , brewers may obtain special licenses running for a brief period , under which they would be able to supply the beverage directly for home consumption . Repeal Action Still in the Mr. Only slow progress is being made in the work of evolving a bill setting up machinery for the prospective convention to pass upon the amendment to the Federal Constitution to do away with Federal constitutional prohibition , which has been submitted to the States for ratification . It is now expected that the Assembly minority leader , Mr. Steingut , will be prepared to put in a bill early this week providing for a convention composed of 150 delegates , all elected at large . That this measure would prove acceptable to Governor Lehman is regarded as certain , but whether it would be looked on with equal favor by the Legislature as a whole is a question . It was suggested today that the ratification convention should be held prior to the beginning of the new dispensation in beer . Some concern was expressed here Over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its use might adversely affect the election of wet delegates to the ratification convention and possibly the vote on repeal of the convention itself . No confirmation could be obtained in any official quarter , however , of a report that licensing would be retarded to meet this situation , a                     