@@703565

txt The terms to which the British are reported to have persuaded the French to agree to present to Czechoslovakia today ara felt to represent such a betrayal of this country and such abject surrender to Nazism that the first reaction here is one of sheer incredulity . This correspondent got into touch early today with persons who are close to government quarters to tell them that the British and French Ministers here were expected to recommend today the surrender , without even a plebiscite , of the Su ' deten areas to Germany and to the restrictions of the powers of selfdefense of the " rump Czechoslovakia " through cancellation of her French and Russian alliances , coupled with a guarantee of her remaining frontiers . The story was first met with emphatic expressions- of disbelief . One highly placed person said : " It is not true . Whatever Prime Minister Chamberlain , in whom we have little confidence , recommended in the interests of the international Fascist demands , it just is not possible for any French Cabinet to agree to such a surrender of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Fight Earlier the writer had obtained an expression of opinion by an official that certainly was not intended for publication , but that under the circumstances may perhaps be summarized as follows : " For Czechoslovakia the die is cast . We have prepared and are resolved to defend our country to the very last . The silence from London is disturbing , but despite Bonnet Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet of France , the French can not betray us . The day for the piecemeal reduction of our powers of selfdefense that the Runciman mission has practiced since its arrival is over . President Benes has always been as firm as a rock . " We do not yield another millimeter , whatever the outside pressure . We note without great regret that not only Viscount Runciman but also his respected wife had left . We have no further obligations toward this mission . We are reduced to the elementary position of a man faced by a burglar , pistol in hand , and must fight or be robbed . " Rejection Is Held Sure Unless this position is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision , it would seem that the reported terms must inevitably be rejected . The alternative to rejection would seem to be an immediate revolution against President Eduard Benes and the government in view of the temper of the population generally . So far both the President and the government are in complete ignorance of the proposed terms . Jan Masaryk , the Czech Minister to London , of late has been regularly ignored by the Chamberlain government in all its projects concerning Czechoslovakia . The. , Czechoslovak press is to publish a communique from the Press Bureau today urging the public not to believe any reports suggesting an attempt to impose humiliating terms on this country , to keep calm and to give full confidence to the government , which , it asserted , will not recede from the latest declarations of President Benes and Premier Milan Hodza . Plebiscite Idea Ruled Out In a radio speech delivered yesterday the Premier rejected as o9t of the question any acceptance-of a plebiscite and he called for resolution and . calm . Premier Hodza firmly voiced the nation 's unalterable will to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He emphasized the far-reaching proofs Czechoslo- vakia had given of her readiness to sacrifice for the cause of peace . He added his conviction that just as the Czechs , in making these sacrifices had shown themselves to be good Europeans , so they were now demonstrating it once more by manning their defenses against a mighty aggressor . German stations constantly endeavored to silence the broadcast with Morse transmissions . Premier Hodza said that in these dramatic and tragic days the crisis was reaching its culmination . What was at stake , he said , was the question of an honorable future and the country 's integrity . Throughout its existence , he went on , the republic had endeavored to achieve satisfactory relations between Czechoslovaks , and Sudeten Germans as well as between the State and the Reich . During recent months , he asserted , while German nationalism and national excitement approached a climax Czechoslovak efforts to maintain calm pacifism had acquired more than usual importance . German Tactics Cited Finally , after long negotiations , the Premier said , the point had I been reached where a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lead to a settlement . And just at this very juncture , he continued , it was deliberately decided on the other side to bar the road to further progress and , let loose rebellion . Only the proclamation of martial law had prevented the very worst from happening , M. Hodza. contended . The action taken had been justified by the results ; if necessary this action would be extended and maintained until the State 's authority was no longer , threatened ' in any districts . Foreign propaganda , M. Hodza went on , had tried to paint a picture of a State in dissolution , with all national groups except Czechs and Slovaks opposed to it . This was only one part of the frontal attack on the country designed to produce disorder at home and distrust abroad . It had no hope of success . j Within four days at the latest , the Czechs expect to be struck by the full blast of the German onslaught in a war that will be infinitely more terrible than in 1914 . It is not the estimate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any time during the forthcoming fortnight  --  but of those responsible for the guidance of the State in this most critical juncture . In the face of this prospect the nerved of the government and people still retain the amazing calm which has lasted throughout the prolonged crisis . The tone of the almost uninterrupted stream of what almost every foreign correspondent here can see for himself are fantastic slanders and falsehoods which the German radio has been pouring out throughout the week-end ' makes it impossible to doubt that the die was cast in Berchtesgaden on the side of invasion . Czech ' Replies Calm To this tornado of provodation and abuse the Czechoslovak radio replied only with calm , dignified and factual transmissions . Any who doubted up to the weekend that Chancellor Hitler had irrevocably decided on war doubted no longer when they heard the weekend 's slanderous attacks on President Eduard Benes . That he was called bythe official radio of a country that has just made a sharp diplomatic protest because an obscure provincial Czech newspaper referred to German ? atrocities in Belgium in 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taste without political importance . That the German radio asserted that this statesman who incorporates the intense patriotic feelings of the whole nation was " among those Czechoslovak ministers and politicians who have transferred huge fortunes to Switzerland , " was a remark Czechs could treat with quiet contempt . But that he was referred to as " the- still officiating President of the Czechoslovak State already in the process of dissolution " resembled far too closely the final stages of German propaganda against independent Austria and its Chancellor for there to be any mistaking of its intent . Just one possibility  --  and that now is very faint  --  is considered in political circles here still to exist whereby Germany 's hand might be stayed : that Britain , even this late in the day , should make clear that she stands with France and Russia for the preservation of peace in Central Europe and the punishment of an aggressor . That Britain in the last resort will be dragged into a war is regarded as certain if Czechoslovakia 's allies , France and Russia , fulfill their engagements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Poland 's benevolent neutrality froth the outset also is regarded as certain . Were Britain to declare herself today , Poland would certainly do the same  --  and against Germany . Yugoslavia is more than a doubtful quantity  --  not as regards her people but in respect to the attitude of Premier Milan Stoyadinovitch . Hungary now appears likely to line herself openly on the side of Czechoslovakia 's enemies . This again is attributed here largely to British indecision and the constant movements of British statesmen between the two hostile camps . The general ' feeling that Viscount Runciman would not return from his journey to London " to consult Prime Minister Chamberlain " was confirmed this afternoon when Lady Runciman suddenly broke off her week-end and left for London . Members of Lord Runciman 's mission who are still here left their hotel and . moved into the British Legation . This latter is situated in the castle belonging to the noble Thun family and is actually built I in the cliffs overlooking the river ; it has perhaps the most ideal bombproof shelters in Prague . Prague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States for the duration of the - War . The wives of the British andother diplomatic and consular staffs either have left or are leaving the country immediately . Sudeten Areas Normal In the face of all the fantastic German broadcast reports concerning the " Czech hell " and the innocent Henleinists ' sufferings at the hands of the " brutal Czechoslovak soldiery " a series of eye witness reports from Sudeten areas yesterday were sent to this office to show that conditions in fact are normal to the point of dullness . In Reichenberg the apparently in ? exhaustible patience of Czech frontier guards was not disturbed by the crowded trains crossing the frontier containing the wives of fugitive Henleinists who are concentrated at Zittau , Germany . Such storm centers as Eger and Komotau wore the usual sleepy aspect of Bohemian provincial towns on . Sundays . Only from across the frontier were there signs of warlike activities . A German military plane from Zittau violated Czech territory at Warnsdorf and after a long observation flight returned to Germany . Opposite Bruez German military outposts consisting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontier . From Bodenbach the approach of approximately two German divisions to the frontier was visible . On the German side of the frontier at Niederalberdorf a motorized . Elite Guard detachment was observed preventing Henleinist fugitives from returning to Czechoslovakia . In Pisek 10,000 attended the funeral of two gendarme commandants  --  Frantisek Novak and Jan Koukola  --  who ' were among those killed in the course of the attempted rebellion Monday and Tuesday . President Benes sent wreaths . Following the German Minister 's departure Friday the German Legation yesterday began dispatching baggage and papers to Germany .                     