@@698984

txt The right to mine coal on a cooperative basis is being tested In the southwestern ? Indiana coal fields , where mines not previously closed by business conditions have been idle since April 1 because of expiration of a wage agreement with union miners . Three years ago about two score I miners at Dugger , Ind , . decided that sporadic and uncertain employment , even at the $6.10 basic wage scale then existing , was not as desirable as cooperative Mining : They-leased the Hoosier Shad Mine near here , and have operated It steadily since . They pay the owner a royalty of approximately 75 per cent on each ton sold at wholesale for them by an Indianapolis jobber . Their average income has been $1.50 daily , which totals much more than the annual income of a miner employed only a few weeks a year , it is stated . Former Union Members Until expiration of the wage agreement , the Dugger cooperative miners were bona tide members of the United Mine Workers of America . But when union officials and the Indiana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal to reduce the basic wage scale to S4 daily , dues paid in advance by the cooperatives were refunded and operation of the shaft was ordered stopped . The cooperative workers have been observing union hours , but did not receive a union scale , their remuneration being in dividends . / The Hoosier mine has been in federal court receivership for several months . So the cooperative workers appealed to the United ( States District Court for an order restraining any interference , and it was granted . Took Refuge in Mine Ten days Elio picketing of the Hoosier mine began . Late last week crowds of 1000 to 2000 men , women and children , allegedly disregarding trespass on private property , but retraining from violence , congregated so persistently about the Hoosier mine that all the cooperative miners and some of their women folk went down into the shaft and then appealed to the county sheriff for help . The sheriff refused to swear in extra deputies , saying nonpartisan deputies could not be found , and then Gov . Harry G. Leslie of Indiana sent three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also , dispersing picketers and freeing the self-Imprisoned cooperative workers , who say they intend to resume work as soon as the Governor 's embargo ends . National guard officers say the situation is serious . The issue at Dugger is regarded as an important epoch in the history of the United Mine Workers , largest of American labor unions . The problem of feeding and caring for unemployed miners has dominated Indiana 's relief program since last summer .                     