@@704096

txt Crime in the United States is decreasing rather than increasing . This is the encouraging statement by Winthrop D. Lane , penologist , in a study " What Makes Crime , " just issued by the Public Affairs Committee . Mr. Lane points to figures compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 73 cities which show a drop of nearly 10 per cent in the number of reported crimes between 1931 and 1938 . On the other hand , Mr. Lane declares many young persons are getting their education " in a laboratory of crime , " among ideas and practices deep-seated in the American way of living . He cites the emphasis upon the impprtance of getting money , the prevalenceof political corruption , the low standard of business ethics , and the aggressive , highly individual- istic method of living in contrast to " the development in European countries of a genuine regard for the welfare of society as a whole and a standard of personal re- sponsibility toward community life which controls the conduct of individuals and is imparted to children as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says Mr. Lane , " we attach too much importance to the getting of money . Moreover the line between some business practices and crimes commonly prosecuted , such as theft , robbery , and burglary , is very narrow and difficult to see . It is inevitable that some persons will fail to see the difference . and will be throughly convinced that justice is nonexistent and that people whose position or money protects them do things of a harmful nature without fear of arrest . " Other factors contributory to crime , named by Mr. Lane , are emotional disturbances , lack of adjustment to environment , broken homes , neighborhood con- ditions and the breaking away . especially by second generation Old World . . from the restraints of the Better Methods Cited Some of the decrease in crime he attributes to better methods of dealing with criminals and potential criminals but he adds that many institutions make little attempt to reform or improve their prisoners , the effect of such an attitude being to make the offenders worse then when they were committed . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighborhood conditions , but states that more than is now being done can be worked out to improve educational facilities , to provide more wholesome recreational facilities , and to give more intelligent treatment to young people in the first stages of delinquency.                     