@@700053

txt Just as people were beginEdict ping to hope that the tenAgainst der plant of the sidewalk Cafes . caf ? could be induced to flourish in our hitherto unfavorable New York climate , there comes an order from the office of the Borough President ordering the suppression of a number of outdoor caf ? s on lower Fifth Avenue . The reason given is that the sidewalk refectories are obstructions to traffic . The order for their removal has come from the Bureau of Encroachments . No better epitome could be made of the mental differences between New York and Paris . Suppose a low edge of potted plants and a row of small tables and chairs do form an obstruction to pedestrian movement along the sidewalk . That is precisely what sidewalk caf ? s are for . If the Parisian likes his chair and table and bock on the boulevard. , it is because the caf ? sufficiently obstructs the flow of life on the sidewalks for caf ? patrons to enjoy looking at the people passing by . If people on the Paris sidewalks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other people would not sit in chairs to watch them . Mr. MENCKEN in the rOle of What public moralist is a novelty . Liquor He wants a lower tax on Tax ? beer , which is a wholesome article , lest people be driven , after repeal , to the hard stuff . But if it is a bit strange to have him concerned about the ravages of gin his argument deserves serious attention from those who do believe that there is a valid social distinction between malt liquor and hard liquor . One way , of course , to discourage a nation-wide lurch from the low-alcohol beverages to the higher contents is to make the tax on hard liquor several times as formidable as the beer tax . But to do so would be to defeat the high hopes of revenue and tax relief based on repeal . Even more important , it would perpetuate the bootlegger and the speakeasy . Obviously the problem calls for tax virtuosoship of the highest order at Washington . Twenty years ago , before What the World War ushered in We a set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about as follows : In the year 1914 we consumed annually per head of the population a trifle less than one and a half gallons of distilled spirits , a shade over onehalf a gallon of wine and twenty gallons of malt liquors . Our per capita consumption of distilled liquor and wine had not changed in the preceding ten years , but beer had increased perhaps 15 per cent . Greater changes are registered in the long-time trend . Back in 1870 the per capita consumption of distilled liquors was more than one and a half times what it was in 1914 , but wine was only one-half and beer only one-seventh of what it was in 1914 . The figures , in other words , bear out the familiar assertion that the American people were moving away fran hard liquor to malt and grapes , with much the larger gains for malt , when the Eighteenth Amendment descended upon us . Three months ago a perEthics son might have been asked of the to name a dozen topics that Arena . would stand out prominently in our Letters to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safe to say that bull-fighting would not have been in the list . Day before yesterday we had no less than four readers participating in an animated discussion of the ethics and esthetics of the bull-ring . Perhaps the original cause is ERNEST HEMINGWAY and his " Death in the Afternoon . " The more immediate influence has been a Roosevelt one , both in official and private channels . Ambassador CLAUDE BOWERS described himself as greatly stirred and impressed by his first bull-fight in Madrid ; it reminded him of ancient Rome and the Colosseum . More recently FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT Jr. , as a private tourist , liked the con : rida well enough to have himself photographed as a matador . Incidentally , young ROOSEVELT 'S pictures make him look ever so much more like Don Quixote than do the husky Spanish professionals on either side of him . Washington has ruled that a prize dahlia must not be called Nira , because that is the government trade-mark forL , the National Industrial Recovery Act . Yet the flowers of the field , because they toil not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced ideas on industry . A portrait of JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER , painted by a former Greek immigrant laborer who is now an art student in Chicago and forwarded to Mr. RocksFELLER , has been returned to the artist with the request for a few minor changes , after which his gift would be welcomed . This shows that portraiture is a less hazardous occupation than mural painting . After more than a generation it is a little sad to find that Cuba Libre is not the equivalent of Cuba Equilibre ,                     