@@703107

txt Germany , which in October sought , unsuccessfully to mediate between China and Japan , is not prepared to co-operate in any more joint mediation with France , England and the United States to end the Far Eastern conflict , it is revealed here today . Through its Ambassadors to Nanking and Tokyo it is authoritatively stated today for the first time , the Reich sought to mediate three months ago on a basis of strict neutrality , its co-operation being limited to accepting and delivering information which one government desired to give to the other . For these efforts Japan yesterday offidaily thanked Germany . Tlie Reich is not prepared to participate in ' any joint four-power Re ' don because it maintains , first , that with the new Japanese manifesto of Jan . Ili , the Far Eastern conflict has entered a new phase ; second , that the three other governments concerned have shown little understanding for Japan 's position and luiv , e not been really neutral as has Germany . Hence it is believed that the goal of France . England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic action addressed to Tokyo alone . Ne , w , suggestions of four-power intervention in the Far East are understood to have emanated from Pads . There have been well-substantiated reports here that France sees the possibility of improved international relations through some form of " harmonious co-operation " be tween the four powers . The United States is envisaged as making a " fourth " in the Far East while Italy would join with the other three in Europe . A general working understanding between England , Germany , Italy and France is sought in a number of problems of common interest . In this connection a visit by French statesmen to Berlin before Reichsfiihrer Hitler 's projected visit to Rome in May is stated to be under consideration , but negotiations ate still in preliminary stages . As much as Germany emphasizes her strict neutrality in the Far Eastern conflict , modern circles are more concerned with the dangers to Japan if the war continues much longer . They also are apprehensive lest China , driven to desperation , turns communist ' and falls into Soviet Russia 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Moscow negotiating with Joseph Stalin , as well as the rumored movement of Soviet troops on the Manchoukuan frontier , are receiving much prominence . Prof. Karl Haushofer , a well-known writer on military and political subjects , after justifying both China and Japan 's attitude in the present conflict , warns readers in a recent article that when such a fundamental problem separates two nations then only a great optimist could see an end to the conflict in the near future .                     