@@704344

txt Attorney General Murphy bluntly informed William Green today that the Department of Justice was following Supreme Court decisions in taking the position that labor unions were liable under the Anti-Trust Laws . He made public a brief letter in reply to the one in which the A. F. of L. president insisted that labor unions were exempt from these laws and demanded to know whether Thurman Arnold , Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Anti-Trust Division , represented the opinion of the department in his public acts and statements . Building Conditions at Issue The controversy arose over recent prosecutions and threats of prosecutions in connection with the department 's drive against alleged restraint of competition in the construction industry . Mr. Arnold has insisted that labor unions are involved in this investigation and will be prosecuted if the facts warrant . Indictments have been returned against the Teamsters Union , an A. F. of L. affiliate , as a result of a jurisdictional dispute on a government construction job in Washington ; against the international president of the carpenters ' union and other officers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cleveland . A. F. of L. building trades union chiefs and other A. F. of L. leaders conferred with Mr. Murphy some time ago , reportedly in search of a basis for terminating the department 's investigation of the unions . The conference evidently was fruitless , however , for most of Mr. Arnold 's moves in the field followed that conference . Mr. Green 's letter , dated Nov. 22 , insisted upon the exempt status of the unions and inferentially threatened political reprisals if the drive was not dropped . Text of Murphy Letter Mr. Murphy 's reply , mailed yesterday , was as follows : " Dear Mr. Green : " In a recent letter you have inquired whether it is the view of the Department of Justice that the anti-trust laws apply to the activities of labor organizations and their members . In reply it is only necessary for me to point out that it has been so held in several decisions of the Supreme Court . In the Chicago milk case , now pending in the Supreme Court , your general counsel , Mr. Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court to overrule its former holdings . " In the enforcement of criminal statutes it is the practice of the department to follow the construction placed on them by the Supreme Court . In doing so in this instance the Anti-Trust Division has followed the usual practice , and I would not be justified in interfering with that course . As I said in my anti-trust statement of May 18 , 1939 , the policy of enforcement should not vary according to the individual views of the official charged with enforcement . " I am very glad to have the benefit of your views and shall be pleased to discuss the matter with you some time or receive any memoranda that in your opinion might be helpful to the department . " Sincerely , " FRANK MURPHY , " Attorney General . " High Court Ruling Pending By The United . Preto . WASHINGTON , Dec. ** is a possibility that a Supreme Court decision Monday will dispose of the labor immunity issue in the antitrust drive . ' The ruling in the Chicago milk case may come then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court of Appeals decision denying an anti-trust law damage judgment of $711,932 against the American Federation of Hosiery Workers ( C. I. 0. ) was a help , rather than a hindrance , to his prosecutions . It was indicated , further , that the Justice Department would file a " friend of the court " brief supporting the union if the Apex Hosiery Company appeals to the Supreme Court , as is expected . The Apex case hinged on the legal purpose of the C. I. 0 . union 's strike  --  to unionize the plant  --  and the local nature of the interference with interstate commerce . Mr. Arnold said that his division did not believe the anti-trust laws applied to strikes for the purpose of furthering collective bargaining or for higher wages and hours , as was the Apex sit-down.                     