@@702206

txt In an election eve wind-up tour of Westchester , Governor Lehman assailed the Republican " pay envelope " campaign tonight as a " malicious , selfish and un-American scheme " to frighten the workers of the State and nation . He characterized the Republican tactics as a " monstrosity . " The Governor declared in his closing speeches that large corporations were attempting to mislead the working men and women of the country on Social Security through the campaign . Terming this effort an " insult " to the workers , he predicted that the program would fail . Addressing a large rally of the American Labor party at the County Center here and also speaking at the Donbosco Theatre in Portchester and at a " homecoming " rally at the Biltmore Theatre in Harrison , near his Summer home at Purchase , the Governor was in a fighting mood as he closed his battle for re-election . Asks What Is Un-American His entire address was in the nature of a counter-attack on the opposition for its charges that the Roosevelt administration has been fostering activities contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the opposition , not the Roosevelt administration , was really employing " un-American " methods during the campaign . He hailed President Roosevelt for bringing the nation out of the depression and detailed various items in the Roosevelt program , such as deposit insurance , aid to the home owner , to the farmer , to various business groups and to the worker , conservation of natural resources and devotion to the cause of international peace . Each time , at the end of the recital , he asked point-edly : " Is that un-American ? " The Governor closed his campaign with a second tour of the home county of William F. Bleakley , his Republican rival , but he ended it full of confidence . in his re-election . He will vote tomorrow at an upholstery shop on Madison Avenue between Seventy-fifth and Seventysixt ' . Streets in New York City . He will receive the returns at the headquarters of his independent citizens ' committee in the Chanin Building . John G. Winant , former Republi- can Governor of New Hampshire , who resigned as head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told those who attended the Westchester rally that the President was the first political leader in the country to grapple nationally with the problem of social security . He explained the purposes of the Social Security Act , declaring years of study had shown that " we can get mutual protection against unemployment and old age , under a system of community savings , that no private plan can afford to sell Attacking the efforts of Republican campaigners to make it appear that payments by workers to the social security fund would be in effect a tax upon wages without a guarantee of appropriations to pay benefits , he continued : " Appropriations under the Constitution have to be made annually , as those who profess to respect the Constitution must know . Under the act annual appropriations are made to the old-age reserve fund by the Treasury . They are based on actuarial findings . The fund set up compels an open and visible accounting of funds to secure benefits . The government guarantees to pay interest on the fund . " The charge that Congress will steal your money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer , except that as a voter I resent its assumption of my stupidity , and as a citizen its effort to undermine the standing and authority of the legislative branch of the government . " We know that the Republicans has distributed incomplete , misleading and false information printed on cards and circulars under the name of the Social Security Board . This I believe to be a criminal act , as it affects a Federal tax measure and falsifies the position of an official government agency . I hope that those responsible will be prosecuted . " Warns of Landon " Retreat " Mr. Winant criticized the social security program put forward by Governor Landon as amounting to a " shameful retreat along the entire front of social progress " with repeal of old-age and unemployment insurance . " We have heard a great deal about politics ' in this campaign , " he said . " I personally could never trust those who , in the last days of this election , by the use of false propaganda , have made a political football of social security to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of anything . " The Republican strategy , designed to make the workers believe the Republican security plan would cost them nothing , and to make persons of large incomes believe that taxes for security payments I would be widely distributed , was designed to " defeat President Roosevelt and scuttle social security , " Mr. Winant added . More than 3,000 persons greeted Governor Lehman at Port Chester and gave him a surprising reception . In his speech there , the Governor once more denied the Republican charge that he might resign his office shortly after his new term began . He insisted he had every intention of serving out his full term . At the County Center about 7,000 persons filled the big hall . When the Governor entered he received a tumultuous welcome . Governor and Mrs. Lehman took seats on the platform beside David Dubinsky , labor chief , whose name has become a byword in the campaign because of Republican attacks on him . Governor Lehman was halted by applause frequently during his speech and he received an ovation as he closed . Governor Attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the type of campaign he said they had been conducting . " The leaders of the Republican party have carried on a campaign by slogan , " he charged . " They have tried to influence the voters by . catch phrases rather than by facts . They have characterized the great achievements of the administration as fin-American . " Then have Implied that those who support the administration are less truly American , less patriotic than those who oppose it . It is ' a vicious attempt to array class against class , group against group . The attempt has failed because of its very monstrosity . " He went on to read the record of the Roosevelt administration on the different methods by which the President sought to restore social equality in the nation and said : " Do you consider the rendering of social and economic justice to our working men and women un-American ? " In this connection I want to condemn with the full strength of my conviction the malicious , selfish and un-American scheme of some of our large corporations to scare and mislead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides for no reduction in wages . Under it employes will make a contribution of 1 per cent for old-age insurance . This contribution will be matched by the employer . And the working man and woman will get all the benefits . " Above all , I condemn these unAmerican employers because they insult the intelligence of the workers . This concerted campaign through the use of pay envelope propaganda will not fool the workers . The workers know that the Social Security Act is the greatest piece of legislation in their benefit ever passed in our history . " This un-American campaign is being conducted solely and exclusively to protect the selfish interests of reactionary corporations and employers . Pledges Fight for Security " By the Social Security Act , unemployment insurance and old-age insurance on a nation-wide basis have been for the first time made possible . In addition , it offers financial aid to the States and to their communities to carry on much needed work among our blind , our crippled , our dependent children , our helpless and our poor . It assumes part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rehabilitation and for the extension of health and maternity services . " Unfortunately , New York was prevented from availing itself of the benefits of this bill through ruthless . selfish and politically minded Republican opposition . Forty other States have , however , already secured the benefits of these various services , and with your support and that of other enlightened citizens of the State , I pledge to fight with all the strength of my body and mind to secure the enactment of our State Social Security Bill next year . " The Federal Government has recognized its duty toward our underprivileged and handicapped fellow-citizens . It is lending aid and protection to those who are too weak , too ill , too handicapped to help themselves . " Is that humane and enlightened philosophy un-American ? " Elinore M. Herrick , State campaign director of the American Labor party , declared at the White Plains rally that the only doubt left in the campaign was the size of the majorities for President Roosevelt and Governor Lehman . She praised the American Labor party , asserting that it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and said the 1936 campaign would be memorable for having witnessed the birth of this party . " Let no one imagine that the struggle for social justice will be ended after this election , " she said . " Let no one imagine that we can afford to relax in our vigilance after we have guaranteed four more years of life to the present administration in Washington and two more years of life to the present administration in Albany . " Tomorrow 's victories  --  and they will be great victories  --  are not a conclusion , but a beginning . The powers of greed and self-seeking , the minions of special privilege , will retire from the field only to re-form their fighting lines . " Wagner Predicts State Sweep Senator Robert F. Wagner , unable to attend the rally , sent a telegram of greeting in which he de-clared : " I am sure the fight is won . I predict President Roosevelt and Governor Lehman will receive the highest popular vote ever given any candidates in the history of our State . Labor support given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have contributed greatly to the victory . " Frank P. Walsh , associated with the Progressive National Committee supporting President Roosevelt , urged vigorously in a telegram to the Westchester meeting that Governor Lehman be also re-elected . Declaring that progressive government in New York State has been advanced in the last four years largely because of the efforts of Governor Lehman , he added that " reactionary leaders in this State who praise the Governor of Kansas and condemn the Governor of New York would have us forget the record of the depression and the contrast of the two Governors ' handling of that crisis . " Attacks on Governor Lehman , Mr. Walsh declared , were designed to divert attention from the reactionary purposes of Mr. Lehman 's opponents . During the day the Governor visited the independent citizens , committee headquarters and received a delegation from the Non-Partisan Business Men 's Committee for his re-election . Leonard Eernheim , head of the trades division of the campaign committee , presented to him 60,000 pledge cards for his reelection . The Governor visited the GreekAmerican Federation ball at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Westchester.                     