@@701556

txt , WASHINGTON , Nov. ** Chairman Farley knows that , whatever was the Democratic popular majority in the contests for the New York Assembly , the recapture of Assembly condo ' by the Republicans is hurtful to Democratic national prospects next year . State Chairman Eaton knows that his party 's Assembly success does not assure Republican victory in New York State in 1936 , and is fully aware of the bearings on next year of the huge Democratic vote in New York City and the majorities of the two Democrats elected to Congress in the city districts . National Chairman Farley knows that , although John B. Kelly ran an incredible race as a Democratic Mayoralty candidate in Philadelphia , his defeat makes it far less than likely that Pennsylvania will perform the obedient miracle next year of giving its electoral vote to Mr. Roosevelt . National Chairman Fletcher knows that , if sentiment in the border States were strong enough to break up the South-West Democratic combination on which the administration relies for 1936 , it would have elected a Republican Governor in Kentucky with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If these and other professionals were charged , on pain of never getting another inch of newspaper space , to combine in a truthful analysis of the political portents of Tuesday , they would probably issue something like this : There is a drift away from the administration and from the President personally , throughout the country east of the Mississippi and north of the Ohio River . In the East , particularly in the President 's home State , it was strong enough to cut support from candidates for non-Federal offices Who asked for election solely in the name of the New Deal . The landslide spirit in the East is over , but the Democratic organizations are still very powerful . The result in Kentucky indicates that there is little sense in any Re-. publican expectation that natural Democratic territory can be annexed in 1936 . The municipal vote in Ohio confirms informed belief that the mid .. lands are turning from the New Deal . Against Rules of the Game . The chairmen , and hopeful politicians like Senator Vandenberg , who in Chicago today solemnly forecast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything as truthful as that . The rules of the game are against it . These rules offered plenty of opportunity for Mr. Farley to predict a majority Democratic Assembly vote in New York on the basis of the New Deal , instead of putting out his chin with that claim of actual control of the Assembly seats . The gerrymander was a more useful factor for prior than posterior mention . But the rules require that , in analyses of results , professional politicians who have missed the opportunity that was open to Mr. Farley before the election shall proceed on the theory that none can remember what they said the day before . The taunts produced by that course are often more damaging to the next enterprises of the professionals than if they had been more candid . But they wo n't believe it , and there is nothing to do about that . ? A couple of modest crows from the Democratic gamecock and a half dozen light trumpetings from the Republican elephants would be arithmetically about fair in the division of Tuesday 's triumphs . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checked or reversed in a year 's time ; that one Assembly does not make a Congress . The Rooster should know , despite his wearing work in " Happy " Chandler 's campaign in Kentucky , that a trend in States with huge electoral blocs is dangerous , that it strongly indicates the landslides of 1932 and 1934 will not become a trio . Gratitude Due to the Voters . After they retire to the sessions of sweet , silent thought , the leaders of both parties should be grateful to the small percentage of American voters who took the trouble on Tuesday . to give them some up-to-date political quotations . The Republicans had heard that their fellow-partisans were returning to the Eastern folds , and mere appeals in the names of the President and the New Deal had lost their magic . Eastern voters offered proof that this is so . The Democrats suspected the existence of these facts , very important to administration and National Committee activities in the next twelvemonth , and to the proceedings of the . national convention . The returns should have made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the good . It is as if the Democratic party was an individual who , feeling a painful symptom , and consulting , the doctor to learn whether it required attention or could be ignored , had been informed that hospitalization was indicated but the percentage of cures was very high . Often a stitch in time has saved a coronation robe .                     