@@697468

txt A ' sudden outburst of official activity against racketeers and gangsters was prominent in the news of the past week . Federal officials are joining with the local forces of prosecution and punishment in order to check the evil which has grown to such proportions as to become a national scandal . Special efforts are to be put forth in New York and in Chicago , not only by the City Government and the enforcers of the criminal law , but by voluntary associations of citizens determined to wipe out this public reproach . The Attorney General of the United States has announced that through Secret Service investigation and the mobilization of deputies having to do with the Federal criminal code , he hopes to put " an increasing pressure upon gangster activities . " Rather ? curiously , one of the chief weapons in his armory is proceeding under the anti-trust law . while another is prosecution of successful racketeers for evading the payment of income taxes ! This hints suggestively at the extent and nature of the operations , and also at their large pecuniary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES today an article traces racketeering back to its historic roots . From the earliest times there have been men and potentates and gangs who levied tribute upon peaceful industry . Caravans passing thrbugh regions of Africa or Asia had to pay tolls to lurking bandits . In later years the Barbary pirates were famous racketeers . The derivation of the word tariff from Tarifa recalls the fact that merchants had to purchase immunity for their sea-borne commerce from the gangsters located on that tip of Spain . Thus there is a good . precedent for regarding the protective tariff today , as many are inclined to do , as a kind of racketeering levy on honest business . The modern way , however , is to do this through legal and governmental measures rather than by the concealed and sinister activities of what Mr. COOLIDGE calls a " super-government undertaking " to grant privileges and immunities , " usually for a payment of money , under " threat of penalties to be suffered if " the demands are refused . " This is the aspect of the mischief today which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kind of underworld but powerful tyranny to which many otherwise proud and liberty-loving Americans feel that they are forced to submit . Partly they do it , no doubt , from the gain which they think will accrue to them through protection from interference with their business and from dangerous competition . But they are also moved in many cases , it is certain , by dread of vengeance which will be executed upon them if they decline to yield to the solicitations or commands of the gangster . This is the insufferable part of the whole business . By means of an organization wholly unknown to the law , except as it is manifestly criminal , and by methods abhorrent to every instinct of justice , men are banded together to exact and enforce tribute from occupations and industries which ought to ' be allowed to go their own way in peace . Not always , it must be confessed , is the business legitimate . It seems to be beyond question that some of the mostpowerful and lucrative rackets are those connected with the illicit sale of liquor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narcotics . But the bad example thus set has been steadily spreading into other fields . The /Department of Justice at Washington might do well to divert a part of its energies from running down liquor stills in private houses , and from stopping automobiles to search for beer or wine , in order to concentrate upon the far graver crimes . of taking laundrymen or milk-dealers by the throat and forcing them to pay in order to carry on their affairs unmolested . The new efforts to make head against this miserable system are particularly encouraging in one respect . The endeavor is to rouse public opinion , and also to enlist the victims of this sort of blackmail in a ' movement to resent and extirpate it . Merchants in large cities are asked to give confidential information to the authorities regarding the extortions which have been practiced upon them , or with which they have been threatened , by various forms of racketeering . To such a concerted drive upon gangsters we must come if there is to be any large success in suppressing them . The Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for themselves . If those who suffer most from racketeering will not openly and boldly unite to help throw off its yoke , there is little hope for them .                     