@@700760

txt August output of the motor industry is likely to exceed the earlier estimate of 225,000 cars and trucks despite probable closing of Ford Motor Co. during the last week of the month . The production rate thus far - has been so well maintained that indications now are for an output of more than 230,000 units . Probabilities are , however , that the August production this year will fall short of the 238.934 units turned out in August last year by a small margin . Final figures are not compiled for July but estimates indicate that some 270,000 cars and trucks were produced last month . Including estimates for July and August , production of cars and trucks in the first eight months this year will total 2,296,000 for the United States and Canada . compared with 1 , - 503,207 units in corresponding period of 1933. an increase of 52.7% . September is expected to show a sharper decline in production than the indicated shrinkage of 13% from July to August- To accelerate reduction in dealers ' stocks , curtailment of schedules will be general throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in orders for next month , and it does not now appear that September will show as big an output as a year ago when the industry turned out 197,608 units . Drought Affects Sales August retail sales are showing normal seasonal slackening but sales executives expressed opinions that the down-trend might be accelerated slightly by effects of the drought in the Middle West , from which reactions are already being felt . It is not anticipated , however , that the drought will ' prove as severe an influence on sales as indicated by the damage to the affected areas , since loss in business in these sections Will be offset to substantial degree by gains in other agricultural centers enjoying the benefit of fair yields at higher prices . Sales in the southeast for example are responding to higher prices for tobacco . The expectations for a- greater income from this year 's cotton crop should prove a stimulus to automobile business in the south . One of the leading car manufacturers reports an unexpectedly good sales showing by the Atlantic coast section , and anticipates doing as big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corresponding period of 1933 which was relatively a good last half . First returns on July registrations are making highly favorable comparisons with June . The first 28 states to report showed a gain of About half of these states offered half year license plates in July so that many June sales probably were not registered until July , accounting for a considerable portion of the gain . The increase for the country as a whole is not expected to be as great . although July is expected to maintain a lead over . Tune . making it the peak month for new car registrations this year . Dealer 's ' Stocks Reduced On basis of preliminary figures , in the neighborhood of 230,000 passenger cars were registered in July . which would compare with 223.642 in June and 174,190 in July , 1933 . A steadily increasing percentage of the passenger car output has been taken by the domestic market since March and estimates for July indicate that domestic sales last month equaled the entire passenger car production so that dealers ' stocks were reduced by the number of cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number purchased by the government which are not recorded in registrations figures . During the first quarter of 1934 the ratio of new car registrations to production was 56 In April it advanced to 77.15- ; in May to S0P-0 and in June to 65.4 ' : 1 . The average for the second quarter was 70.6% . New car registrations in Wayne County during week ended August 7 dropped sharply to 925 from 2,017 in the preceding week and 1,290 in corresponding week of July . Michigan extended its half-year license to September 1 and it is quite probable that a considerable number of prospective new sar purchasers delayed buying so long as their half-year licenses were valid . Ford maintained its Wayne County lead during first week of August with 454 cars titled against 131 for Chevrolet and 115 for Plymouth Retail sales of Plymouth cars are currently running in excess of production with resultant reduction in dealers ' stocks . August production is expected to total around 27,00u cars against factory shipments of 39,986 cars in July and 33,626 in August . 1933 . Retail deliveries of 7,336 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preceding week and 6,717 in corresponding week last year . Retail deliveries of Dodge passenger cars and trucks in week ended August 11 totaled 2,881 against 3.143 for preceding week and 3,115 for corresponding week of 1933 . De Soto Sales Increase De Soto Corp reports sales increases in recent weeks following the equipping of its cars with the new over-drive and the successful economy demonstration and speed runs about a month ago . Graham dealers have reduced stocks to 1 ? 800 from 2,458 on June 30 . August schedule of 1,075 cars compares with shipments of 1,237 cars in July and 1,231 in August , 1933 . Tentative plans call for production of 1,000 cars in September . Hupp Motor Car Corp . will ship close to 1,000 cars in August compared with 1,196 in July . Retail sales winch had been on the liptrend for the past three months since production got under way on its airflow models showed the first drop during week ended August 11 . Production is being kept in line with retail sales . Buick retail sales during first 10 days of August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of July and 1,235 in corresponding period last year . Pontiac deliveries last month totaled around 8,200 cars , about 600 in excess of forecast necessitating an increase in the production schedule . In fact , . Pontiac has stepped up its manufacturing schedule four times since the first of July . Deliveries during the first 10 days of August , while not up to corresponding period in July , indicated August sales also would exceed the company 's estimate for the month . At the end of July , Pontiac dealers had a third fewer new Pontiacs in stock than at the end of April . Pontiac dealers sold more used care in July than they did in June which is contrary to what generally happens . According to A. W. L. Gilpin , vice president and general sales manager , Pontiac dealers are rounding out a succesful season with their businesses in a good liquid position and without fear of having to carry large stocks of merchandise over into the fall and winter . Buick Dealers ' Net Gains W. F. Hufstader , general sales manager , said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was a year ago , and dealers have operated at a greater individual profit than they did last year . " Analysis of four months ' operations , " ha said , " showed that the average Buick dealer this year increased his net profit per $1,000 of new ' car sales by S51 as compared with the corresponding period last year . " This gain was attributed to greater retail volume and improved business management on the part of the dealer , E. S. Wallace , formerly manager of the Bay City , Mich. , plant of Chevrolet Motor Co. has been named general manager of Saginaw steering gear division with offices at Saginaw , Mich . M. L. Hillmer , retiring general manager , will be assigned to other duties .                     