@@701218

txt President Roosevelt 's decision to deliver in person his message vetoing the Patman Soldiers ' Bonus Bill , now tentatively scheduled for Wednesday before a joint session of the Senate and House , caused expressions of resentment today from currency inflationists in Congress . Taking for granted that the President would attack the measure 's method of financing as threatening a further budgetary deficit through a currency issue , implied in the Patman bill provision for issuing $2,000,000,000 in United States notes with which to pay the veterans , the currency expansionists , as they prefer to be called , asked why they should be picked on for such a rebuke . Arguments for President . The House bonus steering committee made known late today through Representative Patman of Texas , author of the bill , that it had arranged for an appointment with the President for 10:30 A. M. Monday for a last effort to win him over . " We will advance some arguments in favor of the bill that we do not think can be answered , " Mr. Patman said . Meanwhile Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the week-end . Last night he had worked on it at the White House until after midnight . Speaker Byrns said today that tentative arrangements for delivery of the President 's message called for a radio broadcast to the nation over both the National Broadcasting Company and Columbia networks . The President 's personal appearance was expected to sway some House members who voted for passage of the Patman bill under pressure from home , but who could explain all to their constituents by saying that they " voted for Roosevelt " on the veto issue . These would be insufficient , however , to uphold the President 's action , leaders believed . In the Senate , the original Patman bill vote showed enough Senators opposed to any kind of bonus legislation to uphold the veto , and their strength appeared to be confirmed today in a re-check . While Senator McCarron , a bonus backer , predicted that the personally delivered message would not sway a single vote in the Senate , others voiced the conviction that the President 's visit would strengthen any wavering spines . Heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard in the House gave 125 as the number of votes that would be cast to uphold the President . This is well short of the theoretical 144 that would constitute the one-third necessary to block final passage of the measure . The membership of the House is now 432 ( there are three vacancies ) , but at least two members are expected to be kept away by illness . These are Representatives Bankhead of Alabama , the Democratic leader , and Peyser of New York . If all the remaining 430 were present and voting , it would need 144 ballots to sustain the veto . An almost complete vote is expected on the issue , as every member wants to be on record on one side or the other . On final passage of the Patnam bill , the House polled 408 votes , and the President 's personal appearance for the first veto message ever so delivered will undoubtedly attract a full attendance . In the Senate , administration I forces were counting on a minimum strength of the thirty-three Senators who voted against the Patman bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do , they would sustain the veto even if the possible vote of 95 were cast . To the fifty-five Senators who voted for the measure when it passed , Senator Thomas and other bonus leaders added the name of Senators Chavez , appointed to fill the late Senator Cutting 's seat from New Mexico , Reynolds and . Nye , all of whom were absent when the Senate passed the measure . Bonus leaders will have to obtain desertions or absences from the ranks of the faithful thirty-three , however , to override the veto . Plans for the session at which the message will be delivered were discussed by leaders today , but in Mr. Roosevelt 's absence no definite decision was reached . As soon as a definite date has been agreed between the White House and the House leaders , probably on Monday , the House will pass a resolution asking the Senate to concur in a joint session . Tentative Choice of Wednesday . When the President first mentioned yesterday his intention to read the veto message , it was believed that he might do it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byrne and other leaders found that too short a notice . Formalities , such as passing the necessary joint resolution and printing of tickets of admission to the gal- I leries , rendered Monaay vaapracticable . On Tuesday the House is scheduled to hold its annual memorial service for members who have died in the last year , including former Speaker Rainey . Subject to the President 's approval , a tentative decision was reached to hear the message Wednesday . As soon as the reading of the veto is concluded the President and the Senate will withdraw and Speaker Byrns will announce that the business before the House is the question of passing the Patman bill over the Chief Executive 's objections . While a motion to defer action would be possible , or to debate the veto , the House is expected to proceed immediately to a ballot . The House must act first , since it originated the legislation , and as soon as it has voted , unless it should unexpectedly sustain the President , the Senate will probably ballot . Prediction of Issue for 1936 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today , attended by Senators Thomas of Oklahoma , Long , MacCarran and , Representative Patman and officials of the Veterans of Foreign Wars . After the meeting Senator Thomas said : " If the President vetoes the Patman inflationary bill it means that the next Presidential campaign will be fought over the inflationary money issue , and the campaign will be a hot one , the result affecting every man 's pocket . " The House steering committee , which pushed the Patman bill through that body over considerable organized support for the Vinson bill , backed by the American Legion , issued the following statement , signed by Representative Patman and twenty-one other House members : " We welcome the President to the floor of the House of Representatives for the purpose of delivering his message . We are glad to support the joint resolution , which will make his visit and personal delivery of his message possible . " We want the Congress and the country to have the benefit of all available information on both sides of this important subject . We confidently believe that when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have the side of right and justice , supported by logic and reason . " Calls Veto a " Personal View . " Commander Van Zandt of the Veterans of Foreign Wars charged in a radio speech today over the Columbia Broadcasting System that in vetoing the Bonus Bill President Roosevelt would be expressing his personal view and not that of the overwhelming majority of the nation . " It is significant that 80 per cent of the members of the House and Senate , in exercising their responsibility to the people , have voted for the enactment of the Patman bill , " he said . " It , therefore , shows that at least 80 per cent of the people of this country are in favor of the Patman bill and wish to see it become a law . " The sentiment for the Patman bill is by no means confined to the veterans of the World War . This measure , which is primarily designed to pay a long-overdue debt to the defenders of the nation , will benefit every class of American citizen with the possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind us the veterans are secure in their conviction of the right and justice of their cause , not only as affecting themselves but as affecting the great majority of all our people . The opposition to this appeal for fair play is concentrated in a small group of wealthy individuals and organizations who will tolerate any expenditure from the Federal Treasury except those that apply to the veterans . " This opposition is led by the United States Chamber of Commerce , the National Economy League , the American Liberty League and the National Manufacturers Association . In fact , from all groups which are continually knocking at the door of Congress demanding special legislation to satisfy their own selfish desires . "                     