@@703792

txt Discrimination Charged Mortgages on Real Estate Viewed as Being Unduly Restricted TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The subject of mortgage banks and companies is again before the Legislature . It is unfortunate that the proposition presented is not better understood . Although many popular investments of boom times suffered substantial depreciation , only real estate seems to have been singled out for special punishment . Mines , bakeries , theatres , factories and grocery stores may sell mortgage bonds and notes , but real estate mortgage securities are to be issued only by specially chartered concerns under unusual regulations . No one could dispute the good intentions of Governor Lehman and Superintendent of ( Insurance Pink , or of the legislators who introduce the bills they sponsor . They imply that a vast number of small investors await the opportunity of buying mortgage bonds on any fair terms , and that substantial capital awaits the chance of forming mortgage companies . The disagreeable facts are that if we are to forbid a free market for real estate securities and narrowly limit their sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bankers and investors . The task is difficult because the aims of the three parties are sharply in conflict . Moreover , they are not vocal . No responsible bankers rise to announce that they will furnish the capital and surplus to form such a company if the bills are passed . No group of recognized underwriters steps out prepared to purchase a sizable block of debentures . Venture Called Untried It seems underestimated that the kind of companies /hermitted by these bills is an untried venture in finance . Capital is properly timid of new styles of undertakings . It must be coaxed in with the lure of attractive profit , safety and liquidity of principal . What assurance is there of these ? With the debenture companies under whatever name , the sale of the.first bond ties up all the invested capital and surplus and subjects it to the risks of a going business until the bond matures or is paid . What if sufficient mortgages of the prescribed character could not be found ? What if investors do not fancy the new form of Mortgage security ? Superintendent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so scarce that banks and insurance companies are cutting costs to underbid one another . Interest rates are already sinking below 5 per cent despite agreements to hold them . If the new mortgage companies are to seek the same quality of loans , the field is not promising . It is still less so when it is considered that mortgage companies need a spread between cost and selling price  --  and a substantial one  --  to cover overhead , the carrying of a proportion of its reserves in governmental securities ( now ruling at 2 per cent interest ) , a certain sum for losses , and provision for profit enough to warrant the risk , probably 15 to 20 per cent . Debentures and partly insured mortgages of the proposed companies also constitute a problem . The authors believe the general debenture of the issuing mortgage company better security than the old-style mortgage certificate against a single property with the issuer 's guarantee , although the distinction is not altogether convincing . But what do the investors say ? Many believe that investors formerly bought mortgage bonds and certificates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their investment . Obviously , many bought them because they were of short maturity ; because they were guaranteed by companies with impressive assets and long records of success ; because of the presence of honored citizens on their directorates , and the willingness of these companies to redeem their issues at any time at slight discount . And no small part of their popularity lay in the 5 , 6 and even 7 per cent interest they paid . Comparisons Scanned How do the proposed debentures compare in these respects , and what inducements do they offer ? If the new companies make only prime loans , without charging profitable costs , the earned interest rate will be between 4 and 5 per cent . They will not be guaranteed . With no discounts , 1 per cent would be about as little as could be contemplated as the spread , leaving from 3 to 4 per cent for the investor . The short-term feature of the old issues is out , since under the proposed legislation the companies need not pay even at maturity but may pay 80 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five years . Because of this the bonds will probably have exchange listing where they must move up and down with the market in comparable securities , with neither shortterm nor company redemption to hinder . Whenever the market goes below par , the mortgage company 's sales , on which it must thrive , must cease , and either its paid interest rate must rise , or a discount loss must be taken . The serious part of this is that mortgage companies must maintain expensive sales organizations that are not selfsupporting when sales stop . There is no objection to the proposed mortgage banks and companies . The objection is that the prohibiting legislation accompanying them restrains trade in natural mortgage participations and the planned banks and companies to take their place do not appear . practicable . Why must real estate suffer more restrictions on its borrowing than other forms of property ? ARTHUR W. WARNER . New York , Feb. 1 , 1939 . On Living Beyond Our Means TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : This is to support the plea made by Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission , for intense economy in the handling of New York City affairs . While there is no doubt that assessments , especially in the Borough of Manhattan , are far In excess of real value , they are merely the effect of huge budgets , not a cause of high taxes . While filled with admiration for the work done by Robert Moses , and his efficiency in getting things done , I feel it is time to stop these vast public improvements which we can not afford . The circumferential highway is a splendid conception , but anything that adds to the burdens of the taxpayers in New York should be eliminated at once , and every unnecessary expense cut out if real estate is to survive in private ownership . DOUGLAS L. ELLIMAN . New York , Jan. 31 , 1939 . On the Drinking Driver Called More of a Peril Than the Drunken , Because Harder to Detect To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES C. D. Cecil , secretary and general counsel , National Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drunken driver is a minor factor in automobile fatalities . This , while difficult to prove , may be quite true . But the great danger does not necessarily lay at the unruly feet of the drunken driver ; the sinister hands on the steering wheel are the hands of the drinking driver . Tests undertaken by ( and reported to ) the National Safety Council show that alcohol , even when taken in small doses , either accelerates or retards the reaction time of motor vehicle drivers , depending on the individual . In other words , alcohol does something to the driver . To get drink some individuals require more alcohol and some less , but common sense tells us if a driver takes but one alcoholic drink he is " one drink drunk , " two drinks and he is " two drinks drunk , " etc . Engineers of our crack railroad trains are not supposed to drink while on duty . And yet their engines are on tracks and they could n't turn off if they wanted to . But any auto driver can stop half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highball at places conveniently placed by the road and then " drive all over the lot . " The drunken driver is ofttimes plainly noticeable because of his " weaving " at the wheel . The drinking driver is the real menace ; he is far more difficult of observation . H. DARNELL BRITTIN , Past Chairman , Public Safety Committee . Bayonne , N. J. , Jan. 31 , 1939 . A Factor in Piano Touch TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is at present a good deal of discussion about piano touch , since a famous English scientist recently declared that the human finger can not change the sound . Some pianists are shocked by the idea , although Deems Taylor 's remarks on the subject last Sunday during the Philharmonic broadcast were much to the point . So far , however , I have neither seen nor heard of any musician pointing out the important fact which is the answer to the whole question . True , one may produce a beautiful , singing tone , using a pencil or any other mechanical instrument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes harsh or lovely according to musicianship and thought and knowledge of pianistic laws of the person using the pencil or umbrella instead of his finger . I find that there is a vast difference in the quality of single tones , produced by the difference in thought and control of the player . There is a reason for the difference in touch and tone quality produced by Mr. Paderewski , for instance , from that of a less developed personality . I am sure that the importance lies neither in finger nor pencil but in the thought of the person controlling either , ' EDITH SULLIVAN GOLDS . New York , Jan. 28 , 1939 . President 's Policy Approved TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES ! ' Active American encouragement of the only other great democracies left on earth is the key to world peace today , and tomorrow . We are fortunate in having in the White House a President who not only understands this but acts on his understanding while Amerio can policy still can be exerted powerfully in supplying a preventive of world war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used to thwart an aggression leading to a world war . The axis partners would pick off their victims one by one as Japan has done with China and Germany with Austria and Czecho-Slovakia . The President 's policy in spoiling that method of conquest is making sure that the ultimate aim of the axis partners  --  the isolation , defeat and humiliation of the United States  --  shall fail of its purpose ! . MAURICE LEON . New York , Feb. 1 , 1939 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES I The President 's courageous stand in favoring the sale of war material to the democracies will have done more to prevent a general war , isolationists to the contrary notwithstanding , than any event of recent years . The United States can tip the scales in favor of a long peace . What is needed now is a great world leader , and the President of the United States can become such . THEODORE MARBURG . Baltimore , Feb. 2 , 1939 . Our Progress Questioned TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect his life and livelihood from the ruler or government . Does not the Supreme Court 's decision on the TVA case , that the government can destroy a man 's livelihood without recompense , put us a long way back toward the year 1 , when might made right ? CORWIN BUTTERWORTH . West Hartford , Conn. , Feb. 1 , 1939.                     