@@703882

txt Have the lights of democracy gone out in France with the dictatorial powers just obtained by Premier Daladier , or ate they only temporarily dimmed ? The question has been going the rounds in democratic circles . It is prompted not by anything exceptional In the request for decree powers In a time of emergency  --  five other postwar French premiers had asked for them and three , M. Doumergue , M. Laval and M. Chautemps , obtained them  --  but by the exceptional circumstances in which the powers have been sought , Let it first be pointed out , however , that no people in Europe has been more tenacious than the French In preserving its individualism and political liberty and no people has known better how to dispose of a government that had outlived its usefulness . Moreover M. Daladier , though having a certain bent , toward automatic action , as it was discovered when , as Meitner at the time of the rioting over the Stavisky scandal in 1934 he called ofi the police to fire on the crowd , yet he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " complete " dictator . Desire for Liberty Whatever party complexion he may be said to wear now , he was once a Left Fronter and a Radical minister in Leon Blum 's Left-Front Cabinet of 1936 . So that a reassertion of the native French desire for political freedom in November  --  when the decree powers are to ' come up for renewal  --  or at some later time , when the threatening war clouds in Europe have cleated , must always come within one 's calculations . On the other hand , France has I cached a crisis in its political life which has left so much of the old political structure hopelessly discredited that the Rightist conservative elements are expected to make every effort to prolong the discipline and unity of dictatorial rule until Europe has returned to something approaching stability . The political temper of France is still governed largely by the unhappy experiences of the past seven or eight years . Radical governments between 1932 and 1934 had run the country into so desperate a financial condition that it only needed the Stavisky scandal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Feu and other Fascist groups threatening a kind of " march on Rome . " Socialists Mid Power Moderates were called In to restore stability with little better success . Gaston Doumergue saw the assassination of Louis Barthou with King Alexander of Yugoslavia at Marseilles In 1934 , which began the breakup of France 's great defense bloc in Central Europe ; Pierre Etienne Flandin allowed Reichsffihrer Hitler to rearm the Rhineland in 1936 in defiance of the Versailles Treaty , and Pierre Laval effectively prevented the collective security methods of the League from halting Signor Mussolini in Ethiopia . Fear of growing signs of fascism was largely instrumental in swinging the 1936 elections overwhelmingly to the Left Front , with Socialists , holding 146 seats , as the dominant Party . The Left , Front , at that time obtained a four , years ' lease of power . Only three of the years have so far passed and already dictatorial Dowels have been tended to M. Daladier over their wads . More remarkable still , the , etback came but a few weeks after . he same Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his Fascist Government Spain , a cause entirely abhorrent : o thhe French Left Front  --  and hat , without being able to point I o any counteradvantages to France that might help to ease the mortification such action necessarily must Ming to the supposedly ruling parties . Although the Left Front came to power with dreams of bringing a new ei a of progress and reform to the Republic , its hopes were almost lifted at the outset by an outbreak of stay-in strikes reaching such proportions that the effect on the country generally was not dissimilar from that of the seizure of the factories by the communists in Italy in 1920 , which destroyed all confidence in the the Government and paved the way for the March on Rome of 1922 . The decayed state of French finances left the Blum Cabinet little latitude for adventures in reform . The 40-hour week , paid vacations , and other regulations of industry In a Nation that had little unemployment to supply the - new call for workers demanded by the reforms , merely sent prices skyrocketing with the franc still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this situation burst the Spanish insurrection and the question of sale of arms to the Leftist Government . Britain was strongly in favor of an embargo on all arms to Spain . M. Blum opposed it , but M. Daladier and other Radical leaders threatened to resign if it were not imposed . To keep his Left Front together , therefore , M. Blum yielded and the doom of the Left Front cause in Spain was practically sealed . M. Blunt kept his ministry together but his policy alienated sympathies of his suppoi the constituencies . A final attempt at revival of Left Frontism came last November in the shape of a general 24-hour strike organized by Leon Jouhaux , head of the Trade Union Federation , after M. Daladier had returned to power as a competent organizer of the aimed forces . The strike was as ineffective as the previous stay-in strikes and contributed almost as much to impress the public generally with the assumption that Left Front-Min stood for disintegration at a time when unity and discipline wet e a national necessity . Behind the fall of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which M. Daladier apparently is heading for today lies , not so much the incompetence of the Leftist parties as the parlous financial situation which M. Blum was unable to remedy , but which M. Daladier , with the help of the shrewest financier In France today , can more or less guarantee to keep in hand provided he has power to enforce such measures as the financier . Paul Reynaud , deems necessary . Daladier Crushes Strike It was to combat this appeal for degree powers , as an infringement of the Republic 's traditional freedom , that the national strike was attempted , and it was M. Daladier 's show of promptness and decision in using military means to suppress it that favorably impressed the Rightists and perhaps a majority of the public . The obvious need of similar promptness and decision in face of a threatening Germany has enabled the Premier to obtain even more extensive powers . Given a continuance of M. Reynaud 's success in bringing capital back to the country , in raising taxes , and forcing up production at the expense of most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems good reason to anticipate that the Rightists will resolutely fight any departure from the present semi-dictatorial conditions until the way seems clear to a form of free democracy ? that promises to maintain order and pay its way .                     