@@698840

txt Democratic primary wounds were brought close to the healing point tonight by Mayor Cermak of Chicago , - Henry Homer , nominee for governor , and other leaders at a meeting here of the state delegation to the national convention of June 27 . Speaking at a dinner of the delegates , the state candidates and Democratic newspaper editors at the St. Nicholas hotel , Mayor Cermak disowned any desire to " boss " the Democratic party of Illinois , either in the convention or any other political situation . He pleaded for better understanding between Chicago and downstate and said Judge Horner would be governor for the entire state . This nonsectionalism was stressed also by Judge Homer . Both speeches were received with prolonged applause . Igoe Goes on Committee . But even earlier substantial progress had been made toward curing the bruises of the strenuous primary battle . They had . succeeded in per . suading Michael L. Igoe to accept election to the convention resolutions committee in the national convention Ha was a candidate in the primary against Horner . And they had half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take charge of the election campaign . The election of Illinois ' member on the resolutions committee , it was disclosed , was necessitated at this time by the plan of the national committee to have the resolutions committee meet and begin its work in Chicago on June 23 , four days before the convention opens . And it was whispered that the plan further provides that the Illinois member is to be one of a subcommittee of five to undertake the advance drafting of the platform . Igoe , now national committeeman , but almost certain to be replaced by Cermak in the caucus of the delegation on the eve of the convention , vas reluctant to accept the grueling task of platform building , but it was argued that because of his experience in that work at New York in 1924 and at Houston in 1928 , when he was secretary of the committee , and because of his long battle for repeal of prohibition , he was the one man in the delegation best fitted for the assignment . Cermak Urges Mutual Trust . Mayor Cermak began his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting of June 14 will name the next President and urging that before going into the convention the delegates should learn to know and trust each other , should straighten out any differences that might exist , and concede the right of every one to record and vote his own convictions . Ile said that under Republican misrule there had grown up a spirit of distrust between downstate and Chicago that ought not to exist . " To my mind , " he said , " there is no foundation for it . I know Chicago perhaps as well as any person living there and I can honestly say for Chicago that we consider ourselves no better and no worse than the citizens of the rest of the state . " We ask nothing for Chicago that we would not grant to the rest of the state . No Previous Agreements . " I do not know whether any of you here has positive convictions with reference to the Democratic candidate for President . But this I can tell you on my honor , that the Chicago delegates have never met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As for myself , I feel I have a mandate from the Democrats of Illinois to vote for James Hamilton Lewis and to do everything possible toward having him named at the convention . This mandate I shall obey and continue to vote for him so long as there remains a possibility of having him nominated . " Beyond that I ' have- no second choice . I hope there ' will be no need for a second choice , ' ' laiit should that need occur then ! et us - meet again , dispassionately discuss . the candidates , and cast our vote for'the man we regard as best fitted ' to'serve not only ' the Democratic party but the : whole : nation . " If " in ' such-an event- we can agree and - cast our votes ai'a unit it-would be a splendid thing to do . But every ens of us ought to . pledge himself tonight that ; pc , effort will ' by any one to coerce any other delegate to vote anything except his own free choice . Opposes Unit Rule . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? we hope none of you here are . We desire to confer with you , to counsel together , but to be left free to vote as free men . If we had the unit rule I would be the first to vote to repeal it . " The candidate for governor Is one of Chicago 's beloved citizens . Those of us who know him will stake our all on the statement that Henry Horner would not have sought the nomination for governor if he felt that he could not serve the entire state equally as well as he will serve the city of Chicago . " Those who are trying to arouse sentiment against him because he was born , raised , and worked in Chicago are not our friends , my fellow Democrats . They are no more friends of the downstate Democrats than they are of the Chicagoans . They know they can find no ground upon which to attack the character of our candidate . And . therefore , they are trying to build up a straw man and to frighten you by slandering our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Gov . Horner will be to help him he the greatest governor this state has had . We shall want him to serve every part of the state with equal justice . Not metering to a tiovernor . " Our enemies charge that I will try to dominate Judge Horner when he is governor . Honestly , my friends , if I ever had a thought of dominating a governor of this state I would not have been for Henry Horner . I venture you will not find any one who knows him who will say anybody can manage Henry Horner . He will be the governor of this state , and , while I hope he will be helpful in carrying out the program of economy and efficiency that I have planned for the city . I shall refuse to accept additional responsibilities even if he should want to put them on my shoulders . I 'm not looking for more responsibility . I have troubles enough running the city of Chicago . " We are meeting , therefore , as friends . Let us stop thinking in sectional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state . Above all else , let us cast aside jealousy and suspicion and present to our common enemy such a united front that in the battle that is to be won next November not a single candidate , national , state , or local , named by the Democratic party shall be lost . " Defer Presidential Suggestions . After this sort of keynoting by Mayor Cermak , with its suggestion that discussion of a second choice for President be deferred , that subject was not raised formally , but there was no doubt in the minds of the Chicagoans that downstate Illinois is strongly in favor of Gov . Roosevelt of New York . Judge Horner , after expressing his appreciation for the support given him in the primary , echoed Mayor Cermak 's assurance that he would be governor for the entire state . He urged all to forget any sectional rivalries in working for party victory in November .                     