@@703806

txt Buoyed up by demand arising from current and prospective government expenditures for aircraft and ships , orders for machine tools placed in this area during January are reported to have continued the gains scored in November and December , with fur ? ther progress expected in February . Survey of leading machine tool builders showed sonic gains in January orders of as much as 10% over December although the average was under that figure . As an example of aircraft orders . it was learned that one of the largest airplane producers several weeks ago placed orders for machine tools aggregating $750,000 . This business was split among several companies . Rise In Index I : Indicated While the Cleveland experience is not necessarily typical of machine tool builders the country over . the industry is so well represented here that ordinarily improvement in this area means a rise in the monthly index of new orders compiled by the National Machine Tool Builders Association . This index , reflecting willingness of business men to make new investments in tools and equipment , is one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of industry generally . reflecting the optimism or pessimism with which business men regard the future . The index has been moving up now , with minor interruptions , for seven months , jumping from a recession low of 66 7 last May to 146.5 in December with 34.3 points of this rise coming in the latter month . This lifted the index to slightly above the corresponding month of the previous year for the first time since the current recovery started . Good Volume of Inquiries Belief that further gains will be experienced this month , following the additional upturn in January , is based on volume of inquiries , the first step in placing orders , which are being received by manufacturers here in good volume . Confidence of machine builders in the outlook has been reflected in an increase in working forces since the first of the year . and a longer work week , with most companies now operating 40 to 44 hours . Aside from the heavy volume of orders from aircraft and shipbuilding companies , manufacturers report better sales to the electric appliance industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying of new machines , although placing orders for parts and occasional replacement equipment . Foreign orders continue to be received here in fairly large volume . Japan has placed several sizable orders since first of year after being virtually out of the market in last half of 1938.                     