@@704167

txt President Roosevelt Is exerting every means , effort , and influence at his command to make it morally embarrassing for nation : of Europe to go to war . Following a vigorous appeal lot peace to King Victor Emmanuel of Italy yesterday afternoon , he added aggressive appeals for peace to Reiehschancellor Hitler and to President Moscicki of Poland last night . There hi no sign that this ends Mr. Roosevelt 's activity . If war comes it will come for the first time in history oven the repeated , constant , continuous call for peace , , privately and publicly uttered , through diplomatic channels and in formal statements by the leader of the largest neutral and most powerful nation on earth . Neutral sentiment of the world is already giving evidence of following Mr Roosevelt 's lead and accepting his tactics . Others have taken up the declaration that : " Unheard voices of countle , s millions of human beings ask that they shall not be vainly sacrificed again . " Moral Fire Alarm Nor Is this mere rhetoric , as is presented here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned in a moral fire alarm . It is believed that it will be as chflicult and embarrassing for an age ' essot nation to disregard its strident and compelling note as fur an individual to disregard a real siren screaming outside his window . ' very mechanical facility of the industrial age is carrying this moral alarm to the far cornets of the earth . It is the same technique as that adopted last September , and repeated April 14 . Mi . Roosevelt recalls in his latest COMIlltlnication to the German Chancellor that the latter did not answer the April 14 communication . But lack of reply , it is felt here , did not mean it was disregarded . Its effect was measured by the agitated German comment at the time . For better or worse , Mr. Roosevelt is now following the same technique that was explained by members of his secretariat at the White House subsequent to its employment last fall and last spring . Its purpose is to : 1 . Deflate the theory of a " defensive " war : 2 . Place either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 3 . Mobilize moral sentiment of the world and keep it mobilized ; 4 . Put the dreadful onus of war guilt squarely on the nation that fails to heed ; 5 . Commit the moral indignation of the powerful united States in advance against the nation which fails to listen : 6 . Provide a ladder by which either country can gracefully step clown from its high hot se . Method of Reconciliation It is in this respect that Mr. Roosevelt 's two communications offer a possible method of reconciliation , once one of the preliminary paths for meeting the immediate emergency have been taken . Mr. Roosevelt offers three such paths for settling the German-Polish dispute : direct discussion between the two governments , submission of the issues to arbitration ; or conciliation through a disinterested third party , presumably a " traditionally neutral state " either of Europe or the New World . A significant footnote was added by Stephen T. Early , Mr. Roosevelt 's Secretary , after the statpment was given out , that in no case would Mr. Roosevelt accept himself the post of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two notes was an indentic paragraph stressing the condition that " each nation will agree to accord complete respect to the independence and territorial integrity of the other . " This provision , emphasized also but in different words in the President ' message to the King of Italy , was obviously Inserted to preclude the possibility of.a second Munich , or the swallowing up of Poland as was Czechoslovakia . Embarrassing to Aggressor With Europe poised on the brink of war , the Roosevelt messages make it as hard as any peace appeals could for an aggressor wantonly to take the plunge ; at the same time their plausible nature makes it difficult for a diplomatic casuist to disregard them and still assume the role of fighting for " self-defense . " " The rank and file of the population of every nation , large and small , want peace , " Mr. Roosevelt told the Polish President . His longer communication to Chancellor Hitler urged that the two countries " refrain from any possible act of hostility for a reasonable period " offered three paths to peace ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ends and objectiVes so far as they are just and reasonable " could be satisfied through peaceful steps : and concluded with the ) promise that theiAnterlean Government " still stands prepared to contribute its share to the solution of the problems which are endangering world peace in the form set lot th in my message of April 14 . " It is recalled here that in that message Mr. Roosevelt proposed an International conference to discuss and reduce armaments and open avenues of international trade , including sources of raw materials . Council , which lasted for five hours , but it is clear that London and Paris reports , and particularly reports of Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop from Moscow , were fully discussed . Whether the meeting had already any communication from Rome following President Roosevelt 's appeals is unascertainable , but it is generally felt that the decisions it took were final for or against the action and that the world will know in the very near future what they were . Situation in Danzig Conclusion of the pact with Russia undoubtedly influences the speedy solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are revealed in yesterday 's appointment of Gauleiter Albert Forster as head of Danzig which automatically means the end of even nominal League of Nations control and co-ordination of the Free City in the Third Reich . Some attempts are being made in German circles to say that this co-ordination , does not mean Anschiuss ( territorial incorporation ) but clearly only the very thinnest line can exist between the two things and reports of Danzig German attempts to control customs in the Free City are certainly another step in the same direction . When or whether any attempt by force to take Danzig will be made over this week end remains to be seen , though it is most probable that the uprising will be " spontaneous " by Danzigers themselves and that the Poles will then have to decide whether they will defend their rights there . This , to Germans , would at once be a declaration of aggression and they would seek to influence the world accordingly . Leaallzes a Fact ? The Danziger Vorposten , National Socialist organ in Danzig , writes that what has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legalizes what already existed , and simply that all differences between Danzig and the interior of the Reich have now disappeared . " The new head of the Danzig District is not a Danziger but a Bavarian . Nothing is said as to the position of the President of the Danzig Senate , Herr von Ribbentrop 's speedy signattfre of the Russian Pact continues to bring jubilation in certain German circles , especially military circles . It Is felt that the pact which " speaks for itself , " as they say here , ends the possibility of " encirclement " of the country and of a war on two fronts , so much feared , and that Germany can go ahead first to settle East Europe and then come to grips with the Western Democracies if they so desire . The new pact , according to interpretation , leads to the assumption that the French-Russian pact has now automatically lapsed . It occupies the same position as the Treaty of Rapallo between Russia and Germany after January , 1933 . Russia naturally is assumed to be excluded from sending any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of Article IV of the treaty it is also assumed that both the Anti-Comintern Pact and Soviet obligations to the League of Nations now end . Regarding the German-Russian negotiations leading to this pact , reports are current In Berlin that these were based upon German-Soviet partition of Poland according to the so-called Wilson line  --  that Is , the demarcation at the German-Russian frontier as proposed by President Wilson . Germany naturally agrees , these reports state , to abandon Its ambitions in the Ukraine , and Russia . it is understood , can take Bessarabia and Bukovina , should King Carol not make peace with Germany . The Teschen or Osla area would be reinciuded in Moravia as part of the Bohemian-Moravian Protectorate . In the future , Poland would be putely a Polish state guaranteed by both its powerful neighbors , Germany and Russia . The general population in Berlin is still bewildered by the pact with the SoViets ' and is told so little about the reactions in the Western Democracies to any attempts by the Reich to achieve its ends by force that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sleepwalker . Should European war break out , At will come to them something like the rude awakening such a person experiences . So many Germans still believe Herr Hitler can avoid war In some Wily or another but how none of them can tell , Berlin 's decision believed made although Germans are kept in ignorance of moves . Reichsfiihrer Hitler today unexpectedly summoned the British , French , Italian , and Japanese ambassadors to confer with him . Although the purpose of the talks was unknown , it brought new hopes for peace to a tense European situation . Britain announced the signature of a formal mutual assistance pact with Poland . Reactions to President Roosevelt 's triple appeal for peace found most capitals united in approving the move but reserved in anticipating its effect . No indication of the German reaction was available . Britain gave Prime Minister Chamberlain emergency decree powers and was reassured by reports of cooperation throughout the Empire . Russia called its Parliament to meet Aug. 28 amid reports of a new effort to force Polish capitulation . Italy evidenced fewer military preparations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that some form of Italian peace move was impending arose in several quarters . Poland appeared both calm and firm . Warsaw protested the naming of the Nazi District Leader as head of the Free City . Evacuation of foreigners from danger points continued . Mobilization raised to some 11,000,000 the number of men under arms . Britain unpegged the pound which dropped to $4.49 in relation to the dollar . The franc dropped to $.0255.                     