@@697461

txt The American Ear Association announced today that its membership throughout the country , in a prohibition referendum begun last January , had expressed itself in favor of repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment by a vote of 13 , - 779 to 6,340 . The announcement of the outcome of the poll was made by a subcommittee of the executive committee at the national headquarters here and revealed that among the lawyers the sentiment against prohibition is stronger than two to one . The bar association poll , the subject of much argument among the membership , was not undertaken until a prior vote on the question of submitting the referendum was completed . On this first question of whether or not the referendum should be put to a vote , the lawyers balloted 14,782 to 5,625 in favor of the opportunity to express themselves on prohibition . The association had stipulated that unless the vote on the first question showed that a majority desired it , the referendum would not be held . The subcommittee in charge of the prohibition poll was headed by Judge Orrie L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tenth District , , sitting at Albuquerque , N. M. Associated with him on the committee were Major Edgar B. Tolman of Chicago , former corporation counsel , and Earle W. Evans of Wichita , Kan . Action Adopts Bar Resolution . Judge Phillips said the referendum VMS in the nature of a resolution setting forth that the bar association favors repeal of the dry law . The association , he explained , has two methods of putting its questions before the membership : By adopting resolutions at the annual meeting , or by submitting the resolutions to a referendum vote , as was done in this instance . Whether the Bar Association , in view of the result of the referendum , will take a definite step toward bringing about repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , will not be known until the annual meeting in Atlantic City next September , Judge Phillips said . He also said it was possible that no definite actionwould be taken then . Judge Phillips 's statement was as follows : " The December number of the American Bar Association Journal will contain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Bar Association : " ' The subcommittee consisting of the Hon. Orrie L. Phillips , chairman ; Major Edgar B. Tolman and Earle W. Evans , appointed by the executive committee to supervise the count of the vote of the members of the association on the question , first , whether there should be a referendum on the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , and , second ( in case the vote on this question was in the affirmative ) on a resolution favoring the repeal of that amendment , has completed its duties and made its report . Such report has been approved by the executive committee . 75 Per cent of Bar Voted . " ' The subcommittee 's report showed that , on the first proposition , 14,782 members voted in favor - of the referendum and 5,625 against it , and that on the second referendum ( the question favoring repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment ) 13,779 members voted for it and 6,340 against it . The total vote on the first/question was thus 20,407 and on the second 20,119 , showing that approximatdly 75 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am making this statement to the membership in accordance with the direction of the executive committee that the official announcement of the result of the vote should be made by the president of the association . ' " It had been intended at , the outset to make known the result of the referendum at an earlier date , but ' it was decided to withhold the announcement until after the November elections , in order that the poll could have no effect on the balloting . It is considered probable that the attitude of the bar association on the prohibition question will have much influence on the deliberations and . report of the Wickersham Law Enfqrcement Commission , which is . nearing the end of its survey .                     