@@701676

txt The fivepower naval conference is now coming to au end as such . It will enter its second phase as a fourpower conference next week , with Japan absent , proceeding to deal with questions hitherto untouched , particularly of qualitative limitation , which Japan 's departure will have left open . The Japanese may possibly leave behind an observer of these discussions . They would like to do so and the other powers may be willing , but that has not yet been determined . Russia may also have an observer on the scene . Later Germany may be invited to enter , though that also has not yet been determined . An obstacle would be the Reich 's announced determination never again to participate in a conference , the decisions of which have been framed in advance . Japan 's withdrawal , long recognized as ultimately inevitable , has now been definitely determined upon . It was confidentially communicated to the British delegation last night and revealed by the British to the American delegation today . The only question remaining is regarding the form the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now being discussed between Tokyo and the delegation . It was for the purpose of obtaining further instructions on the framing of this declaration that the Japanese obtained postponement until tomorrow of a conference meeting set for today . Great pains are being taken with the declaration because it will be a final , comprehensive statement of the Japanese position . It probably will be given out simultaneously in other capitals . The program now is that the conference shall reassemble tomorrow afternoon to hear from Admiral Osami Nagano , chief of the Japanese delegation , a restatement of his proposal for a " common upper limit " in fleet strength . He apparently has no amendments to offer to his original proposal , but Tokyo seems to feel that the proposal is not thoroughly understood by other delegations  --  a feeling which is not reciprocated . The statement is expected to cupy the whole of the afternoon . If it does not , it will be followed immediately by reasoned statements from other delegations as to why they are unable to accept the Japanese proposals . If Admiral Nagano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be devoted to this purpose . No vote will be taken because none will be necessary . Plan of Naval Authorities . After hearing from the other powers , the Japanese will withdraw as a delegation from the conference . It is understood that this is the plan of the naval authorities of Japan , whose influence there is still paramount . The only concern of the Japanese Foreign Office has been regarding the manner of with- draws ' , which it wishes to make as smooth as possible , emphasizing Japan 's desire to reduce the burden of armaments and especially to abolish aggressive armaments . The leading members of the American delegation  --  Norman H. Davis , William Phillips , Admiral William H. Standley and Ray Atherton  --  had an informal conversation at the Foreign Office this morning with the British delegation , consisting of Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , Viscount Monsell , Admiral Sir Ernie Chatfield . Sir Warren Fisher and Robert Leslie Craigie , at which the Japanese determination was made known , gind the future procedure of the conference was considered . The two delegations found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in informal talks with other delegations . The only question remaining concerns future procedure After the Japanese withdrawal the four-power conference will deal with schemes for voluntary submission of naval building programs , restriction of submarine operations , and reduction or limitation of the size of capital ships . For these deliberations there will be at least one interested although at present unofficial observer . Russia is sending a new naval attach ? to London . He is Engineer Flagman . equivalent of captain Antzigl Chiaunski , and he is already on his way here . He was the Soviet 's naval representative at the disarmament conference in Geneva .                     