@@703855

txt Proposals for changes in the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. which may result from - the meeting of representatives of 20 exchanges here next week . will be welcomed by the Securities and Exchange Commission if they are even " reasonably constructive , " a consensus of SEC officials reveals . Representatives of the national securities exchanges hope to develop a composite picture of their beliefs in the course of their conference . A report on the results of the meeting is scheduled to be submitted to the SEC . It is expected that , among other subjects . Sections 9A-2 and 16B of the Securities Exchange Act will come in for active discussion at the meeting . In regard to the short selling rule , the commission feels that changes in this provision may well be made in light of experience gained during the year of its operation . High SEC officials point out that the regulation was temporary to begin with and that there has been ample time to study its operation . The SEC has the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the view to simplification or modification to aid workability and remove inequalities . It is likely that any suggestions for changes in the acts made by the exchanges will be viewed in the light of these studies and either added to or made a part of them . In regard to Section 9A-2 of the Securities Exchange Act , the so-called " manipulative section , " the trial division of the commission feels that action under this section involves too much time , effort , man power and expense . Any workable simplification of this provisiOn would be welcomed . SEC attorneys believe that the various securities exchanges could dispose of such cases in a day or so working under their own rules . However , they feel some guarantee that the exchanges would take action would be necessary . They point out It would be-difficult to simplify this section as far as the commission is concerned . as the cases established must be such as would stand up in courts , but that exchanges working under their own rules would not be subject to such review . In regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in this rule have been under active discussion in commission quarters . This provision allows stockholders or officers of a corporation to sue to recover for the company any profit officers or directors may realize in transactions in the company 's stock taking place within a period of six months . That is , profits realized from stock of the company not held at least six months . There is a feeling in the commission that this rule has at times prevented or deterred officials and directors of -a corporation from taking a. position in the company 's stock to check sudden upturns or cushion sharp declines . Modification of this rule to allow directors and officials of companies to sell short when the market for the firm 's stock is rising and to buy in declining periods is under consideration .                     