@@698435

txt Friends of former Governor Alfred E. Smith of New York have urged him to be , come an active candidate for the Democratic nomination for President against Governor Roosevelt , but Mr. Smith so far has resisted all attempts to get him to do so . This was learned today after the gathering here of Democrats from all over the country for the Democratic National Committee meeting and the Jackson day dinner , at which much more support for Governor Roosevelt was shown than had been expected by those opposed to his nomination . The effort to draft Mr. Smith by party leaders has been supplemented by thousands of letters sent to him at his office in the Empire State Building , New York City , urging him to run again and promising support . The letters , according to friends of Mr. Smith , indicate that he has strong popular following in those States the Democratic leaders of which are active in the Roosevelt movement . Opponents Fear Runaway Race . The support for Governor Roosevelt among members of the committee has led some of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good chance that the New York Governor may make a runaway race of it unless some candidate with more vote-getting strength in the primaries than any of the aspirants in the field is brought forward . This is one of the reasons why they seek to get Mr. Smith to become a candidate , the other being a hope that they might get a sufficient number of delegates to bring about his nomination . Mr. Smith has been a candidate for the nomination twice , in 1924 , when he deadlocked the national convention against William G. , and John W. Davis was nominated , and again in 1928 , when he obtained the nomination but was beaten by President Hoover . In the present campaign , according to some observers , Governor Roosevelt 's position nearly six months before the convention is not unlike that of Mr. at the same period in 1924 , or that of Mr. Smith at the same period in 1928 . Such widespread Roosevelt strength was indicated at the committee meeting that there is great doubt that his nomination can be prevented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " favorite sons . " There has been little indication here during the last three days that any aspirant , except Governor Roosevelt , had any considerable support outside his ow State . The candidacy of Mr. Smith , should his friends be able to induce him to run , would produce a leader who would be able to get delegate support in States which otherwise would go to Roosevelt , ? in whole or in part . Mr. Smith , it is believed , would be able as a candidate to get the votes of a large number of delegates and at least deadlock the convention . Under the new basis of representation , adopted by the committee yesterday , 770 votes out of the 1,151 in the convention will be necessary to nominate , and 385 votes are needed to block a nomination under the twothirds rule of the Democratic party . Mr. Smith , should he become a candidate , would be expected by his friends to get at least enough votes to create a deadlock - if he should not be ? able to command enough support to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomination on an early ballot , almost any candidate might be nominated , and there would be a prospect of the selection of a candidate like Newton D. Baker of Ohio , former Secretary of War , who has refused to become an active candidate ; Melvin A. Traylor , the Chicago banker , or some man not yet mentioned , or it might go to ene of those now in the race , for instance Governor Albert C. Ritchie of Maryland . The entrance of Mr. Smith as a contestant , . in the opinion of his friends , would almost certainly result in his getting the delegation from Massachusetts , now claimed for Roosevelt , despite the known preference of Governor Ely for Smith . Also , in their opinion , it would result in a Smith delegation from Rhode Island and bring about the selection of some Smith delegates from Connecticut . Probably an even more important result of a Smith candidacy would be in Pennsylvania , where Joseph A. Guffey of Pittsburgh , former State leader , has announced that Governor Roosevelt will be entered as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name placed on the preferential primary ballot . Mr. Guffey declared early for Roosevelt and has promised him 66 of the 76 delegates from that State . Mr. Guffey , however , ' has not recently been in power in. the party in Pennsylvania , and since 1930 Sedgwick Kistler , national committeeman , and John C. Hemphill , candidate for Governor in that year , have become powerful if not dominant figures in the State organization . Mr. Hemphill has declared for Governor Ritchie . Mr. Kistler tried to get Mr. Baker to consent to be a candidate , but was unsuccessful and at present seems likely to turn to GovernorRitchie as a candidate against ' Governor Roosevelt . There is doubt . as to the amount of headway that Mr. Ritchie might make against Mr. Roosevelt in a Pennsylvania primary , and the Pennsylvanians who do not want Mr. Guffey back in power and , therefore , must oppose Roosevelt , would much rather make the fight with Smith . A. Smith-Roosevelt primary contest in Pennsylvania , with Mr. Guffey backing Roosevelt and Mr. Kistler and his friends supporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the result difficult . Similar situations prevail in other States , and Mr. Smith 's candidacy would receive immediate organization support , it is understood , in such States as New Jersey and Illinois . Governor Roosevelt 's managers Rift Washington well satisfied with what they regarded as a distinct advance in the Roosevelt movement through the demonstration in the interchange of views by committee members that Roosevelt had strong support in New England , the South . the Middle West , the Rocky Mountain region and the Pacific Coast . t The party organizations of three Western States will put Governor Roosevelt formally before the country as a candidate within the next month . North Dakota will start by the adoption of a resolution endorsing Roosevelt at its State convention Thursday . South Dakota will follow on Jan. 17 , with a similar resolution by the Democratic State Committee . The Washington State Democratic organization will follow on Feb. 6 with a third resolution endorsing Governor Roosevelt 's candidacy . In each case the action expected to be taken will make Roosevelt the party organization candidate in the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged by residents of Missouri to make a fight for delegates in that State against ' former Senator James A. Reed , who is a. candidate , at least to the extent of desiring a delegation instructed for him . They were informed that the sentiment for Roosevelt there was so strong that it would be possible to get a solid Missouri delegation . No definite decision was reached here but it looked as though the Roosevelt forces might decide on a Missouri contest , both for the purpose of getting thirty-six more delegates in the Roosevelt column and for the psychological effect a victory . there would have in the Middle West . Mr. Smith while in Washington gave no indication of his future intentions . He remained pretty much of an enigma ? to the Democratic leaders who talked with him and , although there was speculation concerning the possibility of his candidacy , no one with any authority would express an opinion either way . Mr. , Smith , with the facility that characterizea him , parried all . questions put to him by newspaper re-porters as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     