@@700812

txt BARCELONA , Sept. ** conflict over the Catalan Land law has entered a new phase with the flat announcement by the proprietors that they will refuse to recogn ? : e the existence of the law and will resort to every means at their command to prevent ' portions of their land from being parceled out to the peasants , as the law contemplates . Another complication is the announcement that the CEDA  --  the Right group in the Cortes  --  is angry with the Samper government for coming to terms with the Catalan Generalitat and will do its best to upset those terms as soon as the Cortes meets in October . The Catalan proprietors organized a great pilgrimage to Madrid , which was held on Sept. 8 , chartering ten special trains to take them to the seat of government to register their protest . In a lengthy statement they defended their action , saying that they had no other alternative but to appeal to Madrid in this manner to safeguard their ' , casa pairal , or ancestral manor , and complaining that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had declined to respect their rights . They further charged that ' ' anarchy , preached by the governing powers , prevails in the fields . " The Catalan regulations for the application of the land law , presumably having the approval of the Samper Ministry , make no essential change in the original law , which was nullified by the Tribunal of Constitutional Guarantees . Declare Law Does Not Exist . For that reason the proprietors , refusing to recognize the right of the Generalitat to legislate in agricultural matters , declare that for them the Catalan law does not exist and demand the immediate application of the sentence of nullification . They intend , in each case where attempt is made to apply the law , to oppose it in the courts , invoking the sentence against it . They intend further to demand restitution and indemnities wherever land has been awarded the peasants . The proprietors , because of their appeal to Madrid . have been called betrayers of Catalan automony , but this charge they indignantly deny . They say that in face of the refusal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other recourse . An interesting new phase of the conflict is that the proprietors have broken with the conservative party known as the Lliga Catalana , which they accuse of using the situation as a means of furthering its political pretentions , rather than of genuinely aiding the proprietors . The action of the Catalan Lefts in going to the support of the Basques in the conflict of the latter with the central government has been the cause of an interchange of notes between the central and the regional government which strongly objected to the Catalan attitude . Officials Suggest the Basques . Although the Generalitat has given no official support to the Basques , the members of the government , from President Lluis Companys down , have come out openly in their support , while the Government pa Ly. the Esquerra , announced it would send its Deputies to the Basque Nationalist Assembly in spite of the action of the government in declaring the assembly illegal . The Esquerra adopted a resolution stating that the object of the Assembly was to place the Basque autonomist forces in contact with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is perfectly licit in every organized democracy . " President Companys 's personal championship of the Basques provoked an incident between himself and Senor Samper. the Prime Minister . The Spanish Ministers took the view that the Catalan President , since he was the representative of the State in the region , was not free to censure the government or to encourage subversive movements in other regions . Senor Companys answered that the Catalan President was something more than a mere administrative officer subject to the central government . The President , he said , was not the representative of the government , meaning the Ministry , but of the State , and that therefore the government could not treat him as a subordinate agent to be charged with carrying out its orders . The autonomy statute gives the Catalan President the dual role of being at the same time the region 's chief ruler , elected by its Parliament , and the chief representative of the central government in the region . In view of the dispute suggestions have been made at Madrid that the Cortes pass a law placing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any such move would naturally cause opposition and further widen the breach between the region and the central government . The majority of Catalans are convinced that the central government is out to rob the autonomy statute of its virtue by devices such as that just mentioned . The Left Catalan papers are further charging that the Rights at Madrid are deliberately trying to pick a quarrel with Catalonia to serve as an excuse for depriving the region of Its autonomy and at the same time For imposing upon the whole country something akin to dictatorial rule .                     