@@703682

txt Premier Edouard Daladier tonight decreed the military requisition of all the principal railroad lines of France in his fighting campaign to crush in advance the one-day general strike called by French labor for next Wednesday . M. Daladier signed a decree imposing army control on the railroad workers , - who had voted to join the general strike . The decree will be effective with publication in the Official Journal tomorrow . The decree said simply that " in view of present circumstances " requisition was authorized for the lines of the National Railway Company . This extended the move to six great networks covering more than 26,000 miles that were merged into a single nationalized company on Aug. 31 , 1937 . It was not disclosed when the actual commandeering would be carried out . This is left to the Ministries of War and Public Works . Earlier in. the day similar tactics by the determined Premier had smashed strikes among miners , metal-workers and local railroad hands in the North of France . Fifty thousand workers had walked out in the North . Mobilizes Strikers There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work as part of the army . He placed striking workers of the important Valenciennes industrial region in the north under such military rule , acting soon after having let it be known that he was ready to have the government operate striketorn industries " If necessary . " He ordered establishment of military courts for trial of any strikers refusing to obey an order to return to work . A few hours later the unions ordered strikers to return to work in the northern areas pending the general strike , and the government disclosed it had mobilized 12,000 striking miners and cleared all ocouipied mines and factories in the region without disorder . There are about 8,000 Polish coal miners in the region and , faced with the possibility that it might not be able to mobilize foreigners into the army and thus compel them to work , the government ordered immediate expulsion of foreigners who strike or agitate . Mobile Guards took working permits from 7,000 of these Polish workers , . telling them they could regain the permits by returning to work Monday . They were told that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country . Military authorities declared that 506 railway workers on the Anzin line in the great Anzin coal basin who did not comply with mobiliza-1 tion instructions yesterday would be tried by the newly set up military courts . The railroad discharged 400 work-ers who had not been included among employee mobilized by the government . Workers in the Nord Department were told they could hold public meetings to discuss strike developments but any speaker talking " too violently " would be arrested . France 's Left Wing labor ranks shouted defiance at the government in nation-wide mass meetings late today , demanding the resignation of Premier Daladier and abrogation of his recovery decree laws . The mass meetings , called by the General Confederation of Labor , were part of a " national day of protest . " Unions of the Paris region published an appeal to their followers to maintain order . " It is necessary , " said their message , " that today 's demonstrations keep the great power and great character of discipline and order , which will help assure success of the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Paris region , about fifty meetings were held in the provinces . Resolutions were adopted protesting against the government 's decrees , terming them an unfair taxation burden on the lower classes . They protested modification of the Popular Front social reforms , especially the forty-hour week , and also the government 's use of police to break the sit-in strikes . M. Daladier announced tonight that he would make an appeal to the nation against the general strike over the radio at 8 P. M. tomorrow and that ' he would be followed an hour later with a broadcast by Minister of Public Works Anatole de Monzie . For the second time M. Daladier conferred at the War Ministry today with General Victor Bourret , military governor of Paris , and other officials charged with maintaining public order . Both Sides Gird for Test Wireless to THE New Yoss Trans . PARIS , Nov. 26 . ? Preparations are proceeding on both sides , actively but under cover , for the test of strength that Wednesday 's general strike will bring between the government of France and organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was less excitement today than yesterday . Although some isolated cases have occurred , there has been no new strike outbreak , and the miners in the north have decided to resume work Monday so as to make their participation in Wednesday 's general strike more significant . At three meetings held in the Paris district today the crowds were orderly and attentive to the many speeches that were delivered . Most of the orators labored hard to persuade their listeners that this was not a political Atrike and that it was necessary to preserve the principle of the five-day week and the social laws passed two years ago . Such an explanation was apparently needed , for there is an undoubted current of opinion among the workers against the strike as unnecessary and too precipitate . To the labor leaders ' eloquence Paul Reynaud , the Finance Minister , replied this evening for the government in a nation-wide radio speech in. which he declared that the whole strike movement was the result of deliberate misrepresentation. and caricature of his decree laws . " You are being misled by lying figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not changed a word or a comma of these three laws to - which you hold  --  the fortyhour week , the right of collective contract and paid vacations . " All that we have done in the national interest is to adjust your working hours and your holidays . so as to assure that the machines will turn even while you are away from them . To stop these machines from working two days in every six is the same as if you destroyed two machines out of every six in France . " He carefully explained the government 's case and the real results of its decree laws , declaring that charts and posters that had been issued tending to show how the poor would pay proportionately more increased taxation than the rich were false . The only victims of the decree laws , he said , were those capitalists with liquid capital who had been lending to the government at 7 and 8 per cent and were now getting only 3 per cent . The only chance of preserving freedom and preserving for the workers their rights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they should help keep their country strong and free . Tomorrow Anatole de Monzie , Minister of Public Works , will speak to the railway men on the radio and Premier Edouard Daladier will make an appeal to the country . What effect these speeches will have it is impossible to predict . It was notable today that certain large groups and parties announced that they would not join the strike , among these being those civil servants who are Radical Socialists in politics . All the manual workers ' unions have announced that they will join , however , and a complete tie-up is sought of railroads , auto buses , subways , the postal service , taxicabs , banks , general stores , theatres and movies , newspapers , mines and factories of all sorts . On the other hand , the automatic telephone will work , the drug stores will remain open , the gas and electricity supplies will not be affected and all public health services will be maintained . Daladier Confers With Aides Daladier had frequent conferences during the day with those officials whose business it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services . Most probably several plans have been prepared and which will be applied will depend on circumstances . Meanwhile the political position of the government presents a curious problem . Leon Blum , who , of course , leads the largest party in the Chamber of Deputies and without whose support the government can not expect to have more than a very frail majority , today in a somewhat frenzied article in the newspaper Populaire followed his request of yesterday to Edouard Herriot , President of the Chamber , and other Radical Socialists to force Premier Daladier to resign by urging him not to be obstinate and accusing him of stirring up this social battle . The Temps tonight , answering the Socialist leader in an article headed " Republic or Revolution , " writes : " In asking M. Daladier to retire , the Socialist group and its leader are asking him to abandon the defense of legality and leave the ground free to direct action by a section of the Second International . " Other nationalist newspapers support the Premier , as did the nationalist groups in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radical Socialists are distinctly wabbly . So far the party as a whole has given the government support , but the continuation of that support will quite obviously depend on its success in dealing with the strike and the strikers and on what show of success will result from M. Reynaud 's new financial and economic policy . The firmness shown by the Premier and the services under his direction in clearing strikers out of occupied factories , requisitioning mines and railroads and setting up military tribunals for the trial of those subject to military law who disobey , has seemed to have an effect , but it is too early yet to see which way this curiously complex struggle for authority will turn . Jail sentences were Imposed today on strikers who resisted the police and Mobile Guards when they forcibly evacuated sitdown strikers from France 's largest auto works , the Renault plant at Billancourt , Thursday night . This marks a complete reversal of the Popular Front policy inaugurated by M. Blum , who refused to use force or prosecute workers when he came into power in 1936 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a preliminary examination by the police and the majority of the cases were deferred until Monday or Thursday on the pleas of the defendants themselves , asking time to prepare their defense . In only a few cases of workers with large families were petitions for bail granted , and all those who agreed were judged today in three different tribunals handling the cases . T penalties ranged from ten days to six months in jail and the fines from fifteen to fifty francs according to the charges . The Heaviest Penalties The heaviest penalty provided under the new decree laws , which the strikers were protesting , was imposed upon a worker named Delafarge who resisted officers and was found armed with a blackjack . The next heaviest penalty went to a French worker named Herodet who had just returned from service in the International Brigades with the Loyalist forces in Spain and though arrested on the Renault premises during the melee was not an employe of the works . He was prosecuted as an agitator and received three months in jail and a fifty-franc iine . Numerous other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the law will come up for trial next week . A large number of strikers who had no special marks against them other than having participated in resistance received ten-day jail terms . In some instances the courts showed special leniency , reducing the penalty of Rene Baron , 18 , on account of his youth . Counsel for the workers tried at the opening of the hearing to obtain dismissal of the cases against a large number of the defendants upon the claim that they had participated against their will under duress of their comrades . The court rejected the claim on the grounds that the police had offered an opportuinty to all who desired to leave the plant unmolested before beginning the evacuation operation . The Leftist press and the Communist party condemn the arrests and forceful evacuation as " fascist oppression " and are demanding abrogation of the decrees under which the penalties were applied . 2,800 in Plant Dismissed Because of their failure to report for work today , 2,800 employes , comprising the entire personnel of the nationalized Farman aviation plant , were notified of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a Saturday schedule , which the workers refused to follow . It is announced that a whole new staff will be recruited . Throughout - . ance protest meetings against the decree laws were held in industrial centers , but without any important disorders . At Auby near Douai revolver shots were fired in a crowd and Guardsmen replied by firing in the air , but there were no casualties . The Prefect of Bouchbs du Rhone Department issued a warning to the populace of Marseille that foreigners residing in France must refrain from participating in political or labor demonstrations on pain of immediate expulsion . Large numbers of foreigners are resident in Marseille and as during the recent dockworkers ' strike they have been conspicuous in fomenting disputes and demonstrations .                     