@@697501

txt Professor Albert Einstein , speaking on " War and Peace " before the New History Society in the Ritz-Carlton last night , advocated militant pacifism to assure world peace . He suggested two methods of resistance , the individual and the international , and said salon , not . talk , was essential . - If only 2 per cent of the men liable for war service would refuse , declared Dr. Einstein , there would not be enough jails to hold them . The alternative , which he termed " a more legal measure , " would be the establishment of a " war resistance fund , " with pacifists from all countries contributing . " A real initiative In one or both directions , " concluded Dr. Einstein , " would bring results . But you must show courage and you must show patience , otherwise you will remain  - -  just pacifists . " Speaking in German , Dr. Einstein launched right into the subject of pacifism , saying that the trouble with those who are avowedly against war is that they " meet the sheep while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he explained , the pacifists only reach those who are already convinced and of the same opinion and should try to do something more than merely speak . " In our political situation , " he said , " it is the duty of man to commit crime in the name of his State or his country . It seems to me that it is more his duty to free mankind from this sort of thing . " There are two ways in which this may be done . The first , which has already been practiced in many countries , is to refuse military duty in time of war . Real pacifsts should practice this in times of peace as well . In countries where there is compulsory military service this can be done . In countries where there is no conscription , however , the pacifist can only publicly declare that he will refuse any military duty in time of war , and it should be the mission of pacifists to recruit people from all over the world for this idea . " Speaking rapidly , but very distinctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a very worthy thing . " " If only 2 per cent of the men liable I for war service were to refuse , " he said , " there would not be enough jails in the world to take care of them . " Dealing with his second suggestion , Dr. Einstein came to the international organization which he called " Kriegsdienstverweitung " ( war service resistance ) , not , he said , because the people who thus think are cowards or because they would not want to sacrifice personal comforts , but because they were convinced that war was wrong and that their attitude might put a stop to war . Pacifists of all countries , he suggested , should subscribe to such an international war service resistance fund and thereby not only help those imprisoned for refusing to go to war or serving in the fighting forces , but to strengthen the idea everywhere . Dr. Einstein 's address was translated for the benefit of most of the audience by Mrs. Rosika Schwirnmer , whom the visiting scientist referred to as his " saving angel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translate the speech , broke down after the first sentence and had to be replaced . Mrs. Einstein , following an ad- ' dress by Miss Helen Keller , uttered a few words of thanks , and the couple received an ovation from the audience . Dr. Einstein was introduced by Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler and Mirza Ahmad Sohrab , officers of the so-1 ciety . Earlier Professor Einstein , taking an off day fNom official functions , renewed old friendships with such men as Sir Rabindranath Tagore . Fritz Kreisler and Arturo Toscanini yesterday . For the second time since his arrival in New York , Dr. Einstein received a spontaneous ovation from an audience in the Metropolitan Opera House . The German scientist and his wife , accompanied by Dr. Paul Schwarz , Consul General for Germany , and Mrs. Schwarz , heard the Philharmonic Symphony concert , directed by Toscanini . They applauded the fine interpretations of the Beethoven " Pastorale " symphony , compositions by Kodaldy and Wolf-Ferrari and the Passacaglia of Bach-Respighi . The Einsteins left their temporary home on the liner Belgenland and , accompanied by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morgenthau and Dr. and Mrs. Schwarz , they motored to 1,172 Park Avenue to call on Tagore , the Indian poet-philosopher . They remained there until noon , Dr. Einstein and Tagore in animated conversation , renewing a friendship formed many years ago in Berlin . For luncheon the members of the party were the guests of Dr. Schwarz , and in the afternoon they went to the Hotel Savoy-Plaza , where Dr. Einstein chatted with Fritz Kreisler until it was time to go to the Metropolitan . During the intermission at the Philharmonic concert , the Einsteins called upon Signor Toscanini in the conductor 's suite at the Metropolitan . After the concert Einstein paid a brief visit to John D. Rockefeller Jr . at the latter 's town home at 10 West Fifty-fourth Street . From 5:30 until almost 7 o'clock Einstein ' was a guest at a reception in honor of Dr. Bernard Kahn , European director of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee , at the home of James N. Rosenberg , 27 West Sixty-seventh Street . Felix Warburg : and Lieutenant-Governor Herbert H. Lehman were among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk in German . The Einsteins will sail this morning on the Belgenland for California by way of the Panama Canal . Einstein will lecture at the California Institute of Technology at Pasadena and will meet Professor Robert P. Millikan and Professor Albert Michaelson of the University of Chicago . He also will spend some time at the Mount Wilson Observatory .                     