@@703584

txt The Administration 's program of business and financial legislation to be submitted to the next session of Congress was revealed yesterday by informed officials as likely to include : 1 . Essential tax revision legislation . which probably will bring up discussion of the undistributed profits tax theory and of increases in individual income taxes . 2 . Some amendments to the anti-trust laws based upon studies being conducted by the Department of Justice both as part of and apart from the present inquiry being conducted by the anti-monopoly committee . 3 . Some specific requests for meeting the railroad problem , details of which are already the subject of study among officials concerned with the solution of this issue . 4 . Some definite proposals touching on increasing the supply of Capital available for small business concerns . Confer on Taxes Officials directly concerned with the tax revision problem already have conferred with congressional leaders on taxes and a tentative agenda of specific tax subjects , including processing taxes , social security taxes , excise taxes general corporation income taxes , and taxation of tax exempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , there is still the possibility that the budget may call for additional revenue through increases in individual income taxes Also . President Roosevelt may reopen the undistributed profits tax issue by a demand for its complete restoration . However on Capitol Hill leaders are predicting that the tax program will he confined to absolute essentials Anti-monopoly legislation LR included in the agenda because some officials here believe that the Justice Department 's anti-trust division will have some suggestions ready for presentation to the next session . One of the outstanding suggestions that has been repeatedly referred to by officials in the Justice Department Is expansion of the anti-trust division . Seek Aid for Rails New Deal officials concerned with the railroad problem have been attempting for sonic weeks to work out a program for presentation to the next Congress . Outstanding proposal for the solution of this problem is compulsory consolidation and elimination of duplicate facilities . Cassius Clay . Reconstruction Finance Corp counsel . recommends several moves , including voluntary federal incorporation of railroads as general transportation companies . giving them authority to engage in all types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are weaknesses in the machinery responsible for the flow of capital into useful business and inmistrial enterprise . particularly new ventures . are being conducted in governmental quarters . A suggestion to meet the credit needs of the smallei business concerns was advanced last spring by Chairman W 0 . Douglas of the Securities and Exchange Commission His plan called for establishment of credit banks . Another plan is for the establishment of a bank or credit agency with government capital and under close governmental supervision .                     