@@698285

txt Criticizing the Navy Department for what he described as lack of cooperation , Governor Roosevelt ordered disbandment of the two aviation squadrons of the Naval Militia today . These , stationed in Brooklyn , are composed of about 350 officers and men and were mustered into the State service in March , 1927 . The action of Governor Roosevelt comes as the result of long standing objection to the attitude of the Navy Department toward the Naval Militia . " For some time past , " said . the Governor , " there has appeared to be a lack of harmonious cooperation on the part of the Navy Department at Washington with respect to the organization and administration of our Naval Militia . The orders disbanding the State 's naval air squadrons are based primarily upon this fact . " Asked If the disbandment of other units of the Naval Militia was being considered , the Governor replied : " We will cross that bridge when we reach it . " However , complete disbandment of the organization is not expected . State officials are said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other units to continue their work . The chief cause of complaint against the Navy Department by New York  --  and it is contended that other states are of the same mind ? is that the Federal department has been giving cooperation chiefly to the United States Naval Reserve . The officers and men of the disbanded squadrons have been serving as members of both organizations . The Naval Reserve is under direct control of the Navy Department . Originally the Navy Department is said to have taken toward the Naval Militia the same attitude that the War Department has adopted toward the National Guard : that is , that it should be mtaintained so that it could quickly become an integral part of the fighting forces of the nation . In recent years , the assertion is made here , the Navy - Departmnt has ignored the Naval Militia of the State and fostered Naval Reserve . Work of the organizations is needlessly duplicated and the Naval Militia is constantly being sacrificed in favor of the Naval Reserve , accord ing to the feeling here . The recent action of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a training place without giving any indication of its step to the Naval Militia or the State is pointed to as an example of lack of harmony . tion of " lack-of Cooperation " by till Navy Department . - - The New York ? Base this year ? re eived the Schiff Menitoria.1 Trophy for which all the flying units in thi navy are in competition . It awarded annually to the unit with the best safety record during till year . Fear was expressed last night h one quarter , however , that the dis banding of , the militia aviation squad rons would result in the withdrawa of the municipal field and hangar foi use by the reserves . Simplifies Command , Says Upham . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Nov. 10 . ? " While the reported disbandment of the Naval Militia units by the Governor of New York is news to the Navy Department , it appears to be a logical move taken by way of simplifying the matter of command , " Rear ' Admiral S. B. Upham , Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used by 1 the Naval L. a of New York is the property of the Federal Government , approprie:d by Congress for the specific use of the Naval Reserve . 1 I Since at least 95 per cent of the personnel of the New York Naval Milli tia are also members of the Naval Reserve , and trained as such , they use the equipment regularly . " Further , those who are not reservists use the same equipment in their capacity of Naval Militia men . The Floyd Bennett Field was placed at our disposal for this purpose by the city of New York . " The same equipment and facilities will continue to be available in I general to the same personnel . " Admiral Upham withheld any comment on the charge of Governor Roosevelt that the Navy Department had shown a lack of cooperation in maintaining the Naval Militia . Not to Affect Reserves . Read Admiral W. W. Phelps , commandant of the Third Naval District , said last night that the Third Naval District is sincerely sorry that the Governor had ordered the two aviation squadrons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Floyd Bennett Field , the headquarters of the Naval Air Reserve Base , at which these two squadrons took their exercises , Lieutenant Richard Whitehead said the discontinuance would not affect the work of the Naval Reserve as long as the city continued to provide a field and hangar . He pointed out that while the militia confined its membership to New York State , the Naval Air Reserve drew its members from New Jersey , Connecticut and even in some cases from Philadelphia . At the office of Rear Admiral W. B. Franklin . commanding the Naval Militia , it was said that in the absence of official confirmation of the Governor 's decision there would be no comment .                     