@@702986

txt Mayor La Guastia and Police Commissioner Lewtrs J. Valentine have decided upon a substantial reorganization of both the uniformed force and the detective division of the Police Department about the first of the year , it was learned yesterday . At the same time , recent reTiorts that Colonel Harold Fowler , first deputy police commissioner , would resign at the end of the year were confirmed through a source high in the city administration . Colonel Fowler has definitely decided to end his city service next month . He plans to travel with the intention of developing his interest in oil properties in other countries . Early this week it was rumored that he was seeking the Police Commissionership and that he and Mr. Valentine were not speaking because of that fact . Persons close to the Mayor denied this yesterday and said the sole reasons for Colonel Fowler 's departure were financial reasons . Mayor La Guardia and Mr. Valentine have decided to retire all members of the Police Department who are not fully capable , both mentally and physically , of performing the police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few weeks Mr. Valentine has conducted a survey of members of the department who are 60 or older , and this study has been subdivided into surveys of those who are 61 , 62 , 63 and 64 . The men in these classifications will be required to go through medical tests to determine their capacity for continuance in their posts . Opens Way to Younger Men " We are planning to follow the system in vogue in the army and the navy , by which the younger men are moved up in the service , " Mayor La Guardia said yesterday . " The older men are quite reconciled to the change . For the younger members of the department , it means that the road to promotion and higher pay becomes more open than it has been in the past . " The Mayor was asked about his plans for the detective division . " The detective division will be rejuvenated and revitalized , " he said with enthusiasm . " We have certain detectives who are good on one type of crime and one only . Under present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger men . Some- of the younger members of the division have been doing very good work , and they should have the opportunity to advance . " The changes sought by the Mayor do not constitute a shake-up in the department in the sense that wholesale transfers will be made . His chief objective is to improve the morale of the younger men , who make up the great bulk of the 19 , - 594 members of the Police Department . He feels that if young policemen realize that advancement depends on merit , and that they have the chance to go up in rank without waiting years for a promotion , the efficiency of the department will be substantially increased . Cites Charter Provisions Police Commissioner Valentine said yesterday that under Section 365 of the present City Charter he now had the right to retire any police officer at the age of 65 . He said there were relatively few men of that age in service , adding that he had kept them on for various reasons . In many cases he said the veterans had families to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work until their children were raised . The current Charter goes into the discard on Jan. 1 , and the express power to retire policemen at 65 is not mentioned in the new City Charter which supplants it . It was therefore considered likely that the enforced retirements will be ordered before the end of this year , while the commissioner retains that power . Discussing the detective division , Commissioner Valentine said : " Since I took office we have been making changes in the division , and we will continue to make them . The determining factor here will be the record of the individual detec- tive . Where the record shows that a detective has fallen down on his work , he will go out  --  and we have a lot of good timber in the uniformed force ready to step in . If there is any dead wood in the division , I 'll be the man to know it and I 'll clean that condition up . We will rejuvenate the division wherever we see fit . " Mr. Valentine added that there were very few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those individuals , however , will go through the same qualifying tests that members of the uniformed force will be asked to take . The Police Commissioner said that any member of the department , regardless of age , must demonstrate his fitness for police work in order to continue .                     