@@700797

txt Conditions in the textile areas in the State have shown such improvement that it will not be necessary to call in regular army troops , Governor Theodore Francis Green announced today . The Governor , in a statement issued in the forenoon and repeated in the evening over the radio , declared that while order was being restored , all danger of future disturbances was not yet removed . He made it clear that the State would take all necessary measures to enforce the legal rights of all parties in the strike arid expressed the hope that " the strike itself may be terminated on terms fair to all concerned . " Blame for much of the rioting and disorders was placed by the Governor on the Communists . In this connection , however , he asserted that he had not attempted to suppress the Communists because of their political tenets . " It is not a question of suppress . ing their right to argue for a different form of government or a different social system , " he said . " Rhode Island is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as of political independence . " Explains Arrest of Reds . The Governor said that the question before the officials here was primarily one of allowing the Communists to carry their views into effect by force and stir up others to doing the same by exciting them to rioting and violence . " Such Communists as have been arrested have been arrested solely to investigate their share in such actions in this uprising , " Mr. Green added . Should Federal troops be needed quickly in Rhode Island , the General Assembly , by its action in adjourning its extraordinary session sine die without adopting the emergency measures recommended by the Governor , had created a situation that would make it difficult to obtain quick help , the Governor 's friends said . The Governor 's urgent recommendation that $100,000 be appropriated for increasing the personnel of the State police also failed of enactment as did the measure to empower the Governor to order the mills closed during the existence of the emergency . Legislature Is Criticized . Mr. Green , in his radio talk , criticized " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure to pass the bill for adding a reserve force to the State Police as " a proceeding contrary to Democratic principles . " A measure of this importance , the Governor asserted , " should not I have been killed in committee , but if at all , in the open , so that we might know who killed it and so that reasons might be given why it should be killed . " He expressed the hope that the measure , to be introduced again when the General Assembly convenes next Tuesday morning in a special session , would be adopted . The Assembly is to meet to take up the matter of balancing the budget . The declaration of the Governor that the situation had quieted down sufficiently for the time being so that Federal troops will not be required , followed a conference of two hours with Brig . Gen. Dean , in command of the National Guard . During the day , however , there were intermittent disorders in Providence and points near by . The disturbances were minor in character and were easily handled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the afternoon a committee representing the New England Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners called on the Governor . The delegation asked him to withdraw the armed forces from the strike area and to order the release of those arrested as the result of the strike disorders . A further demand was that he recognize " the right to picket , and of free assembly and free speech . " The revocation of the order for the arrest of Communists was also demanded . The Governor did not accede to any of the demands . The leader of the delegation described himself as Allen Taub , a New York City lawyer . He said the delegation included Zara du Pont of Cambridge , Mass. , a sister of former United States Senator T. Coleman du Pont of Delaware ; Jessica Henderson of Boston , and several others who said they were " social workers and journalists . " The conference lasted for more than an hour and was quite heated at times . Spokesmen for the delegation were threatened with ejection from the Governor 's offices . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strike area . Hundred Pickets Routed . During the afternoon the Providence police broke up a meeting of more than hundred . persons , most of whom booed workers leaving the Grant Mill of the B. B. and R. Knight Company , Carpenter Street . One of the pickets was put under arrest . National Guardsmen also moved into Apponaug and Pontiac today . The detachmentswere sent there in anticipation of trouble . Tne police at Westerly , warned of approaching pickets from Pawtucket and other points , stopped fifteen automobiles during the afternoon as the cars of the flying squadron approached the city . The drivels were ordered to turn in the direction from which they had come and the automobiles were escorted toward Pawtucket . The Westerly police asserted that crowds would not be permitted to congregate in front of the mills in that city . Troops continued also to guard the State House in Providence today and tonight , and detachments of Guardsmen were ordered on duty at the Scituate reservoir from which the city obtains its water supply . This and other reservoirs are being guarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sticks of dynamite from a quarry in the Blackstone Valley . Roosevelt Ready to Act . As these precautions were being taken to prevent new outbreaks , it was announced at the State House that President Roosevelt would come to Providence from Newport , where he is to attend the yacht races , to confer with Governor Green and General Dean if there were further disturbances . Additional mills were closed today and one mill was reopened , the George C. Moore Company reopening its plant at Westerly . The mills closed included the Cranston Print Works , where picketing has been heavy ; the Acme Finishing Company of Pawtucket and the Lyon Silk Works ; the Premier Thread Company and the Priscilla Braid Company , all of Central Falls . At Woonsocket and Saylesville , where most of the rioting has taken place during the week , National Guardsmen continued heavy patrols in the vicinity of the mills . The strike areas were comparatively quiet in both places , but the military authorities refused to permit liquor to be sold in Woonsocket or to permit crowds to congregate anywhere in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desiring to pass near the mills in Woonsocket had to state his business , but it was announced that tomorrow night the stores would be permitted to remain open under normal schedules . Say " the Worst Is Over . " The military authorities expressed the belief that " the worst is over , and we do n't think there will be any major disturbances here in the immediate future . " Today , in a letter to General Dean , the Governor praised the National Guards " for the splendid work done under the most . trying conditions . " The Governor wrote that he was proud of the militia and the results obtained in quelling disturbances .                     