@@702047

txt Governor Landon will begin tomorrow what promises to be a busy four or five days of conference before his departure to join his family at Estes Park , Col. Among those with whom he will talk during the day are Senators John G. Townsend Jr . of Delaware and Frederick Steiwer of Oregon . Senator Townsend is chairman of the Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee and Senator Steiwer , who was temporary chairman of the nation convention , is its vice chairman . The Presidential nominee will discuss plans for increasing the Republican representation in the Senate with these visitors , but , because only one-third of the Senators are to be elected this year , there is no chance that the next Senate will be Republican . Other callers listed for tomorrow are former Representative Charles E. Winter of Casper , Wyo. ; Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. , prospective nominee for Senator in Massachusetts . and Louis J. Taber of Columbus , Ohio , master of the National Grange . Mr. Taber , a Republican , was an unsuccessful aspirant for the party nomination for Senator against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A possible caller tomorrow , although no appointment has been arranged , is Dr. Francis E. Townsend , author of the Townsend Plan and supporter of Representative William Lemke , third-party candidate for President . Townsend Campaigns In Kansas Dr. Townsend has been campaigning in Kansas for two days and said at Phillipsburg yesterday that he " might " call on Governor Landon . He will speak in Topeka tomorrow afternoon in behalf of candidates of both major parties whom ' the Townsendites have approved and who will be voted upon at the Kansas primary election on Tuesday . In his speeches so far , Dr. Townsend has urged his hearers to vote for these candidates and for Mr. Lemke . The Kansas Townsendites have endorsed former Governor Jonathan M. Davis for the Democratic nomination for Governor and candidates of one or both major parties for Congressional nominations in nearly every district . Although when Dr. Townsend saw Governor Landon last Winter the latter told him that he did not believe his plan was workable , the activities of the Townsendites in Kansas are held by the Republican leaders to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State . In fact they believe that the Governor is aided greatly throughout the country by the third party national ticket and recalled that Mr. Landon won his first election as Governor in 1932 because of the candidacy of Dr. John R. Brinkley , which split the vote so that Mr. Landon was elected despite the Roosevelt landslide of that year . Governor Landon will go to his home in Independence on Tuesday to vote in the primary election . There are no State-wide contests in the Republican primary which will cause future trouble in the party . Will G. West is unopposed for the Gubernatorial nomination . Senator Arthur Capper , who is completing his third term , has two opponents , Walter C. Neibarger of Tonganoxie , and H. L. Stout of Fort Scott , but seems certain to win by a large majority . Freight Parley Arranged The main Democratic contest is for the nomination for Governor between Mr. Davis and Walter Huxman , of Hutchinson , who is backed by the State organization and the national administration . Governor Landon received a telegram today from E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , expressing willingness to grant the Governor 's request for a conference on the reduction of freight rates on cattle , water and feed in drought areas , and setting the time for 10 o'clock tomorrow forenoon in Room 314 of the Union Station at Chicago . Dr. Harry Umberger , dean of Kansas State College , and Henry Hoch , chairman of the State Corporation Commission , will represent the Governor . " Necessary for us to have a list of counties to which livestock will be forwarded for . pasture , " Mr. Boyd 's telegram read . Certificate plan for either livestock or feed no longer available . Other method must be devised . Think we can handle satisfactorily on Monday . " The Governor Will speak over the radio on the drought situation tomorrow afternoon at 1:15 . He has made appointments to receive visitors here up to Thursday but not beyond that day , which is taken to indicate that he will leave for Colorado on Friday . Senator L. J. Dickinson of Iowa , is scheduled to confer with him on Wednesday .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         