@@697395

txt On his own terms and amid scenes of enthusiasm not paralleled at any State Republican gathering of its kind in recent years , Charles H. Tuttle , United States Attorney , was nominated for Governor by acclamation at the State Convention this afternoon . There were three demonstrations . One lasted eighteen minutes , after Mr. Tuttle 's name had been placed befre ve the delegates by General James G. Hapbord , chairman of the advisory commit +e of the New York County Committee ; another , of five minutes ' duration , when the candidate entered the hall and , making his way to the rostrum amid cheers , was presented to the convention The third carob in his speech of acceptance when he hurled a bold challenge at Tammany Hall and Governor Roosevelt , who will be his opponent . Mr. Tuttle sent a letter tonight to President Hoover , requesting that his resignation as United States Attorney become effective at once , so as to leave him free for the campaign . It is understood that his place will be filled until after election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Only Vote on Wet Plank . The nomination of Mr. Tuttle and the other candidates followed the adoption of a platform containing a prohibition plank declaring for repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and hewing so closely to the recent statement issued by the candidate that he might have written it himself . All of the platform , with the exception of the prohibition plank , was adopted by unanimous vote . The prohibition plank was presented as a separate proposition and was adopted by a vote of 733 to 258 in which , generally speaking , the large cities were arrayed against the rural sections . The committee on resolutions reported a rule limiting debate on this plank to two hours , one hour for each side , and this was adopted . But the fight on the floor which had hung as a threat over the convention did not materialize . In any event , there would not have been a fight of drys against wets , but a conflict launched by an extreme wet element , led by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , which favored a repeal plank shorn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the candidacy of Mr. Tuttle . Mr. Tuttle , in his speech of acceptance , made no reference to prohibition . His silence on this subject was a disappointment to some of the leaders and delegates who had hoped that , in order to reconcile dry delegates to his stand on prohibition , he would reaffirm what he had said in his statement about law observance and enforcement under the public nuisance law to check the illicit traffic in liquor . It is understood that Mr. Tuttle will let his statement speak for itself and say no more than he can help on prohibition during the campaign . " Tuttle , Man of the Hour , " and " Tuttle , the Tiger-Tamer , " were among the legends on banners , carried in the boisterous Parade through the aisles of bands and delegates as the candidate stood on the rostrum waiting to address - the convention . He ' gazed at them reflectively . When ' the din of cheering subsided and he could make himself heard he announced his acceptance of the nomination and declared that the bugle call to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he added , had been put before the Republicans in the last forty-eight hours through the refusal of Mr. Curry , Charles L. Kohler , budget director , and other Tammany leaders to sign waivers of immunity- and testify before Governor Roosevelt 's extraordinary grand jury in the investigation of alleged sales of judgeships . " Will the ? Governor accept the challenge which the leaders of Tam-. mane/ Hall have thrown down to him ? " exclaimed Mr. Tuttle . " Will he stand by his , own grand jury or will he stand by Tammany Hall ? Will he stand for a policy of open disclosure or will he side with a policy of concealment and silence ? " I say to you that the issue of this campaign is , are we to have a Governor that is bigger than Tammany Hall or not ? " Mr. Tuttle pledged himself , if elected , to remove within twentyfour hours any public official who refused to give an accounting of his public trust to the duly constituted authorities under a waiver of immunity . Convention Rises to Cheer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cheering . The convention arose and cheered vociferously when he predicted victory and asked the party workers to put behind the ticket the will to win . Elation was in the air when the delegates got together this morning for the final session . Clouds and the drizzle of yesterday had vanished overnight and been succeeded by blue skies and bright sunshiae , . and in the Armory the changed mood of Nature was reflected . Spontaneous applause greeted Speaker Joseph A. when he appeared on the rostrum to take over the gavel from Secretary Stineson as permanent chairman . Mention of President Hoover 's name , which yesterday evoked little or no enthusiasm , called forth a volley of applause early in the session . Another feature which contributed to the happy mood was the assurance that a wet and dry battle on the floor had been averted . The rollcall on the prohibition plank . reported by the resolutions committee , however , as it progressed gave increasing evidence that party leaders and workers in dry rural sections were anything but satisfied with-the repeal pledge . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boundaries , with the large delegations they sent to the convention , carried the day for the wet program . tion for the restoration to each State of authority to deal with the . liquor problem in its own way . Prolonged applause came with the declaration for repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Senator Knight had to suspend reading for several minutes while the majority of the delegates indulged in a jubilation over the wet victory . When Senator Knight ended , Chairman recognized Meier Steinbrink , the Brooklyn leader , who urged that the prohibition plank be separated from the rest of the proposed platform and voted on separately . " I come here to speak for the resolutions committee and to say that our work was characterized by a spirit of forbearance and good-will among the various factions contending sincerely for what they believed , " Mr. Steinbrink said . " Let us do likewise . Let us not deny to those who disagree with us an opportunity to record their votes so that when we leave this convention hall we can do so with our opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as you know , we could stifle discussion . Let us , however , work with that same spirit of forbearance and give and take and recognize the honest opinions held by others . To that end I ask for unanimous consent so that the last section of the platform , that dealing with prohibition , be separately voted on . " Separate Vote on Prohibition . Mr. Steinbrink 's suggestion was applauded , unanimous consent for a separate vote was given and the platform otherwise was adopted unanimously on motion of William M. Calder , former United States Senator , of Brooklyn . Chairman then asked the pleasure of the convention regarding the prohibition plank . No minority report was submitted by the dry members of the resolutions committee , thus averting debate on the floor . Representative Davenport called for a slow roll-call so as to give each dry delegate an opportunity to declare himself against the repeal plank . Chairman directed a roll-call by counties , with the proviso that any delegate might demand an individual poll of his Assembly district delegation . The proviso @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roll was read by Secretary Gleason . The roll-call was Interrupted frequently by applause , most of it corning from the wets .. The greatest outbursts of cheering came on Mr. Steinbrinic 's announcement that the Kings County delegation , the largest in the convention , voted 129 votes for the repeal plank , when County Chairman Koenig reported that New York County 's 98 votes were solidly for repeal and when William L. Ward , veteran Westchester leader , heretofore classed as a dry , announced that all of Westchester 's 45 votes were for the repealplank. where also was applause for Harry Dry Delegates Are Glum . Delegates from the rural counties sat with contracted brows as the vote on the prohibition plank was taken . Even during the eulogistic speech of General Harbord placing Mr. Tuttle's-name before the convention , they did nat join an the applause . The banners of the dry counties were borne in the parade during the eighteen minutes ' demonstration that carried the wet wing efl its feet , but the ere delegates remained in their seats . Nor did the spccch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was polite applause from the middle section but the cheering and the racket from all eerts of noisemaking devices camo - caiefly from the urban delegation : . Republican leacena. purveying " the situation tonight , sail a would require effort to lion " acme of the drys in line bet proecesed confidence thatMr . Tuttle would win them ' over . Counties voting in the negative on the prohibition plank were : Allegany , Broome . Cattaraugus , Chatauqua , Chernung , Chenango , Cortland . Delaware , Fulton-Hamilton , Genessee , Herkimer , Jefferson , Lewis , Madison , Montgomery , Ontario , Orleans , Oswego , Selioharie . Schuyler , Seneca , gteuben , Tioga , Tompkins , Washington , Wayne , Wyoming , Yates . Speaker , on felting up the gavel. spoke of the " inefficiency , waste and corruption " in the Democratic State Administration and ex-claimed : " In New York City , graft and corruption unparalleled since the days of the Tweed regime have been disclosed . " " I am proud to say that the upState inquiries in not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in official wrongdoing , " he said further . The platform contained no surprises . Interest centred wholly in the prohibition plank and that arraigning the Tammany regime in New York City . Knight Reads Platform . After Secretary Stimson , temporary chairman , had called the convention to order at 11 o'clock , Matthew A. Henkel , chairman of the committee on permanent organization , presented his report , nominating Speaker for permanent chairman , Lafayette B. Gleason for permanent secretary and a long list of honorary vice chairmen , one from each of the 150 Assembly Districts in the State . Secretary Stimson appointed W. Kingsland Macy of Suffolk County , Miss Jane Todd of Westchester , Representative Frederick M. Davenport of Oneida and Mrs. Annette C. Jones of St. Lawrence , a committee to escort . Mr. to the chair . After delivering his attack on the State and New York City Demo:ratio administrations , Speaker Mcainnies called for the report of the committee on resolutions and Sena:or John Knight , its chairman , read . he proposed platform . This commended the administra:ion of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1929 and 1930 , contemned the Democratic Administration for general inefficiency and vaste and a break-down in four departments , charged that the Roosevelt Administration had taken no steps to deal adequately with the prison situation and promised a ; peedy solution of the water power problem . Governor Roosevelt was charged vith failing to order a general invesigation to expose Tammany compion in New York City and ignoring t break-down of the tax and collecion system in Albany . The platform , ike Mr. Tuttle , pledged the party to ' ! pact a law to end the term of any public official who refused to testify : oncerning his official act by invokng his constitutional privilege of re'using to answer . Other planks in the platform dealt vith public utilities , unemployment , abor , State hospitals , public buildngs , agriculture , public highways , parks , reforestation , taxation , civil ; ervice , public health and education , lection and law reform , aviation and velfare legislation . One plank pledged the cooperation If the Republican party in the soluion of New York City 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing vith this question so as to gain polits c al advantage . Applause Greets Repeal Plank . The prohibition plank , the only conroversial one in the platform , was ' eat/. last . Mild applause from the ire% followed the denunciation of the ; Moon system , and louder applause rom the wets greeted the declaraJ . Bareham , Monroe County chairman , and Clarence B. King , Onondaga County leader , who have been among the foremost wet leaders . More cheering followed announcement of the vote of ' 733 for the plank and 258 against it by Secretary Gleason . The convention then took a recess until 2 o'clock in the after-noon , Harbord Nominates Tuttle . All the : ' delegates had returned to the ar.miry , by 2:45 when Chairman convened the afternoon session b.nd announced that nominations for Governor were in order and - directed , a roll call of counties . Mrs. Miriam A. Schindler , co-leader of Albany . County , maid : " Albany yields to New York . " General Harbord then took the platform to nominate Mr. Tuttle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York delegate . The cheers were given as General Harbord stepped before the microphone on the speakers ' platform . He won the attention of the delegates at the outset . " In appearing before this grand jury , I desire to waive immunity as to what I may say , " he began . This sarcastic reference to the refusal of Tammany leaders to testify in the Ewald case brought a roar of laughter from the convention . General Harbord continued : " In this State today we are facing an emergency which demands a leader , a crisis which calls for a statesman , " General Harbord said . " Great problems wait ' for solution . Shall the ownership of utilities be private or public ? ? Shall balance sheets be abolished in such properties and the taxpayers foot the bills ? Shall the . American spirit of individualism yield control and management to government ownership ? " Shall there be restored to our State its lost sovereignty in powers originally reserved to it in the Federal Constitution ? Shall corruption , crime and criminal waste , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stain the fair name of our metropolitan New York  --  Shall judgeships be bought end sold in the chief city of America , and justice itself be quoted at a price in the halls and high councils of Tammany ? " Shall ' standing by your friends ' be stretched enough to include the granting of special privilege , immunity from taxation and license to the underworld ? Does the Tiger prey upon everything except his own kind ? Is there nothing high enough to be sacred , nothing low enough to be safe ? " General Harbord then sketched the life and career of Mr. Tuttle , saying that as Federal Attorney he had scotched the bucket-shop evil and " made such a complete house-cleaning of the bankruptcy scandals in New York City that one Federal judge resigned , the official auctioneer was indicted , a clerk in the District Court dismissed and six lawyers prominent in bankruptcy matters either resigned or were disbarred . He put an end to the notorious Albany baseball pool , which under the protection of Democratic State politicians had grown into the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Views . After referring to Mr. Tuttle 's part in the conviction of a county judge and the indictments in the Ewald and Healy cases and of certain persons connected with the Board of Standards and Appeals , and saying " he has cleaned house in New York City as it has not been cleaned in fifty years , " General Harbord took up Mr. Tuttle 's views on prohibition . " His own strong religious convictions and chairmanship of the interfaith committee in New York City align him with temperance and enforcement of law , " the speaker said . " He firmly stands for the enforcement of law but his years as District Attorney , with unrivaled opportunity to study the demonstration of prohibition under the Eighteenth Amendment , have ' convinced him that there must be a constructive replacement which will conserve the good that prohibition has brought and suppress the evils which it has produced . A few days ago he wee big enough and brave enough to declare this belief when political expediency might perhaps have called for silence . " Nominate him for Governor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest Republican vote in many years . " Nominate him for Governor and you will see the up-State counties fall in solidly behind him , for they know character when they see it , and they love a fighter . " Ladies and gentlemen of the convention , it is my privilege to present to you the man a ' the hour in the Empire State and the next Governor of New York  --  Charles H. Tuttle . " New York Leads Parade . The demonstration that followed General Harbord 's presentation of Mr. Tuttle lasted eighteen minutes amid a storm of cheers . The delegates from New York County started the demonstration . Led by County Chairman Koenig , they marched to the tune of the University of Maine " Stein Song , " round the hall , followed by other delegations from Brooklyn , the Bronx , Queens and Richmond , and by those from the suburban counties , Westchester , Nassau , Suffolk and Rockland . Delaware was the first dry county delegation to get into line . Then followed the counties of the Northern Tier , St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herkimer fell into line , as did the counties of the Southern Tier , and a loud cheer went up when the standard of Erie County , home of Attorney General Ward , Mr. Tuttle 's only serious rival , was raised and the delegates , led by Chairman Fred A. Bradley , joined the procession . There were more cheers when Chautauqua County , home of Chairman , and Wyoming County , home of Senator Knight , joined in the demonstration . Finally only Schoharie , Orleans and Schuyler Counties were left unrepresented in the Tuttle parade . The delegates from these counties remained seated for nearly half the period of the demonstration . Finally their standards were lifted , in one instance at least , by a person not a member of the delegation , and then the standards of each of the sixtyone counties of the State were in the parade . Tuttle Portrait Heads Parade . As a forerunner of the withdrawal of Attorney General Ward from the contest for the Gubernatorial nomination , the Martha Washington Drum Corps of Buffalo joined in the procession and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced horns , bells , rattles and other noiseproducing instruments to add to the din . Many of the parading delegates carried small American flags . Others bore placards , which appeared suddenly in large numbers , and a large portrait of Mr. Tuttle was carried in the front of the parade . Some of the placards read : " Tuttle is the man of the hour . " " Tammany trembles at Tuttle . " " From farm boy to Governor . " " I refuse to answer ; it 's incriminating Tammany . " " East , South , North , West : All agree that Tuttle is best . " After the demonstration had been In progress for thatteen minutes Chairman called for order , but it was not until five minutes later that the delegates returned to their seats . Then Mr. continued calling the roll for further nominations and when he reached Erie , District                     