@@699542

txt Promptly following up yesterday 's unanimous verdict of the League of Natmns Assembly against Japan , Mc League 's advisory committee , on which the United States and Russia have been invited to sit , met today and took the first steps toward organizing an international embargo on arms shipments to Japan . The British representative , Capt . R A Eden , proposed that the committee should investigate the possibility of shutting off arms supplies to the Far Eastern area . No action was taken , however , pending the arrival of replies from the United States and Russia to the League 's invitation to sit on the committee . A statement on cooperation for peace just made by Mr. Cordell Hull , Aniencan Secretary of State-designate , is considered encouraging , because ft indicates the possibility of Amerian cooperation . The committee hopes that the recent action of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives in refusing to approve an arms embargo against Japan is not final For other nations to refuse to ship arms while the United States continued to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League Assembly were influenced in taking their firm stand on the Sino-Japanese dispute by the Stimson declaration in favor of an arms embargo . They hope that the United States will not let them down . No Hasty Action It is assumed here that the Japanese Government will decide to withdraw lions the League , but so far theie is no indication of hasty action rn severing connections with Geneva . There is considerable ' packing of trunks at the Hotel Metropole , where the big Japanese delegation to the Assembly has made its headquarters , but by no means all Japanese intend to depart at once . Sonic oelegates to the Disarmament Confecence expect to remain here and not all the Japanese me/libels of League Secretariat Hill leave immediately , although Mr. Yotai o Sughinn a , Under sect etary , who as , Lsted Su Eric Drummond , Secretary-General , in the last attempts at conciliation between China and Japan , has offered hisresignation , to take effect April 1 The Japanese contingent here since November has been so large as to give the impression that they intended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers . There is widespread regret that Japan has taken a position which obliges its withdrawal , but the general impression is that the situation has been clarified by this development The significance of yesterday 's epoch-making vote in the Assembly is realized to be tremendous Under Article 12 of the Covenant , members agree that they will not resort to war until three months after the adoption of the Assembly 's report . This means that three months from yesterday the much discussed " gap " in the Covenant may be opened and two members , at least , of the League may be in : ol ved in open and legal warfare which the League is designed to present eiblIgations to League MO/ CON el Article 16 indicates that Japan , if it re , orts to open war at the end of the tin ee month period , after having inclined unanimous condemnation by the Assembly , " shall ipso facto be deemed to have committed an act of war against all other members of the League . " Japan even by formal declaratimi of withdrawal from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Covenant for the next two years , even though it may choose not to avail itself of its privileges in Geneva But there is no denying that with Japan holding aloof front the League and the United States and Russia not being members , the League 's authority in the Pacific area would be seriously impaired . If the United States and Russia decide to sit on the new advisory committee which held its first meeting this morning , this situation can be at least in part avoided . Yesterday 's ballot in the Assembly was significant as regards the attitude of the South American countries . Out of the 13 states which absented themselves from . he cession , 10 were Latin-American The continent in which two armed conflicts are in progress and numerous other disputes are in a critical stage , did not desire to take sides in the Sino-Japanese dispute . Among the countries not voting was Peru , whose invasion of Leticia has already met with the condemnation the League Council . Japan has filed a long statement of its position with the League secretariat . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science Monitor TOKYO , Feb ** country is calm ' and the markets orderly following official announcement of the start of the general ManchoukuoJapanese offensive in Jehol The yen declined slightly , but bankers anticipate -a tally on Monday . Stocks closed slightly higher It is understood that the Government cautioned speculators against bear raids Both Tokyo and Hsinkmg ( Changchun ) communiques emphasize the snowstorms and the mountainous nature of Jehol which make operations difficult , intimating that the subjugation of the Province may take longer than was expected . Foreign military attaches , however , think that the maim phases will be completed within a month . Whether operations will spread to Peiping and Tientsin is still problematical . The campaign apparently involves a triple advance along three arcs converging on Chengtefu ( Jehol City ) . The northern column has already occupied Kailu , driving southward , while the southern main column occupied Peipiao. then captured Chaoyang this morning , the Chinese retreating to Lingyuan . Anticipating this , a column which is composed largely of Japanese will first enter Chengtefu , following the occupation of Lingyuan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chief army delegate to the Disarmainent Conference , telegraphed his Government from Geneva that he was determined to resign and return to Japan The Government is likely to accept , appointing some military attache to replace him . General Tatekawa is reported to be advocating that Japan leave the Disarmament Conference . Col. Masahuru Honma , representing the War Office , visited the Siamese Legation this afternoon , thanking the minister for the action of the Siamese delegate in the Assembly in abstaining from voting on the report . Diplomats interpret the action as being in line with Gen Sadao Araki 's plan of strengthening the eventual Japanese leadership of Oriental nations . Best American opinion here opposes United States representation on the Assembly 's proposed advisory committee on the grounds that world anti-Japanese diplomatic pressure will almost inevitably fail and Europeans will make the United States the scapegoat for such a program . State , and MI . Henry L. Stimson , his pi edecessor The two men who clearly have a great deal in common in their approach to the Far Eastern problem , discussed yesterday s events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Yosuke Matsuoka had mai ched from ! the Assembly chamber in Geneva , Mr. Hull issued a statement which indicated that American policy in the future , as in the past , will be ' based on moral support of treaties . First , Mr Hull commented on the general letting down of mom ' and political standards by peoples and governments . He then significantly declared : " There should be no laxity on the part of this or any other nation in the observance of both the letter and spirit of treaties and of inter national good faith . " ? This is a manifest injunction in behalf of the Pact of Pails , Nine Power Treaty and League Covenant , upon which peace in Asia as in the world is based . But Mr Hull went further hi words which definitely aligned the new Administration with the rest of the world as concentrated in the League of Nations He said : " There should be sane and realistic international cooperation , keeping in mind our tiamtions and our Constitution , to aid in preserving the peace of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hull could not be more specific before he takes office But that he said so much was a distinct slum ise . His statement was evidently drawn forth by the necessity of the Far Eastern crisis . Its strong points are already being quoted widely ; first , - in Geneva to uphold the hands of the League , Second in Tokyo as indication that Japan 's isolation is complete . Hopes aroused at Geneva that the United States will pattIcipate in an arms embargo against Japan must be taken with reserve . The action of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs in limiting the presidential arms embargo to the Americas was regarded as expressing the view of average opinion throughout the country . At the same time those who will be in authority appreciate the importance of not letting Geneva down They are giving many signs of their desue to cooperate with the League , as Senator Hull implied , and if Geneva went ahead with an aims embargo the United States might well follow But Congress is unlikely to agree to any step which seems to involve the country in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for full American cooperation in restoring national economic relationships . War debts , he declared , are only one factor in business recovery . Mr. Hull announced his intention of talking with Sir Ronald Lindsay , British Ambassador , and M. Paul Claudel , French Ambassador , in a few days , to reopen war debts negotiations .                     