@@702126

txt The enrolled voters of the city and the States will participate today in the regular Fall primary election , with the polls open here between 3 and 10 P. M. The primary here will be of little interest to any but the enrolled Democrats , as there are no contests in any other party . There are thirty-four contests here in the Democratic ranks . Up-State several Republican Representatives ' right to renomination to Congress have been challenged by candidates bearing the endorsement of the Townsend and Coughlin groups , and the issue is expected to draw a good number of upState Republicans to the polls . The only city-wide contest is between Sheriff William F. Brunner of Queens and former Deputy Controller Frank J. Prial of Brooklyn for the nomination for president of the Board of Aldermen . Brunner is the organization designee , and the fact that a comparatively light vote is expected to come out today is believed by organization men to insure Mr. Brunner 's victory . Supporters of Mr. Prial expressed confidence , however , that he would win . Seven Seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three bench vacancies in the Court of General Sessions . The organization designees are Cornelius F. Collins , Democrat , Morris Koenig , Republican , both completing fourteen-year terms and endorsed by both major parties , and Saul S. Streit , Assemblyman . The leading insurgent candidate is Jonah J. Goldstein , sitting on the bench by appointment of Governor Lehman . He was turned down for the full term nomination by Tammany and Mr. Streit was named in his place . Other candidates are Thomas Jefferson Ryan , Benjamin Greenspan and Morris A. Edelman . During the campaign friends of both Judge Koenig and Judge Collins have expressed the fear that the prominence given to the StreitGoldstein contest might react against their nominations . As a result , both Judge Goldstein and Mr. Streit have laid aside their personal rivalry to the extent of joining in a plea for support for Judges Koenig and Collins . Judge Goldstein said : " At the close of the campaign , may I repeat what I have said throughout the campaign , that I am in hearty accord with the principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political affiliations . Politics has no place in the courts . I urge my fellow-Democrats to vote for my colleagues , Judge Cornelius F. Collins and Judge Morris Koenig , in the primaries . " Assemblyman Streit said : " I firmly believe in the principle of re-electing ? judges who have faithfully served a full elective term and heartily endorse the statement issued by Clarence J. Shearn , president of the Association of the Bar of the City of . New York , and Charles Evans Hughes Jr. , president of the New York County Lawyers Association . I strongly reiterate what I have been urging throughout the campaign , that all voters support Judges Collins and Koenig in the primaries . " Former Ambassador James W. forced , and-'not ? just content them= selves with maintaining order in the voting booths to which they have been assigned . The Mayor 's letter to the Police Commissioner follows : Honorable Lewis J. Valentine , Police Department , 240 Centre Street , New York City . My Dear Commissioner : In addition to instructions heretofore given to you by me in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to absolutely assure the opportunity to every voter to vote as he desires , and to obtain an honest count , I desire that you particularly point out to all on duty at polling places , tomorrow , primary day , that it is the re- ' sponsibility of the Police Department to maintain law and order and ' enforce all laws , including ' the election laws . It is not infrequent that police officers are under the impression that if they maintain order and  - -  prevent - violence- that their-duty has been fully performed . They have an additional duty , There can be other violence in addition to the use of force and that is the violation of the provisions of the Election Law , such as intimidating voters , entering a booth with a voter and , above all things in a primary election , the marking or mutilation of ballots . As you know , paper ballots are used in the primary and not the voting machine . Therefore , the officer should keep a sharp lookout for any attempt to mark or mutilate ballots . In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are properly accounted for . By that I mean from the total number of ballots there should be an accurate count made of the re , maining ballots not used for legitimate voting purpose . Where a voter returns a ballot because of a mistake , such ballots will likewise be counted from the box used for that purpose after the voting is completed . You will take all precautions necessary - to - complete a proper carrying out of these orders . Very truly yours , F. H. LA GUARDIA , Fights in Five Boroughs The other Democratic contests in Mayor. , the city are scattered over the five boroughs and are in the form of local fights for nominations for Congress , the State Senate and the As ; Up-State interest centers on a ieginhbtlYbeing made against Representative Bertrand H : Snell , veteran Republican leader , who was permanent chairman of the Republican National Convention at Cleveland . He is opposed by Jesse W. Williams , who also is entered in the Democratic primary . Other Republicans to meet opposition from candidates backed by the National Union or Townsend quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hancock , W. Sterling Cole , Daniel A. Reed and Walter G. Andrews . Democrats opposed from the same quarter are Fred J. Sisson , Alfred E. Baiter and James M. Mead . Gerard , chairman of the- Lawyers Committee for Goldstein , also urged support of Judges Koenig and Collins , emphasizing that jurists who have served acceptably a full eleetive term should be renominated by all parties . Samuel Untermyer , vice chairman of the Lawyers Committee for Streit , supported Judges Koenig and Collins with the declaration : " I have always been a champion of  --  the principle of re-electing judges who have held office for a full term and have discharged their duties and creditably . Both Judges Koenig and Collins have fully measured up to that standard and their re-election will be another step forward in the cause of judicial betterment . " Mayor Orders Law Enforced Despite the small vote expected , Mayor La Guardia issued instructions to the police , in a letter to Police - Commissioner Valentine , ordering them to see that all provisions of the Election Maw are en  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          