@@697662

txt Magistrate Jean Norris appeared yesterday before Samuel Seabury In the magistrates ' investigation and heard two witnesses testify under oath that she had ignored a Supreme Court order in a separation case which had a sequel before her in family court . Mrs. Norris , who had appeared under subpoena after having failed to appear by invitation at an earlier hearing , took the stand and denied the accusation . The stenographer who transcribed the minutes of the separation hearing took the stand and supported Magistrate Norris . The *transcript did not show that a certified copy of the court order had been shown to Magistrate Norris as the accusing witnesses had testified . While the hearing was in progress Justice Edward Lazansky , presiding in the Appellate Division in Brooklyn , mailed to Governor Roosevelt his reply to the Governor 's request fop a city-wide magistrates ' investi-gation , Justice Lazansky declined to comment on a report that he had advised against the enlargement of the investigation . Governor Roosevelt in Albany said he had not received Justice Lazansky 's reply . Summary Conviction Told . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman , living as the wife of a man to whom she was not married , had been convicted before Magistrate Norris within two hours after she was arrested without a warrant on a charge of vagrancy . Two members of the police vice squad took the stand and were questioned about large bank accounts . Chief Magistrate Joseph E. Corrigan testified briefly concerning procedure in the magistrates ' courts , and the chief stenographer in the Women 's Court contradicted the testimony of Magistrate Jesse Silberman by saying he understood that he was to insert in a steno- graphic record a notation which the magistrate asserted was " addenda . " Magistrate Norris was treated with marked courtesy when she took the stand . A court attendant brought her water in a paper cup and spilled some of it when he pushed it across the table in front of the witness . In the course of her testimony Mr. Seabury advised her that she was at liberty to make any explanatory statement she wished . Mrs. Norris more than once thanked Mr. Seabury for the latitude he gave her . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded court room on a premature Spring day , Mrs. Norris appeared , wearing a dress of blue dotted with white figures , a black felt hat with the brim turned up on one side , a string of green beads with a jade pendant , dark brown suede shoes with gunmetal hose . The case in which Magistrate Norris was accused of having defied a Supreme Court order was that of Mrs. Johanna Rothschild , 622 West 179th Street . Mrs. Rothschild testified that she had sued her husband , Adolph Rothschild , for separation and that Justice Mitchell on March 12 , 1930 , signed an order of separation , awarding her $15 a week alimony and the custody of their child , Blanch , 11 years . The order stipulated that the husband was to be permitted to see his daughter every Sunday , and the child was taken weekly to the home of a friend , Mrs. Meyer , to meet her father . Her husband failed to keep up his alimony payments and disappeared , Mrs. Rothschild continued . She was unable to trace him for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court to compel her husband to pay the stipulated alimony . Before Magistrate Louis B. Brodsky the husband complained that he was not permitted to see his child frequently enough . Magistrate Brodsky advised him to pay up arrears and apply to the Supreme Court for an order modifying the conditions of visitation . Mrs. Rothschild testified that on Nov. 21 , 1930 , her husband had her haled into court on a charge that she did not permit him to visit his daughter frequently enough . The case came before Magistrate Norris , who , according to Mrs. Rothschild , was furnished with a certified copy of ' the separation order from Justice Mitchell . The witness added : " Magistrate Norris said : ' The order Is all right , but we are not in the Supreme Court . " Swears Judge Defied Order . Mrs. Rothschild swore that she had informed Magistrate Norris her husband was $600 in arrears on alimony covering eleven months . She further testified that despite the arrears and the order of Justice Mitchell , Magistrate Norris ruled that her husband need not pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the child more than once a week . Mr. Tibbets introduced the original papers in the case which bore in her own handwriting Magistrate Norris 's endorsement : " If he ca n't take the child out , all payments cease . " Murray J. Bartelstone , 4,318 Thirtyninth Place , Sunnyside , Queens , an attorney who appeared as law clerk for Mrs. Rothschild 's lawyer when the matter was before Magistrate Norris , followed Mrs. Rothschild on the stand and corroborated her story . He said he had presented a certified copy of the Mitchell order to Magistrate Norris and that she had said : " This is the family court and not the Supreme Court . " She Challenges Minutes . When Magistrate Norris took the stand she interrupted Mr. Tibbets 's questioning and asked permission to make a statement . Mr. Seabury requested her to answer the question and then make her statement . " May I ask to be heard on the Rothschild case and have the real testimony head , rather than the recollections of these two witnesses ? " she requested . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not believe the transcript of the minutes introduced at the hearing were the original minutes . " I have read the minutes in the Rothschild case and I have read them previously , and they do not agree with these minutes , " asserted Magistrate Norris . " These are n't the same minutes I read at private hearings . Those were much thicker than these . " " Those are the only minutes I ever have seen , ' said Mr. Tibbetts . " I recall that there were several things in that record that are not on this record , " insisted Magistrate Norris , adding that Mrs. Amelia Friedman , stenographer in the family court , had showed her the Rothschild minutes . " They were different from these , " she again asserted . Mrs. Norris did not recall whether Mrs. Friedman had showed her the records before or after she had been examined on that case at a private hearing in the magistrates ' investigation . " At any rate , there is n't a word in these minutes about a Supreme Court order , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to whether there was more than one version of the minutes , Mr. Tibbetts requested Magistrate Norris to leave the stand and he called Mrs. Friedman , who said she lived at 2,086 Bronx Park East . " Are these the minutes you wrote on the case ? " asked Mr. Tibbetts showing her the transcript . " Yes , these are the minutes I wrote . They are the only minutes I ever wrote in the case , " replied the witness . " Did you ever show Magistrate Norris a copy of the minutes before you delivered them here ? " " Never . Magistrate Norris never saw the minutes until after.Mr . Davidson ( of the investigation staff ) had them . " Insists Minutes Were Correct . Mrs. Friedman was asked if the proceedings in family court were " rather informal " at times , and she admitted that they were , but she would not admit that she might have omitted to record a reference to a Supreme Court order at the Rothschild hearing , nor would she grant that she might not have seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed from counsel for Mrs. Rothschild to Magistrate Norris . " There never was any reference to a Supreme Court order , " said Mrs. Friedman , " because I always made reference to it in my notes whenever a paper was introduced . " Magistrate Norris resumed her testimony and thanked Referee Seabury for his " courtesy " in clearing up the reference to the Supreme Court order . She said she now remembered that the minutes of the three hearings were bound together when Mrs. Friedman showed them to her . Mr. Seabury said the court always was glad to clear up any differences of testimony and asked Magistrate Norris whether she still believed the minutes before her were not the same she had seen betore . " Well , I do n't know of any others , but it still seems to me that that first sheet is a little different , " she replied . " These minutes are now in evidence . They do not show that any Supreme Court order was handed to Judge Norris . We 'll stand on the minutes even if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Seabury ruled . Mr. Tibbetts then took up the Catherine Nolan case , presented at an open hearing last week , which Magistrate Norris had declined to attend voluntarily . The case was reversed on appeal after the defendant had been convicted by Magistrate Norris , and when it came up for retrial Magistrate Norris refused to dismiss the defendant even though new evidence in her favor had been produced . Magistrate Norris maintained that she did right in refusing to dismiss the case because she believed that the District Attorney 's office was prepared to proceed with a second prosecution . After questioning her concerning alterations in the records of the case of Mare de Senna , Mr. Seabury read from the rules of procedure in the magistrates ' court an extract regarding the alteration of records . Magistrate Norris said she did not construe that rule to mean that a magistrate might change a record . Disputes Silbermann on Record . At the morning session , George A. Ingersoll , stenographer in the Jefferson Market Court , testified that he understood that Magistrate Silbermann intended " addenda " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shop-lifting case should be inserted in the record , but that the insertion had never been made . Mr. Ingersoll was examined by Jacob Gould Schurman Jr. , also an assistant counsel to the investigation . Chief Magistrate Corrigan testified that he had called a meeting of all city magistrates in his office on July 24 , 1930 , and that they had agreed to discontinue signing bail bonds in Volstead act cases . The next witness was Charles ' A. Wund , plain-clothes patrolman , whose counsel , Herman L. Falk , obtained a writ of alternative prohibition on Wednesday blocking the examination of Wund on his and his wife 's bank accounts pending argument on the writ on Friday . Mr. Schurman was cautioned by Referee Seabury not to question the witness directly or indirectly concerning his bank accounts . He offered in evidence an assortment of Wund 's contingent expense accounts and questioned him regarding ? arrests and investigations he had made . Mr. Schurman excused Wund and called seven police lieutenants and captains regarding the number of arrests made by Wund . He explained that their examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary . 585 Arrests by Wund Listed . George B. Levy , an attorney attached to the investigation , testified that Wund had made 585 arrests between Jan. 1 , 1928 , and Jan. 31 , 1930 , of which 132 resulted in convictions , 379 in discharges , with 74 still pending . Henry F. Simpson , former Assistant United States Attorney , testified regarding the arrest without warrant and speedy conviction of Margaret . Bodner , 20 years old , an artist 's model . He testified that the girl was not informed that she had been arrested and that she was not permitted to have counsel or to communicate with relatives . Magistrate Norris sent her to Florence Crittenton Home after finding her guilty , pending investigation of her character which , according to Mr. Simpson , was found to be excellent . After repeated adjournments the case of the girl was dismissed . The girl is now married and living in Europe , according to Mr. Simpson , who acted as her lawyer in the case . Date and court records introduced showed she had been arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solom on complaint of Deaconess Sickles of a Methodist church in West Fourth Street , who informed the policewoman the girl was living with a man named " Edward Lancelot . " Stati : tical evidence to show Judge Norris 's severity in vagrancy cases was then Introduced . Mr. Schurman examined Patrolman Richard B. Ganly and William T. Sterling , an accountant employed by the investigation , concerning bank deposits by Ganly and his wife between February , 1925 , and Decem7 ber , 1930 , totaling $13,128 . Evidence was introduced regarding the bank accounts of Patrolman Harry Singer , who was not present . The hearing was adjourned until 30:30 o'clock this morning . Levey Is Freed on Bail . Harry Levey , former police informant , was released in $2,500 bail by Justice Aaron J. Levy . He had been in the Tombs since Jan. 26 , when he returned from New Orleans to face an indictment charging conspiracy . Assistant District Attorney James J. Daly began the presentation of evidence to the grand jury against an ttorney mentioned in open hearings of the magistrates ' investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John C. Weston . former prosecutor in the Women 's Court , whose testimony before Referee Seabury named a score of lawyers from whom he asserted he had received money to " throw " cases , was a witness before the grand jury for the first time . Other witnesses included a clerk and a stenographer in the Women 's Court . District Attorney Crain , however , denied that a lawyer was involved in the case concerning which Mr. Weston testified . ROOSEVELT AWAITING REPLY . Has Had No Word From Lazansky on Widening Inquiry , He Says . Special to The New York Times . ALBANY , Feb. 26 . ? Governor Roosevelt said today that he had received no response as yet from the Appellate Division of the Second Department regarding his communication suggesting the possible need of an investigation of magistrates ' courts in Brooklyn , Queens and Richmond . Asked about reports that Presiding Justice Lazansky had sent him a letter giving the courts in the department a clean bill of health and asserting that no investigation was necessary , Mr. Roosevelt replied : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Governor also denied that the visit of Mr. and MN . John H. McCooey to the Executive Mansion tonight had any connection with the proposed Brooklyn inquiry . The Governor said that the Kings Democratic leader and Mrs. McCooey were dinner guests at least once a year at the mansion , and that the visit was purely social . Mr. and Mrs. John F. Curry were guests at dinner about a month ago . The Governor said that Mr. and Mrs. McCooey probably would remain over night .                     