@@697808

txt Alfonso today sends a conciliatory message to ha country advising against any conspiracy in his behalf , and urging all Monarchist sympathizers to work in an oven honest manner . This first personal declaration made by the former King since he left Spain was cable here by Marquis Lucas de Tenn , proprietor of the newspaper ABC . " During the last years of my reign , " Alfonso Is reported to have said ; " eVerY kind of difficulty was put in tine way of the Government . This made my task extraordinarily difficult . " He denied that the document he left behind on his departure was intended to incite the people to civil war , as has been suggested . " I would never do anything to make the people rebel against the new Government or its agents . I do not wish the Monarchists to work for a military rebellion in my name . I have heard of many officers who have refused to promise loyalty to the Republic , but I have personally done all I could dissuade them from their attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible for the Monarchy to defend itself by force of arms , and he left Spain respecting the will of the people. , expressed at the election . He did not abdicate because his right to the crown of Spain " belongs to my ancestors and my descendants , " and he can only renounce them when they are challenged by national sovereignty represented by the Cortes . The former King wished Monarchists to know that he desires no difficulties to be caused for the now Government . All propaganda by Monarchists as a party should be open and above board and they should abide by the law In every way . Alfonso has no reproaches for any one and praises the work of some of the present Ministers whose attacks on him were most violent . The statement has produced an excellent effect by dissipating the feeling that Spanish Monarchists are anxious to pro-yoke difficulties if Alfonso shows an eagerness to recover the throne . Decision of the Government to apply a law allowing one deputy to each 50,000 inhabitants will doubtless have the effect of swelling the Republican majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size of the voting district had not been revised for many years , with the result that nearly all the large towns were under-represented , while agricultural districts had one representative for every 15,000 or 20,000 inhabitants , It is announced that women and clergy may be returned as candidates for Parliament , although no suggestions are made that women will have the vote . That the whole Spanish army has not sufficient war material and equipment to outfit one complete division is maintained by the War Minister , Manuel Azana , in declarations made to El Sol . He said he hoped to make a reduction of 05,000,000 pesetas , about $7,000,000 , during the present year in the expenditures of the army , which he wishes to be less costly and yet more efficient . The War Minister said one of his first acts on taking office was to destroy the records kept by the War Ministry of the political sympathies of all officers . A complete file system had been built up and many officers of greatl merit were banished to inferior positions merely because they were itpersonanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he insisted , ' the army will have no opportunity to mix in politics , but will concentrate on its professional duties . BARCELONA , Spain , May 5 ( i11 ? The Catalonian Government decided yesterday to hold elections for municipal offices and for the provincial assembly on May 24 . The new provincial assembly , when It is chosen , will be asked to draw up a Catalonian constitution .                     