@@702955

txt An announcement on Friday destroys the expectation that the trust-blurting days of President Theodore Roosevelt will be repeated during the special session of Congress . A new antitrust law is not yet ready fot submission . Whether the delay is due to difficulties in framing wise recommendations or the current need to encourage private enterprise is not quite clear . But let , there be no mistake  --  the delay will serve to sharpen this 50-year-old problem . NRA was one method of tackling private trusts . It tried to wind up the old fight by encouraging all industries , trades and businesses to combine into government-supervised monopolies . Supervision was insured through government . representation on every code authority . I say " insured . " but , in fact , supervision in the main was a minor element . in NRA industry , and the last state became worse than the first . Naturally , business in general liked the NRA system , Indeed , since the invalidation of the NIRA , It has tried to restore a kind of monopolism by the back door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now and then an item comes out of Washington reporting identical bids on government contracts . Recently there was the case of rubber tires . Fourteen rubber companies submitted Identical bids , and . in consequence , the Treasury called in a mail-order house , and gave the order to it . A A A The fair trade state laws providing for uniformity of retail prices are the thin edge of the wedge of Monopoly . A correspondent tells me that in New York retail price maintenance has resulted in an ? understanding over prices among the typewriter concerns . The folly of these acts will be demonstrated in case the present trade recession continues . The way back to recovery is frustrated when certain prices are rigid . Those prices create a situation in which those people whose incomes come out of free prices are robbed of purchasing power . In 1030.33 the great example of this was the inability of the . farm population to buy implements . Farm prices came down : farm implements stayed upit and this spelled real depression . ? ? The pressure to sell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Alreaily ' I hear that in some goods the laws are being winked at . Such a practice follows a pattern made familiar under NRA procedure . " Buy this car and I 'll put in a radio for nothing . " " Of course , I 'm looking after my friends , but do n't tell Bill Smith around the corner . " Some radio sets are being sold right and left without regard for the fair trade laws . Of course , the price is there on the tag , but a little higgling in Oriental fashion will enable the shrewd customer to get some sets at a lower net price , though the result will be achieved by some kind of subterfuge , Yetthe proponents of these laws contended that they would put an end to Watling ! " One price " would be Installed not only between retailer and customer , but between wholesaler and retailer and between manufacturer and wholesaler ! The effect has been Just the reverse . The social effects of this law evasion and this premium on subterfuge would make another chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These are the price rigidities which are maintained till they break clown of their own weight . Such rigidities not only make recovery out of recession difficult . They are of a piece with monopoly in robbing the customer of his sovereignty over prices . And this is the only meaning of the system of free competition to which so much lip service is now being given . A A A At this time , when the newspapers have lent themselves to the crusade against faulty taxation and overall regulation , It is appropriate that business itself should be asked to cleats house . A call to do so came out of the recent convention of the National Foreign Trade Council . It was uttered by Orseme Howard , of Oeneral Motors . He inveighed against the type of trade association , too common in America , which sought only to further its own interests . Several days later Senator John E. Miller ( 13 ) of Arkansas , coauthor of the enabling federal law for the fair trade acts , came out with a similar admonition . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of monopoly must be carefully drawn up . Probably the delay may be beneficial . The interval might be employed in discussing whether the breaking-up method that Mr. Roosevelt decided upon after he was deterred from the NRA control method is wisest . as a general proposition . A case for the breaking-up method is given in the important annual report of the Federal Trade Commission , This report also outlines a new technique for accomplishing it . But there are good monopolies and bad . There are monopolies that are such a monument to the co-operative genius of mankind that society would suffer if they were shattered . I say this in spite of Mr. Justice Brandeis 's denunciation of the " curse of ft- . : less . " In fact , I prefer a monopoly to a combination , because a monopoly In the nature of things is out In the open , and dare n't take undue advantage of its position . What Is wanted Is consumer protection in an economic world riddled with monopolistic forms . How this has been effected in England was recounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monopoly , namely , London 's transport system . The method is worthy of study aide by side with the FTC report while Attorney General Cummings and his aides are preparing their recommendations , '                     