@@699024

txt President Hoover hurriedly put the finishing touches today to the speech with which he will accept again the Republican nomination for President , while party leaders coming for the notification ceremonies gathered at the capital . Mr. Hoover 's . work on the campaign keynote was interrupted time niter time by visits of party aides : rom all sections , bearing tidings either of " sure success " or " changing sentiment " in his favor . These the President received with high pleasure ; they added speed and vigor to his pen . Th-3 notification tomorrow night at Const'tut:on Hall , furnishing the occasion for the first campaign utterances of the President , will not only initiate the Republican quest for votes . Finance Officials of the national committee are eager to start gathering hinds for the party coffers , all open ' solicitation having been held . in Check until this occasion is over . More than 4,000 persons gre expected to attend the notification ceremony . The chief guests will be the notification committee of fifty-four , consisting of h. member from each State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , chairman of the Chicago Convention . Others in the 4,000 will include party officials and leaders from over the nation , members of the administration and the diplomatic corps , Republican Senators and Representatives and their wives , and as many supporters of the Republican cause as can be crowded into the hall . The notification committee , party officials , Cabinet members , diplomats and Republican Congressmen ? numbering in . all about 500 ? will be guests of President and Mrs. Hoover tomorrow afternoon at a buffet luncheon and garden party on the south lawn of the White House . Hoover Revises Speech Sharply . The notification ceremony will bepin promptly at 9 P. M. , when Everett Sanders , chairman of the national committee , will call the meeting to order . Bishop James E. Freeman of Washington will offer the invocation . The national chairman will then present Representative Snell , who will formally notify Mr. Hoover of his nomination . The President will reply with his acceptance speech ; it will be just four years and a day since he delivered his first acceptance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The benediction by the Rev. W. Coleman Nevils , president of Georgetown University , will conclude the ceremony . Besides President Hoover those on the stage will be Representative Snell , Chairman Sanders , Senator Dickinson , temporary chairman of the national convention ; members of the Cabinet and their wives , officers of the national committee and their wives , the President 's secretaries , the President 's aides , the members of the District of Columbia reception committee , Dr. Freeman , Dr. Nevils and Rabbi Abram Simon and Mrs. Simon . Seated immediately in front of the stage will be the members of the Republican National Committee and State chairmen . In the boxes , which flank the well of the auditorium will be Mrs. Hoover and guests ; Mrs. Edward Everett Gann and guests ; the families and guests of members of the Cabinet and officers of'the national committee , and members of the diplomatic corps . An elaborate radio hook-up , worldwide in its reach , was being perfected today by the two broadcasting companies , and party leaders were arranging radio parties in drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in private homes throughout the country , according to word reaching the Washington headquarters . Proofs of the first draft of Mr. Hoover 's 6,000-word speech have already been submited to the President , but they were said today to have been penciled over almost beyond recognition . President Reads Snell Speech . The President took time today to read the speech in which Mr. Snell will tender the nomination . The New Yorker , at the time , told the President conditions were favorable to his candidacy in the Roosevelt State . Chairman Sanders was among the arrivals , and paid his respects to the candidate . Mr. Sanders said the campaign had not been discussed much , but the party 's task had been made much easier through the successful operation of the reconstruction program recommended by the President . He appeared optimistic . Representative Ramseyer of Iowa , head of the speakers ' bureau of the Chicago headquarters , gave the President an encouraging report , and John G. Sargent , former Attorney General , assured Mr. Hoover that Vermont would give him a safe majority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Allen of Kansas called late in the afternoon , and on leaving laughingly remarked : " Well , fellows , I have it on good authority that the President will be notified of his nomination tomorrow and I have every assurance that he will accept . " Among others who came to the Capitol was Henry Field , who defeated Senator Brookhart for the Republican Senatorial nomination in Iowa . The so-called " seed merchantradio man , " , in company with Harrison E. Spangler , National Committeeman from Iowa , visited the President , Mr. Field telling him that business and confidence were picking up in Iowa , that the State had recovered more than $300,000,000 in the last six weeks from the rise of commodity prices , and that the people were in a much better frame of mind regarding Mr. Hoover and the party . George Akerson , former secretary to Mr. HO-over , had luncheon at the White House .                     