@@698277

txt Mahatma Gandhi intends staying in England BO long as the work of the Round Table Conference keeps him here . This was the reply he made yesterday in answer to n query as to whether he proposed to return to India forthwith , in view of the decision reached by ( ho working committee at Bombay that his attendance at the conference now appeared to be unnecessary , Mr. Gandhi was obset ving his customary day of silence , but with pen and paper he answered my question . Ile had just returned from week-end Hip to Oxford , where he 1111 ( 1 been the guest of the master of WIWI in the peaceful atmosphere of the university town where ho went to ponder questions connected with the Round Table . Ile indicated lie has received no message from the working committee of the All-India National Congress advising his ' dun to India , although the press reports such a message lied been sent to him . However , in anticipation of receiving such a message , Mr. Gandhi stated : " I feel it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Round Table work keeps me here . " He has , however , decided to cancel lecturing engagements in Europe in deference to Congress 's wishes . Desire of the working committee that Mr. Gandhi should return Is taken to mean that Congress leaders in India are dissatsided with progress of the Congress 's case at the conference . It is widely recognized hero Mr. Gandhi 's share in the conference has has been confined to putting forth the Congress case . In other words Congress 's demand for complete independence , while not ignored , has not materially altered plans previously laid down that the new constitution should be along federal lines . In this regard those close to Mr. Gandhi me Inclined to think he will tcad complete independence Into the federation , so far at least as thltish India Is concerned . It is generally felt that the conference enters a critical stage this week , when the Prime Minister convenes the minorities committee . No agreement has yet been leeched on the Hindu-Moslem controversy , and the situation has to sonic extent been aggravated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other smaller minorities . This pact , of course , only deepens the problem , since it was definitely formed to counteract demands of the Hindus .                     