@@703069

txt A final decision on a thoroughgoing Congressional investigation of alleged monopolies probably will hinge upon the ability of New Deal advisers to present , in advance , specific evidence placing responsibility for the current recession upon the so-called " autocratic " minorities in business and industry . Unless a good case can be worked up , the investigation idea in all probability will be abandoned , since a number of high ofircTals are known to feel that failure of such an inquiry definitely to establish certain segments of business and industry as the " goat " would leave the Administration " holding the bag . " These New Dealers are anxious to avoid what might be an embarrassing backfire . The Senate committee on unemployment and relief , headed by Senator Byrnes. is seeking possible causes for the business recession . but making no attempt to fix its responsibility . Information obtained by the group , which consists largely of Senators usually counted among the conservatives rather than New Deal crusaders , will be an important factor in determining whether a more far-reaching inquiry will be ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in business and industry to make suggestions for combating the slump . Congress Looks for Message Congress is looking to the forthcoming message from President Roosevelt to detail plans of the Administration to strengthen the anti-trust laws . Thus far , the Democratic leaders in House and Senate are in the dark as to the recommendations which will be made . In his Jackson day address on Saturday night , the President again lashed out at minorities and utility holding companies . His remarks indicated that important business legislation will be recommended in his special anti-trust message , but gave . no definite indication as to just whirr . cerbe . e .. - cpeCted . Like- his opening message to Congress , the President 's address carried a conciliatory note for the majority of business and industry . Cooperation with the Administration was invited . " The ' White House door is open to all our citizens who come offering to help eradicate the evils that flow from undue concentration of economic opwer or unfair business practices ? who offer to do all that is possible by cooperative endeavor and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President said . Wage-Hour Bill Developments Developments this week probably will give a definite indication as to what action will be taken on the House side of the Capitol to revive the controversial wage-hour issue . The labor committee is scheduled to meet on Wednesday and determine at that time whether it will hold general hearings before attempting to work out a new measure . Another part of the Administration 's legislative program  --  tax revision ? is expected to advance another step this week . The special Ways and Means subcommittee on tax revision plans to submit recommendations to the full committee for major modifications in the undistributed profits and capital gains taxes , the two levies most complained of by business . If the committee makes its report before the end of the week , public hearings probably will begin within the next 10 days . Today , the House will take up the Ludlow resolution for a constitutional amendment requiring a referendum before a declaration of war . The Democratit leadership hopes to defeat the measure , although a majority of House members signed a petition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , Administration leaders hgpe to break the Southern filibuster against the anti-lynching bill . Night sessions probably will be held to speed the bill to a vote . Conferences will continue on the . new farm bill . Indications are that an agreement between the two houses on this measure m'iy not be reached for another 10 days or two weeks . The housing bill also is in conference .                     