@@696986

txt Renewing its efforts to improve and speed the machinery of justice , the State Crime Commission today proposed six bills and one resolution to amend the State Constitution . The amendment would permit optional waiver of jury trial by defendants for trial by judges . The most important of the other measures are designed to stop perjury In the courts , grant the presiding judge the right of comment on testimony and discourage the practice of defendants In not taking the witness stand . The measures have been dropped in the bill boxes by Senator Caleb H. Baumes of Orange and Assemblyman Burton D. Esmond of Saratoga , both Republicans and chairman and vice chairman , respectively , of the Crime commission . They will be read in the Legislature on Monday . Although most of the proposals have been sponsored in previous years and failed to win majority approval in the two houses , a special drive will be launched at this session in behalf of the two perjury bills as a result of the trial of George A. for the murder of Arnold Rothstein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends of the defendant to testify and the changes in their stories brought vigorous protest from the former District Attorney , Joab H. Banton , against the existing trial procedure . Other District Attorneys joined him in his demands for a reform . In line with his suggestions one of the bills would allow a prosecutor to impeach the testimony of his own witnesses . The defendant would have the same right as to defense witnesses . Would Deal With Hostile Witnesses . " There are so many cases , " the Crime Commission states , " where the District Attorney is met with a witness who upon taking the stand testifies contrary to his previous statements or testimony . The District Attorney is yet bound by the estimony since the witness was called to the stand by him . Usually such persons are of undependable and irresponsible character . The prosecutor should not be compelled to accept the testimony without being allowed to cross-examine such a person as he would a hostile witness . He should be permitted to show by previous statements that the witness had made contradictions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill would define a new crime of " false swearing , " which would be a misdemeanor triable in Special Sessions without an indictment . Unlike the procedure in perjury prosecutions , the materiality of the perjured testimony would not have to be proved but simply the falsity of statements made . Perjury , termed by the commission " a practice all too prevalent , in the larger cities , " is a felony now and necessarily prosecuted by indictment and jury trial . Because of the delays involved in such a prosecution and the size of the , penalty , the District Attorneys have found it difficult to obtain convictions . By its proposal the Crime Commission hopes to make conviction for false statement easier without ' changing the perjury law . At the same time there would be . no risk of having a bill declared uncon- stitutional which simply changed the status of perjury from a felony to a misdemeanor . Urges Comment by Judges . Urging the bill to grant judges the right to comment on testimony and the character of witnesses , the commission says : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the judge the right of the control of a trial which was enjoyed at common law . The modern criminal trial in the States has quite largely developed into a battle of wits between the opposing attorneys , with the judge officiating as little more than a referee and not permitted to assist in the de , velopment of the true facts . " The defendant , in his anxiety to be set free , is not interested in how many or what tricks his attorney may employ so long as the desired freedom is attained . The interest of the public is a fair ascertainment of the truth without tricks , falsehoods or camouflage of any sort . We conceive it to be the duty of every judge to so conduct a trial that the truth be developed and the facts presented to the jury with the law relating to them clearly stated in an understandable way to assist the jury in its determination . " A fourth bill would permit the Die- trict Attorney to comment on the failure of a defendant to take the stand . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CRIME SILLS him . Defendant May Now Sit Mute . " The construction put upon the present wording of the section by the courts , " the commission says , " has turned a well-meant statute into a bulwark of defense for the guilty defendant . He may sit mute in the court room , with full knowledge of all the particulars of the crime with which he is charged , and not be compelled to take the stand and tell the truth about the affair , and the attention of the jury can not be called to the fact that he has not taken the stand in his own defense . Nothing more out of harmony with the modern conception of the administration of justice can be imagined than the situation which has grown up in this regard . " The object of the constitutional amendment allowing waiver of jury trial by a defendant would be to - speed the disposition of cases . There are many times when the accused as well - as the prosecution desires to hasten the trial or prefer consideration by a judge or judges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures , one would provide for police training schools under supervision of the State Education Department , promotion depending on ability to pawl the requirements of the schools . The last bill would insure that when two or more sentences are imposed upon a defendant they shall be served consecutively .                     