@@699847

txt Congress today was rapidly clearing up the tag ends of its almost completed legislative program with the objective of bringing the special session to a close when it adjourns tonight . The way to a final completion of the gigantic task which President Roosevelt set his drat national legislature was cleared at 11 o'clock last night , when Administration forces , at the end of a tedious and bitter and all-day session , overwhelmed opposition and drove the great industrial control bill through to passage by a vote of 57 to 24 . Although differences between Senate and House bilis were still to be ironed out In conference at a late hour this morning , this was a mere matter of smoothing off rough edges and applying the final polish . The Senate 's action last night , to all intents and purposes , placed the keystone in the President 's great arch ' of economic recovery legislation and virtually concluded the rOle of Congress In the Initial scene of the great reconstruction drama . When the bill reaches the White House , as it probably will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. Roosevelt the most powerful Instrument over forged by Congressnot only for combating adverse economic forces , but also for introducing a new era Into the American industrial and economic structure . When he signs the bill , the rifle of Congress will have ceased and It will be up to the President to use what has been given him . The bill will go to the President substantially In the form which he first sent to Congress . Dozens of minor amendments were written into it during the closing hours of yesterday 's debate which it was commonly agreed would be thrown out In conference . Managers for the bill complacently permitted any senator with pet home industry or publics interest to get some sort of permissive benefit into the bill as an excuse for a final vote in its favor . In fact , they permitted amendments to " authorize " the President In his titscretion to expend public works Money on almost anything , until Senator Park Trammell ( 13.1 of Florida proposed amusement parks , Prom then on they became somewhat more discriminating . Most will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of major changes which would have threatened the whole bill , Administration supporters formed a solid phalanx around it , and It remained untouched . The sales tax and currency inflation were both rejected by large majorities , as was also an attempt to clutter up the bill with the entirely irrelevant St. Lawrence waterway question . The sales tax , proposed jointly by Senator David Reed ( R. ) of Pennsylvania , David I. Walsh ( D. ) of Massachusetts and Harry F. Byrd ( D.1 of Virginia , as a substitute for the excise and nuisance taxes in the present law . , vas rejected 57 to 28 . Just previously Senator Burton K. Wheeler ( D. ) of Montana , proposed that the $3,300,000.000 needed for the public works program be secured by printing of currency instead of by a bond issue . His motion was lost by 51 to 29 . Senator Robert M. La Follette ( R. ) of Wisconsin . proposed to . attach a bill giving New York State preferential water power rights In the International Rapids after the St. Law , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 55 to 20 . The effect of the recent Morgan investigations by the Senate Banking Committee was sharply revealed in two startling amendments which were inserted by substantial majorities . One was on a motion by Senator La Follette to make federal income tax records public property for the first time In many years , which carried by 55 to 27 . The second wau a proposal by Senator Bennett Champ Clark ( D. , of Missouri , to bring an end to all tax-exempt securities . It was adopted , 45 to 97 . Despite the majorities , it is expected that the conferees will reject both . The closing day of debate was distinguished rather by " pork grabbing " than by oratory . All day long there was a steady stream of amendments to the so-called " pork section " as everyone , realising the bill would pass , sought to secure some special privilege for his home state . The oratorical fireworks which distinguished the previous day 's debate were lacking , oven Senator Huey Long ( D. ) of Louisiana , finally melting'into the role of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats answered against the bill with 20 Republicans . Senator Long was one of those five , but changed his vote at the last moment . The four who stuck on the opposite side of the fence were Senators Clark of Missouri , Tom Connally of Texas , Thomas Gore of Oklahoma , and Millard Tydinge of Maryland .                     