@@704346

txt A moral embargo that is expected to shut off completely the-gale or export to Russia of United States airplanes , engines , spare parts , bombs and other equipment essential for attackingcivilians and open cities and towns from the air was declared by President Roosevelt today . In the light of the successful embargo of this type applied against Japan in June , 1938 , it is expected to be complete . The embargo was in the form of a public statement issued by the President after a conference with Secretary of State Cordell Hull calling for a cessation of such business . Although Russia was not mentioned by name , any more than Japan was a year and a half ago , Mr. Roosevelt branded the Soviet Government by declaring that the embargo was directed to nations " obviously guilty " of such " unprovoked bombings " as had occurred . TEXT OF THE STATEMENT The text of the President 's statement follows : The American Government and the American people have for some time pursued a policy of wholeheartedly condemning the unprovoked bombing and machine-gunning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the end that such unprovoked bombing shall not be given material encouragement in the light of recent recurrence of such acts , that American manufacturers and exporters of airplanes , aeronautical equipment and materials essential to airplane manufacture will bear this fact in mind before negotiating contracts for the exportation of these articles to nations obviously guilty of such unprovoked bombing . Additional emphasis was given to the statement from the fact that it was not strictly required , inasmuch as the one issued in the case of Japan in 1938 would cover Russia in the present circumstances . The fact that it was issued meant that the President wished to make the direct charge against the Soviet , so there could be no misunderstanding . Coupled with this attitude was a curt dismissal of the disclaimer of Premier Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff in his reply to Mr. Roosevelt 's appeal for Russia to refrain from indiscriminate bombings . The exchange could only be regarded as giving the lie , and in none too thinly veiled diplomatic language . Mr. Molotoff in the note he is reported by the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador in Moscow , said Russia had only bombed airports and so President Roosevelt 's appeal was " pointless . " The United States , he contended , " five thousand miles away , can not see this but it is a fact . " The White House did not await the official transmission of the text before replying to that . There was the , President 's statement charging " obvious guilt . " And in an oral statement , Stephen T. Early , Presidential secretary , rejected the reply out of hand . " I do n't see that it constitutes an answer , " he said . " You might ask the dead civilians , the injured and their widows and orphans how pointless it is or has been . " As for the Soviet Premier 's contention that the United States could not see what was taking place in Finland , a sufficient answer was found in an eyewitness account of indiscriminate bombings in Helsinki received by the State Department this morning from H. F. Arthur Schoenfeld , the United States Minister to Finland . His eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was with his report in hand that the President proceeded to issue his statement . Envoy Saw Bombings The Minister 's report was summarized and made public by the State Department as follows ; " Mr. Schoenfeld reported that forty-two persons were known to have been killed in Helsinki by the air raids on Nov. 30 . The casualties were fewer on Dec. 1 . During the air raid of fifteen planes which flew in the immediate vicinity of the legation offices in Helsinki about 3 o'clock on the afternoon of Nov. 30 , Minister Schoenfeld personally witnessed indiscriminate bombing and casualties were seen by members of the legation . Buildings within three blocks of the legation burned . " The city gas plant buildings were demolished but the main tank was apparently intact and empty . An attack on the water reservoir on Dec. 1 failed . " There were three heavy air raids on Helsinki on Dec. 1 . " Minister Schoenfeld was in Helsinki last night , but expected to return immediately to Grankulla where temporary legation offices have been established through a fairly effective blackout . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemnation of Russia in a statement yesterday . Whether it will be followed by other measures expressive of this government 's attitude was not revealed . The whole question is under consideration and will continue to be studied in the light of events as they unfold . For the present all that officials would say was that no new major move was in prospect for the next few hours . Gives Up Week-End Plans Mr. Roosevelt abandoned his trip to the Army and Navy football game and the week-end he had planned for Hyde Park . He spent the day in consultation with Secretary Hull and consideration of reports . He remained in the Executive Mansion , and his meeting with Mr. Hull was his only scheduled appointment . Although not announced formally , the War and Navy Departments had already decided not to grant clearance to military planes destined for Russia . The action of Mr. Roosevelt today makes this doubly certain . It will have the immediate effect of blocking efforts representatives of the Soviet Government have recently been making in this country to arrange for orders of military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in particular , is covered by the President 's statement . Mr. Early in commenting on it called attention " to the fine spirit of cooperation given by American manufacturers and exporters to the government 's policy as outlined in the statement . " " I do n't believe that the government of the United States assumes for a moment , " he added , " that the manufacturers of airplanes , engines and bombs want to sell for that purpose . They do n't want to manufacture for that purpose ; they do n't want to sell for that purpose . " It the embargo is applicable to any country that bombs civilian populations , but you have to bear in mind some line of distinction as to who is the aggressor or as to whether the aggressor made the first use of bombing . In other words , you can not deprive some people of the only defense they have against that . Airplanes can be used defensively . " This was an assurance that United States planes can be sold to Finland , if such an asusrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Finland has replied orally to Mr. Schoenfeld in response to the President 's appeal against bombing , and was preparing a formal reply . This will be favorable . The American Red Cross cabled $10,000 today to the British Red Cross in London for the purchase of medical supplies for the Finnish Red Cross . They will be sent by airplane . Representative Harold Knutson of Minnesota , in a statement issued through the Republican National Committee , today declared that " no offer of good offices or pious expressions of sympathy will enable the Roosevelt Administration to escape its share of responsibility for the tragedy that has overtaken Finland . " The Administration , he charged , by recognizing Soviet Russia in 1933 , had " measurably strengthened the hand of the dictator Joseph Stalin . " " With the prestige of the United States as its close friend , " he added , " Soviet Russia became stronger and more arrogant in the affairs of Europe . We gave the Communist bear respectability by accepting it as one of the democratic nations . " Mr. Knutson charged also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of recognition to refrain from spreading propaganda in the United States and interfering in internal affairs here . He pointed to Earl Browder , secretary general of the Communist party , and said that the Administration did not " lift a finger to restrain his pernicious and subversive activities until " its hand was forced . " Moratorium Suggested WASHINGTON , Dec. 2 GP  --  Expressions of sympathy for Finland continued in the capital today , and some Senators suggested that Congress declare a moratorium on that nation 's debt payments to the United States . The republic has been the only European country to keep up its war-debt payments . It has indicated that it intends to meet the regular installment of $243,693 , due Dec. 16 . Finland 's aggregate debt to the United States is $8,233,157 . Manufacturers to Comply LOS ANGELES , Dec. 2 ( r ) ) ? Southern California airplane manufacturers indicated today they would follow President Roosevelt 's suggestion and declare a " moral embargo " on all Russian orders for planes and materials . " The Douglas company always did and always will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the government in the matter of foreign sales , both commercial and military , " said a company Statement . Lockheed , North American and other airplane firms , som , of which do a strictly export business , - indicated they also would follow the government 's wishes .                     