@@699982

txt Relief for home owners threatened with loss of their homes through foreclosure was urged by Governor Lehman in a message sent today to the Legislature . The Governor recommended enactment of a law establishing a moratorium on foreclosure proceedings for a period ending on May 1 , 1934 , In cases where such proceedings were brought by reason of non-payment of principal . The Governor asked for other mortgage relief measures . One would limit the amount of deficiency judgment against defaulting mortgagors . In this connection the Governor severely condemned . what he characterized as a common practice of mortgagees obtaining such judgments in excessive amounts . He proposed vesting the Supreme Court with authority to fix a fair value of properties involved and to allow judgment only for the difference between the amount of the mortgage bond and that realized from the forced sale . Another law recommended would make securities of the Federal Home Owners Mortgage Loan Corporation legal investments for banks and insurance companies and also for trugt funds . The Governor also recommended that banks , insurance companies and trustees be authorized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation and that the power already vested in banks to invest in farm loan bonds be extended to insurance companies . Refuses Wider Moratorium . Governor Lehman expressed a conviction that these measures would go a long way to aid in the refinancing of mortgages , contemplated by the Federal Home Owners Loan Act . Machinery for the operation of that act in this State is now being established . The Governor 's recommendations do not go far enough to meet the demands of the Consolidated Home Owners Mortgage Committee and a group of small landlords who appeared before him yesterday to plead for mortgage relief . ' Macy had urged that a moratorium be de- , Glared against foreclosures on the ground of failure to pay interel- : and taxes . The Governor said he could not at this time see his way clear to recommend any general moratorium in such cases . " The effect of such a moratorium on millions of our people , " Governor Lehman said , " would be very  - -  great , the extent of which can not possibly be foreseen . " If interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ -s and insurance ccfmpanies , Which are the custodians of the savings of many millions of people . " There are many thousands of people of limited means whose sole livelihood is the income from one or more mortgages . Many hundreds of thousandz of our citizens have their savings invested in guaranteed mortgage certificates . They might suddenly be faced with the complete deprivation of all income if any general moratorium were declared which would excuse the nonpayment of interest . " Tax Situation Is Cited . Discussing the taxation phase , the Governor said that any general moratorium on taxes would render worse the already involved financial situation of municipalities throughout the State . In his message Governor Lehman urged protection of holders of guaranteed mortgage certificates . Such securities , according to statistics which the Governor has studied , are most extensively held as investments in this State . He asked , therefore , a provision holding guarantors of payment of principal or any instalment of a mortgage to their liability , but giving them also the benefit of the moratorium . Uhder the terms of the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property occupied by the individual owner himself or to two-family houses occupied by himself and not more than one other family . Itis recommendations in relation to deficiency judgments , however , were made applicable to all classes of realty . Senator Joseph D. Nunan of Queens , sponsor at the regular session of a mortgage moratorium bill which was passed in the upper house but was.beaten in the Assembly , reintroduced this measure today with changes to make it comply with the time limit for the moratorium fixed in the message . Supplementary measures , however , will be required to carry out the other recommendations . /t was announced that a public hearing on the Nunan Moratorium Bill would be held jointly before the Judiciary Committees . of the Senate and Assembly on Tuesday afternoon . So far no opposition to the Governor 's recommendations has been heard ats the Capitol , and passage of the Nunan bill was predicted . That some opposition will materialize , however , is regarded as certain , though Republican leaders praised the moderation of the message . REALTORS ASK WIDER SCOPE They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed the hope that Governor Lehman 's proposal yesterday for a mortgage foreclosure moratorium would be broadened considerably in scope by the time that emergency legislation reaches its final form in the special session of the State Legislature . J. W. Mersereau , executive vicepresident of the Real Estate Board of New York , said that his organization favored a foreclosure stay which would cover all classes of property . " We are not opposed to the suggestion for a moratorium on ... farms and homes , " he explained , " but we believe that any such moratorium ** should include office ' and apartment buildings and all other types of realty . " To cover the entire situation , he said , legislation is being prepared for introduction if the scope of Governor Lehman 's message Is found to be broad enough to permit consideration of such a measure at this special session . Following its pilgrimage to Albany on Tuesday to make a plea to Mr. Lehman for an extensive moratorium for home owners , the Consolidated Home Owners Mortgage Committee yesterday through J. Charles Laue , executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that his proposal would leave a great many needy property owners without relief . The committee called representatives of home owners ' and taxpayers ' associations of the metropolitan district to meet in the offices of former Congressman Fiorello H. La Guardia , 1,450 Broadway , at 4 P. M. today " for an emergency conference to see what further steps may be taken to remedy the disstressing situation . " " Our representatives in Albany reported to us that all the bills they had planned to introduce for genuine mortgage relief have had to be scrapped because the Governor 's message is so Inadequate that the average home owner can get no benefit from it , " Mr. Laue said . " If the legislation provides relief only for those who are up to date in their tax and interest payments , it can not possibly be of value to the more than three-fourths of the 2,000,000 home owners in the New York City district who are in arrears or about to be in arrears . " Mr. Laue announced that his organization had established connections with ' groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the movement for relief State-wide . He said that the mortgage situation was " by no means a metropolitan problem . "                     