@@701091

txt The threatened strike of power and light employes throughout the city appeared imminent last night as a result of the failure of conferences to bring about an adjustment between the Brotherhood of Utility Employes and the Brooklyn and New York Edison and United Electric Light and Power Companies . Efforts of the Regional Labor Board to avert the strike failed to produce any positive results , although the board let it be known it would continue its mediation . Negotiations between the Brooklyn Edison Company and the brotherhood reached an impasse last night , when union officials left the office of Mrs. Elinore M. Herrick , director of the Regional Labor Board , 45 Broadway , after a stormy conference lasting several hours . They issued a " final ultimatum " that unless the company acceded to the union 's demands by 10:30 A. M. today , the strike would go into effect . Later James E. Toher , national labor representative of the Brotherhood of Utility Employes , said that : he notice given by the unioi. was not in the nature of an ultimatum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company by 10:30 A. M. The date for the strike has not been set . Move tor Compromise Fails . Before conferring with the union officials on the dispute involving the Brooklyn Edison Company , Mrs. Herrick and Jeremiah T. Mahoney , chairman of the Regional Labo . Board , met with officials of the company , but - ere unable to develop a compromise acceptable to both sides . Previous to the Regional Labor Board 's conferences on the situation as it concerns the Brooklyn Edison Company , union officials conferred with representatives of the New York Edison and United Electric Light and Power Com ' panies , but without any results . " We are flat on our backs , " a union official said as th , , delegation of the Brooklyn brotherhood left the office of the Regional Labor Board last night . " We have given an ultimatum that unless the Brooklyn Edison Company concedes to all our demands by 10:30 A. M. tomorrow , it 's all off . " Asked if this meant an immediate strike , the union spokesman replied curtly , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be submitted again to the union membership , which has voted for a strike . Mrs. Herrick , who was noncommittal , did not appear optimistic as to the possibility of averting the walkout , and the labor men appeared grim and determined . The main issue in the dispute is union recognition and collective bargaining . All the companies involved have for years maintained employe representation systems or company unions . The Brotherhood of Utility Employes , through Local 102 in Brooklyn , Queens and Manhattan below Fourteenth Street , and Equity Local 100 , in Manhattan and the Bronx , have demanded recognition and direct negotiations with the companies . The unions declare they represent a majority of - the powerhouse employes . It is this class of employes who will be called on strike when the emergency committee representing both locals gives the signal . According to union spokesmen , the powerhouse employes have voted overwhelmingly in favor of a strike and have empowered an emergency committee to give the signal for the walkout . The companies , however , have declared that they are prepared to cove with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is not disturbed by the strike threat . That the city , too , has made ample provisions for an emergency , the Mayor has announced . It was understood that in the event of a strike the city might take over the operation of the lighting and power lines . The conference of regional labor board officials and those of the Brooklyn Edison Company lasted more than an hour and was attended by John C. Parker , president of the company , and Robert E. Coulson , attorney for the Consolidated Gas Company . Union Rejects Offer . Shortly after they left , the delegation for the union arrived ' and conferred with the labor board officials . The union 's representatives included James Toher , national labor representative of the Brotherhood of Utility Employes ; Bernard F. Lambe , national president ; Thomas P. O'Shaughnessy , national secretary and treasurer ; James Donegan , president of the Brooklyn local , and Alexander Gullen , vice president . It was revealed that the union officials declined to accept a compromise offered by the company simplifying the set-up for hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company and the United Electric Light and Power Company , who are the managing committee of the two companies , told a delegation of three employes representing Equity Local 100 that the companies could not recognize the union , but would be bound by any decision of the National Labor Relations Board if the case reached that body . The union spokesmen declared this was unsatisfactory and insisted upon immediate recognition of the union . Representing the companies at tie up lighting and power service in Brooklyn , Queens and Manhattan below Fourteenth Street , and a walkout by Equity local would cripple the service in the rest of the city if the strike should prove effective . The Emergency Committee of the union was . in session last night at the office of the Brooklyn organization of the brotherhood in the Brooklyn Eagle Building . It was disclosed that final strike preparations were completed at the meeting . The Brooklyn and ManhattanBronx organizations of the union will act in unison in event of a strike , it was announced , with the Brooklyn local empowered to give the signal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president ; R. H. Tapscott , Arthur Kehoe and Joseph E. Becker . Cleveland G. Edwards , Edward F. Coffey and Thomas F. Donovan , president of Equity Local , represented the employes , at whose request the conference was arranged . In response to the demand of the union for recognition , the company representatives asked the union to produce its membership roll as evidence that a majority of key men in power houses and substations were actually affiliated with the union . This the union spokesmen declined to do , saying it would be an " anti-union act . " The company officials said they were inclined to take the union 's word for the claim of membership , but still wanted to know what proof of it existed . According to Mr. Coffey 's account of the proceedings , the company officials later said that if the Regional Labor Board certified by legal means that Equity local represented a majority of the employes , the companies would consent to recognition . Mr. Coffey added , however , that this offer " was qualified in such various ways that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to delay proceedings . " He said " the situation appears more critical than ever . " The employes had no grievance as to hours , wages or working conditions , Mr. Coffey declared , but were insistent on union recognition as preliminary to collective bargaining . It was then that the company representatives said they would abide by any ruling of the National Labor Relations Board . Asked what would happen in the event of a strike , Mr. Grove said he would meet conditions as they arose . Remarking that he hoped there would be no strike , Mr. Grove added : " We shall use every effort to prevent any interruption of service . " A strike by the Brooklyn organization of the brotherhood would                     