@@702853

txt The Commodity Exchange Administration probably will ask the next session of Congress to give it power to fix limits on daily price fluctuations on futures contract markets unless existing trading regulations are f modified . This was indicated yesterday by Dr. 3 . W. T Duvet . head of the CEA. as other farm administration officials viewed the September corn " squeeze " at Chicago as " convincing ' support for the price stability argument which has been advanced in support of Secretary of Agriculture Wallace 's ever-normal granary plan . Dr Duvel revealed that within the past week he has suggested to officials of the Chicago Board of Trade that the daily fluctuation of S cents per bushel permitted on current delivery months is too high and should be reduced . The CEA bead asserted that from the standpoint of an orderly market , the S-cent figure should be reduced to at least 4 cents , in the case of corn , or the daily fluctuation lurlit permitted In all months except the delft month . Srys Administration Needs Authority " My feeling now . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be given authority to regulate fluctuation limits unless the Board of Trade takes action to alter the present situation " Action by Congress would tie required to confer this power upon the CEA . When the Commodity Exchange Act was before Congress . officials at first recommended that provision be made for this regulatory authority , but modified their position when strong opposition developed . At that time , the daily limit on price fluctuation on corn was 4 cents in all months . it was later that the Board of Trade revised its regulations to provide for the S cents per day fluctuation in the current delivery month While it has been suggested to the Chicago Board of Trade that the fluctuation limit be narrowed , Dr. Duvel made it plain that the CEA has no authority in the , matter . When the board revised its regulations , the CEA was opposed to the move , he said . Answers Farm Group 's Criticism Dr. Duvel turned the criticism of the CEA by the Farmers National Grain Corp . aside with the observation that the administration has been doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in September corn . he said , appropriate action will be taken . Elsewhere in the Department of Agriculture . officials took the position that the September corn " squeeze " will be a persuasive argument to place before Congress when general farm legislation , embracing the ever normal granary proposal , is taken up . This plan anticipates the storage of corn during periods of high production and its release into trade channels during years when the crop is small . Should the government have corn in storage at the present time , the present situation on the Chicago futures market would not have developed , they argued . Asks for Full Reports In following the developments in September corn , the CEA has requested the Board of Trade to supply it with detailed Information covering the holder of every corn contract in the month . This will show the long and short interests , regardless of how large or how small their contracts are . Under its usual procedure , the CEA requires reports on individual accounts involving 200,000 bushels or more . Thus far , CEA officials refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbed over the situation which has developed , but feel that It is up to the Board of Trade , under its own rules and regulations , to handle the matter at this time .                     