@@702700

txt De . teetive Lieutenant D. A. Sanderson said tonight Albert Dyer , a street crossing guard in Inglewood , had con ? tessed slaying three young Inglewood ' girls June 26 . Sanderson said Dyer had been questioned all day and finally confessed to him and District Attorney Buron Fitts tonight . The girls , Madeline Everett , 7 years old ; Melba , 9 , her sister , and Jeanette Stephens , 8 , had been lured tram Centinela park , near their Inglewood homes , to the Baldwin hills on the pretext , their playmates said , of hunt ? Ong rabbits . Boys Find Three Bodies . Their bodies were discovered in a deep ravine last Monday by Boy Scouts searching the area , Each dad peen strangled to death with a rope and County Autopsy Surgeon A. F. Wagner said they all had been at . tacked . First tip that Dyer may have had more information about the crime than the casual observer came from George Ray , 25 year old medi ? cal clinic employe , who told Lieut . Sanderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , told him in front of the Inglewood police station details of the kidnaping , attack , and murder that only a person connected with the crime could have known . Dyer , who was employed as a crossin ; guard near Centinela park , had often watched his child victims . Some One Who Knew Them . Dyer , questioned by police early in the hunt , had told police he was working in his garden the day the girls disappeared . Since then he frequently had been about the Inglewood police station , apparently trying to aid in the search for the slayer . For almost a week Dyer has been above suspicion , as far as the investigation was concerned , and has drifted about the police station apparently attempting to help in the search . The three school chums , although they had been warned by their moth . ers never to venture away with a man , left their toys in the park and hiked to the foot of the canyon , where Dyer says he met them shortly after noon . Sex Ills Only Excuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he gasped . " It was n't revenge . It was just sex . " We entered the canyon from the north end . At the point where a charred campfire remains were found , we paused . I took Madeline down the canyon . She thought she was going to hunt rabbits . " I choked her with my hands . Then I put a rope around her neck . " I then went bac ' - and took Jean . ette down the canyon . With my hands I choked her to death . " Dyer 's story indicated that Melba Everett shared the same fate . Dyer claimed he violated the bodies after he had killed the little girls . An official autopsy surgeon 's report stated that the children had first been attacked and then slain .                     