@@701462

txt A family quarrel which started last night in an apartment in the Clinton Hill section of Newark ended early this morning in the death of four men , one of whom , the police believe , killed the three others and then , after telephoning Newark police headquarters , shot himself through the heart with a twelve-gauge buckshot pump gun . The dead were identified by the police , who called in residents of the neighborhood to view the bodies , as the members of one family . They were : LE VAN , ORLANDO , 55 years old , an employe of the Pennsylvania Railroad . LE VAN , BENJAMIN , 40 , his brother , unemployed . GEARY , JOHN S. , 41 , a nephew , employed by a Newark interior decorating firm . GEARY , CHARLES RUSSELL , 43 , a farmer , of Tobyhanna , Pa . Police Puzzled at First . At first police and detectives who rushed to the two-story brick apartment house , located at 938 South Twentieth Street , were mystified as to the motive behind the slayings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Captain Thomas Rowe at Newark Police Headquarters when , a little after 12:30 A. M. , he answered his telephone , only to hear a voice address him as follows : " I have just murdered three men and I am going to kill myself . " " Where are you ? " inquired the police officer , half believing the call to be that of a crank . " I am at 938 South Twentieth Street , " the voice answered as the click of a receiver cut short further interrogation . Police radio cars and a squad of detectives under Captain Rowe converged upon the apartment , their sirens rousing many residents of the quiet neighborhood . After a quick survey they found only one of the four apartments in the twostory brick building at the Twentieth Street address whose occupants did not respond to their repeated knockings . This was the five-room suite leased by Orlando Le Van . Crashing through the corridor door , they found the lights of the apartment ablaze . Sprawled on a couch of the living room lay the body of Charles Geary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart near by on the floor . Three Bodies in Kitchen . In the kitchen , face down on the floor , the police found the bodies of the three others , all like the elder Geary , riddled with buckshot . Two had been shot in the back and the third through the abdomen . Three chairs near the bodies were overturned , as if the occupants had risen suddenly , upsetting them in haste to take to cover . The police believe that the quarrel which precipitated the shootings had arisen over the final burial site of Mrs. Kathryn Le Van , the wife of Orlando , who died some three weeks ago in Easton , Pa. , while visiting relatives . The Le Vans . according to information the authorities were able to gather from neighbors and friends of the family , had wanted Mrs. Le Van 's body buried in a grave alI ready occupied by the mother of Charles Geary , who died about fourteen years ago . This , of course , would have entailed disinterment of the other body , to which Geary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who arrived at the Le Van home yesterday , motoring to Newark from Pennsylvania , had gone out in the afternoon with Benjamin Le Van , according to witnesses . They visited a beer garden labeoutt two blocks from the apartSeemed to Be Friendly . While there they were apparently in the best of spirits and drank several steins of beer together when Le Van introduced his nephew to I friends who dropped into the tavern . They seemed to be on the best of terms , but , according to the bartender and a woman neighbor , the question of the burial site came up before they departed and disagree-1 ment , though not violent , was evident when the subject was discussed . Neither man drank heavily , and after a short time they left the premises . What happened later , until the time Captain Rowe received the telephone call , remained this morning a matter of conjecture . Mr. and Mrs. L. Westerland , who occupy the apartment immediately across the hall from the Le Vans , said they heard no shots and were asleep until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of loud reports , but believed at the time they were caused either by falling plaster or by an automobile 's backfire . On the kitchen table the police found several bank books , lying face downward , indicating that some financial discussion had immediately preceded the shooting . One of the books showed that Orlando Le Van and his wife had a joint account in a savings bank of $8,000 . A page of a New York newspaper showing the day 's stock quotations was also on the table . Orlando Le Van , the police said , was a Spanish War veteran and received a pension  --  from the government . Before his connection with the Pennsylvania Railroad he had worked as a foreman in the Newark street-cleaning department . The younger Geary , a brother of the man who is believed to have murdered him , was said to have been engaged and was planning to be married in the near future .                     