@@698177

txt The Republican and Democratic judicial conventions in Brooklyn yesterday ratified an alleged agreement , made last April before the necessary legislation was passed , by nominating under a bipartisan plan seven Democrats and five Republicans for the Supreme Court bench in the Second Judicial District . At the same time the delegates renominated Edward Lazansky , presiding justice of the Appellate Division , a Democrat , and Supreme Court Justice Lewis Fawcett , a Republican , for full fourteen-year terms . With little confusion , the delegates of both conventions nominated the full slate of twelve , which included Meier Steinbrink , who was Republican leader in Brooklyn when the alleged deal was made , and John H. McCooey Jr. , 32-year-old son of the veteran Brooklyn Democratic leader . The only hitch in the proceedings was the attempt of the Suffolk Democratic . delegation to nominate John R. Vunk of Suffolk , but when a rollcall was taken at the Democratic convention it was found that Mr. Vunk had received only eleven votes , the total of his home county delegates . The ease with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conventions was apparent from the start . A series of conferences among the Republican leaders took place before the Republican convention opened in the Kings County Court House in Joralemon Street . The Democratic leaders also settled their differences before their convention met in the Jefferson Building , 4-5 Court Square , half a block from the Republican convention . Just before the conventions were called to order , word came out of the office of Mr. McCooey that the Republican chiefs had approved the name of his son for one of the places , and there was nothing left to do but let the delegates ratify the selections of the respective county leaders in Kings , Queens , Nassau , Suffolk and Richmond , which embrace the judicial district . Independent Action Threatened . The action of the conventions in carrying out the prearranged deal brought hints last night that an independent ticket would be organized to oppose the bipartisan slate . Fred L. Gross , president of the Brooklyn Bar Association , who made several trips to Albany to urge the legislation because of the congestion of court calendars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent ticket if the " proper men are put on it . " James E. Finegan , independent Democrat , who called upon Governor Rogsevelt in a letter on Friday to block the ldaders from carrying out their alleged deal , denounced the nominations and referred to them as the " most outrageous move ever made in politics . " Although reluctant to sign the bill because it was figured it would cost the taxpayers of the judicial district about $500,000 a year , Governor Roosevelt , when he approved the legislation last April , made public a memorandum hinting at the deal and suggesting to the voters that independent candidates be nominated by petition if they were not satisfied with the action of the political parties . He referred to his memorandum again a few days ago when he was asked about the Finegan letter . Mr. Gross , until the last moment , carried on his fight to the Brooklyn ' Democrats to endorse only qualified candidates . On Friday he made several visits to Mr. McCooey 's office in the hope that the Democratic chief would approve only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the son Bar Association membership . M'COOEY JR . NAMED JOHN H. McCOORY JR. , Ticket Named by Both Parties . The full ticket , whose only regular opposition at the general election in November will be a Socialist slate , follows : DEMOCRATS . Brooklyn . John H. McCooey Jr . George E. Brower . County Judge Albert Conway . Queens . District Attorney James T. Hallinan , County Judge Frank F. Adel . Nassau . Thomas J. Cuff . Richmond . Alfred V. Norton . REPUBLICANS . Brooklyn . bleier Steinbrink , Charles C. Lockwood , Transit Commissioner . Queens . Henry G. Wenzel Jr. , Municipal Court Justice . Nassau . County Judge Lewis J. Smith . Suffolk . County Judge George H. Furman . The younger Mr. McCooey was not mentioned in the bar association vote , and it is understood the nomination of Judge Conway was an effort to placate that body . Judge Conway led the poll and Mr. Brower , the Brooklyn Democratic organization 's third candidate , also stood high on the list . Mr. Steinbrink was listed in the certified list , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been mentioned as a judicial candidate when the poll was taken . Considerable discussion also was raised last night az to what would be done by the various candidates who now are holding public office . It was understood the Democratic organization looked for early resignations on the part of Judges Adel and Conway and also District Attorney Hallinan of Queens . If these candidates offered their resignations to Governor Roosevelt before Oct. 15 , it was said , the county committees of their own organizations would designate candidates for the remaining years of their terms , to be voted on in November . Until last night there had been no intention of having bipartisan nominations for these places . Municipal Court Justice Wenzel of Queens holds his appointment from the Mayor . Mr. Lockwood has several more years to serve on the Transit Commission under an appointment from Governor Roosevelt , but it was said that he would retain his office until Jan. 1 . Mr. Vunk of Suffolk , who had the backing of his delegation for the Supreme Court bench , may be the Democratic candidate for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter resign . If the various Supreme Court candidates fail to withdraw from their present offices , it was said , Governor Roosevelt would be in a position at the first of the year to fill all the county posts for one year , and the unexpired terms would be filled at the polls in November next year . McCooey Praised as Nominee . Fire Commissioner John J. Dorman , chairman of the Kings County Committee , called the Democratic convention to order . The delegates elected Alderman Francis D. as chairman and Mrs. Dorothea Courtens of Queens secretary . " Care should be exercised in seeing that the men that you select have the proper temperament requisite for judicial office , " said Mr. in officially opening the convention . " We must know that they will be patient , courteous and considerate of litigant and counsel alike , and likewise are fitted by training , experience and ability , in order to maintain the great ideals and high standards of ability , integrity and courtesy that have been set by those who are now holding and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Then the work of nominating began . The only speech that excited any particular interest was that placing in nomination the name of the younger McCooey . His father was not present , having remained in his private office . " John McCooey Jr . has the attributes to make a good judge , " said Joseph P. Reilly , Assistant Corporation Counsel of Brooklyn , who presented the Brooklyn leader 's son . " In selecting candidates , the convention should not run from youth as it does not run from age . He has been honored by the Appellate Division by being made a member of the committee on character and fitness , which passes on all those who seek admission to the bar . He comes from a splendid family . He is the son of the man whose sagacity has solidified the success of the Democratic party in Kings . He is your friend and my friend . " The delegates applauded Mr. Reilly 's speech for almost a minute . The nomination of Mr. Steinbrink at the Democratic convention , a few minutes later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the nominating speeches for the fourteen candidates except when John C. Judge of Brooklyn in presenting the name of Mr. Brower , suggested that the Democratic party need not make any apologies for its nominations . ' We hear strange names brought ' to us today by the other major party , " said Mr. , Judge. , " But we welcome these Republicans . For the first time in the history of the judicial district , through the instrument of the Democratic party , the nominations for the Supreme Court bench have been raised entirely out of their political complexities . " John E. Sexton , son of James J. Sexton , Democratic leader of the Fifth Assembly District , nominated Mr. Lockwood at the Democratic convention . Mr. Lockwood is the Republican leader of the same Assembly district . Suffolk Protest Is Futile . Just as one of the Kings delegates attempted to offer a motion that the nominations be closed , Mr. recognized Joseph J. Robinson of Suffolk , who asked to be heard . The delegates were surprised at Mr. Robinson 's taking the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the nominees . Mr. Robinson was quick to explain his message . He was there , he said , to nominate Mr. Vunk as a candidate , even though the party leaders had decreed differently . " I have the privilege to speak for the Suffolk delegation , " he said . " They are not in harmony with what you are doing here . In the twenty years I have taken a part in Democratic politics I have never been charged with being anything but a strong and a stanch Democrat , and because of this regularity I am speaking . " He explained that the entire delegation stood behind Governor Roosevelt on the question of the nominations . He quoted the Governor as saying the bipartisan plan " smacked " of a political deal . He questioned also particularly the action of the D-mocratie convention in nominating Judge Furman , a Republican . Mr. Vunk has received the endorsement of the Nassau Bar Association for this nomination and he has received the approval of our law committee and our executive committee . In the spirit of fair @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counties hi presenting the name of Judge Furman . We plead with you to aid us in our fight in Suffolk County , a Macy stronghold , and help us to build up a militant county organization by electing Mr. Vunk . " Almon G. Rasquin , Democratic leader of Suffolk , declared he concurred in the statements of Mr. Robinson . He said there would be thirty . Supreme Court justices in the district next year and that Suffolk Democrats deserved one of ' the places . On a roll-call thirteen of the candidates received 273 votes , Judge Furman 262 and Mr. Vunk 11 votes . Republicans Endorse McCooey . The Republican convention was called to order by Charles F. Murphy with William J. Splaekhaber acting as secretary . The nominating speeches were limited to five minutes . The Republican nominations were received with long applause . There was little interest in the nominating of the Democrats with the exception of young Mr. McCooey . Harol L. Turk , Brooklyn lawyer and Republican leader of the Eighth Assembly District , k submitted the name of the Brooklyn Democratic leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had filled the same role on the previous ten nominations . " I have the pleasure of placing in nomination a young man who graduated from Cornell ten years ago , " said Mr. Turk . " After his graduation he served an apprenticeship in the distinguished law firm of Jenks &; Rogers . Then he started in for himself and enjoyed a large and varied law practice . " He has had wide experience . Only recently he was designated by the Appellate Division as a member on its committee on character and fitness to judge young men seeking admission to the bar . I nominate John H. McCooey Jr . " After a roll-call according to Assembly districts on the fourteen names entered in nomination a motion to adjourn was heard and the delegates filed quietly out of the court room . CAREERS OF THE NOMINEES . Most of Designees Have Bees Long Active in Party Politics . Biographical sketches of the judiciary nominees follow : John H. McCooey Jr. ? Son of the Brooklyn Democratic " boss . " He has been practicing law in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Conroy since his graduation from Cornell Law School in 1922 . He is a member of the Appellate Division'a Committee on Character and Fitness for bar applicants . He has never held office before although he has been mentioned often as a candidate for elective and appointive posts . He is married . George E. Brower ? He was born in Brooklyn in 1876 . He holds degrees from Princeton University and New York Law School . A member of the State Athletic Commission for several years , he resigned to be appointed Kings County District Attorney for one year . He was slated for the Supreme Court bench last year , but stepped aside to permit the Democratic organization to give an endorsement to Justice James C. Cropsey , Republican candidate , who sought re-election . He is married . Albert Conway ? He was born in Brooklyn forty-one years ago . Served as an Assistant District Attorney during the administrations of District Attorney James C. Cropsey and Harry E. Lewis , both Republicans . After being defeated for Attorney General by Hamilton Ward in 1928 he was appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post until he was appointed last year to the vacancy on the Kings County Court bench occasioned by the resignation of W. Bernard Vaupe . He was elected to a fourteen-year term on the county bench last year . James T. HaMnan ? He has been active in Democratic circles in Queens since he attempted to win the nomination for Borough President from Bernard M. Patten , who had been elected temporarily after the resignation of Maurice Connolly . He has been prominent in several fraternal organizations . He was elected tO his present post last year . He is married and lives in Flushing . Thomas J. Cuff ? He worked as a newspaper reporter in Brooklyn while he studied law about twenty years ago . After admission to the bar he was appointed an Assistant United States Attorney and later served as a Deputy Attorney General . He is the Democratic State Committeeman from the southern half of Nassau . Alfred V. Norton ? He is 47 years old . After serving for ten years as an Assistant District Attorney he deBided to enter private practice . On many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Richmond Democratic leader . He was a last-minute recommendation for the Supreme Court bench , the place having been expected to go to Albert C. Fach . Mr. Norton lives with his wife and family in Stapleton . Frank F. Adel ? He became prominent for his opposition to Maurice E. Connolly when the latter was Borough President of Queens . He was appointed to the county bench by Governor Smith on Jan. 1 , 1926 . Before this appointment he had been an Assistant District Attorney , a municipal court justice and a State Senator . He is married and lives at Kew Gardens . Meier Steinbrink ? He is a graduate of the Boys ' High School and New York University . Became very prominent as chief counsel of the Brooklyn-Queens ambulance chasing investigation . He succeeded Jacob A. Livingston as Republican leader in Kings County in 1929 after I official Washington had been called upon to use its influence in the ousting of Livingston . Mr. Steinbrink served as leader until April of this year , shortly after Governor Roosevelt signed the judicial bill . Charles C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Timothy L. Woodruff , Republican leader . He served in the State Legislature from 1913 to 1922 , where he wrote the emergency housing law ' and sponsored an investigation of the building industry . He was appointed to membership in the State Transit Commission by Governor Smith in 1925 . He ran for Lieutenant Governor on the Republican ticket in 1928 , but was defeated . He is chairman of the Kings Coun- , ty Republican committee and leader of the Fifth Assembly District . Henry G. Wenzel ? He has taken a small part in Queens Republican politics . He was prot ? g ? of former Municipal Court Justice Edgar Hazelton . About a year ago he suggested a plan to eliminate the . judiciary from politics , but it got little support . His present position is his first public office . Lewis J. Smith ? He was admitted to the bar in 1902 after attending Colgate University and New York Law School . In 1910 he was elected District Attorney of Nassau , later being promoted to the county bench . George H. Furman ? He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suffolk most of his life . He was a store clerk and a school teacher before his admission to the bar . FOR A JUDGESHIP Brown Bros . Photo . of Democratic Leader , Slated for a Judgeship . He was District Attorney of SW folk before becoming county judge A few years ago he opposed W Kingsland Macy , Suffolk leader for the control of the Brookhavei town organization and won .                     