@@699383

txt Holiday more people are shopping Spirit for Christmas this year Active . than ever before . If the retail trade is complaining , it may be because the value of sales is not keeping up ? with volume . The public is shopping economically . At any rate , there is no denying that the subway and " L " trains are jammed with people carrying parcels and bundles home in the evening . In the morning hours troops of small boys and girls are being escorted downtown to meet Santa Claus . Very likely the pressure of hard times contributes indirectly to the holiday appearance of things . The young ones are perhaps being compensated in show for shortage in actual gifts . The parcels and bundles are a sign of our chastened spirit . We are not above lugging home a heavy woolen sweater in a box , where a few years ago we had to have a pair of gloves " sent . " Whatever the explanaChristmas tion , the city , after lagQuand ging until a week ago , meme . took on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squared their shoulders , thrown out their chests and determined to acquit. themselves like men on the threshold of a third distressful Winter . After all , that is what holidays are for : to compel people to cheer up . Whether they like it or not , the tonic value is there . Perhaps the sudden efflorescence of Christmas on the streets is the reflection of a dim feeling that things are actually on the mend . November employment held up gratifyingly in New York State and in the nation by identically the same percentage . Carloadings are going up , against a normal seasonal decline . Textile factories are showing continued activity . From Germany comes a finding , by the celebrated Institute for the Study of Business Conditions , that for most of the leading nations , including ourselves , the worst of the depression lies six months behind . That is the opinion of the Institut f iir .11 on junkturf orschung . An organization with a name like that can not be wrong . Forty tons of gold are History 's now on the high seas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christmas ship Majestic . It is by far the most precious single cargo in the history of marine transportation , and insurance rates have gone up five or six times . ROSSETTI 'S Blessed Damozel , leaning down from the gold bar of heaven , might be moved to take a second look at the noble White Star liner with so many gold bars of its own . A pound of gold is worth about $250 . A ton of gold would be half a million dollars . The Majestic 's cargo is very nearly $420,000,000 in bullion . It comes as a reminder that modern business is not always a matter of entering a line of figures in a ledger whereby some one becomes $95,000 , - 000 poorer and some one else shows richer by the same amount . It is not always a question of earmarking and credits . Sometimes people will get Into a state of nerves where they insist on seeing the color of the other fellow 's money . The world is in that peevish and primitive temper now . Official reports of the Debates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ h xc to be on file in the library E of the House of Commons . The idea is that British opinion can in this manner obtain a more complete idea of American sentiment than by studying the official American notes and the news dispatches . The London Times , which brought forward the idea , hopes that our Congress will in turn provide itself , with copies of Hansard , which is the British Congressional Record . The latter step is not necessary . Great Britain has only one government , a Cabinet resting upon the House of Commons . What the Cabinet ' does we can assume thb House of Commons to back up . But we have two governments , a President who tries to conduct foreign relations , and a Congress which chucks them out of the window . So it will really help the British M. P. 's to find out which American Government thinks what . A professional logician might have Some trouble with Mr. F. SCOTT MCBRIDE 'S argument : " If 3.2 beer is non-intoxicating , the wets will not care for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not stand for it . " But the plain average wet will just tell the Anti-Saloon League that 3.2 beer is non-intoxicating and thatihe does care for it . Another journalist has endorsed the suggestion that Europe pay its war debts to us in wine . This time it is a Spaniard who writes : " Wine will open the paths of understanding between peoples , and by adding its cheery touch aid in ending the depression . " And the corks can be used for floating new loans . Winter came in officially with a nice warm rain and temperatures between 50 and 60 . And yet eve spend time and effort trying to straighten out war-debts and other secondary complications .                     