@@702975

txt It became apparent here yesterday that prospects for drastic revision of the undistributed profits tax rests with the Senate rather than the House . While both chambers apparently are convinced of the necessity of tax relief for " small corporations " , current prospects are that the House will make few changes of major importance to the larger industrial units . On the other hand , a check-up of Senate sentiment shows a large body of opinion favoring drastic modification of the undistributed profits tax . Symptomatic of Senate sentiment was the proposal of Senator Bridges ( Rep .. N. H. ) to repeal the surtax by means of a rider to the House bill for repeal of income tax publicity . The differing views of the two branches of Congress were emphasized by developments yesterday in the House Ways and Means tax revision subcommittee . It was learned that this group is giving serious consideration to a proposal to exempt all corporations with net incomes of $23.000 or under from the undistributed profits tax . To make up for this loss of revenue , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately the level prevailing before enactment of the profits levy in 1936 . Opposition Seen by Such Action Such action , if finally approved by the full House committee would undoubtedly raise a storm of opposition , with the larger corporations maintaining that they were being made to pay for tax relief being given the smaller companies . However , the House tax group appears to be giving favorable consideration to at least one proposal for relaxation of the profits levy which would be of considerable potential benefit to all corporations , bath large and small . This would be a section permitting companies to deduct one year 's loss from the following year 's profits . The subcommittee also reached a tentative agreement to give corporations emerging from bankruptcy a three year exemption from the surtax A final decision by the House subcommittee to grant a complete exemption to corporations with net income of $25,000 or less , would not . by itself , be of great significance as a stimulant to business While corporations with earnings falling in this class constitute 88 9 ' of all corporations with taxable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income volume . Extent of Exemptions Undetermined Under the plan being discussed , corporations receiving relict trom the undistributed profits tax can expect to have their normal income rates increased . However , they would be placed in a position to retain a larger share of their earnings at a lower rate of tax than under existing law . Some form of relief is contemplated for corporations in the income levels beyond the point of complete exemption . The extent to which the subcommittee may agree to complete exemptions has not been determined . The Treasury has supplied three sets of estimates as to revenue losses which would result from three different proposals . One of these proposals would provide a complete exemption from the undistributed profits tax to all corporations with net incomes of $25,000 and under , estimated to cost 850,000.000 in revenue : another would provide exemption for corporations with net incomes of $15,000 and under , estimated to cost $35,000,000 in revenue : while the third would restrict the exemption to corporations with net incomes of $10,000 and under , estimated to cost $28,000,000 in revenue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returning the normal corporate-income tax to about the same level which existed before the Revenue Act of 1936 , the loss in revenue would be made up . The old normal tax rates , compared with those under existing law , follow : The form of relief to be given to corporations with net incomes above the level granted complete exemption has not been determined . It probably will take the form of a flat or percentage exemption from the undistributed profits tax . Mr. Vinson said a complete exemption to corporations with incomes below a stated level would leave these companies free to use their earnings for any purpose , such as plant expansion or debt retirement . He took the position that this for m of exemption would be easier to administer than one providing exemptions for specific purposes .                     