@@697689

txt The Democratic party will nominate an anti-prohibition candidate in 1932 and it will probably adopt an anti-prohibition platform . It will carry the solid South . If these statements seem at variance with the reports of current political developments , they nevertheless represent the almost universal opinion of political observers and politicians , including quite a few of those who protest most loudly against the wet trend . The party 's real differences are likely to arise from its economic program . In dealing with that phase , there is grave danger or good chance  --  according to one 's point of view  --  that the Democrats will sacrifice all the advantage that might accrue from being on the Wet side of the prohibition argument . The Democratic strategy for 1932 is to hold the South and add the large eastern states to form a winning combination . No doubt the wet stand will appeal to these latter states . The question is whether it will appeal to them sufficiently to cause them to accept a candidate and platform full of untried economic theories and new " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will not . It remains to be seen whether their effort to swing the party clear of those things can succeed . Even in the present exchange of heated words , the prohibition question as it affects the Democrats ought to be pretty clear . Possible candidates , with two exceptions are listed as wet , and nobody regards the two very seriously . The heads of the party organization are wet . To believe that the present trend can be reversed is hardly good common sense . The drys generally would not trust or believe it and the wets would very rightly consider themselves betrayed . Protests for Home Consumption - The southerners generally know all this quite well . A large percentage of their protests are for home consumption . A few of the fanatics mean It , but the large majority have little real desire to block the party from a winning issue . As for any great number actually bolting the ticket , the fate that overtook the leaders of the -192 -- bolt-ought to be a sufficient answer . When you come to the economic phase the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the less conservative of the two major parties . The drys who happen to be liberals will ask why they should give way on such matters as the tariff , power regulation and the Sherman Act as well as on prohibition . Wets who happen to be liberals will agree with them . A careful reading of the speech of Chairman John 3 . Raskob and the replies made to him at the recent National Committee session will show that his economic proposals brought protests quite as bitter as anything that was said on prohibition . The editorial comment now at hand shows Mr. Raskob being denounced on the old familiar grounds that the party *eis to be ' turned over to Wall Street . " May Disregard Economic Tenets/ It may be that the large eastern states feel so strongly on prohibition , that they will turn to a wet Democratic party no matter what else it advocates . That is a guess . The fact is that up to this time these states have always turned to the party advocating conservative political measures regardless of what else might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that this may happen again in 1932 . By that time the country should be well out of depression , but not so far out that the condition of 1930 will be forgotten . The answer as to whether the big industrial and business states at such a time will be ready to follow politico-economic experiments for the sake of expressing their indignation on prohibition ought to be fairly obvious . It is obvious to a good many of the party leaders and it explains their lack of enthusiasm for the undoubted ascendency of the candidacy of Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt . Banking Reform Bills The Federal Reserve System 's recommendations for banking reform , . which were mentioned but not detailed in its annual report , probably will not be known definitely until next December when the Glass financial inquiry resumes its sessions . The proper person to make the recommendations public is the governor of the Federal Reserve Board , who will not be called to testify until that time . The recommendations very probably will include nothing that has not already been brought before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the banking system by measures which would strengthen its units through larger capital requirements and more nearly unified supervision . It will be interesting to see whether the new bill that the Glass Committee is drawing will contain any counterpart for Section 11 of the old Glass bill . This section would have prevented a bank loaning on collateral while in debt to the Federal Reserve Bank on its direct note . Witnesses generally advised against the section . Chinese Loan Status It now appears that while the officials of the Chinese Nationalist government with direct supervision over finances discouraged talk of a silver loan to China , others gave the idea some encouragement . Of course this condition Would restrain any action toward such a loan even though this government previously had been inclined toward it . which was not the case . No Third Party Planned The Progressive conference which is meeting in Washington this week emphasizes that it is not its intention to form a third party . The emphasis is wholly unnecessary despite the fact that such a formation would be the most consistent step which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be attempted . One reason is that the Progressives could not get together on a party program . After they had denounced the two major parties , advocated a " return to representative government , " whatever that means , and generally cursed the rich , they would have to harmonize almost as many political ideas as there were members of the conference . A second reason is that if they deserted the Democratic and Republican parties not half a dozen of them could ever be elected to office They could meet no worse fate . Then the papers would quit carrying their speeches in the Senate .                     