@@699023

txt There is every likelihood tonight that within a few days Adolf Hitler will be the Chancellor of the German Republic . Thus the impossible of yesterday , in view of the attitude of the present government , has become the best bet of today . The world 's greatest political poker game is being played here . The stake is the Actual an 1 not the nominal control of the Reich ; the cards are the influences each of the players can bring to bear , either through the voters or by other means , upon . the few men who now hold the reins of . actual power , and maybe this will be merely a preliminary hand . The Hitlerites believe they hold the best cards , and undoubtedly they have an ace or two , but there is every reason to believe that the big . cards , the ones that will really decide the game , are still in the capable fists of Baron von Gayl , the Minister of the Interior ; Chancellor von Pe.pen , President von Hindenburg and , above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Defense . The change in the situation today is due chiefly to the attitude of the Centrists , who hold the balance of power in , although they can not control , the Reichstag . Have ' Sought a Showdown . For weeks the Centrist leaders and the Centrist organs have been calling for a showdown on the National Socialists ' pretensions . The Hitlerites , they said , were clamoring for power and had about 14,000,000 voters backing their claim ; let them have it . The Hitlerites themselves were none too eager to enter any Cabinet that they could not dominate . The government , while preferring to have the Hitlerites inside , - was quite willing to continue the present status if it could have the support of the Reichstag . But that meant having the support not only of the Nazis but of the Centrists if the government was to carry on , and the Centrists refused to join with the Nazis in giving it unless the Nazis accepted some share of the responsibility . The situation was brought to a head a few days ago when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a practical coalition both in the Reichstag and the Prussian Diet on certain conditions . The Nazis refused the offer , but they learned in the course of the negotiations that the Centrists were not opposed in principle to the idea of Herr Hitler becoming Chancellor . At about the same time General von Schleicher and Chancellor von Papen discovered that the Centrists I were absolutely opposed to the presPa Cabinet obtaining the support of Reichstag without a thoroughiiing reorganization . The two revelations . together changed the picture entirely . The Nazi determination not to accept a few minor Cabinet posts was strengthened and the government began to consider the advisability of putting in Herr Hitler as Chancellor after all if it only could keep him tinder control after he was in . The outcome of the present negotiations now depends upon what assurances of , moderation Herr Hitler will give before being installed and What secure means ca be devised of holding him to them while he is in power . As to the latter , President von Hindenburg could always dismiss him , or the Centrists , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes , would probably have no difficulty in obtaining a vote of no confidence , while the Communists would delight in delivering that , president von Hindenburg arrived early this morning from his estate in- East Prussia , where late yesterday he signed three new emergency decrees intended to keep the Nazis , Communists and all other disturbers within bounds . The decrees were promulgated today . The decrees extend the existing political truce to the end of August , establish special trial courts for political offenses involving violence and provide severer penalties than the old law permitted . Can Refuse Evidence . The most notable feature of the decree establishing the special emergency courts is that they are empowered to refuse ? to hear evidence for the defense , when in their judgment the crime has been thoroughly established and the submission of such evidence would merely delay the decision . This provision reads : " A special court can refuse to take evidence not necessary for clarification of the matters involved . " President von Hindenburg comes here nominally to attend tomorrow 's celebration of the anniversary of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new " presidial " Cabinet shall assume . He is staying at the Chancellery in the Wilhelmstrasse , the Presidential Palace being closed and under repairs , and his first act after his arrival was to receive Chancellor von Papen . No communique regarding their meeting was issued , but undoubtedly new developments were laid before the President and tonight it is generally expected that within the next few days , provided the assurances now under discussion are forthcoming , he wilt formally invite Herr Hitler to form a new non-partisan Cabinet of " personalities . " It is even rumored that this may take place Friday . In any event , the President has now let it be known that he will not return to Neudeck immediately after tomorrow 's ceremonies as he had originally intended , but will remain in Berlin for a few days . Herr Hitler also arrived in Berlin today from Munich , but has been invisible since his arrival . It is said that he is staying at a private house and not at a hotel as he usually does . From good authority it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been in touch with him thus far is General von Schleicher , who had a conference with Chancellor von Papen last night . Although President - von Hindenburg announced that he had delegated to the Chancellor the entire matter of negotiating changes in the Cabinet , it is scarcely likely that if Herr Hitler is to be the next Chancellor the man he is displacing will make arrangements for his entering office . General von Schleicher , Germany 's " man behind the Cabinet , " will therefore probably continue to act as the go-between . A Hitler Cabinet could scarcely be expected to consist of Herr Hitler plus the present incumbents of the other offices , so tonight it is believed that Gregor Strasser , the Nazi leader 's chief lieutenant , will be Minister of the Interior and a third Nazi , Captain Ernst Goering ; Minister of Transportation . Van Papen May Take Foreign Post . The expectation is also that Colonel von Papen will become the Foreign Minister , since Baron von N , eurath , the present Minister , Is known to be anxious to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General von Schleicher will remain where he is , that is , controlling the Reichswehr . Behind all this shuffling of the cards there is undoubtedly a definite plan , and few persons believe it to be for strengthening or building up the National Socialist party as it is at present constituted . It is more probably an attempt to " " Hitlerism as England dealt with Labor after Labor 's great success at the polls in 1924 . For with Herr Hitler in office his followers would present the political promissory notes that he has been so freely handing out , disillusionment must follow and what would happen then ? Already there is reason to believe that the Nazis , like all such move-1 ments when they attain enormous growth , show a tendency to split . There are said to be two factions now in the aggregation ? it can scarcely be called a party  --  the moderates who favor Herr Hitler taking office now , and the more radical element that would fight by agitation preferably but force if necessary until the supreme power is theirs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably exaggerated , but undoubtedly it exists . It was a rumor that the latter element had obtained control of the Nazi storm detachments and that their withdrawal yesterday from Berlin , While ostensibly to keep them ' busy where there was no.danger of a clash with thacnevi anti-rioting laws , was . really , a. , preliminary to an ireittion. - ofMussolini 's March on Rome ; that accounted for last night 's arming of the police with rifles and doubling , of the Reichswehr guards . The police are still armed today , but the . Nazis are back , in town and . the alarm has subsided . Throughont the country , even in East Prussia and Silesia , the disturbances , have , greatly lessened .                     