@@697017

txt The heads , of the five delegations to the London Naval Arms Conference will meet at the official residence of the British Prime Minister , 10 Downing Street , at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning to consider the agenda , the chief importance of which lies in the significance attached to the order in which the various problems are to be considered . Ambassador Gibson of the American delegation conferred ' Ailiiight with R. L. Craigie , head of theAmerlean Department of the British Foreign Office , and Rene Massigli of the Frenchelet-43 .. ticolz ? to put in order the agenda suggestions to be placed before the heads of the delegations in the morning . It is understood there was a tentative decision to base the discussions on six categories of ships instead of five by dividing cruisers into two classes , large cruisers and small cruisers , with definite limits placed on them . ' The categories would then be battleships , airplane carriers , large cruisers , small cruisers . Cestroyers and submarines . The Americans appear confident of winning in their insistence that auxiliary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before battleships . There seems also a general consensus that tons and guns should be dealt with before political considerations . It therefore seems logical that the conference will start out by debating cruisers , then submarines . and then destroyers because destroyer strength is largely affected by submarine strength . Then it would be the turn for capita ships . Political Issues Come Next . After every nation has put forward its claims for the different categories the period would arrive for a discussion as to how these needs might be altered by political arrangements . It is figured that on this basis it would take about ten days for the conference to get before it all its problems . This method of procedure is advocated by the French and British , with the Japanese and Americans making no apparent objection in general . It is perfectly plain there is divergence as to the manner in which each nation 's needs are to be presented . The British and French , being able to make out the most brilliant case in theory , wish to present geographical , economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Americans think the needs should be presented rather on a relative basis , and that is easy to understand because on paper they can not advance as strong arguments along the lines laid down by the British and French . However , the real opposition tomorrow to this form of agenda will come from the Italians , who see that in such a debate they would be in a weak position . They count on American suppor : in their demand that needs be not the basis for discussion . While they say that in theory they are in the same position as the Americans , that is not true politically because the Americans are strong ' because of Britain 's prior acceptance of Anglo-American parity . The Italian position is that Italy is growing in strength and importance and that it is unfair ' to her to fix her status on today 's prevailing conditions . In other words , even if doubt is cast now on Italy 's right to parity with France , the Italians think that in the next ten years all such doubts will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems likely the Franco-Italian dispute will largely dominate the first period of the conference . Much may depend on whether Secretary of State iitimson comes to the assistance of Foreign Minister Grandi of Italy or whether he remains in the position that the French and Italians should settled their differences themselves . He may , on the other hand , try to follow a middle path by giving good advice in both directions at the same time . Session Likely This Week . It is possible that after tomorrow 's meeting a date can be set for the next plenary Session , which is expected to take place about the middle of the week . The conference ran into the sacrosanct British week-end today . There was nothing to do . The only rift in the restfulness was a visit which Secretary Stimson paid to Premier , motoring over from his country home , Stanmore , to Chequers . It rained all day but the London fog was absent . Although battleships probably will be placed far down on the agenda of the conference , it remains evident they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's pronouncement in favor of the eventual , progressive elimination of capital ships from the navies of the world represented only a gesture seems incorrect . Preuder spoke after a meeting of the Cabinet had approved his idea of asking the conference to accept the idea for the abolition of battleships , a proposal which had the earnest support of Philip Snowden , Chancellor of the Exchequer . It is. understood Mr. then leatned- the disinclination of Washington to accept his proposal . After conferences with other members of the Cabinet he made his statementcregaiding the ultimate desires of . the British Government . While there is no chance , because of American opposition , of the adoption of the principle which Mr. advocates , postponement of battleship ' construction for five years probably would be accepted by the British Prime Minister as an important step toward his ideal of the eventual complete elimination of capital ships from the navies of the world .                     