@@699272

txt Laws to compel re-classification of the civil service lists and a reduction in exempt positions , to extend the inquiry powers of the Governor and to pave the way for proportional representation and consolidation of city and county governments were recommended yesterday by the Committee of One Thousand in a report on charter revision . The report , endorsed by the City Club , the Citizens Union , the New York State Civil Service Reform Association and by members of the City Affairs Committee , will be submitted to Samuel Seabury , counsel to the Hofstadter legislative committee , for consideration in the drafting of the final report of the committee , which is supposed to propose the remedies for evils found in the New York City government . Inquiry Will Be Speeded . That the final phase of the city investigation may be completed by the end of the year and the report prepared soon afterward was indicated yesterday by Mr. Seabury in a statement in which he disapproved a demand for State Senator Samuel H. Hofstadter 's resignation as chairman by saying that the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues up to the time he goes on the Supreme Court bench as a justice , Jan. 1 . The demand for Mr. Hofstadter 's reliration , Made by three of his Republican colleagues on the committee , Assemblymen Abbot Low Moffat and Hamilton F. Potter and Senator Leon F. Wheatley , was predicated upon Mr. Hofstadter 's acceptance of a Democratic nomination for the Supreme Court . It was pointed out that if Mr. Hofstadter resigned , the new chairman of the committee would be appointed by the Democrats , who control the new Senate , and that the Republican majority of the committee investigating Tammany Hall might be destroyed . Mr. Seabury 's statement was believed to have ended the movement for Senator Hofstadter 's resignation . Reform Plan Detailed . The findings of the committee on charter revision , a subordinate body of the Committee of One Thousand , were given in the report made public yesterday as follows : " The joint legislative committee to investigate the affairs of the City of New York has brought out in public hearings that there is widespread waste and corruption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this investigation have aroused sufficient public indignation to support proposed changes which will attack the source of that waste and corruption . " The present charter and our complicated organization of governmental functions thereunder , while unwieldy , are not the chief causes of the conditions we would cure . " In the past reform spasms have accomplished changes in the mechanics of city administration ; consolidation of departments , reorganizations and similar mechanical changes have been tried in vain . The replacing of old machinery with new has proved of little avail while the same type of engineer continued to hold the throttle . At the same time substitution of individual officeholders and appointive officials for those shown up by an investigation of this character has proved also in the past to be only a temporary cure . " Our present political system has made possible control of government by a political machine over a long period with only brief interims of reform . The basis of such control lies in the monopoly obtained by a party in power over the dispensation of patronage and favor , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The dispensation of this patronage and favor by a corrupt organization makes possible increasing pluralities from year to year and is an important source of our distress . " A solution of this problem must Insure the full representation of minorities in the government hereafter , and must substantially reduce the passed at the first possible session of the Legislature . " Six Changes in Law Urged . The six recommendations which were made or changes in law were as follows : S. Childs , president of the City Club ; Paul Blanshard , executive director of the City Affairs Committee , and Dr. William J. Schieffelin , chairman of the Committee of One Thousand . Reply on Hofstadter . The report had not been received // amount of patronage and the opportunity for favor which now exist . " Government under a council chosen by some form of proportional representation , which in turn controls the administrative function of the city , is the most likely means of achieving the first end . " Assurance in the council of full representation of minorities will go far to destroy the monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not trouble to cast votes which will be ineffective , will take their part in electing such a council . Even if a corrupt party secures control of the council at a given election , the minority groups , on the basis of past voting in New York , will have a substantial influence , the mere existence of which will check the more vicious type of excess that now goes virtually unchallenged . " Certain mechanical changes can be accomplished by State legislation at this time without charter revision . They should accomplish some economy , increase efficiency in government and decrease the amount of patronage upon which the party maIchines at present depend . Such State Ilegislation includes : 1 . EliminatiJii of duplication , ex 1 pense and privilege by abolishing some and consolidating other functions and offices in the county governments . " 2 . Reclassification of positions under the civil service law , revision of the pension system and elimination of the large number of exempt positions for which examinations are practicable and which now constitute a substantial part of the available patronage and power of district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the improvement to be attained by such legislation and by installing an enlightened administration in office at this time , the source of recurrent waste and corruption can not be permanently destroyed without providing for the full representation of minorities in the city government . " The form which such representation shall take , whether it shall be through boroughs or lesser units , whether the form of counting votes shall be the Hare system or some other , whether the executive power shall be delegated by the council to . a Mayor or city manager or borough managers , and whether the revise/ charter , when adopted , shall be detailed or general , are all questions on which experts may differ . But prerequisite to the adoption of any . new system is certain enabling legislation which must and should be An amendment to the home rule law allowing all cities to initiate charter revision on a petition signed by 15 per cent of the voters , or , in the cases of the largest cities , by a number not to exceed 30,000 . A concurrent resolution proposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Constitution to permit a charter commission to provide for election of aldermen or a council on the principle of proportional representation . A concurrent resolution to amend the State Constitution so that the power to modify and change the county government  --  in this case to eliminate unnecessary offices  --  could be brought within the scope of the home rule law . This amendment was designed to permit the cities composed of more than one county to modify the county government without having to go to the Legislature . An amendment to Section Ten of the Civil Service law to give the State Civil Service Commission power to direct a reclassification of positions in the city service . Said the report , " The same work in several departments draws different salaries with a spread sometimes of $3,000 . Promotions are juggled . The personnel system in the city is disorganized , the morale of honest employes is lowered , a reclassification of the entire system is urgent . " An amendment to Section Thirteen of the Civil Service law to reduce the number of positions in the city service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The number of exempt positions has grown with the years of entrenchment of the party machines . They include the higher salaried positions which average $12,000 a year in the first class and $7,000 in the second class , and also hosts of deputies , secretaries , clerks and private assistants . To free the entire service from the incubus of chairwarmers appointed for political reasons and to curb the growing patronage of office , unnecessary exemptions should be curtailed . " An act to amend the executive law extending the investigatory power of the Governor . The report said : " The possibility - of investigations by direct act of the Governor would provide a safeguard of tremendous value against the recurrence of corruption under any form of government . It is believed that such a safeguard will round out the program of changes to be made at this time to prevent , so far as it is possible to do so , the recurrence of present abuses . " The chairman of the subcommittee which prepared the report was Samuel Ordway Jr . Others who took ; tart In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by Mr. Seabury yesterday . In his statement concerning the request for Senator Hofstadter 's resignation , he said : " From the public standpoint I deeply regret the evidence of dissension in the ranks of the Republican majority upon the joint legislative committee . I feel sure that it can serve no useful purpose . The time in which the work of the committee may be completed is very short , and if that work is to be accomplished no time should be wasted . The evidence which I intend to present to the committee relates exclusively to proposed constructive changes in the law and may be presented to the committee as it is now constituted . " Senator Hofstadter will not become a justice of the Supreme Court until Jan. 1 next , and I think the interests of the committee would be promoted if he continues up to that time to act as chairman of the committee . " I hope very much that no partisan or intraparty strife which may exist among the Republican Members will cause them to take a stand which will impede the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both as to the request for his resignation and the statement of Mr. Seabury . From sources close to him it was learned that he had no intention either of resigning or answering the request . Assemblyman Moffatt declined to comment on Mr. Seabury 's stand . Assemblyman Potter , from whose home town , Smithstown , L. I. , the telegram to Mr. Hofstadter was dispatched on Saturday , said : " That 's about what I expected . I 'm sorry to see Judge Seabury do that . I think it would have been much more dignified for him to keep hands off . In the end , things might have turned out the way he wants . I have known of his attitude for more than a week . " W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State chairman , was out of the city and was not reached for comment . During the day Mrs. H. Edward Drier , president of the Women 's City Club , made public a telegram which she had sent to Senator Hofstadter . It read : " At the meeting of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today it was voted unanimously to urge you to resign as chairman of the joint legislative committee before the next public hearings are held . The club deplores your continuance as chairman of this committee and trusts you will tender your resigna                     