@@697011

txt In Russia the Stalin regime has dedicated itself to the revival of militant Communism as it prevailed from the Bolshevist re-Volution to the retreat proclaimed by LENIN in the New Economic Policy in 1921 . His notice that it was only a retirement preparatory to another leap forward is now being translated into fact by his successor , who seems easily his rival in resolution and ruthlessness . Whatever may be the outcome of this renewed attempt to realize 100 per cent Communism in Russia , the will and intention are there on the part of the men in control . In that circumstance is the refutation of an argument that for many years had great vogue and is still occasionally encountered in favor of recognition of the Soviet regime by other governments . The one sure way , ran the argument , to expose the fallacies of Communist doctrine and to bring the Communist wild men to their senses was to multiply contacts between Russia and the outside world . Communist error and embitterment fed on isolation . Readmit Russia into the family of nations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of studying without prejudice the extraordinary experiment upon which she is engaged , and inevitably counsels of moderation inside of the Communist party will prevail . Precisely the opposite thing has happened . The Soviet Government has re-established diplomatic relations with every principal Power except the United States . The official attitude of Washington has not interfered with business relations between the two countries , the active participation of American experts in the development of the Soviet Government 's economic program and a brisk American tourist trade . It is generally agreed that of all outsiders Americans are , regarded in Russia with the least suspicion , though the reason may not be in our virtue but in our remoteness . With Russia 's closer neighbors relations are not bad . Germany , despite many disappointments and some prOvacation , holds fast to the policy initiated at Rapallo eight years ago . Great Britain has resumed diplomatic relations . The Soviet Government actually sat in an international conference with the " bourgeois " governments at Geneva in 1927 , and has subscribed to the Kellogg-Briand pact . The salutary " contacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But.inatcad of coming to their senses under the tactful , bedside manner of the outside world , the Moscow rulers are tied more firmly than ever to their Communist idols . What is now going on in Russia as Mr. DusANTY has repeatedly stated , is class war along the entire front ? in the towns , the factories , the villages , the churches , the universities , the family . STALIN is out to make good his claim against TROTSKY , that it is possible to build Socialism in Russia without waiting for a world revolution . It has been true from the original Bolshevist coup d'etat that the barriers between Soviet Russia and the outside world , the much-emphasized cordon sanitaire , the blockade , &c.,; have been largely of Russia 's own making . If STALIN has paid attention to what goes on outside of the'country , it has been to take note of the growing " stabilization " of capitalism . But the conclusion he hat drawn is just the reverse of the prophecies . He has not been won away from Communism . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other countries , Communism in Russia must lose no time in showing what it can do or ever more hold its peace .                     