@@700361

txt President Roosevelt tonight was planning to journey to the Capitol tomorrow to deliver in person his message on " the state of the ' Union " at the convening of the regular session of the Seventy-third Congress . Capitol attaches were completing arrangements for a joint meeting of the Senate and House In the House chamber . A huge ramp was set up to serve for the President 's entrance into the House wing , and extra seats were installed for the Senators and members of the Cabinet . Hans have been made to broadcast the message . andthe proceedings to the nation . The ceremonies will be sent over the National , Broadcasting Company 's network from noon to 1:15 P. M. ; over the Columbia System from noon to 12:45 P. M. As preparations for the ceremony were going forward Congressional leaders were evolving a program for the first week , following closely the course decided upon at a meeting with President Roosevelt last night . Liquor taxes and control will be the first business on the cal . endar , and this probably will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad powers to adjust tariffs in negotiating reciprocal trade treaties with other governments . Brief Message Expected . The President 's message tomorrow is expected to be brief . It is believed that he will outline the status of the recovery program which Congress commissioned him to start last Spring , and suggest enough work for Congress to occupy its time until he can make more specific recommendations . The first new task which he will assign is that of working out tariff reciprocity authority , according to those leaders who have conferred with him , The general message will be followed on Thursday by the special budget message in which the Treasury 's prospects will be disclosed with recommendations for such changes in the revenue laws as the administration deems necessary . In delivering his message personally to a joint session , President Roosevelt will be reverting to the example set in recent history by Woodrow Wilson . President Coolidge also addressed a ' joint session , and Presidents , Harding and Hoover took special messages to the Senate . In the early days of the Republic , Presidents appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set by Washington and followed by Adams was abandoned by Jefferson , Organized Opposition Unlikely . The belief was stronger than ever today , after the arrival In the capital of a majority of both houses , that the session will be directed largely from the White House . Neither the minority party nor any opposing faction has yet evinced the intention to follow a course of opposition . Dissent , doubtlessly , will be expressed in various quarters to some of the specific proposals sent to Congress for its approval , but it is ' the opinion of observers that this session will be under such complete control that the present program for ending it around May 1 can be carried out with some precision . The first sign of opposition arose today among certain Senators and Representatives who questioned the principle of granting wider tariff authority to the President . They ' said , however , that no definite proposal had yet been submitted and that judgment therefore , would have to be partially suspended . The Republican steering committee of the House , at a meeting this afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , decided to leave the program of legislation strictly in the hands of the Democrats , The conclusion was reached that the administration must stand responsible for the actions of the present Congress , although the rights of individual ' members or the Republicans as a body to object to any administration proposal was expressed . " We took the position , " Mr. Snell , said , " that the Republicans are just as interested in the good of the country as the majority party . Rut ' there is plenty of constructive work that may be done by the minority and we intend to do that work in a dignified manner , objecting always to those measures we do think to be unsound or against the public welfare . " The small Farmer-Labor group in the House is expected to follow its usual ihdependent course . Senator Shipstead , Farmer-Laborite of Minnesota , indicated that he would not oppose the President . He implied , however , that he would ask for modification of the NRA codes to protect the small business man , who , he stated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would attack any other measures which he thought should be attacked . Nevertheless , he regarded it as stupid to " go after the administration . " " At this time , " he said , " when everything is upset , we should do ( nothing calculated to upset the applecart . Roosevelt has been given his head by the nation , and we must not fight against him . " Senator Borah tomorrow will offer an amendment to the Recovery Act which would restore the prosecution of the anti-trust laws . Later he will seek to limit operation of the Recovery Act to larger corporations , and to employes in cities of more than 25,000 population , unless the administration consents to the former changes . Senator Dickinson , Republican , of Iowa , announced that he would introduce a bill-to repeal the Recovery Act , declaring that it was " unworkable , preventing recovery , and fostering the creation of monopolies . to the ruination of small business . " The Senate Democratic policy committee met again this morning to consider the legislative program . Men who dominate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in attendance today , in addition to Senator Robinson , were Senators Harrison , Glass , Byrnes , Connally , Gore , , Dill and Bulkley . Other members not present were Senators Wagner of New York and Barkley , Kentucky . While the monetary question was touched upon , it was only in passing . It was said by one of the members that the President was opposed to Senator Wheeler 's bill for the free coinage of silver , holding it was not feasible except by international agreement , which was not possible at present . Senator Robinsbn said the liquor tax bill would be taken up first in the Senate , as soon as the House had acted upon it . It will be followed by legislation repealing prohibition in the District of Columbia . Next on the program , perhaps , will be the St. Lawrence treaty . Until the House has acted , the Senate policy committee will be busy preparing legislation , with the probability that there will be frequent three-day recesses in the Senate in the early days of the session . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been abandoned . Senator RobinMon said that as much controversial legislation as possible will be dropped in the hope of bringing about adjournment by early May . President Cancels Engagements . After canceling all engagements President Rooseveltworked throughout the day and into the night on his message , but it was not expected to be completed until tomorrow morning , possibly within an hour of its delivery . White House stenographers were instructed to report at 8 A. M. tomorrow in case he should finish his message tonight . There was some uncertainty , in fact , as to whether the President would go to the Capitol to read his message before a joint session , He heard with interest that preparations were under way to receive him on Capitol Hill , but Stephen T. Early , his assistant secretary , said the President was " absolutely undecided . " The final decision probably will rest on the state of tomorrow 's weather , Mr. Early said , Officials high in the administration who ordinarily call on thy President daily refrained from visits while he worked with his secretaries in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message , also as yet unprepared , will follow the legislative message within twentyfour hours , President Roosevelt instructed his secretaries to make no engagements for him before Thursday afternoon . The sole exception to this rule will be two press conferences tomorrow , held for the purpose of giving to newspaper correspondents the " background " of the President 's views as he will express them in his . legislative and budget messages .                     