@@698681

txt For the first time since 1924 , when a Chicago police squad killed Frank Capone , brother of Al , in a running gunfight in Cicero streets , Chicago polic e will guard the suburb today when its citizens go to the polls in a municipal elec. tion . A. bitter campaign has been waged in the town , with Democrats trying to break the 14 year tenure in office of t h e Republican party . of County Judge Jarecki Sheriff Meyering went to the detective bureau last night and swore in 250 policemen as special deputy sheriffs for election duty . Each policeman received credentials issued by Judge Jarecki , a dollar for his dinner , and a stern admonition from Chief of Detectives Schoemaker " not to let any one steal the polls from under your nose . " The action was taken despite the protests of officials of the suburb . Tony Capone Slain in 1924 . Capone 's brother was killed in the 1924 fight by members of a squad under Lieut . William Cusack . Yesterday Lieut . Cusack and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were among the police assigned to Cicero . The Chicago , police , went into Cicero at 1 o'clock . this morning , five hours before the polls opened , : when seven detective squads started , to patrol the streets of the suburb . , Four more squads were kept in reserve during the night at the Fillmore street and Lawndale stations . Chief Schoemaker will , be in charge of the Chicago police . He will be at the Fillmore street station , and Judge Jarecki will hold court there during the day to hear cases of any election law violators who may ' be arrested . Sheriff Meyering will also have a detail of county highway police in Cicero . Suburban Officials Protest . Mayor Cermak yesterday conferred with Police Commissioner , Allman on plans to guard voters at the Cicero election . He received a request for protection from business men of Cicero , he said . President Joseph Z. Klenha of the village board protested Oa ' : the local police could maintain order at the polls , but the Chicago police were ordered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. Cerny , Democrat . A full Democratic ticket has been put into the field against the othol1Republican officeholders , who are all running for reelection . Between 25,000 and 35,000 votes are expected to be cast . Chief of Police Martin Wojciechowski of Cicero declared he did n't want Chicago policemen " meddling " with the election .                     