@@700848

txt Defying the spiritual and civil authorities of the Third Reich , an overwhelming majority of the pastors of the Bavarian Protestant Church read from their pulpits several times today a manifesto arraigning before God and man Reich Bishop Ludwig Mueller and his civil administrator , Dr. August Jaeger , for waging an unholy war against the church of Bavaria . The manifesto called on faithful Protestants to refuse obedience to the Reich church government as contrary to the faith and the Constitution . The document was signed by State Bishop Hans Meisser , whom Dr. Jaeger deposed and put under house arrest , and by his similarly deposed church council , who proclaimed themselves still " the rightful authority of the entire State church , appointed to their offices by God . " Illegal Action Charged . In the manifesto Bishop Meisser and his church council charged that Dr. Jaeger had broken illegally into the administrators ' building of the Bavarian church and ousted the legal church government by force and coercion of conscience . They further declared that as a representative of " dark powers " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a regime of might , " opening the door to every heresy , and that he and Dr. Mueller were responsible " for confusion in our community , discord within our people and the shame of the German Evangelical Church before world Christendom . " Therewith the issue has been joined . The Bavarian Protestant State church has picked up the gauntlet hurled at its feet by Bishop Mueller and Dr. Jaeger in their efforts to remove the last obstacle to their program of unification of the German Protestant church , which many Nazis consider a necessary preliminary to establishment of a national church embracing all confessions . And , as high spokesmen of the Meisser wing assured this correspondent , the struggle will not end until it is ended right . Schism Is Possible . Whether this definite split represents a schism or not is not yet clear since both sides profess the same faith and claim to represent the rightful church government . But it is becoming clear that unless one side disappears from the scene a schism is likely . The program of Bishop Mueller and Dr. Jaeger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given by spokesmen today are as follows : 1 . Dr. Mueller and Dr. Jaeger must go and be replaced by a ! , church government properly set up according to the rules of the church . 2 . The faith and church rights must be safeguarded . 3 . A church court must be erected to eradicate errors being brought into the church by outside forces . The Bavarian church , it was said , is perfectly willing to join the Reich church under these conditions , but can not join at present despite Dr. Mueller 's most solemn assurances that he will preserve the faith because , as one spokesman puts it , " the present cllurch regime has lost all moral credit and its assurances can no longer be believed . " The manifesto read today put it in these words : " Faith has been broken and character and trust have been destroyed . " Churches Are Packed . In anticipation of today 's developments the Protestant churches were packed with fervent crowds who listened to the manifesto with deepest emotion . In St. Lorenz Church at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meisser and his church council was received by the congregation with loud and repeated " pfuis " ? something unprecedented in any church . The indignation might have been even more vehement if the congregation had known that Bishop Meisser was un- der constant surveillance in his home and that even when he and his wife retired they were compelled to keep the bedroom door open while guards sipped tea in an adjoining room . In St. Matthew 's Church in Munich , where Dr. Meisser used to preach , constant murmurs of resentment accompanied a like description and following the services the larger part of the congregation marched to the Bishop 's palace , where another service was held in the courtyard by an assistant pastor . Bishop Meisser appeared at a window and thanked the congregation for its loyalty and exhorted it to trust in God . Almost as severe as the manifesto were some sermons delivered in Baravia today . In St. Lorenz Church , Nuremberg , the pastor , Wilhelm Geyer , compared the German Protestant Church with the prodigal son who wasted his substance with harlots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the church , " the pastor exclaimed , and he exhorted all to repent the errors of their ways and give thanks to the Father . In St. Matthew 's Church here Pastor Deisenhofer cited the scriptural passage declaring that " lions and wild beasts have come into the vineyards , " and declared that the ( Nazi ) German Christians with whom Dr. Mueller has declared his solidarity " have completed the profanation of the church. : ' Beading of Manifesto Banned . Reading of the manifesto had been forbidden by the police at 6 o'clock this morning and in Nuremberg the homes of some pastors were searched . Despite the prohibition there was little interference , so far as is known tonight , when the statement was read after all . Only in Nuremberg groups of Nazis and Storm Troopers seemed to make a point of marching past St. Lorenz Church during the service singing , shouting and playing their drums and fifes so that at times the reading of the manifesto was drowned out . Otherwise , it appears the services were not interfered with . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one named Helbig , an army chaplain , and another named Krauss , had been arrested for reporting in their church papers on Dr. Jaeger 's action , while Pastor Scheider , head of the Erlangen Seminary , had been deposed and the seminary dissolved . In contrast with the strength and determination displayed by the Meisser wing , Bishop Mueller 's church government found itself virtually without churches and without congregations in Bavaria today . Hans Sommerer , appointed by Dr. Jaeger as Commissioner of the Bishopric of Franconia , was unable to find a church in his capital and so made a speech over the radio on Winter relief . According to available reports the Reich church commands little more than a dozen churches in Bavaria ministered by German Christians . Two Causes for Outbreak . The fact that the church conflict being waged under cover all over the Reich broke so violently and so publicly in Bavaria is attributed to two causes . One is that the Protestants of the south and West of Germany because of the surrounding communities must be militant as a matter of self-preservation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a breach of faith charged to Dr. Jaeger . As stated in Bavarian church sources , Dr. Jaeger informed Bishop Meisser in writing last Tuesday that he would not interfere in the Bavarian church . On Wednesday a meeting of Bavarian district leaders took place in Munich at which Julius Streicher , Nazi leader , demanded immediate action . Under the influence of this powerful chief of Franconia , Dr. Jaeger in the name of church unity established a special Franconian bishopric and deposed Bishop Meisser . It is also reported on reliable authority that the entire Bavarian government is opposed to Dr. Jaeger 's action , except Interior Minister Wagener , who , however , commands the police . Whether these versions are correct in all details it is impossible to ascertain , but it appears as if Herr Streicher , whose attention heretofore has been concentrated on attacking the Jews , is expanding his interests .                     