@@700509

txt At the request of officials of-the Federal Reserve Board and Treasury , the conference on the stock exchange regulation bill scheduled for Wednesday was postponed until today . In the meantime , officials of the Treasury and Reserve Board will study changes in the , bill which have been proposed and look into suggestions for further changes . Under request from the White House , the Treasury and Federal Reserve officials arc looking to all sources of information on exchange regulation . They are conferring not only with the Congressional leaders concerned , but have gone into the Dickinson report and into other sources of information . The principal bill before the CongressionalTreasury conferees la of course , the FletcherRayburn bill . However , the Bulwinkle bill , and a similar measure introduced by Senator Tk.ig ( Dem. , Utah ' ) have come to their attenaon . These bills provide for a special regulatory agency with broad discretionary powers and are drawn along the lines of the Dickinson report . Guarding Against Security Act Experience The Administration is believed guarding against the experience which it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the full possibilities of the liability sections of the bill were not fully exposed until after the bill was passed . The Administration does not want that to happen in connection with the pending regulation bill . This was the big reason for drawing the Federal Reserve Board and Treasury into the picture . The problem 2s largely one of security credit , and they are the agencies most familiar with that field . It is now clear that sponsors of the FletcherRayburn bill will not resist wide changes on some important points , but they will resist on others . The margin requirements sections have been revised and may be revised still further so that no set margin provisions will be left in the statute . Such requirements would be left to the Federal Reserve working in connection with the exchange regulatory body . Other ' sections of the bill touching on security credit as it relates to brokers , bankers and dealers will be changed . There will be modification . if not elimination , of the requirement for registration of listed securities with the exchange regulatory body . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1933 , and is not primarily a measure of regulation for security exchanges . However , the provisions for frequent company reports , probably to be made through the medium of the exchanges , will be in the bill when it is finished . Congressional Support for F. T. C. It appears that the sponsors of the FletcherRayburn bill have a good chance of winning their point on making the Federal Trade Commission the exchange regulatory body instead of putting that function into the hands of a special commission . There is considerable Congressional support for the Trade Commission idea on the part of leaders who are loath to add more federal commissions to those now existing . The segregation of brokers and dealers is a problem for drafters of the bill . There appear valid arguments for separating those functions in many cases . In other cases it appears impossible to make the separation without crippling the present security distributing agencies . The possibility of a gradual segration has been put forward . Another suggestion is that segregation might be practical in the large cities but not in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point is not understood to be immediate . This is another subject which might be left to the discretion of the regulatory body rather than being written into statute . The decision on numerous minor changes appears to depend on what kind of a bill is decided upon . If a bill following the lines of the Dickinson report becomes the final verdict , many of the questions which have concerned the hearings over the past few weeks will disappear automatically . If a more detailed bill is to be had , these questions will have to be threshed out . Drafting to Be Very Careful After the contents of the bill are decided upon , there will follow a period of very careful drafting . It is important that the bill say exactly what it means and not be subject to divergent interpretations because of loose language . This was another reason for calling in the Treasury and Reserve Board , each of which has expert legislative draftsmen . The conference scheduled for Wednesday , was called off at request of Governor Black wha suggested that more progress could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the President , had opportunity to review all changes before another meeting . Meantime , the House interstate commerce committee and Senate banking and currency committee are in recess so far as the exchange regulation bill is concerned , but they will be called to meet as soon as developments are definite enough to justify a meeting . After a conversation with President Roosevelt Wednesday , Chairman Fletcher of the Senate banking and currency committee stated that , while the President was not specific as to the provisions he favored , indicated he desired a bill with teeth in it .                     