@@702919

txt James Carter is living proof that a horse thief can not change his finger prints any more than a leopard can paint his own spots . No , sir , not even in twentyseven years . It was back in 1910 that Carter , a trim fellow of 41 , Deputy Warden Warlick , stole a who got his horse thief . horse in Oklahoma . The state was then quite civilized and instead of stringing him up on the nearest tree the folks gave him a trial and sentenced him to three years in prison . Oklahoma had only one big prison , at ' . Carter went there , serene. , in the knowledge that this was better than hanging . But he did n't stay more than 18 months . Sometime in 1911 the state decided to build a new prison at Granite and Carter was chosen as one of the builders . Idea Does n't Appeal . The idea of building tall , massive granite walls to hold himself in did n't appeal , particularly as the convict workers ' camp was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which could plainly be seen wide stretches of wild country . So James Carter seized an opportunity and escaped . As quickly as possible he went away from Oklahoma , and continued to wander through the succeeding years . Gradually he forgot the little episode of the horse . He saw one so seldom in recent years that he developed the comfortable theory that perhaps horse-thieving was no longer a crime worthy of remembrance . He was n't worried unduly , therefore , when he was arrested a couple of weeks ago at Mishawaka , Ind. , on a charge of operating a confidence game . He was using the alias Sanford there . Prints are Compared . But the Mishawaka authorities sent his finger prints to the federal bureau of investigation in Washington and a comparison showed that he was James Carter . His wooden leg clinched the identification . The same fellow , but just a little stooped and a lot grayer than he had been in 1911 . The prison at Granite was notified and Deputy Warden L. V. Warlick donned his ten gallon light tan hat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the horse fancier of long ago and waived extradition . Warden Warlick brought him to Chicago and left him overnight at the Central police station . They 're going on tomorrow . " Science , " remarked the warden , " is wonderful . Carter is astonished at the way it works . But he says he 's glad to go back . He 's been wondering for 27 years what that Granite prison looked like when the other boys rot it finished . "                     