@@703572

txt Industrial management must face the problem of furnishing regular employment at wages as high as possible and government must assist by avoiding unwise taxation and permitting employers to maintain a sound financial condition . A. W. Robertson , chairman of the board of Westinghouse Electric &; Manufacturing Co. , told the International Management Congress yesterday . More than 1 500 delegates , representing business leadership in all parts of the world , are in the capital for the five-day , onference -- the seventh and the first ? to be held in the United States . Twenty foreign countries are represented . Mr. Robertson declared that management must be alert to an ever-changing world aid must change with the times or private enterprise must fail . He warned tliat the government itself is the greatest threat to private initiative and at the present time government everywhere is endeavoring to force all men to be equal by restraining the strong and assisting the weak . Suggeats Better Cooperation He suggested better cooperation , conceding that government is forced by the very nature of things to assume a larger ' and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , government needs the assistance of management and management should willingly offer its talents and services to government . Discussing stockholder earnings , Mr. Robertson said that profits are so small as a rule that he is surprised that stockholders do not form a union to demand -a greater return . " Perhaps they need only a John A. Lewis to arouse them . In any case a lucrative reward awaits some enterprising person as president of the ' International Stockholders Protective Union . ' The I.S.U.P. might serve a useful purpose by presenting comprehensive demand for a greater share of business to offset insistent demands of other groups , " he said . Management and Labor Relations As for labor relations , Mr. Robertson said that in the past management has paid scant heed to the problem of furnishing yearly employment . It has expected labor to share the ups and downs of business . If times were bad , labor was unemployed . In a degree this can not be avoided : But management , by careful planning , may be able to smooth out to an appreciable extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Management should be able to plan its work so that improvements , major repairs and expansion is done in periods of depression when labor might otherwise be unemployed . Government Policies " This means that private enterprise must have sufficient funds to carry it through depressions with confidence . Government must assist management in this laudable undertaking and should be interested in assisting it to maintain a sound financial condition rather than weakening it by unwise taxation . " " Management - should willingly offer its talents and services to government because management is the only source from which government can get the necessary talent to operate its many activities efficiently . It now ignores management , and management scowls at government . They are both wrong , " Mr. Robertson said . The theme-of Mr. Robertson 's address was accepted by a large number of the delegates as one of the principal problems of business leaders and executives who will endeavor to reach a better understanding of the complexities of management and to fix specific responsibilities that management will have to assume in the preservation of free enterprise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board of Union Pacific and chairman of the Commerce Department 's business advisory council , presided at the afternoon meeting at which Mr. Robertson spoke . In closing the meeting , Mr. Harriman asserted that management is confronted with the necessity of entering into politics . " Management has been left to itself and has stayed to its self . It has n't entered very much into the political problems . It feels today , however , that it must become involved in those political problems ; that its responsibility is either to persuade the public that the direction of their thinking is wrong or that it must conform to the trend of the period . That will require somewhat of a new technique , somewhat a different type of personality in our managerial staff , but I think we can ' see it coming in this country . Although there are troubles sometimes ? at the moment arguments and disagreements between our political leaders and our business leaders ? I for one would like to leave with you the note of great confidence that there is fundamentally a unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared . Hull 's Speech Opens Congress The International Management Congress session opened yesterday morning with an address from Secretary of State Hull who said that the expansion of international trade will minimize the possibilities of war and make unnecessary the enormous burdens placed upon the world by armaments . The exigencies of the international situation prevented Secretary Hull from'appearing in person at the congress meeting . His message wax delivered to the group by a representative from the State Department . The delegates assembling here from all parts of the world were told by Secretary Hull that government , like management , has the positive task of removing uneconomic obstacles eo as to increase the volume of international trade and commerce . The meeting of the group , be said , is evidence of the desire of business management to conduct its affairs in the spirit of public trust . He praised the objectives of the congress which is the elevation of the material standards of living of the people of the world . The Secretary of State 's address was responded to by Lord Leverfulme , of Lever Brothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scientific Management . Representatives from Czechoslovakia. , France , Germany , and Italy also were called upon to express their appreviation of Secretary Hulla ' encouraging note of welcome . Willis IL Booth , honorary chairman of the Congress , made the opening address at the general session . He declared that the problem ot . management in " all its ramifications is badly confused by political cross-currents and if the solution is found all ' will be well , but if not , we must face the possibility of government control , destroyed initiative , and =progressive industry . "                     