@@700318

txt Declaring a belief that the Weirton Steel Company was " about to commit a deliberate violation of Federal laws , " General Johnson tonight warned the company 's head that his defiance of the National Labor Board was endangering his right to the Blue Eagle . In a telegram to Ernest T. Weir , following announcement at Weirton , W. Va. , that an election of company union representatives would proceed tomorrow , the Recovery Administrator said : " I am informed that , in breach Of your agreement with the National Labor Board and in overt defiance of your obligation under the steel code and Section 7a of the National Industrial Recovery Act , you will tomorrow hold a companydominated election for the selebtion pf your representatives . " I have endeavored without success to reach you on the telephone and ' was met by a refusal by your secretary to put me in touch with you . I am informed that Gerard Swope of the Industrial Advisory Board has had a similar experience . " This is to advise you that in my opinion you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws and that if you do so , I shall request the Attorney General to proceed against you immediately . " In the meantime I shall at once call an open hearing to determine whether your Blue Eagle should-be withdrawn and whether you should be henceforth denied the privileges of the steel code . " Friendly Agreement Doubted . General Johnson had sought to speak to the steel executive by telephone to Pittsburgh , at offices of the National Steel Company , of which the Weirton Company is a subsidiary . His telegram also went there . It was taken for granted that General Johnson 's drastic action was taken with the full knowledge Of President Roosevelt . He has conferred repeatedly with the President in the last few days . General Johnson had a telephone conversation with Mr. Weir after sending the telegram , but some of his associates were inclined to doubt that a more or less friendly agreement for a court test was reached , as indicated in Pittsburgh by the steel executive . The belief here , in the absence of any comment from General Johnson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Weirton case bids fair to be one of the most important cases of alleged infraction of the Recovery . Act confronting the Labor Board . A strike of employes of the company was ended by the board on Oct. 16 , when an election was arranged for tomorrow . Several days ago Mr. Weir refused to accept the board 's election rules , denounced that body as having violated the agreement , and terminated all relationship with agents of the board . At a meeting of members of the board presided over by Senator : Wagner , chairman , it was decided to send Mr. Weir a telegram announcing its decision and to recommend that the matter be placed in the hands of Attorney General Cummings , with the advice that an injunction be sought . Milton Handler , general counsel to the Labor Board , began conferring with the legal staff of the Department of Justice in order to outline proper procedure . Cummings Sends Agents . General Johnson 's telegram was sent after he had conferred with Senator Wagner and other representatives of the National Labor Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor board to Weirton and Clarksburg , W. Va. , and Steubenville , Ohio , with a final demand that the labor board 's method of holding the election be put into effect tomorrow . At one time General Johnson is said to have offered to go in person to test the case or to send Associate Administrator Edward F. . The members of the board . who debated the question for some time , finally decided that legal process through the Justice Department would be the best procedure , and then sent to Mr. Weir , who is one of the large independent steel producers , the following telegram : ? " Your letter of eleventh received . Inasmuch as you have refused to permit our representatives to conduct the elections under the rules of the National Labor Board and in accordance with agreement signed by you , and have in addition interfered with the choice of representatives of your employes in violation of Section 7 of the National Industrial Recovery Act , the board will therefore proceed to take such action as it may be advised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Attorney General Cummings ma le known that three justice agents had been sent to the vicinity of the three plants as observers . The procedure that the National Labor Board has under consideration is to certify the case to the Attorney General with recommendation for action in a Federal court . If the Attorney General approves , the local District Attorney would handle the case and counsel for the labor board act as a special Assistant Attorney General or a special assistant United States attorney to cooperate in the prosecution .                     