@@700385

txt We have rescued our damaged plane , the Polar Star , from a bobbing slab of ice in the Bay of Whales and are on our way back to Duuedin in the motorship Wyatt Earp . It was a narrow escape from complete disaster when the shelf ice . broke up suddenly and the skis of the Polar Star slipped through a crack in the ice . Our ship was cast adrift . ' The wings of the plane kept it from falling into the crevasse until ten of the crew , working under the direction of Bernt Balchen for six hours , hauled it back to the surface of the ice . For hours the Polar Star drifted on a heavy slab of ice , less than sixty feet long , forty feet wide and about fifteen feet thick . We rescued it in the nick of time , as the waves were eating into the ice block , and hoisted it with tackle to the deck of the Wyatt Earp . The machine in which Balchen and I had planned a 3,000-mile nonstop transantarctic flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hold . Plane Is Badly Damaged . . The rescue was made without further damage to the plane , but the damage it received between the pieces of shelf ice was considerable and , for the time being , vital to her flying . The streamlining about the skis was badly crumpled , both skis were broken square across just in front of the metal pedestals , the right aileron was twisted beyond repair , and a three-foot-long section of the leading edge of the right wing tip , near its juncture with the centre section , was flattened at almost right angles to its normal curve . Worst of all , from the repair point of view , is the crushed part of the fuselage at the rear of the right wing . We might make new streamlining , an aileron and skis out of the material we carried aboard for emergencies , - but without special jigs , which were far too cumbersome to carry aboard ship , it is impossible for us to repair the fuselage and the wing . The time it will take to effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this season , so it is probably advisable to return the machine to the factory at Los Angeles . However , future plans for the time being must be held in abeyance , although this setback has only made our desire to fly across Antarctica more determined . The damage to the machine was brought about by a narrow chance . Had the crack in the ice opened a few inches from the airplane ski instead of directly beneath it , the machine would have been safe . When hauled to the top of the ice the plane rode securely throughout Friday and that night on a swell that seemed to have its origin far beyond the sheltering point of the barrier . The barrier forming the eastward side of the Bay of Whales , about forty feet above the water , is probably three hundred feet thick . But the swell on Friday seemed to come beneath it , or perhaps from it , since yesterday we noticed it rising and falling a foot or more . The wind and current on Friday set up a circling motion to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plane had been borne about a mile to the edge of the milling mass , and from there we rescued it . All day Friday and through the night the Wyatt Earp patrolled back and forth beside the edge of the ice . The ice sections were so thick and heavy it was impossible to push the ship among them . We watched and waited . Stirred by wind and current , the ice whirled slowly . Some sections , from the east of the bay , were lodged on the west side and some were carried to the centre . As the day passed , the shelf ice , deeper and deeper inside the bay , was fractured and formed into great pressure ridges such as have never been recorded in the history of exploration in the Ross Sea sector . The first shattering of the shelf ice was phenomenal . It averages fourteen to twenty-five feet thick , and an ordinary swell rising in a moderate wind should not break it . Then , to the accompaniment of heavy booming , it shattered so rapidly that possibly some extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the booming of the barrier , like distant claps of thunder , continued , and many sections at the edge of the bay and westward were . seen to fall . There were many sudden happenings . At 3 o'clock yesterday morning the wind , which had been blowing moderately from the northeast for three days , changed within five minutes to the southwest , bringing with it snow squalls and fog , but by 6 o'clock the fog lifted . It was then that our plane , glistening in the sunshine , was seen near the edge of the moving ice . All hands were called and the ship cautiously approached the tip of the tilting ice mass . The waves , eating into the ice , were already undermining the skis of the plane , and we were just in time to save it . As we drew alongside the bobbing block of ice , several men jumped from the ship to the ice and made lines fast to anchors already prepared . The ship 's tackle was soon fastened to the plane 's hoisting lines and in ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gear , which ' lay about her , was recovered . The once-beautiful machine was a pitiful sight . It must have been under very heavy pressure . The men who first approached it after it slipped into the crack could hear the crunching of huge ice masses against the skis and the whining of the metal wings under great stress as the machine sank lower . At first there seemed little doubt that the plane would be ground to pieces , but quick work saved her . With a line about its tail , the men heaved and heaved , and at every rise of the ice mass with the swell it gave an inch , until gradually they freed it . It was at first considered possible to effect necessary repairs , but further inspection proved otherwise . Nothing can be done this season , notwithstanding our supply of repair material and the kind offer of Admiral Byrd for the use of his facilities .                     