@@700604

txt In preparation for early consideration of the stock market control bill in the Senate , Senator Fletcher today filed for the B , anking and Currency Committee a formal report on the measure . It was recommended as the most effective means by which security trading could be made subordinate to the economic welfare of the whole people . Internal regulation of the stock market had proved inadequate and the government must adopt measures which will enable it " to stewl the speculative tide whenever necessary , " the report said . Control is to be accomplished , the report continued , by more curbs on the use of credit for speculative purposes , by eliminating unfair practices employed in speculation , and by turning the light on the heretofore secret financial conditions of those corporations which invite the public to buy their securities . A companion report is expected to be filed in the House Saturday by Chairman Rayburn of the Interstate Commerce Committee . To Call Up Bill Quickly . Senator Robinson of Arkansas , the Democratic floor leader , started preparations for calling up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , late next week . He does not expect that the Senate will be more than three or four days in disposing of the measure . Senator Fletcher argued for the necessity of stock market legislation . He held self-regulation inadequate . " The record compiled by the committee for the first time exposed methods by which a relatively small number of persons have extended their operations in securities far beyond any useful economic function , to the great detriment of the investing public , " the report says . " By the development of the margin account a great many people have been induced to embark upon speculative ventures in which they were doomed to certain loss . The unfair methods of speculation employed by large operators and those possessing inside information regarding corporate affairs , and the failure of corporations to publish full and fair reports of their financial conditions , have also been contributing causes of losses to investors . " Says All Are Affected . Above its effect upon individuals , unbridled speculation , says the report , " has brought in its train social and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire country . " During the boom , it continues , a vast and unhealthy volume of credit was " sucked " into securities to the deprivation of agriculture , commerce and industry , " which made possible the inflation of prices of securities out of all proportion to their value . " Securities values on the New York Stock Exchange are set forth as $89,000,000,000 on Sept. 1 , 1929 , and $15,000,000,000 on July 1 , 1932 . " There can be little question , " the report says , ' ' that stock market speculation is among the most potent factors which have contributed to the prolonged depression . " The country was pictured as not having learned enough , not even from the catastrophe of 1929 , to stay out of the market , as " evidenced by the speculative boom during the Summer of 1933 , which ended with the usual disastrous results to investors . " " If our present progress toward prosperity is not to be impeded from time to time by the financial collapse invariably following artificial inflation of security prices , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Government adopt measures , which will enable it to stem the speculative tide whenever necessary . " Against Control by Exchange . The efforts of the Exchanges themselves to clean house have only emphasized the need for Federal legislation , the report holds . Then : " The contention of Stock Ex , change authorities that internal regulation obviates the need for governmental control seems unsound for several reasons . " In the first place , however zealously Exchange authorities may supervise the business conduct of their members , the interests with which they are connected frequently conflict with the public interest . " Secondly , the securities exchanges have broadened the scope of their activities to the point where they are no longer isolated institutions , but have become such an important element in the credit structure of the country that regulation , to be effective , must be integrated with the protection of our entire financial system and the national economy . " Thirdly , the control exercised by Stock Exchange authorities is admittedly limited to their own members and they are unable to cope with those practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Fourthly , the attitude of Exchange authorities toward the nature and scope of the regulation required appears to be sharply at variance with the modern conception of the extent to which the public welfare must be guarded in financial matters . Their adherence to the view that manipulation , pool activities and the creation of illusory ' price mirages ' are proper and legitimate , except where certain technical violations of their rules are involved , is inconsistent with the type of regulation the public interest demands . " Committee 's Analysis of Bill . With these conclusions from the hearing which it has been conducting since April , 1932 , into stock market practices . the committee presents an analysis of the bill which it framed to curb the suggested evils and to bring securities trading under supervision of the Federal Government . The analysis reads in part : ' " From the outset the committee ihas proceeded on the theory that so delicate a mechanism as the modern stock exchange can not be regulated efficiently under a rigid statutory program . Unless considerable latitude is allowed for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the one hand , unworkable ' straitjacket ' regulation and . on the other . loopholes which may be penetrated by slight variations in the method of doing business . " Accordingly . It is essential to entrust the administration of the act to an agency vested with power to eliminate undue hardship and to prevent and punish evasion . Of course , well-defined limits must be indicated within which the authority of such administrative authority may be exercised . " The committee considers that the act could be administered effectively by a commission of five , to be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate specifically for that purpose . Small Exchanges Exempted . " The bill forbids the use of the mails or instrumentalities of interstate commerce to any securities exchange which is not registered with the commission as a ' national securities exchange . ' The commission , however , is empowered to exempt from registration small exchanges where the volume of transactions is not sufficient to invite the abuses prevalent on the larger markets . " When applying for registration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the rules and regulations of the commission and to require observance of the same by their members . " In addition to the organized security markets , there exist in financial centres unorganized ' overthe-counter ' markets where securities are bought and sold in large volume . Many of these securities are of a conservative character , such as government , State and municipal bonds , which are exempted from the provisions of the bill , but others are more speculative in nature and are subject to the abuses of manipulation . " For example , the committee has heard evidence of extensive manipulation in certain New York bank stocks after their withdrawal from the New York Stock Exchange and while they were being sold ' overthe-counter . ' These manipulations resulted in tremendous losses to the investing public , and in enormous profits to insiders . It has been deemed advisable to authorize the commission to subject such activities to regulation similar to that prescribed for transactions on organized Exchanges . " The Question of Margins . On the subject of margins and brokers , the report says : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ordinary procedure is for a broker to extend credit to his customer in order to finance the purchase of a security , the broker in turn borrowing from a banking institution or another broker . The ease and celerity with which such a transaction is arranged , and the absence of any security by the broker of the personal credit of the borrower , encourage the purchase of securities by persons with insufficient resources to protect their accounts in the event of a decline in the value of the securities purchased . Many thoughtful persons have taken the view that the only way to correct the evils attendant upon stock market speculation is to abolish margin trading altogether . " A Federal judge furnished this committee with instances from his long experience on the bench . indicating that a large proportion of business failures , embezzlements and even suicides in recent years were directly attributable to losses incurred in speculative transactions . " The committee has deemed it unwise at this juncture to adopt a ! measure calculated to abolish margin trading because of the defla tionary consequences which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has arrived to remove the control of credit in margin transactions from the hands of those who , by reason of their self-interest , are least qualified ' to administer ' such control  --  the Stock Exchanges land their members . Opposes Statutory Limitations . " After due consideration , the committee does not recommend that statutory limitations be placed upon the extension or maintenance of credit . The bill authorizes the commission to prescribe rules and regulations for the purpose of preventing the excessive use of credit for the purchasing , selling , carrying or trading in securities . Such rules and regulations need not be uniform throughout the United States . and hence local conditions requiring special treatment may be taken into consideration . " To prevent sudden liquidation of existing margin accounts subsequent to the passage of the bill , it is provided that the rules and regulations prescribed by the commission shall not be effective before June 30 , 1936 , as to any loan made prior to the enactment of the bill , or any renewal thereof . " The foregoing provisions would , be ineffectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of others than brokers and dealers to extend credit , since loans to customers directly from banks and others could be arranged to evade margin requirements . The bill imposes manifold checks upon the employment of credit for speculative purposes ; ( 1 ) it empowers the commission to limit the amount of credit which a broker or dealer may extend upon a security ; ( 2 ) it prohibits brokers and dealers from borrowing except through a member bank of the Federal Reserve System or in accordance with regulations of the commission ; ( 3 ) it empowers the commission to limit the amount which brokers may borrow ; ( 4 ) it authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to limit the amount which member banks may loan on securities , and ( 5 ) it empowers the commission to regulate loans to brokers and dealers by corporations having securities listed on Exchanges . " A Discussion of Manipulation . Concerning " manipulative practices , " the report says : " Several devices are employed for the purpose of artificially raising or depressing security prices . Those which appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such practices are fictitious or ' wash ' sales ; ' matched ' orders , or orders for the purchase and sale of the same security emanating from a common ( source for the purpose of recording operations on the tape and thereby creating a false appearance of activity ; and other transactions specifically designed lo manipulate the price of a security . " The impropriety of practices such as ' pegging ' or fixing or stabilizing the price of a security has received most careful consid1 eration by the committee . The committee recommends that such practices be not abolished by statute but subjected to regulation by the commission . " In like manner , the subject of options has been left with the commission for regulation . " Short selling has been defended as a necessary check upon a rising market and as a stabilizing factor in the ensuing decline , and attacked on the ground that it tends to unsettle the market , depress prices and accelerate declines . The commission recommends that the practice of short selling be placed under the supervision of the commission . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The information required to be filed under the Securities Act of 1933 relates only to the situation at the time a security is issued . Reports under this bill will provide adequate information reasonably up-to-date as long as the security is traded in on an exchange . " This aspect of the proposed legislation has been the target of an extensive campaign in the form of letters and telegrams addressed to members of Congress and especially to members of this committee . The extent of the protest makes it worthy of serious consideration , but it appears that this opposition is largely based on a misunderstanding of the bill , the fear of exposure on the part of some corporations which have heretofore managed to withhold from investors their true financial condition , or the efforts of stockbrokers hostile to other portions of the bill , who are endeavoring to marshal all possible aid in defeating the bill by inciting their customers to protest . " The principal objection directed against the provisions for corporate reporting is that they constitute a veiled attempt to invest a governmental commission with the power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no such intention , and feels that the bill furnishes no justification for such an interpretation . To make this point abundantly clear , Section 13 ( d ) specifically provides that nothing in the act shall be construed to authorize interference with the management of corporate affairs . " Pledging of Securities Restricted . As to conduct of brol:erage accounts , the report says : " Severe financial losses have been sustained by investors from time to time in cases where a broker pledged his customers ' securities for loans in excess of the aggregate indebtedness due him in respect of such securities , or pledged them along with his own securities to finance his private speculative commitments . These practices , as well as the loaning of a customer 's security without written authority , are prohibited by the proposed bill . " Many critics of the stock brokerage business as now conducted assert that a fundamental evil is the commingling of the functions of broker and dealer by the same person or firm . The contention has been advanced , and evidence before the committee has tended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his own account finds it difficult to give disinterested advice to a customer with regard to the securities the customer seeks to buy . However honest the broker 's intention may be , it is argued that he should be placed beyond temptation by a complete segregation of the broker and dealer functions . The committee has reached the conclusion that for the present any such action would be unwise . Accordingly , the bill directs the commission to study the feasibility of the complete segregation of the functions of dealer and broker and to report its recommendations to the Congress prior to Jan. 3 , 1935 . " Abuse of the dual function of principal and agent has been shown to be especially flagrant in the case of specialists . The bill leaves the regulation of specialists to the commission , but directs that dealings by a broker specialist for his own account shall be reasonably limited . The bill also authorizes the commission to regulate floor trading , a practice which enables speculators on the scene of activities to indulge in many manipulative devices and to demoralize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   