@@703235

txt United States Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy told his first British audience tonight that no nation could count upon American neutrality or American , participation in another war . Whatever stand the American people might take , ' he warned , would be based " primarily . on , the firm ground of national interest . " It was Mr. Kennedy 's official bow at the traditional dinner given by the Pilgrims Club to every new American Ambassador . The Duke of Kent was there from the royal family , Viscount Halifax , Foreign Secretary , - sat only a few places away and Mr. Kennedy 's words were - heard with strained attention by Ambassadors , Cabinet . Ministers and almost 400. leaders of British official , diplomatic and business life . Unlike most of his predecessors at the Court of St. James , Mr. Kennedy referred only once to the " cora7 mon heritage and glorious traditions of the English-speaking peoples . " each knew countries two The sanctity of international commit- ' ments. " other so well , he said , that they But he warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other and the Ambassador promptly . . Continued on Page Six Text of Ambassador Kennedy 's address , Page 6. proceeded to do so , to the great astonishment of his bearers . In some quarters , he said , the American attitude " has been interpreted to mean our country would not fight under any circumstances short of actual invasion . " " That is not accurate , in my opinion , " he declared , " and it is a dangerous sort of misunderstanding to be current just now . " The , audience applauded contentedly , for these were the sweetest words an American Ambassador could say at the present time . But the applause turned to thoughtful silence when Mr. Ken-nedy talked of an another assumption " that the United States could I never remain neutral in the event a general war should break out . " That I believe is just as dangerouslyconceived a misapprehension as the other , " he said . The United States would be glad , he declared , " to join and encourage other nations in a peace program based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people Would not commit themselves in advance and m case of s. : general war would " pursue whatever course we considered best for ' the United States . " Lord Halifax , who proposed a toast to the new ambassador , conceded that " geography , history and the outlook of our peoples make It inevitable that we should view the world and what is happening in it in different perspective . " " I hope , " said the Foreign Secretary , " that Mr. Kennedy may be able to arrive at the judgment that , despite all difficulties and dangers , this country has tried to ' steer a straight course in the light of - the principles which are equally valued by the United States Government and to which Mr. Hull Secretary of State gave such powerful expression Thursday . " Mr. Hull 's eloquent definition of the methods by which the cause of law and justice could be supported and peace brought to a distracted world will find ready acceptance in the hearts of all English-speaking peoples . Nor can they fail to exercise a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Lord ? Halifax said an AngloAmerican trade treaty would be " an important contribution to world appeasement . " And he added that " in the troubled times through which we are passing " it was a satisfaction to the British people to know that " on the other side of the Atlantic there remains a great and free nation with whom we - share many of the best things of life . " The Earl of - Derby , who presided , read a telegram from King George wishing " success to your distinguished guest , the representative of that great country whose-friendship is so deeply valued by my own . " Kennedys Visit Queen Elizabeth LONDON , March 18 ( JP ) . ? Queen Elizabeth today ' received United States Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy and Mrs. Kennedy . in her apartments at Buckingham Palace . The envoy wore formal morning attire and ' Mrs. Kennedy a tailored suit of dark blue .                     