@@698152

txt Despite the frank admission in high administration quarters that the Federal Farm Board has failed in its effort to uphold the prices of cotton and wheat , and the indication that stabilization will be avoided in the future , the administration expects to continue the board essentially as it is , and to defend it vigorously in political campaigns , it was said here on high authority . Stabilization has failed , it was said . That is to be expected in view of conditions that developed : in this depression , no human institution , flnancial , commercial or otherwise , has succeeded wholly , it was asserted . The essential idea of the board is the control of production . No amount of such control can keep the sub-marginal farmer on his land for very long . and it is not desired to support that class of farmer . Regarding the marginal farmer , however , the administration does not think that he should be wiped out because be can not survive hard times , it was declared . Production Control Should Come First " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weak shall not go under because they are not strong . If we had not by law restricted the activities of the strong , we would have had no civilization . The strong have had to give up some of their rights in order that the weak could survive , " an official said . It was denied that this quotation was intended to convey the idea that the board should continue to stabilize . " Where the board made its mistake was in stabilizing first , and urging production control afterward . Production control should have been stressed first , and stabilization used as the reward for holding down production , for with limited output , stabilization would have succeeded . Without such control , there is no distinction between stabilization and valorization . " This official confirmed the widespread opinion held here that long before the board resumed buying wheat last November , it was convinced that surpluses of this commodity were piling up . and that stabilization should not be undertaken until there was an actual decrease In acreage . Board Forced To Resume Buying A surplus should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cushion could be provided by the government to prevent hardships and still not encourage a repetition of the surpluses , as it is claimed was intended by the Agricultural INIitrketing Act . This opinion also credited political pressure with having moved the board to step into the market against its wishes . There also was the consideration of preventing financial disaster to those who had loaned on wheat . In the future , it was said , every effort will be made to concentrate the board 's activities upon building soundly managed cooperatives , with a view to using them to bring about acreage reduction in localities where there are continuous surpluses . The board views these cooperatives as the only effective machinery which can be used to bring about a curtailment in the growth of these crops . The government does not believe it can bring about an acreage reduction , either by participating through the board in a series of contracts with farmers for limiting acreage , or by the many plans . such as have come from the South , calling for 50 ? ; - . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Funds Aids Board In this , connection , the decision of the board not to ask Congress for additional funds was declared to be the " smartest thing that the board has done " . If without funds , the board always can reply to pressure to step into the market that it is without means for so doing . The Farm Board , it is concluded . is far from being an unwelcome member of the administration faintly . It will be retained exactly as it is if the administration 's wishes prevail over Congress , with a sincere belief that in the years to come its prcgram will be acclaimed as desirable . Meanwhile , stabilization will be suspended . It is to be taken up again only when there is a surplus which actually is temporary and not due to an increased acreage . Furthermore , the Farm Board set-up will prevent prices from going too high as well as too low .                     