@@703998

txt Machine gun and rifle fire rattled in the dark glens of Harlan County today . Snipers in the hills sent bullets into at least two coal mine areas and at one mine a detachment of the Kentucky National Guard returned the fire . Nobody was hit , but the shooting rasped the already taut nerves of the community where twentyfour mines are operating under the guns of the State militia . The Harlan County Coal Operators Association has opened some of its mines after refusing to sign for the C. I. 0 . United Mine Workers the " union shop contract " accepted by every other coal operator association in the Appalachian region . In a speech to miners today , Brig . Gen. Ellerbe W. Carter , commanding the National Guardsmen on duty in the county , said of the union : " It 's either them or us . It 's the State of Kentucky against a bunch of bums and thugs from Lynch . " At Lynch is the mine of the United States Coal and Coke Company , a subsidiary of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mine . It did not reopen this week and its miners were active on the picket lines at other mines . Late tonight the company signed a union contract under special conditions announced by John L. Lewis , head of the C. I. 0 . The union is waiving the " union-shop " demand in the renewal of " captive " mine contracts . Shots Exchanged on Mountain The chief exchange of shots today was at High Splint , about sixteen miles east of Harlan . The mine tipple house , company- owned miners ' homes and company offices of the High Splint Coal Company are huddled in a narrow valley surrounded by precipitous wooded hills . The mine opened Tuesday and , according to Jack Taylor , general manager of the mine and one of the defendants in the London conspiracy trial last Summer , 275 men reported for work . Forty-two enlisted men were sent for guard duty under the command of Captain Vernon Sanders of Pikeville . Learning that men were planning to approach the mine over High Splint Mountain this morning , Captain Sanders sent four men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line near the top of the mountain . According to Captain Sanders , the skirmishers found about twentyfive men , some of them armed with 30-40 Krag rifles and others with shotguns and pistols , near the top of the mountain . The sergeant reported that the men opened fire over the heads of the soldiers . The number of shots they fired was variously estimated at from 25 to 500 . The soldiers promptly returned the fire , using their rifles and a Browning automatic rifle . The mine manager said that the shots caused a panic in the homes of the miners at the bottom of the hill and that only about 155 of the 275 men who reported for work Tuesday would go into the mine today . The others were in the streets wearing their mine helmets and carrying their lunch pails when the shooting began and many of them fled back to their homes . George Titler , secretary treasurer of District 19 of the U. M. W. , denied that union men had done any shooting . At about 6 A. M. today six shots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Harlan Central Coal Company at Totz . Captain Walter Cawood of Carlisle , commanding the National Guard detachment of thirty men at the mine , said that the bullets landed in a baseball diamond about 100 yards from the tipple house . About 150 pickets were lined up along the railroad track in front of the mine at the time . They paid no attention to the shots . These pickets had established the first twenty-four-hour picket line in the county . Their camp fires gleamed along the railway embankment as they sat around and waited for dawn and the arrival of the fifty or more men who worked in the mine yesterday . The mine did not open today . A delegation of men who had been working or who wanted to work at the Totz mine called on General Carter in Harlan . The men complained of the actions of the pickets at Totz . Slight disturbances were reported at the Harlan Wallins Coal Corporation Mine at Molus and the mine of the Southern Mining Corporation at Insull . Additional National Guard detachments were sent to both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total of 1,200 National Guardsmen were on duty in the county and that he did not plan to ask for any more at present . Four hundred additional men arrived last night . Emmett Durett , representing the Department of Industrial Relations of Kentucky , and John Conner , a conciliator for the United States Department of Labor , arrived in Harlan last night and announced that they would meet with the representatives of the miners and of the operators tomorrow to attempt an adjustment of the difficulties . This evening General Carter disclosed that warrants had been obtained from County Judge C. E. Ball for the arrest of six men . They are charged with assault and disorderly conduct . Steel Mines Renew Old Pacts PITTSBURGH , May 18 ( 1P ) . ? The United Mine Workers today began renewing contracts  --  without a " union shop " clause  --  with steel company-owned " captive " mines , a move expected to return an additional 30,000 miners to work . Harry Moses , president of United States Steel 's mining subsidiaries , signed the first renewal agreement for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman for the company said that these mines and eight others which operated under an agreement with the independent " Workmen 's Brotherhood " would be reopened next Monday . Other large steel corporations , including Bethlehem , have signified their intention of renewing agreements if the union does not insist on the " union shop " clause . P. T. ( Pat ) Fagan , head of district 5 , United Mines Workers . explained that the " captive " agreements were being renewed under orders from John L. Lewis because they did not contain a " penalty clause " providing for the fining of miners for unauthorized walkouts . Carter Dismisses Employes WELCH , W. Va. , May 18 ( 10 . ? Dismissal notices were distributed today to 3,000 employes of the Carter Coal Company , and General Superintendent G. R. Jennings announced that operations had been suspended " indefinitely . " The company is headed by J. Walter Carter , outspoken critic of the union shop .                     