@@703519

txt As events in Europe appear to be reaching a point at which many arc persuaded , rightly or wrongly , that there is no outcome other than war , it becomes increasingly remarkable that no Government ventures to hint , at a pa - 41151e sequel to the Versailles Treaty . True , no sooner was the ink dry on the peace treaties than the question of revisor ' became a major political issue , with Germany and Italy leading the revisionists , and Britain and France heading all those who stood to lose by any change in the treaty terms . Nations like France , which had regained Alsace-Lorraine , or Rumania , which had absorbed Transylvania , were reluctant to reopen the treaty question , no matter how unjust some of the terms appeared to the conscience of the world , so long as the decrees of Versailles remained effective . But before the close of the second decade after Versailles new factors already had fundamentally changed the situation , and many who had previously shown no enthusiasm for revision , now undoubtedly would be relieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false moves of the earlier instrument in the light of 20 years ' experience and putting an end to the pernicious separation of Europe into satisfied and aggrieved nations . The most alarming aspect of this new situation is the decision of Germany to ignore not only the reparations . military , air and ( by understanding with Britain ) the naval clauses of Versailles . but also Article 80 ? in which it agreed not to interfere with Austria 's independence except by consent of the League Council  --  and any other territorial clauses that it feels in a position to break . Must Restore Treaty 's Validity The effect of such action , taken by a powerful nation under the impulse of manifestly unfair limitations which it feels itself strong enough to violate is so overwhelming menace to the . whole scheme modern civilization and the treaty structure on which it is based that seemingly nothing short of a new world conference could hope to deal with the situation . Only a conference of such dimensions could be adequate to revise those treaty clauses which are palpably unjust , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by providing as far as possible that no nation should have cause to feel itself the victim of injustice  --  and to restore the validity of the whole of the treaty structure . Of those sponsors of the Versailles treaty which are carrying the largest share of responsibility for order in Europe , Britain , by Premier Chamberlain 's policy , appears to be endeavoring to make some amends for vengeful clauses in the peace treaties by a tolerant attitude toward Germany 's expansionist policy . But unilateral action of the kind can have little prospect of settling so complex and far-reaching a problem ? particularly since Britain 's tolerance does not appear to extend to yielding any territory it has won through the treaties , but rather tends to raise new problems in weaker nations that stand in Germany 's path . France , for its part , has so far shown no signs of change of heart on treaty revision . But were the choice clearly laid before the French people , of joining in a world conference , which might call upon them for some territorial sacrifice as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe plunged into an inferno of destruction and hate , there could scarcely be any doubt as to their decision . Impartial Basis Available There will be those who say that such a conference could only degenerate into a new scramble for territory . Yet , whatever the difficulties of a second Versailles , they would be less overwhelming in their complexity than were those of the first  --  certainly they would be less formidable than those facing any future war sedelement . A second Versailles conference , called now , would have no war to liquidate . It would be able to arrange its adjudicating bodies on an impartial basis acceptable to all  --  in which capacity the Americas , being relatively disinterested , could cooperate to good purpose . Moreover the World Court , not in existence in 1019 , would be available to help unravel the major entanglements . But even if the peace of Europe did not call for treaty revision , something of the kind would have been necessary for other reasons . These treaties , from the fact that the League Covenant was closely associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than is ? generally realized . served as a charter for the conduct of post-war Europe . The Covenant may now be in tatters , but nevertheless the fact remains that it was intended to be , and in the eyes of a considerable proportion of the population of Europe still is , a durable charter , removing the Continent from its former status of a mere battleground in the great nations ' struggle for power . League Still Functioning Nations may slight the League and refuse to recognize its authority , but It continues to exist and function . If the League is technically permanent , such can not be said for the treaties proper . The duration of any treaties , where not specifically agreed upon , is a matter of uncertainty . Even had the terms of the peace treaties been loyally observed up to the present , they would probably , in the course of the next decade . have begun to show some signs of desuetude . To restore Europe 's charter by making the treaties valid for the coming decade , and by lifting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instrument , is a task that in the natural course of events could not have been safely delayed much longer . In the light of this urgent need , the peace program broadcast by Secretary Hull last Tuesday , and the guarantees given to Canada in President Roosevelt 's speech at Queen 's University while cheering to those working for peace , seem to be less than adequate . America can not dissociate Itself from all responsibility for the discredited treaties . It is in a position , possible to neither Britain nor France , to see the situation free from all anxiety for its own safety . To call such a conference would be a work for the good of humanity that risked nothing in power or prestige , but would on the contrary go far to set up that settled order in the world so necessary to America 's political and social welfare .                     