@@700178

txt on the suoject . The conference came only a day after the Federal Trade Commission began its survey of salaries and bonuses paid by all corporations with capital and assets over $1,000 , - 000 . About 2000 such corporations will be covered by the commission 's questionnaire . Just what was said between Mr Roosevelt and the head of the Justice Department is not revealed , but it is believed that the legality of various proposed measures of salary control was taken up . Mr. Cummings recently submitted to the White House a written statement on possible methods of keeping executives ' salaries within reasonable limits . While very little has come to light here on the proposals it is assumed that taxation would be the principal club held by the Federal Government , and it is thought likely that at the next session of Congress presidential recommendations may be advanced for income taxes of ahighest brackets . It is learned that the Administration 's specific action is far from formulated , although Mr. Roosevelt 's personal feeling that extravagant heights have been reached in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture salaries . Recent testimony ' before the Senate Banking Committee showed that Mr. Albert H. Wiggin is receiving $100,000 a year " retirement pay " from the Chase National Bank , of which he was the former president . The Federal Trade Commission expects the first reply soon to its questionnaire . Its letters started out Oct. 11 , and so far no protest has been received from any corporation . It is hoped the information can be obtained voluntarily . The Trade Commission 's role is only one part of the . activities in collecting salary information under the Costigan Senate Resolution . The Federal Reserve Board is asked to report on the salary schedules of member banks of the Reserve System , the R. F. C. on salaries . for nonmember banks which obtain loans , and the Power Commission on public utility corporation , and utilities excluded from the range of the Trade Commission 's survey .                     