@@703897

txt Revision of the State Unemployment Insurance Law to provide preferential tax rates for employers with stable employment records will be sought at this session of the Legislature by the New York State Employers Conference , representing corporations ' with a total of more than 1,000,000 employes , Timothy J. Mahoney , chairman of the conference , disclosed yesterday . Under the legislation being drafted by the employers ' group the present flat tax of 3 per cent would be replaced by a " merit rating " schedule geared to the volume of unemployment each employer threw upon the job insurance fund . Lower taxes for employers with little labor turnover would be counterbalanced by higher taxes for those whose payrolls showed a high degree of fluctuation . To offset the argument of labor unions that the merit rating would complicate a system already too cumbersome for effective administration , the plan advanced by the employers ' confere ? ce eliminates the necessity for " charging back " each weekly benefit payment to the employer for whom the unemployment insurance applicant formerly worked , Mr. Mahoney said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs used In some other States presented almost insuperable administrative problems , but he contended that the New York proposal was " thoroughly workable . " The local employers will suggest that their plan become operative in 1941 , thus giving the State three full years of experience before installing the revised tax formula . Only two factors would be involved in the determination of individual taxes under the plan , Mr. Mahoney said . First , the State would compute the ratio between the total wages on which the employer paid a tax during the threeyear period and that portion of the wages on which unemployment compersation had to be paid . Then this benefit ratio would be compared with the benefit experience of all the State 's employers . The State-wide experience would be determined by dividing all insurance payments by the total amount of taxed wages in the State . In the tax table outlined by Mr. Mahoney , employers with the worst employment records would pay a tax of 4 per cent , while those whose benefit ratios reflected the greatest stability would pay as little as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range is favored by employers whose labor force is not affected by seasonal variations , a lower maximum was advocated by representatives of some seasonal industries at a meeting of the executive committee of the employers ' conference in Albany last week . Spokesmen for companies engaged in the manufacture of steel and in building construction suggested that the top tax rate be made 34 per cent and that the minimum tax be raised to 1 or 14 per cent . Seasonal Factors Cited The contention of employers in these and other industries that expand or curtail activity in response to seasonal factors is that irregular employment is inherent in their business and that the endeavors of individual employers to limit labor turnover are made ineffective by this condition . The steel men said it was impossible for them to spread employment evenly over the year when the automobile orders on which their business depended came in seasonal spurts . Mr. Mahoney contended that all employers , regardless of their rate of employment , ought to support the principle of merit rating . If nothing were done to promote stabilization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 3 per cent . " With no incentive for holding unemployment to a minimum , many employers are now staggering their payrolls in a way that makes the State unemployment insurance fund an involuntary partner in their business , " he said . " We have had reports of employers who throw part of their workers on unemployment insurance for several weeks , then rehire them and allow another group to live on unemployment insurance for a time . What we want is a system that will assure employment rather than insure unemployment . " Both the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations have made clear their opposition to merit rating . Officers of these groups fear that the creation of a preferential tax system would tend in many instances to discourage the employment of additional workers . They contend that merit rating would favor some industries and penalize others without doing much to foster stabilized employment . The State Advisory Council on Unemployment Insurance , statutory guardian of the interests of employers , employes and the public in the administration of job insurance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of merit rating this month .                     