@@701568

txt Meyer Luckman was arrested again yesterday in connection with the murder of Sam Druckman last March in a Brooklyn garage . A city-wide search was begun for two other suspects who , like him , escaped indictment by a Kings County grand jury last Spring under circumstances which have since been the subject of investigation by Police Commissioner Valentine . The arrest of Luckman , who was held without bail by Magistrate Sylvester Sabbatino in Brooklyn Homicide Court , followed closely the decision of District Attorney William P. X. Geoghan of Kings to reopen the case which Joseph D. , his Republican-Fusion opponent in his recent successful campaign for re-election , accused him of bungling . Three members of the Police Department are facing departmental trial for their part in the case , about which there have been persistent rumors of bribery . While Luckman , who enjoyed a lucrative monopoly in the trucking of foodstuffs , was going unconcernedly through the routine of the line-up in police headquarters , Mr. Geoghan explained to the November grand jury why he had decided to reopen the investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet friends returning from Europe while members of his staff presented the testimony of five witnesses to the grand jurors . Twenty-six other witnesses have been subpoenaed to appear today before the grand jury , which will sit all day and which probably will continue its investigation next week . In the meantime , Commissioner Valentine , who reported recently to Mayor La Guardia , after an inspection of the grand jury minutes , that Mr. Geoghan had enough evidence in his hands last Spring to justify indictments , promised complete cooperation . The commissioner , refusing to be drawn into a discussion on the legal aspects of the case , ordered a postponement of the Police Department trials growing out of the failure of the District Attorney to obtain indictments , directed that all exhibits in the case be delivered immediately to the Brooklyn prosecutor and said he would provide as many detectives as Mr. Geoghan needed to assist him . The two men for whom a general alarm was sent over the police teletype to five States were the prisoner 's nephew , Harry Luckman , and Fred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laconia Avenue , the Bronx , was described as being 45 years old , weighing 200 pounds , stocky in build and of ruddy complexion . His height was given as five feet ten inches . Luckman , who is 36 , has dark hair and brown eyes and a sallow complexion . Although only five feet two and a half inches tall , he weighs 203 pounds . His last known address was 929 Troy Avenue , Brooklyn . Found Strangled in Car . Hull and the two Luckmans were arrested last March 3 in a garage owned by Meyer Luckman and his brother at 225 Moore Street , Brooklyn , immediately after Druckman 's body was found there in the rumble seat of a roadster . Druckman had been strangled and beaten to death . Following the failure of the April grand jury , which was held over into May , to indict them , all three were released from custody . Under the constant pounding of Mr. in the recent campaign , Mr. Geoghan insisted that the case was " closed , " but on Wednesday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Martin in Kings County to reopen the investigation for the submission of " new evidence . " Mr. Geoghan explained yesterday that he had meant merely that the case was closed during the political campaign . Luckman , who is 58 , corpulent and unkempt , was arrested at 7:30 A. M. as he returned to his home at 2,501 Cortelyou Road , Brooklyn . He expressed surprise when Detective James M. Sloan explained that he was wanted on the old homicide charge , but willingly accompanied the detectives to police headquarters . There , in the line-up , Acting Captain John J. Mooney read him the short affidavit on which Luckman was arrested and asked : " Is that right , Luckman ? " " No , that ai n't right , " responded the prisoner , smiling amiably . Luckman admitted he had been in the garage at the time his brotherin-law was killed , but sa , id he was there only to see about renting some trucks to " a fellow , " when six men came in , murdered Druckman and struck him " with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had come here from Russia forty-seven and a half years ago , that he was a naturalized citizen and never had been arrested before . Magistrate Denies Plea . In Brooklyn Homicide Court , Luckman kept silent and let , Joseph Solovei , his attorney , do all the talking while he smiled unconcernedly into the lenses of a score of cameras . Mr. Solovei asked for a dismissal of the complaint charging Druckman with assisting his nephew and Hull in the slaying of Druckman , on the ground that Magistrate Sabbatino had no jurisdiction and that the whole procedure was illegal . Magistrate Sabbatino , however , granted the request of Assistant District Attorney William for an adjournment until Nov. 19 and remanded Luckman to Raymond Street jail without bail . Earlier Mr. Solovet visited the office of Mr. Geoghan and obtained a copy of the order issued by Judge Martin , reopening the grand jury investigation of the murder . While there he said that if he had been notified his client was wanted he would have surrendered him , obviating all the trouble of an arrest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ' he told the District Attorney that he hoped to be able to " dig him up , " along with Harry Luckman , the prisoner 's nephew . " That 's what we want , " said Mr. Geoghan . Edwin S. Frost of 51 Argyll Road , Brooklyn , is foreman of the grand jury which resumed the investigation . The witnesses were examined in the grand jury room by Harry S. Sullivan , who presented the case originally to the April grand jury , which failed to return indictments . He was assisted by Hyman Barshay , another of Mr. Geoghan 's staff who figured in the earlier investigation .                     