@@699401

txt Final details of the " parity plan " for agricultural relief were settled by the House Agriculture Committee today , and the measure to enact it into law is expected to be reported favorably tomorrow . Pending final ratification tomorrow of the draft of the bill , Representative Jones of Texas , chairman of the committee , refused to disclose the actual contents of the committee 's proposed law , but gave out a statement explaining its general purport . " If price levels of agricultural commodities are restored , " he said , " it will do much toward starting the wheels of industry to moving . It is hoped that producers and business men generally will be willing , in the interest of the country , to make some little sacrifice , if that be necessary , in order to promote the general welfare of the entire nation . " Every thinking American must realize that there can be no national recovery with corn selling at 10 cents a bushel , cotton at 5 cents a pound , and wheat at 30 cents a bushel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one expect to keep factories operating and put people back to work ? " Acceptance Is Predicted . Mr. Jones insisted that the committee discussions had revealed no political divisions as yet . Representative Haugen of Iowa , ranking Republican member of the committee , predicted that his colleagues would support the measure as the best compromise available at this session . Members of the committee said there had been little discussion of the question of the constitutionality of the proposed levy on processors for the benefit of the farmers . This question was raised during the hearings on the bill , and an opinion was read into the record by J. W. Garbow , chairman of the economic committee of the American Cotton Shippers ' Association . Mr. Garbow told the committee that the processors would undoubtedly take the question to the Supreme Court . If the Supreme Court held such a levy unconstitutional , he said that Congress " would be confronted with the necessity either of raising approximately a billion dollars in some other form of taxation or of confronting a real farm revolt . " One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting was a provision that the farmer seeking benefits r under the act must prove that the produce he offers for sale was produced by himself . This proviso was added to placate committee members who feared it would be possible for farmers to buy wheat , for example , abroad at the prevailing world price in the neighbprhood of 30 cents a bushel , pay freight and duty , then make a profit by cashing a " fair exchange allowance " certificate . Minimum Prices Sought . In explaining the provisions which he believed the final draft of the bill would contain , Chairman Jon es - said : " The measure as presented undertakes to establish for wheat , cotton , hogs and tobacco a minimum price that bears the same relation to the general commodity pricel level that existed during the pre-war period . If this parity existed today , wheat would be 90 cents per bushel , cotton 12 cents per pound and hogs and tobacco would be materially higher in price . " The measure undertakes to restore these price levels on the part of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodity prices are far below this ratio . " It would be accomplished in this way : A processing fee would be levied upon the manufacturer of these commodities equal to the difference between the prevailing price and the parity price as determined by available government statistics . The proceeds of these collections would be paid to the farmer on that part of his production which is consumed in our own country provided the farmer could show that he had voluntarily reduced his acreage or production as much as 20 per cent . Spur to Business Forecast . " By thus raising the price level of the chief farm commodities it is hoped that incidentally the price level of all farm commodities will be increased and business generally throughout the country stimulated . Any time theses ' commodities reach the minimum ratio price levels the fee would be eliminated . In other words , if the processors will establish the minimum price levels thewill have no fee to pay . " Surely no one could object to farm prices being restored to the same basis as compared to industry That prevailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show that the prices of both flour and bread today are almost exactly what they were in 1913 , when wheat was selling for above 90 cents per bushel . It is thus felt that there will be very little additional price to the consumer , inasmuch as the original cost of the raw material is so small a percentage of the price of the finished product . " One of the advocates of the present plan was Mordecai Ezekiel , assistant chief economist of the Federal Farm Board , who prepared for the committee an analysis of the " need for , and probable consequences of . the agricultural adjustment plan . " He told the committee that the restoration of agricultural buying power is of vital interest to city workers as well as to farmers . Effect in Cities Traced . " Over half of the present unemployment is due to reduction in farm buying power , " his analysis said . " Country people buy ( or at least used to buy ) clothing , shoes , paint and cement and railroad rides , magazines and newspapers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care , and some of most of the other things which modern civilization can produce in such abundance . " Today 40 per cent of that buying power nas been wiped out . In 1929 , in urban industries ( other than the special industries producing farm implements , fertilizer and articles intended for purely agricultural use ) , 35,800,000 workers were employed . We find that 10 per cent of those workers , or 3,580,000 in all , are out of work today because of the inability of country people to buy . " Adding this number to those out of work in industries specially dependent on agriculture , we find that 4,220,000 city workers who used to produce things for rural people to use are unemployed today because farm income is so low . " Mr. Ezekiel was one of those who thought that the entire billion dollars which , it is estimated , will be added to the farmers ' income will not come out of the pockets of the I genera ! . public . He gave the opinion that the middleman could bear at least a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Treasurys payment to the farmers of the " fair exchange allowance " certificates . " The middlemen include not only the processors of the products , such as millers packers and bakers , but transportation agencies , marketing agencies between the farmer and the processor , and wholesale and retail selling agencies betwee.1 the processor and the consumer , " he said " It is generally known that , the aggregate margin taken by these agencies increased tremendously during the war years and remained thereafter far above the previous level in proportion to the prices of farm products . " This disparity , established during the war years J. n d immediately thereafter , was continued and exaggerated during the period from 1928 to 1932 . During the last three years the marketing margins have narrowed slightly in some commodities , but they have not narrowed nearly so much as prices have fallen or as wages paid store employes have fallen . " The extent to which the charge will be borne by consumers themselves in higher retail prices will depend upon two elements : first , the extent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced onto the market ; and second , the extent to which increased income in the hands of farmers stimulates increased employment and wages , and so enables the city workers to pay the higher prices without reducing their purchases . " -                     