@@701851

txt The National Economy League gave stalwart support to President ROOSEVELT when he was leading a ' vigorous campaign to reform the veterans ' pension system . Its analyses of that system helped immeasurably to clarify what then seemed to be the Government 's largest fiscal problem . The same organization now comes forward with a searching study of what is today a far greater fiscal problem than pensions ever were  --  namely , the gigantic expenditure of funds for relief of unemployment . The most discouraging aspect of the system of relief now . being used in Washington is that there is no apparent end to a steady rise in the cost of it . The WPA program , initiated a year ago , has failed to reduce the burden of State and local governments . Meantime it has added greatly to the burden of the national Government . After an illuminating comparison of costs and methods and results achieved , the National Economy League proposes : Abandonment by the Federal Government of its works program and the return to a cooperative system of relief in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States and the cost shared equally by the States and the Federal Government . How would such a program work in practice ? The Economy League estimates that during the first quarter of last year , before WPA was launched , the cost of the mixed system of workrelief and home-relief then being directed from Washington by FERA amounted to $28.45 a month for each case on the relief rolls . At this rate it would cost $1,707,000,000 annually to carry 5,000,000 cases . If one-half of this sum were met by the States and local governments , their share would be $853,500,000 . Considered as a lump sum , this is substantially more than they spent last year ; but in this connection it must be- remembered that many States and municipalities contributed so little to a solution of the problem in 1935 that their combined expenditures for relief amounted to lest ; than 10 per cent of the total sum spent for this purpose within their- borders . It is fair to ask for a larger contribution . And if this contribution amounted to as much as one-half of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be able to shoulder the remaining half without difficulty . In fact , such a division of costs would automatically bring the Federal budget closely into balance . Apparently the line of least resistance in Washington in dealing with this greatest of all current governmental problems is to muddle along with the present program simply because there appears to be " no alternative to it " and " nothing else to do . " But here , in this proposal of the National Economy League , or some variation of it , is an alternative , and a constructive one . It offers a method of decentralizing responsibility which ought not to be centralized in Washington , of restoring local authority and of putting relief on a basis which will not risk Federal credit by an apparently endless addition of new billions to the natipnal debt . r                     