@@704046

txt At the request of the Cabinet British officials today studied plans for economic retaliation against Japan as a possible reply to the blockade of the British Concession at Tientsin and the implied threat to abolish all British concessions in China . Experts at the Board of Trade were asked to dust off and " examine " old plans tor shutting British Empire ports to Japanese ship-. ping and imposing retaliatory duties against Japanese goods . Such plans have been drawn up for the Cabinet from time to time during the war in China but each time they were sent back to official pigeonholes because the Ministers thought them to be double-edged weapons that might hurt Britain as much as Japan . The fact that they are being " examined " again is proof that the British Government is uneasy and unhappy over the latest events in the Far East although it does not yet mean the Cabinet is prepared for any sort of showdown with Japan at present . Military Urges Strong Stand House of Commons spokesmen for British commercial interests in China were indignant today and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities in the . Far East were said to be urging a strong stand by London as the only way to prevent the present Japanese tactics from spreading to the vastly more important International Settlement at Shanghai . But the Cabinet was chiefly concerned this morning with finding some way out of the Tientsin difficulty without yielding too obviously to Japanese pressure . Early in the day the Ministers still thought the civil authorities in Tokyo would overrule the army chiefs and agree to some compromise over the issue at Tientsin . As the day wore on , however , the nature of the Japanese threat was seen more clearly . The Japanese spokesman at Tientsin , whose words were not repudiated by Tokyo , seemed to be inviting the British Government to recognize China as Japan 's " Lebensraum " and , indeed , to help her develop it . Immediately the issue transcended the fate of the four Chinese held by the British authorities at Tientsin and became a direct threat to what remains of the British interests , influence and power in China . On this basis the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next Move Unless Tokyo disavows such threats it will be hard for the British Cabinet to find any way out without surrender or resistance , or perhaps a protracted diplomatic tug-of-war while the British residents in Tientsin withstand a virtual siege . This afternoon , when more serious news from the Far East had reached London , R. A. Butler , Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs , was asked in the House of Commons whether the government would " immediately inform the Japanese Government that unless the Japanese blockade were discontinued the Japanese would at once be denied all use of the ports of Hong Kong , Singapore and Penang . " Mr. Butler answered by saying : " What measures will be appropriate with regard to the . Japanese blockade of the British concession is at present under examination and must depend to some degree on the nature of the action taken by the Japanese . " Mr. Butler added that the British Government was keeping in close touch with France and the United States and was awaiting another long official report on the situation from its representatives in China . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days will be " wait and see , " always , of course , in the hope that strong action will not be needed . There are abundant reasons why this is an awkward time for the British to use anything except diplomatic weapons against the Japanese . There is no British force in the Far East to exert real pressure on Japan , and there will not be until a British battle fleet appears in Singapore about 1941 or 1942 . More important still , Britain 's energies are fully occupied in preparing for the desperate challenge of Germany nearer home . Britain is marshaling her military strength , organizing her civilians , conscripting her youths , spending appalling sums on armaments and exerting all her diplomatic efforts in the creation of a grand alliance , all to meet the threat from Germany , who is expected to become dangerous this Summer . In fact , there never was a better moment for Japan to strike at British interests if she chose  --  unless , of course , the United States were will ' ing to be the armed guardian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its weakiness single-handed , the British Government has had to limit itself in the last two or three years to diploi matie rear-guard action and little more . Stubborn diplomacy has done something to resist Japanese incursions upon British interests , and it has ? had surprising success at times , in view of the feeble power with which it was backed up . British business men in China have known ever since the start of the present hostilities that they could coup ' on diplomatic protection as long as it was possible but ultimately on no protection at all . No War Over Concessions It has been perfectly understood here , although never admitted , that Britain would not go to war with Japan for the sake of her concessions in China , which represent big financial stakes but do not constitute British territory . Any attack on Hong Kong would bring war , but an attack on any of the British concessions on the mainland would be quite another story . In their present talk of retaliatory measures , the British are , of course , hoping to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious matter for Japan to see her ships barred from British ports stretching from Aden to Hong Kong , and it would be serious , too , in the midst of her China conflict to incur the hostility of the British Empire , which has powerful allies and friends in Pacific waters . Nevertheless , the British have learned from bitter experience in the Ethiopian affair that they could not check an aggressor without risk , although they tried to do so when they imposed sanctions on Italy and then drew back . In Europe they are ready for risks now ? readier than any one would have dreamed possible a few months ago . But in the Far East they are definitely not ready . No Evidence of Reich 's Fart While the British have no direct evidence that Germany has prompted the latest challenge in the Far East , they are only too aware of the skillful interaction of Anti-Cornintern Pact diplomacy . They are aware that resistance to Japan in the Far East  --  by reprisals that would lead to counter-reprisals and perhaps armed challenge  --  would only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while Britain was engaged elsewhere . Since the threat from Germany matters far more to Britain at the moment , it is fair to guess that the British Ministers will not let themselves be too deeply involved with Japan if they can possibly help it . So far the newspapers do not recommend anything stronger than diplomatic action although they are understandably angry at what Japan is doing . The Times says editorially that " encirclement , a figment in Europe , has become a fact in Eastern Asia " by virtue of the Japanese blockade at Tientsin . " Hitherto , " says The Times , " the British Government has been willing to meet a succession of incidents with forbearance and with the presumption that Japan in her own interests does not desire to add to the immense difficulties with which her recklessly venturesome policy has burdened her on the mainland of China . But there is something altogether new in the present endeavor , whether it proves to be official or unofficial , to compel British compliance with a policy which Britain in common with other powers must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploited to secure British acquiescence in the extrusion of British and other foreign interests from China . That is the inevitable reading of the latest events , although they contradict repeated protestations of Tokyo , and it is upon confirmation or otherwise of that impression that British action will depend . " France to Follow Britain Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . PARIS , June ** the Tientsin matter the French will wait to see what Britain will do and they are not certain that Britain knows what to do . But it can be taken for granted that France will follow Britain 's lead , so there will be common action . France is not alarmed over Tientsin . The Foreign Office spokesman said the Japanese were trying to drive a wedge between the great democratic powers , including the United States . Press comment labels the blockade as " sheer insolence " and a Japanese diversion move to cover up reverses in the China campaign . Some quarters believe that the Tientsin blockade might mean that the Japanese military leaders who want cooperation with Germany and Italy have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regard the situation too lightly . The warning is addressed first to the democratic nations , then to all Occidental powers . There is a note of bitterness in the Paris-Soir , which says : " To ' think that the clarion call against the Yellow Peril was in former days sounded for Berlin , which now congratulates Tokyo . " The Temps is the principal expounder of the theory that Japan wanted to create a diversion to convince the people at home that all is well with Japanese prestige , but the newspaper does not ignore the danger of a Japanese policy of throwing the white man out of the Orient . " It is very easy to see how Japan plays , " the Temps says . " She systematically exploits tension between European nations so as to be able to insure for herself entire liberty of action in the Far East , ever gaining new footholds . This is no new method because it has gone on for years . But it is not risk proof , for the moment will surely come when the Occidental powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their rights and interests . "                     