@@699631

txt In the Gars du Nord in Paris last night just before the Blue Train pulled out for Brelin a company of French poilus with full marching equipment occupied a large part of the big waiting room . It was obviously a detachment on its way to relieve some frontier guard in the usual routine , but the sight aroused evident apprehensions among the few Germans taking the train home after having made personal acquaintance with French opinion on the recent events in the Reich . " So they 're getting ready , " a German woman was heard to say . " With my very own eyes I have now seem that which we have learned . " Yet there is no reason for such misgivings , for the present at any rate . Politically the Left is in power in France , and the Left is peaceably inclined , concerned wholly with internal problems and not seeking outside trouble in any direction . No Frenchmen Molested . Moreover , however much present tendencies in Germany may be distasteful to French susceptibilities , there is no excuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been molested , not a single French interest has been affected , and what else ' occurs there is Germany 's own affair . Her own affair , that is , except for its influence on world opinion . World sentiment brings with it a definite reaction in monetary terms . That was one thing that was not foreseen by the new third Reich , and now that it is being made manifest it has brought a definite reaction here . For three days there has not come to light a single fresh case of physical persecution of persons of the Jewish faith . How this has been accomplished one can only surmise . For example , there is a semi-authoritative report of a wholesale reorganization , bringing many eliminations with it , of the National Socialist .. torm detachments in Breslau , where the Jewish persecutions have been most virulent . It is impossible to confirm this report , but it is wholly believeable in view of the recent outgivings of the Nazi leaders themselves . Admits Some Are Undesirable . " We admit that there are some undesirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Captain Hermann Wilhelm Goering , Minister Without Portfolio and Prussian Minister of the Interior , to the press yesterday . " It must be remembered that these detachments were brought together under stress , and it can scarcely be expected that they would be perfect . But the undesirable elements are being rapidly combed out and these troops are being made what we would wish them to be . " This Is a distinct advance from the following statement from the same source only a fortnight ago : " The police are not a defense squad for Jewish stores or there to protect rogues , vagabonds , swindlers , profiteers and traitors . The Germany of today is not the Germany of a Bruenmg or a Stressmann . " The German rulers , under the pressure of world opinion , seem to be making a sincere effort to reduce physical persecution and place their regime in a better light before the world . This is not to say that the economic pressure against Germans of the Jewish faith has been either moderated or is being restrained . The ousting of Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is as real as has been the fact of past physical persecutions , which no amount of forced representations from Jewish organizations or press-agent denials by transatlantic telephone can efface . Nazi Program Carried Out . The National Socialist program in this respect is being carried out to the letter . All that can be said in excuse thereof is that it was announced before the election and the Germans by a large majority voted for it , so it can only be presumed that it accords with German sentiment . What Germany will probably have to pay for it is another matter , on which the pages of history already afford illuminating precedents . The rdaction of the now obedient and fully controlled German press against the indignation abroad over German persecution of the Jews is we of the most interesting factors it the new situation . It is almost reminiscent of German war psychology . Thus , one Nazt organ calls on the German Government to point out " with energy " to foreign governments that the present agitation in their countries against Germany must now cease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad such eventualities as German withdrawal from the Geneva negotiations over disarmament and the peace schemes since , it says , it is obvious that Germany is justified in taking the position that the powers that tolerate this baiting constitute themselves unsuitable contracting parties . Urges Britain to Act . " The English Government has a lot at stake in conserving Germany as a partner with equal rights in the coming negotiations over the plans , " says Der Montag . " It is wholly within its power to put an end to this atrocity propaganda . Apparently it has not yet been realized that Germany is making a considerable sacrifice in Consenting to participate in the negotiations at all . " It is quite within the range of probability that Germany may conclude that governments that tolerate this sort of business and utilize it for political manoeuvres scarcely constitute acceptable part-ners , " It should be made clear once again that the independent press in Germany is now wholly non-:existent . ' It has become as purely historic a fact as the Weimar Constitution and the rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pass under the yokes . Theodor Wolff , its famous editor , has resigned , its news staff has become mostly Nazi , and the paper has joined the prevailing chorus in bewailing and lamenting American hostility . Thus another of the rapidly closing " stages in the " unification ' of Germany has been reached and a citation of press comment becomes illuminating only as reflecting what the German authorities wish their own people and the rest of the world to believe .                     