@@703900

txt Plastic automobile bodies molded or pressed in one piece may not be too far from a practical development , S. G. Saunders , Staff Officer of the Chrysler Corporation , said today at the ninety-seventh meeting of the American Chemical Society . Mr. Saunders smiled at first over enthusiasm of automobile designers for this dream , then declared it would n't take many years to come pretty close to giving them what they want . " Such a composite material as would meet the requirements . " he said , ' would have high strength , toughness , and resistance to shock as well as beauty of color and a smooth durable finish . You should realize that plastic resins could be made to fit this description if they were improved . There is no reason why the thought of their use should be confined to decoration . " Cellulose Research George A. Richter of Brown Company , where much research in the use of hardwoods for cellulose has centered , told industrialists present , they could have almost any type fiber desired , practically the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man existed in limited numbers and was chiefly concerned with the barest protection against the elements , " he said . " he had no great urge to seek new sources for cellulose beyond that which was readily available in cotton and linen supplemented by natural wool and in much lesser amounts , silk . " Increased populations together with educated desires for more and varied attire and furnishings , led to extensive cultivation and to search for new sources . Lately has come the discovery through chemistry that nature has been most generous in its supply of cellulose hidden in immeasurable quantities in forests and fields . " Men visioned the possibility of reforming cellulose into filaments of indefinite length , with new physical properties . Then ' came that exciting period when inventive minds turned their attention to the search that resulted in Rayon . " Today uses extend beyond textiles into the paper industry , paints and lacquers , transparent sheetings , plastics . and a host of everyday uses already recognized or about to be . Isotopes Obtained A new method of obtaining isotopes of the elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nitrogen , and oxygen by the use of heat , proved a genuine surprise to the " pure " or theoretical chemists attending the meeting . It was described by Dr. A. Bramley and Dr. A. E. Brewer of the United States Bureau of Chemistry and Soils . It is different from methods discovered by Prof. H. C. Urey of Columbia University , who gained the Nobel award in chemistry for his work in separating isotopes . Taking advantage of small differences in their chemical properties , at the Bureau . Dr. Bramley and Dr. Brewer developed physical methods which promise even greater possibilities , because now an adequate supply of desired " heavy " atoms can be obtained .                     