@@698757

txt The Goldsborough bill , which directs the Federal Reserve System to employ its control over credit and currency in an effort to restore commodity prices to about the 1926 level , was adopted in the House today by the overwhelming vote of 289 to 60 . Recorded for the bill were 165 Democrats , 123 Republicans and a Farmer-Laborite . Three Democrats and fifty-seven Republicans voted against it . Twenty-four members of the New York delegation voted , eight Democrats and six Republicans for it and ten Republicans against . While most of the backers of the bill insisted that it did not call for unbridled inflation , but merely instructed the Federal Reserve System to pursue more vigorously policies it is now trying out , the vote was important in that it apparently represented a growing tide of sentiment in the House in that direction . The Goldsborough bill reads : A BILL For restoring and maintaining the purchasing power of the dollar . Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereof a new section to read as follows : " Sec. 31 . It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States that the average purchasing power of the dollar as ascertained by the Department of Labor in the wholesale commodity markets for the period covering the years 1921 to 1929 inclusive shall be restored and maintained by the control of the volume of credit and currency . " Sec. 2 . The Federal Reserve Board , the Federal Reserve Banks and the Secretary of the Treasury are hereby charged with the duty of making effective this policy . Sec. 3 . Acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the terms of this act are hereby repealed . Surprise to Opponents . The bill was brought up under suspension of the rules which required a two-thirds vote for its adoption , demonstrating the confidence of its proponents in their power . The move came as a surprise to its opponents , who had not believed that its backers would risk such a gamble . Before many votes were counted , however , it was apparent that the opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Speaker Garner had arranged to preside at the time the request for suspension of the rules was asked , and although it was within his power to head off the move , he immediately granted the request and thus . backers of the bill contended , lined himself up with its advocates . That the present activities of the Federal Reserve Board in attempting to expand credit by open market operations were too conservative to satisfy the large majority of House members became evident early in the debate , when Representative Luce of Massachusetts , a member of the Banking and Currency Committee , exclaimed that the purpose of Congress was to end all quibbling and quarreling on the part of the board as to the course which was to be pursued . The Federal Reserve Board , Mr. Luce said , was doing in a limited way the very thing that the bill directed it to do  --  the purchase of government securities ill the open market to expand credit  --  and he believed the time had come to tell the world that a vigorous policy along this line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was definitely charted , at the direction of Congress , the atmosphere would be cleared of doubt and the agitation for the issuance of fiat money would be quieted . Predict Defeat In Senate . Despite the victory won by the bill 's advocates in the House , its opponents predicted defeat for it in t.L ... : 1Senate . These contentions lacked the assurance that was evident a few days ago , however , and some thought that a Presidential veto might be necessary to end the bill 's career . The vote in the House today was sufficient to override a veto , but the chances of such a result in the Senate , it was held , are negligible . Representative Steagall , chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee , managed the bill in the House and Representative of Pennsylvania directed the fire of its opponents . Mr. Steagall contended that the proposal was neither radical nor extreme , but a conservative and constructive measure , shaped after consulting the wisest economists . " All we do , " he said , " is to recognize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do what we ask , and to state that Congress expects and directs that it use its power . " ? He said the control which the Reserve Board held over prices was demonstrated in 1920 and 1921 , when prices were sharply deflated . The extension of a reasonable amount of additional credit and currency at this time , he felt would relieve the banks and start the rise in prices . Denounces Move . Representative said he was . unalterably opposed to the bill , and reading from the report made on it by the Banking and Currency Committee , said that this indicated the possibility of increasing currency from $4,000,000,000 to $9,000,000,000 . The committee had stated that by reducing reserves behind Federal Reserve notes this might be done , but none of the bill 's advocates suggested such uncontrolled inflation today , and most of them emphasized that a move of that kind was not contemplated . Mr. characterized the bill as " purely an attempt through financial juggling " to raise price levels . He said no such step could be taken without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve Board here to do what it is opposed to doing , " he said . Representative Stafford of Wisconsin was defiant in opposition , calling the bill the " worst measure that can be submitted at this time . " In effect , he declared , it directed the Secretary of the Treasury to issue fiat money and threatened the maintenance of the gold standard by the United States . He saw in it an effort to stabilize prices which must . fall . " What inflation , what fiat money is provided for ? " demanded Representative Stephenson of South Carolina . It was admitted , he said , that the level of prices sought was commercially proper , and the question was whether it was  --  feasible to reach that level . Secretary Mills in an address had avocated " controlled " credit expansion , he said , the very thing which the bill 's advocates asked . Representative Chindblom of Dlinois declared Secretary Mills had told him that he , Mr. Mills , had never been heard on the bill ; had never expressed an opinion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusettsbacked Mr. Chindblom declaring that members of the.Federal Reserve Board , the banks , and the Secretary of the Treasury were all opposed to the bill and did not - believe it possible to carry out its intent . Huddleston Makes Fiery Attack . A fiery attack on the bill by Representative Huddleston of Alabama enlivened the debate . There was , he I said , no lack of money in circulation ; there was more outstanding now than at the peak of inflation in 1929 . " The trouble , " he exclaimed , " is not a lack of money in circulation but the failure of money to circulate . " Adoption of the bill , under a gag , I he said , would give further ammunition to those who contended that Congress was " incapable of legislating . He argued that such a drive to raise commodity prices at this time would increase the disparity of the deflation of the commodities of the farmer and industry . The bill , he said , asks that that be done what can not be done , and sets aside every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Congress was " simply declaring a policy " which he felt to be in the right direction and expressed the hope that the bill would pass by an overwhelming majority . Representative Stokes of Pennsylvania said the governors of two Federal Reserve Banks opposed adoption of the measure . He felt that the situation would be much more serious than at present if the bill became law . Republican Challenges Snell . The Federal Reserve Board was charged with failing to employ powers , under the Glass-Steangall act ; to substitute government bonds for gold behind currency by Represents , tive Busby of Mississippi . Opponents of the bill , he said , ' were talking 1 about currency inflation and " imaginary things " in an effort to beat the measure . Representative Snell of New York , Republican floor leader , said he was opposed to bringing up a matter like this under suspension of the rules and without mature consideration . He said it called upon the Secretary of the Treasury to do things he could not accomplish . There ? was a stir when Representative Ramseyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Snell did not know that every farm organization was behind the bill and that there was tremendous sentiment in the country for it . Mr. Snell answered in the negative , adding that he considered it one of the most important bills before Congress , and asked for delay . Representative La Guardia of New York advocated the bill but said that if commodity prices were raised wages should not be lowered . If this bill passes the House today , he said , " there will be no reason for passing the wage-cut measure . " Author Pleads for Passage . In an impassioned address , Representative Goldsborough of Maryland , author of the bill , declared that no one who appeared before the committee had given any reason for its defeat except that the " Federal Reserve Board was against it . " It was admitted , he said , that the country 's debts could not be paid unless the commodity price level was increased and that failure in that direction meant bankruptcy . When Governor Harrison of the New York Federal Reserve Bank was before the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was instisting that the Reserve banks do the very thing they were now doing . " When did you begin ? ' I asked him , " said Mr. Goldsborough . " He replied , ' day before yesterday . ' " This is not a price-fixing bill , " Mr. Goldsborough went on . " It is simply a command to the Federal Reserve ' Board to attempt to keep the price level steady . " The sixty members who voted against the bill follow : DEMOCRATS , ** Arizona ; Huddleston , Alabama , and Williams , Texas . REPUBLICANS , ** Andrew , Massachusetts ; Bacharach , Beek , Bolton . Britten , Burdick , Chindblom , Clancy , Clarke , New York : Coyle , Crowther . Culkin , Darrow , . Davenport , Eaton , Colorado ; Free , Gibson , Goss , Hadley , Hess , Johnson , Washington ; Kahn , Kendall , Kurtz , Lehibath , , , Magrady , Mapes , Martin , Massachusetts ; Nelson , Maine ; Parker , New York ; Partridge , Pittenger , H. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York ; Seeger , Snell , Stafford , Stalker , Stokes , Taber , Thatcher , Tilson , Tinkhatn , Treadway , ' Mason . Watson , Weeks , Welsh ; ? Pennsylvania ; White , Wig ' glesworth , Wyant , Yates . The twenty-four New ' Yorkers who cast their ballots voted as follows : FOR , THE MEL , Democrats-8 , Somers Kennedy Fitzpatrick Delaney Bloom Mead O'Connor Griffin Republicans-8 . La Guardia Hancock Danders Fish Whitley Andrews AGAINST THE BILL . Republicans-10 . H. J. Pratt Culkins Stalker Parker Davenport Reed Crowther Clarke Snell Taber Measure Is Opposed Here . While Wall Street is agreed that the most important problem to be overcome in the current financial crisis is the abnormal fall in prices , there is general agreement among bankers that enactment of the Goldsborough bill , which places a mandate upon the Treasury and the Federal Reserve System to reduce the purchasing power of the dollar , would be unfortunate . It is pointed out that the Federal Reserve System is at present engaged in an aggressive campaign to expand bank credit as a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it is understood by bankers , would do little more than place a legal compulsion upon the Reserve System to continue its present course . The dangers of such a mandate , however , are that , should it fail , great discredit might redound to the Federal Reserve System or else more radical measures might have to be resorted to , with consequent impairment of public confidence in the dollar . Officials of the Federal Reserve System have in the past insisted that it was not within their power to bring about an absolute rise in the price level or to stabilize the dollar at any particular purchasing power . All they could do , they asserted , was to assist the natural working out of price movements by making available a greater or lesser volume of credit . It rests with the markets to employ that credit .                     