@@700955

txt The most efficient apparatus yet devised for harnessing sunlight to do man 's work is part of the exhibition of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , which opens its annual Winter meeting here tomorrow . The new apparatus , described as a solar heat collector , is the latest and most improved model in a , series designed by Dr. C. G. Abbot . secretary of the Smithsonian Institution of Washington , D. C. While built on the principles of earlier models , this latest sun-harnesser concentrates sun rays to such an extent that within twenty minutes it can develop temperatures in excess of 400 degrees Fahrenheit , or twice the boiling point of water . The device can be used for ordinary cooking purposes or for the generation of steam for power , though not as yet on a commercial scale to supplant fuel for driving large steam engines . That , however , is the ultimate goal . In his long series of experiments Dr. Abbot constructed the great solar cooker which he now uses on Mount Wilson , Calif . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sun 's heat , which is moved by clockwork to follow the sun . The cooker also has a cylinder filled with oil which flows by gravity circulation , the force of gravity carrying the oil to a reservoir some ten feet above the mirror in which are ovens for cooking . Features of New Model . The latest model has a number of small mirrors in units . While the single mirror in the cooker on Mount Wilson is placed parallel to the axis of the earth , the small mirrors in the new device are placed at right angles to the earth 's axis . The unit apparatus contains glass heater tubes filled with black oil . The tubes are protected from loss of heat by double vacuum jackets. , They communicate at the ends to common heater tubes , through which the circulation goes to a reservoir of oil at a little distance . These unit heat collectors , of which only one has so far been made , will be mounted on a frame which itself will turn on an axis parallel to the axis of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drive the frame by clockwork , an occasional setting by an attendant being sufficient to insure practically full exposure at all times . The oil reservoir will receive through gravity circulation and from the heater tubes oil made hot solely by the sun 's energy. , Ovens may be inserted in the reservoir for cooking purposes or a tubular boiler to raise steam for power . The efficiency of the device is very high , it is stated , " because the loss of heat is so small owing to the double vacuum jackets . " The use of glass with opaque oil obviates the need of metal tubes . A Wonderland of Magic . The exhibit , one of the organization 's largest in both quantity and quality , is a veritable wonderland of scientific magic , exhilarating to the scientist and bewildering to the layman . Practically every large research laboratory in the country , and some from abroad , is exhibiting its latest devices with which science is to explore the mysteries of life and matter . Among these are the newest " traps " for cosmic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; devices for studying the minutest particles of living matter ; a mathematical robot which can make 50,000 substractions in a minute and demonstrations of the latest triumph of modern alchemy , the production of artificial radioactive elements from ordinary elements . The cosmic ray " traps " are being exhibited by Dr. Thomas H. Johnson of the Bartol Research Foundation , Franklin Institute , Swarthmore , Pa .. Dr. Johnson has just returned from a cosmic ray exploration in Mexico , where he obtained hitherto unknown data about the most powerful radiations so far discovered in nature . Previously it had been found that there is a difference between the rays coming from the west and those coming into the earth 's magnetic field from the east . Dr. Johnson reported he has found what is described as a " north-south effect , " the rays coming into the earth 's magnetic field from the north being 9 per cent less than those coming from the south in northern latitudes , while in the southern latitudes this percentage is reversed . " Cosmic Explosions " of Stars . The latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hercules 1934 may help solve the mystery of the origin of the cosmic rays , Dr. Johnson stated . According to the hypothesis advanced by Dr. F , Zwicky of the California Institute of Technology , cosmic rays are created as a result of terrific explosions during the formation of nova stars . In such explosions atoms are annihilated in temperatures ranging as high as 30,000 degrees Fahrenheit . Dr. Zwicky believes that cosmic rays are the " death cries " of atoms that have been destroyed in such " cosmic catastrophes , " in which stars are denuded of their surrounding atmospheres . As Nova Hercules 1934 represents one of the greatest of these cosmic catastrophes observed in recent times , it should offer the first practical test , Dr. Johnson stated , of the correctness of Dr. Zwicky 's hypothesis . Furthermore , it is suggested , th5s latest of the new stars may become a celestial arbiter between the two opposing hypotheses on the nature of the cosmic ray . Two Hypotheses Held . The hypothesis championed by Dr. Robert A. Milliken and his school holds that primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , supported by Dr. Arthur H. Compton , Dr. Johnson and others , maintains that primary cosmic rays are particles of matter , such as electrons , protons ( heart of hydrogen ) and alpha particles ( heart of helium ) . The explosion of Nova Hercules 1934 actually occurred about a hundred years ago , as it is a hundred light-years distant from the earth and the flame of the explosion took a hundred years to reach the earth . Therefore , it is reasoned , if primary cosmic rays are photons and Dr. Zwicky 's hypothesis is correct , an increase should be observable in the quantity of cosmic rays at this time , since photons , being of the same nature as light , travel with the speed of light . This would indicate that Dr. Millikan and his school are correct . If Dr. Compton 's hypothesis is the right one , there should be no immediate increase in the quantity of cosmic rays reaching the earth , as particles of matter , such as electrons , protons and alpha particles , can have a maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this case , provided Dr. Zwicky is right , there should be an observable increase in the quantity of cosmic rays about ten years hence . New Mathematical Robot . The latest mathematical robot , one of a family developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , is known as an " interval sorter " and was developed by Professor George R. Harrison . It determines the energy levels of atoms and molecules from their spectrum lines and speeds up by hundreds of times the process hitherto used . Spectroscopic studies of atoms reveal different wave lengths , and constant differences of what is known as " wave number " indicate important energy levels in the atoms . Up to the present it has been necessary to take the reciprocals of all the wave lengths and subtract them from one another by means of the constant differences . It has been the practice to make these subtractions mentally , and the investigator often makes 100,000 computations in an analysis . The new robot makes these subtractions automatically and has the amazing capacity of 50,000 a minute , while at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ photographically . Another exhibit , designed by Dr. K. 0 . Lange of the M. I. T. Division of Meteorology , is an improved type of meteorgraph , capable of accurately recording the rapid changes in temperature , humidity and barometric pressure during airplane flights made for gathering data for weather forecasting . The instrument , which looks like a miniature Zeppelin , is only three inches in diameter and about fourteen inches long . The piezo-electric crystal , used in radio broadcasting to assure listeners of an accurate location of stations on their receivers , takes on a new role , created at M. I. T. , in an instrument for the accurate measuring of very high and rapidly changing pressures in automobile engines . Heretofore the determination of such pressures has been a difficult problem for the research scientist and engineer , although a very necessary one for advanced studies in automotive engineering . A new type of design for geometric models , appealing alike to the scientist , the artist and the philosopher , constructed after many years of painstaking work by Paul S. Donchian , a rug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibits . " Donchian , " the program of the meeting states , " has discovered a method of projecting symmetrically into three-dimensional space the hypercube series to any number of dimensions , producing models that can be clearly followed in every detail . " This " infinite-dimension " series is represented by a dozen hypercube models , the largest and most complicated being the hypercube of twenty-four dimensions . " They present , ' ! the program states , " a brilliant and artistic effect , in addition to their scientific significance . "                     