@@702430

txt Premier Leon Blum was subjected to a severe attack in the Chamber of Deputies today , with former Premier Pierre1 Etienne Flandin as a battleship , Paul Reynaud as a light cruiser and others playing the parts of destroyers and even submarines . Premier Blum , however , won a vote of confidence of 362 to 211 after he had thrown down a challenge to his opponents to face him again in a general election at any time of their own choosing . Mr. Flandin 's heavy gun work will undoubtedly do damage in the country , for he stated the plain facts that the Treasury was embarrassed and in arrears on its payments and that foreign loans were not proving easy , while domestic loans for long terms were virtually impossible . The exchange equalization fund , he said , has exhausted the supply of gold it can draw from the Bank of France , the deficit in the commercial balance is growing worse , and even if 2,000,000 foreigners came to see the Paris exhibition and each left 2,000 francs behind they would not do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan . There were shrewd , telling remarks like this in his speech : That Hitlerism in Germany was a result of monetary collapse and the disappearance of the middleclass . But the Flandin battleship attack lost nearly all effect on the last salvo . For in the middle of his peroration he spoke of the " desires of the masses , with all they contain of sordid materialism . " Left Rises in Protest He had meant to conclude with a phrase carrying that accusation against all classes , but it sounded like a scornful criticism of workers , and the whole Left rose in howling protest . Little will be remembered , of his speech except that unfortunate phrase . Fernand Laurent and Finance Minister Vincent Auriol had an isolated skirmish on the edge of the battle over the amount of gold that had been exported to London in an effort to keep the franc stable . Mr. Laurent 's figure was 200,000,000 francs a day . Mr. Auriol passionately denied it . Then Paul Reynaud sent broadI side after broadside into the government 's position . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was admitting that the facts were more compelling things than the desires of the people . The pause in his economic program that Premier Blum is prOclaiming is in reality a tardy effort at rehabilitation and budgetary stability , he asserted . During recent months , he said , too many checks have been drawn on the future and on the eventual results of devaluation of the franc . Already , last December , the French gold price was above that of Britain and Belgium , and since then wholesale prices have been rising steadily . When existing stocks are exhausted retail prices will soar , he said . " It is not illegal price raising that is dangerous , but the normal legal price raising , " he went on . " Already protests are being raised against the entry of certain foreign products and a government that has been hailed as liberal is appearing to the rest of the world to hesitate between the liberalism of democracies and the autarchy of dictatorships . Action Is Demanded - " This pause must not be simply a period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , corn is shooting in the fields and life must be continued . If the government is to get the confidence it asks , it must lead and not follow . " What was most important for the government was the attitude of the Radical Socialists . Their spokesman , Cesar Campinchi , was moderate and reserved . He put In a special plea for the Radical Socialist electors  --  peasants , the small shopkeeping class and civil servants  --  but with few exceptions the party stood solid with the Popular Front and today 's well-prepared battle will have no immediate consequence . It has not , however , in any way solved the problem of how the Treasury is to meet the big payments that are coming due . Taking an attitude that his followers likened to that of Horatius defending the bridge and his - opponents to that of Ajax defying the lightning , Premier Blum this evening told his countrymen and the rest of the world that his Popular Front government was going on despite all the perils that seemed to be pressing on it . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Britain , he said . He gave warning that " if the government retreats , democracy in this country will feel itself betrayed and social conflict will break out worse than ever before . " Pause Again Offered At the same time , he reoffered to capital the proposal for a pause in the pursuit of his program of social reform . During that pause , he declared , accumulated capital could with confidence respond to the needs and demands of national life , prices would readjust themselves and hoarded and exported capital would come back into use for both private and national needs . His refusal to try to recover what his opponents call " confidence " by trying to form a government of national union was based on the argument that it would not last . He said he would be greeted  --  and there was a veiled reference to Mr. ? as a " real statesman " if he abandoned his opinions and his friends . Rentes would rise and capital would flow back . But for such a step he did not see need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The Popular Front , he added , is still a living organism , and if all the parties of the Left , including the Communists , were not represented in the government 's program , it would be impossible to arrest the development of social conflict .                     