@@701882

txt At the end of the first business day following the parliamentary elections , impression in financial quarters is that rapid developments may be expected in both the political and financial situations as result of gains of the Leftist parties being slightly larger than had been anticipated . The vital question at the moment is whether the financial developments may not outrun possible political moves to offset their full effect . The drain of gold to New York , London and Brussels is estimated at probably 1,000,000,000 francs or more . It is feared that the drain will not diminish but will increase and therefore something must be done as soon as possible , especially if it is accompanied by the accentuation of withdrawals from savings banks and other banks . Savings bank alone lost over 600 , - 000,000 francs from January to April 1936 , and private banks were similarly affected . Bank of France The Bank of France . therefore , is likely to be called upon to greatly increase its already considerable holdings of government paper , and at the same time deliver large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . however , is obscure , because the outgoing government is without authority and the incoming ministry is not yet even in the process of formation . There would appear to be legal authority dating from war-time for the imposition of restrictions on the movements of capital , but devaluation is impossible without the amendment of the stabilization law , and therefore it would be necessary to convoke the outgoing Chamber , whose life expires on May 31 . However , authorities of the Bank of France insist restrictions would be useless and harmful and this view is widely shared in financial circles . In any event there is little trace of definite plans for handling the situation that has developed . It seems certain that if vital decisions have to be made they will coincide with the change in government and the Bank of France governorship . The fact that the regents of the Bsnir of France decided against an increase in the bank rate is interpreted as recognizing that a higher rate is not likely to have the desired effect , and the bank must face calmly the prospect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Bank of France is shipping gold to London to support the franc is discredited here . If gold is shipped , it probably represents repatriation of metal already bought in Paris by British . Control as the result of past exchange operations . Bonootir Rumored Likely Premier According to rumors on the Bourse , PaulBoncour , the independent and mild Socialist , is likely to become Premier ; and Vincent Auriol , the Socialist Party 's financial expert , the Finance Minister . It is hoped the Socialist leaders will take an early opportunity to issue a statement reassuring the public . After the initial slump in French securities on the Bourse , the session was relatively calm , and vigorous official intervention in the last quarter hour succeeded in restoring Rentes to Fridays closing level . French bank and industrial shares also recovered a portion of the initial losses and international issues lost a part of the Initial gains . It is regarded as satisfactory that there was no sign of the general public unloading securities . Business was almost entirely professional , and even the professionals were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the foreign exchange market , the spot trading in sterling and dollars was the heaviest . There were Indications that the Guaranty Trust was systematically supplying all demands for dollars at 15.19 , presumably with the cooperation of the Federal Reserve and of the Bank of France . Within an hour after the opening , ; 15.000.000 gold was engaged for shipment on the S.S. Normandie and the sterling rate soared above 75 , attaining 75.45 despite efforts of control with forward premiums at 24% and 20% for one and three months funds . Day-to-day money against exchange was 10% and higher but was hard to find . Meanwhile gold coin premiums were rising , the sovereign being quoted at 129 francs and the American eagle at 26.10 . Political Outlook The election results make certain that France must pass through the experiment of a government of popular front which will be dependent on the **27;404;TOOLONG majority in the Chamber . At 72 , the Communist representation is quadrupled , while at 146 that of the official Socialist Party is up 50% . However , it is the radicals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups who paid the price of the Socialist-Communist gains inasmuch as the right groups have maintained their ground . Instead of 160 the center groups now number 108 . Nevertheless , they still remain the second largest party in the Chamber and in their hands will lie the task of preserving the country from Communism and Socialism . Indeed , there seems to be the smallest chance of anything more than mildly socialistic reforms under the prospective government and this , for several reasons . First it is generally admitted that the voting represents not a conversion of opinion of the country to the recognition of the necessity for revolutionary measures but rather a protest against the risk of Fascism and against misconduct of affairs under the control of the moderates . Secondly , it is improbable that the official socialist party leader Blum will consent to undertake to head the ministry as he has had no experience in government and his health is not strong . Thirdly , what is immediately probable as a result of the election is such a rapid development of the state 's financial embarrassment as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the popular front does not mean revolution . Political experts already are declaring that the new government 's life will depend on how the prospective ministers deal with the financial crisis . It may ? be their downfall and in that event a return to government by a national linen embracing the radicals , center , and right parties IS not inconceivable in the relatively near future .                     