@@701557

txt atizAc 'S Georges Dandin asked for and got his , as we know , and so did JAMES FARLEY on Tuesday . His was the immense blunder of fighting the election of the Assembly in New York and of the Legislature in New Jersey on the issue of the New Deal . It would have been so natural and so easy to say in advance that an off-year election did not matter much either way , and that a certain number of Republican gains would be probable . But that would not do for PARLEY , the master-strategist and multiple chairman . He walked blithely into the trap laid for him by the Republican managers , and agreed to treat the election of the New York Assembly as a true test of the New Deal and of the support which Mr. ROOSEVELT could command in his own State . The result was to send the news over the country that the Nev Deal and the President had met with a smashing defeat both in New York and New Jersey . Chairman FARLEY can not patch up his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the campaign with a touching conviction of his own wisdom and invincibility as a politician , and came out of it , as the old Western saying was , " considerable shuck-up like . " Whoever else won or lost , the general verdict is that FARLEY was badly beaten and became correspondingly unpopular as a political leader . The effect should be to hasten his prospective resignation as Postmaster General . If he could also he induced to give up one or more of his party chairmanships , it might not be a bad thing for the Administration . Senator NORRIS , frank and honest man that he is , announced recently that he expected to support President ROOSEVELT next year , but did wish that the " machine politics " steadily practiced by Chairman FARLEY might not remain a drawback to the Administration . More than once Mr. PARLEY has avowed himself a spoilsman , naked and unashamed . He evidently believes that by promises of patronage and the bestowal of offices he has found the secret of victory in elections . But if his system does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be the easier to get rid of . There was not , of course , any direct vote on the New Deal in Tuesday 's election , but it was undoubtedly injured , as a political device , by the bad management of the Democrats . Not only in the choice of Assemblymen , but in the campaigns of many Mayors , resort was had to the New Deal as the crowning argument . It had been regarded as a sort of magic formula . Let a candidate pin that label on himself and it was as good as a certificate of election . But that delusion can no longer deceive . In the popular mind , if not in actual fact , the New Deal is now rather sadly impaired as a political slogan . This is not an unwholesome thing . It will tend to make Congress more cautious at its next session , and may even affect the thinking and the policies of the Administration itself . Republicans are naturally jubilant over what they call the repudiation of the New Deal . They will cherish and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They will be tempted to think that the stars in their courses will be fighting for them in 1936 . This does not at all follow . A mistake in political strategy by an opponent can not alter the essential facts , and the Presidential election of next year will be determined by the facts as they then exist . But what they will actually be , even the most skilled prophets can today see only through a glass darkly                     