@@697497

txt Frank B. Kellogg , former United States Secretary of State , received the Nobel peace prize for 1929 here today in the presence of King Haakon and Crown Prince Olay . In his address of acceptance Mr. Kellogg attributed the current war talk to the economic depression and to the dissatisfaction stud agitation which follows wars . I-le stressed that civilization could pot survive another world war . At the same ceremony the Nobel Peace Prize for 1930 was presented to pr . Nathan Soederblom , Archbishop of Upsala . " I find it very regrettable , " said Mr. Kellogg , " that so many , including my own countrymen , still are predicting war and stating that Europe is preparing for such a conflict . Undoubtedly there are , especially in urope , national jealousies and racial animosities , but the fact stands out that during the past ten years European statesmen have been settling these difficulties with patience , their statesmanlike vision inspiring firm confidence in the future interest In peace . " Pays Tribute to Nobel . . After Professor Frederick Stang , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , diplomas and medals , Mr. Kellogg began his remarks with a warm tribute to the memory and life work of Alfred dIN bel , who established the Nobel . . zes . " I value the great honor conferred Upon me more than any I have ever received , " he continued , " riot only tor personal reasons , but because the prize Is an honor to my country and to its devotion to the cause of peace and the development of a higher civilization . " Reminding his hearers of the intiMate connections between the United States and Norway , he said there was no greater work before humanity than the cause of peace , which could be achieved only through the earnest efforts of all nations to build solid foundations of individual liberty and representative government and inspire the minds of men and Women . with higher ideals . " Warned by the disaster in the last great conflict , statesmen of all nations have been taking measures to prevent the return of another such calamity , " he said . " It may be that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet in my opinion they are the greatest preventive measures against war ever adopted by nations . It ' is not to be expected that human nature will change in a day nor that the age " Ad institution of war , recognized by international law as a sovereign tight , will be instantaneously abolished , but the people of all nations &hould; be encouraged by the great progress made in post-war years in the furtherance of international peace . ? Praises League of Nations . ' " The League of Nations has been roost beneficial in adjusting many difficult international problems and also in creating a number of arbitration and conciliation treaties and the Court of International Justice . It also has made commendable progress toward the reduction of armar-ents . All this is an additional guarantee against war . " It is not my intention today to idiscuss the Pact of Paris , which I Rill not say has passed into history but which has been cemented in the foundation of the organic law of nations as a solemn pledge not to go to Nat . for the settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. joint determination of nations not again to be afflicted with the horrors of such an appalling catastrophe as the great war , and therefore - made a sacred promise to outlaw war and Make it a crime against the law of ' mations . " Premier Mowinckel of Norway said it might seem that today 's two Nobel Prize winners were as separate from each-other as their countries , one being associated with practical politics and the other being a churchman . He emphasized that both cooperated In humanity 's efforts to keep peace in the world . " We can not be blind to the importance of the League of Nations , " he continued , " the greatest , strongest and noblest institution for the maintenance of peace ever raised , thanks to American initiative . Therefore the deepest shadow so far thrown on this work is the regrettable fact that President Wilson 's own country is not a member of the League . Fortunately . this does not mean that the United States has not taken her part in the international work for peace in post-war years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today . " Premier Mowinckel then described the creation of the Briand-Kellogg pact , paying a warm tribute to Mr. Kellogg and Foreign Minister Briand of France for their efforts to bring about the outlawry of war . He also discussed Archbishop Soederbiom 's work in connection with the Kellogg pact . He said the Archbishop realized the enormous influence of the Church in the cause of peace . " Due honor must therefore be paid to these two men , whose work means the passing of another milestone on the road to international peace , " he concluded . Archbishop Soederblom is the only Nobel Prize winner who knew Alfred Nobel personally , the donor having been a member of his congregation in Paris . Norway 's peaceful aspirations appealed so strongly to Mr. Nobel , Archbishop Soederblom said , that he had entrusted the ' distribution of his prizes to that country . The ceremony closed with the singing of the Norwegian national anthem . Others Get Prizes at Stockholm . Special Cable to Tmo NEW ' roux Tams . ' STOCKHOLM , Sweden , ' Dec. 10 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today from King Gustaf in the presence of members of the government and the diplomatic corps . Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman of Calcutta , India , who received the physics prize , was a picturesque figure in a turban and Indian garb . Professor Hans Fischer of Munich received the chemistry prize and Professor Karl Landsteiner of New York received the prize for medicine . Mr. Lewis was red-faced and as nervous as a schoolboy when he walked through a cheering gathering in the Stockholm Concert House to receive his prize from the King . Me : Lewis was introduced by Dr. A. E. Karlfeldt of the Swedish Academy , whose colorful description of the characters in " Babbitt " and others of Mr. Lewis 's works caused great amusement . The preceding speakers had extolled the virtues of the other recipients of prizes in solemn , scientific language which few could follow , but Dr. Karlfeldt spoke in the language of the ordinary people and even the staid Indian savant smiled broadly . Mr. Lewis seemed to find the subsequent dinner an equally trying ordeal and was obviously nervous when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the table between Prince Carl and Prince Sigyard . Kellogg Warns of War Chaos . OSLO , Norway , Dec. ** B. Kellogg , in accepting the Nobel peace prize today , said : " I have said it before , and will emphasize it as strongly as possible , that Western culture will never outlive a new war , but will perish In a general chaos . " I know of no nobler work for humanity than promoting peace . Men must adopt higher and greater goals than that of settling international quarrels by arms . " Leading statesmen have taken steps to prevent a new catastrophe , and while these measures are no absolute guaranty of peace , they are the most secure arrangements hitherto adopted by the nations . "                     