@@702473

txt Events of the last few days indicate pretty conclusively that it is apprehension of a runaway inflation to which President Roosevelt referred in his fireside chat last Tuesday when he said that " the dangers of 1929 are again becoming possible , " not immediately but " within a year or two . " This revelation has given a new turn to the controversy engendered by Mr. Roosevelt 's project to pack the Supreme court with New Dealers to obtain validation of New Deal legislation . Blame Danger on New Deal . The President says this impending crisis can be averted only by legislation providing " economic freedom for farmers , working men , and small tradesmen . An amendment of the constitution to validate such legislation could not be obtained in time to avert the crisis , according to the President . Therefore , the only alternative is to pack the court sufficiently to obtain a decision upholding the constitutionality of the legislation . On the other hand the opposition contends that the dangers of a runaway inflation have been produced not by any decision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration and will not be abated by any reversal of the Supreme court 's interpretation of the constitution . Only a radical reversal of policy in the direction of balancing of the budget and checking price increases will avert disastrous inflation . according to the opposition . Insists He 's Preparing an AlibL Some of the critics of the President assert the belief that he is deliberately preparing an alibi for a runaway inflation ; that when it materializes he will say it could have been averted if he had been granted control of the Supreme court . The concern of the administration with such symptoms of increasing inflation as the rapid rise of raw materials markets was evidenced by the conference Marriner S. Eccles. chairman of the federal reserve board , had with the President on Thursday to consider possible checks on apparent tendencies . Friday another symptom developed in the drop of government bond prices . This was followed yesterday by a confab of treasury and federal reserve officials , the outcome of which was the decision to buy government securities in such amounts as may be necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Expected . The current upturn in commodity prices Ss being promoted by higher wages and shorter hours of labor which increase production costs and hence prices by the demands for materials for rearmament and by expansion of business activity . There would be no occasion for alarm if production were keeping abreast of the demand for goods and if price advances were moderate and well balanced . Because , however , of the huge volume of dormant bank deposits availebb-for use and of the encouragement given to speculation by low interest rates , brought about by artificial means , there is serious danger of a speculative boom developing . The federal reserve , by raising member bank reserve requirements , has eliminated or is in process of eliminating most of the excess reserves that constitute a basis for a potential inflationary credit expansion . But there still remains the threat inherent in the already inflated bank deposits created by the methods employed to finance federal deficits . IL S. Securities Peril Banks . The situation puts the fiscal statesmanship of the administration to the test . The checking of the inflationary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to facilitate deficit financing . Whether the administration will take the step or , if so , proceed with the care essential to avoidance of sharp breaks in government bond prices are vital considerations . The need of caution is accentuated by the fact that member banks of the reserve system are heavily loaded with government securities . In fact , the whole artificiality of the situation is a constant source of danger to the banks . So the President is in a dilemma . If he continues inflationary expenditures the people will be pinched by increased living costs . If he retrenches great groups of citizens will lose their subsidies . In either case he will suffer a loss of prestige , of popularity . And if runaway inflation gets a good start it will take dictatorial powers to cope with it . The judiciary program Mr. Roosevelt espouses would clothe him with such powers . Some idea of the increase in prices is given by the bureau of labor statistics wholesale commodity index . For the week ended March 6 it was 86.1 per cent of the average for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood at 79.7 . Thus in the year it increased 6.4 points , or more than 7 per cent . This may not appear to be a substantial increase , but in the previous year there was virtually no increase , the index figure moving from 79.6 on March 9 , 1935 , to 79.7 on March 7 , 1936 . Commodities Go tip . More substantial increases than the general advance were reported by the bureau of labor statistics for the period between March 7 , 1936 , and March 6 , 1937 , for several classifications of commodities . Thus the index figure for wholesale prices of farm products advanced from 77.7 to 91.6 ; hides and lether , from 95.7 to 103.4 ; textile products , from 70.4 to 76.9 ; metals and metal products , from 86 to 92.2 ; building materials , from 85 to 94.1 , and household furnishings from 82.7 to 89.6 . During the last week price advances continued , particularly for metals . Iron Age , publication of the steel industry , points out that the composite price of finished steel has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent depression . This compares with a rise of 41 per cent in 1922- ' 23 and 39 per cent in 1919- ' 20 , both regarded as inflation periods . Finished steel prices have gone up about 25 per cent in the last year . Kroger Grocery Sales Show Gain of 11 Per Cent New York , March 14 . ? ( A3 ) ? Kroger Grocery and Baking company reported for the four weeks ended Feb. 27 sales of $19,468,967 , compared with $17,535.336 for the like period of 1936 , an increase of 11 per cent . For the first two four week pe ' riods of 1937 sales were $38,256,075 , a gain of 11 per cent over the $31.349 , - 138 reported for the same period of the preceding year .                     