@@703762

txt Testimany that a major war definitely threatens Europe this Spring and is likely to be set off by Mussolini 's ambitions to imitate Hitler in territorial aggrandizement was given before a secret joint meeting of the House and Senate Military Affairs Committees today by Ambassadors Kennedy and Bullitt . The meeting , reported called at President Roosevelt 's instigation , received no suggestions from the Ambassadors , except by implication , concerning what this country 's attitude should be toward the war threat , but some members stressed the bearing of the testimony on the President 's rearmament program , ' Which is expected to be made known Thursday , and declared that the meeting appeared to be a " buildup " for the program . Although committee members were pledged to secrecy concerning this testimony , quite a number were willing to talk more or less , some suggesting that the secrecy was designed to increase public interest In the meeting . Representative May , House Military Affairs Committee chairman , who administered the pledge , declared , however , that the Ambassadors wanted secrecy because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " live with those people . " Nazi Air Strength Stressed In the picture presented by the two envoys in two hours of discussion , great emphasis centered on the threat which Hitler 's great air armada holds for the European democracies . This force was said to number between 9,500 and 10,000 first-line planes , members reported , including 3,000 bombers and pursuit planes faster than anything the British and French possess . It was the threat of this air force , the committees were told , that made Britain and France back down at Munich . France 's defense was concentrated in her army and Britain 's in her navy and both were gravely weak in the air , it was added . The only hopeful element in the pictures , members said , was the suggestion by the Ambassadors that if hostilities began through a German drive for the Ukraine and were confined to this drive for a time , France and Britain might have time to build up their armaments . The view was offered also that a Hitler drive eastward would not bring Britain and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that there was more danger that Mussolini might set off the clash by pressing his demands for French territory . It was said that he was pictured as envious of Hitler 's territorial gains and believing he could achieve gains of his own . Cites Target of Aims His designs , however , were represented , according to committee members , as creating a greater threat because the demands were against the lands of a large power instead of those of small nations . Mr. Kennedy was reported to have stated that , although England and France could not take a strong stand at Munich because of the threat of the German air fleet , they would not have quailed before any Japanese aggression and would be less frightened by any Italian aggression if conducted alone . The testimony of the Amlaassadors caused varying reactions among the two score members of the committees . Senators Bridges and Austin , Eastern Republicans , said they were " impressed . " They declined to discuss details of the testimony . " The testimony , " said Senator Bridges , " impressed me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and voiced that England and France let Czecho-Slovakia down . It seems to me there is grave danger of a major war in the Spring . " He added that when first told of the meeting he thought it might be a build-up for the President 's arms program , but that even this suspicion did not alter the impressions he received . Evidently animated by the same suspicions , Senators Nye , Clark and Lee pictured themselves as not greatly impressed by the testimony , so far as it pertained to the interests of this country . Several Representatives , including Messrs . May , Snyder and Thomason , voiced similar views , asserting that if we were going to have larger armaments they should be solely for defense of our own shores . Reassurance Declared Given Several of these members were said to have elicited the opinion of the Ambassadors that this country was not immediately menaced , although it was reported that the envoys suggested that Germany might soon be demanding naval bases In the West Indies . Senator Nye declared that when he was notified of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of convincing Congress that this country should stimulate the building of airplane plants capable of supplying England and France with large fleets within a brief time . " Nothing was said to confirm my suspicion , but I still think that 's the idea , " he added . " However , if their purpose was to startle the committee on American safety , they failed miserably . I felt no more concerned than I did before . I think we can profitably have a larger air force , but nothing like 5,000 or 10,000 more , and that we could even safely abandon part of the present navy building authorization . " Asked whether the Ambassadors presented Colonel Lindbergh 's reports on German air strength , Mr. Nye said : " I wonder if some of those planes Lindbergh saw In concentrations were dummy planes . " Mr. Nye asserted that his information was that Germany had about 10,000 planes , but that he believed some of them were quite old and perhaps obsolete . Another who was apparently unimpressed by what he heard was Senator Reynolds of North Carolina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Who 's going to fight ? " he asked . " Hitler has all of Eastern Europe under his thumb right now . France has become a second-class power and England is in the tightest spot in her long history , her lifeline threatened at various spots by Italy and needing to import 50,000 to 60,000 tons of food a day to feed her people . " Predicts Modest Program He predicted that the President 's armament program would be modest and not ask for more than 3,000 more planes , which he held was all that were needed . Whether or not influenced by the testimony he heard today , Chairman May of the House committee announced afterward that he would seek to write into the National Defense Bill a. provision for military training of the 300,000 CCC boys . He also said that he planned a bill for four-lane highways along the Atlantic , Pacific and Gulf coasts to expedite transfer of anti-aircraft guns and motorized military forces . The country also should have more motorized forces and more antiaircraft guns , he added . He held , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed , arguing that if 10,000 more were planned they would be obsolete before they were put into service . He asserted that 5,000 planes added to . the 2,320 now built or authorized would make a force which should be retained at 7,320 . Such a program , he said , would gear the industry up to where it could produce all the planes needed in any emergency . Senator Pittman , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , announced that executive hearings were planned soon with experts invited to testify regarding foreign policy , particularly as it concerns such subjects as repeal of the Spanish embargo , amendment of the Neutrality Act and a constitutional amendment requiring a popular vote for a declaration of war . Attempts to repeal the embargo act and change the present neutrality statute are instigated by " insidious alien influences , " Representative Rankin said in a statement . Both Communists and munitions makers were behind such moves , he declared .                     