@@699679

txt The city continued without an aclive head of its Police Department yesterday , while political differences over the choice of a successor to Edward P. Mulroon.ey were being ironed out . John F. Curry , Tammany leader , and John H. McCooey , Democratic leader of Brooklyn , are deadlocked bver the new appointee . Mr. McCooey is holding out for the appointment of either Assistant Chief Inspector John J. Sullivan or Deputy Chief Inspector Thomas P. Cummings , both Brooklyn men . Mr. Curry favors Deputy Chief Inspector James S. Bolan , now commanding the uniformed police in Manhattan . " If Assistant Chief Inspector Sullivan or Deputy Chief Inspector Cummings came from Manhattan , one of the two would have been appointed as soon as Commissioner Muirooney resigned , " a close friend of Mr. McCooey said yesterday . While the Brooklyn leader maintained silence on the appointment , his political associates realized that there might be some difficulty , over having both the Police Commissionership and the Fire Commissionership go to Brooklyn . Fire Commissioner John J. Dorman is a Brooklyn resident . Curry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to press his support of Inspector Bolan to the point where it would offend Mr. McCooey . Underlying the Tammany leader 's attitude was the fear that Mr. McCooey might join forces with Edward J.1 Flynn , Democratic leader of the Bronx , and so threaten Tammany 's chances at the Fall Mayoralty election , it was said . The latest working arrangement , reached last night , rests on the assumption that Mr. McCooey might be content with an appointment subordinate to the commissionership itself . This arrangement contemplates the retirement of Chief Inspector John O'Brien , the appointment of Inspector Bolan as commissioner , and the appointment of either Assistant Chief Inspector Sullivan or Deputy Chief Inspector Cummings as Chief Inspector . The Chief Inspector commands all uniformed police in the five boroughs , while the Assistant Chief Inspector heads the detective divisions of all boroughs . Mayor O'Brien arrived at City " Frail at noon yesterday suffering from a slight cold he contracted at the launching of the U. S. S. New Orleans in Brooklyn Wednesday . Asked for news of the Police CornMissionership , the Mayor said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be an appointment tomorrow , but that is not certain . But there will not be any appointment today . " Urges Civilian Be Chosen . A. J. Engelman , one of those mentioned by the Mayor , issued a statement yesterday declaring that the appointment of a police officer at this time would be a " misfortune . " He said the post was an administrative one , calling for a man who appreciated the need for economy as well as efficiency . Mr. Engelman , an insurance broker of 1,776 Broadway , criticized Mr. Muirooney 's regime on the ground that it had increased the Police Department budget to " the unprecedented total of $64,000,000 . " Through extending the radio patrol and other mechanization , he said , the Police Department should be able to decrease its personnel . An enrolled Republican in 1925 , Mr. Engelman disclosed that he had changed his political affiliation two years ago , and is now an enrolled Democrat in the Ninth Assembly District , of which Dennis T. Mahon is leader . Asked who had recommended him for the commissionership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he preferred not to mention . Defending the Mayor against any imputation of false motives growing out of his deliberation over filling the vacancy , the broker said he was sure the Mayor 's choice would be guided only by the candidate 's fitness for office .                     