@@697163

txt After exhaust+ ing all their efforts , naval confer+ ence leaders today gave up the at . tempt to make , a five-power naval limitation treaty , . in view of the di ? vergencies between France and rtaly , and at once attacked the prob . tern of the liquidation ' of the nego+ tiations , which have lasted for nearly three months . However , , there will be a five+ power naval treaty ; which will in ? elude a three-power naval limitation treaty . This means that the accom. ? plishments of the London conference will be put into one document . There will be three ' chapters . Further Discussions Provided . The first chapter will contain mat. ters on which all five nations are in agreement ; the second chapter will contain a three-power limitations plan binding on America , England and Japan , while the third will prow . vide for the continuation of discus ? sions among European powers for the purpose of settling the difference between France and Italy , thus per ? mitting them eventually to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take place after the adjournment of the Loo ? don conference . There will be a plenary session of the conference Monday or Tuesdays at which this plan will be put Intel definite shape . Everything will then be turned over to a drafting commit . tee . This will run close on to the sacrosanct Easter holiday , and while official hope was expressed tonight that the conference ? 1:could , be ended by Easter it is perhaps better to re ? gard that as unlikely . It is probable that the treaty will not be ready by . Easter , and if it has to be submitted to Tokio delays will be inevitable . Americans Want to See It Through It is more likely that the treaty can be signed in the last days of the month . Of course , it might be pos. sible for the delegations to leave af. ter the main lines had been decided , ' leaving the signatures to their Lon ? don Ambassadors . Although this plan is favored by some delegations4 it does not meet the approval of the American delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the document . It is possible that there Will be alterations in tonight 's plan for the naval treaty , but basically the changes can not be great except on two points . The first relates to the capital ship holiday . The point is whether this agreement to build no more capital ships until 1936 should apply only fo America , Brit . ain and Japan or should also in : elude Italy and France . This prob . ably will be decided tomorrow . The other issue is whether that treaty , or rather Chapter 2 , shall contain a safeguarding clause pro . tecting the British against what they might regard as too much Mediter. ranean building . Two Ideas Suggested : There are two ideas in play . One is that there should be , as in the Washington naval treaty , a provi. sion giving any party to the treaty , the right to call a conference if its position is considered threatened , ' plus a provision that if that cones . ference can not agree each party , should regain its liberty again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty be regarded as a ' unit and that if the expectations of the agreement to be expressed in Chapter 3 providing for future European negotiations do not materialize , then , Chapter 2 , comprising the , three-. power limitation , shall be open to reconsideration . It is quite evident that a decision on this nice point must be made by the American delegation , since the British are ready : to accept either plan . It is to be noted that in the plan as it stands tonight the proposed se. curity arrangement between . v.iwT Land and France is allowed to lapse for the moment , which , it is held , means that all proposals for a consultative pact in which America should take part may be dropped so far as this conference ' is concerned . Tonight 's ' plans , as has been said , Call for a treaty with three chapters . The first would contain decisions reached in common by the five powers . There would be an agreement for the humanizing of submarine warfare , an accord on the limitation of- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain minor exceptions . Moreover , there would be an agreement on provisions for special and exempt ships and decisions on scrapping , regulations . The limitation of aircraft carriers of less than 10,000 tons would also enter in , as well as a plan for naval limitation by a combination cater gory and global tonnage systems on the basis of certain rights of transfer . Chapter 2 would set forth an agreement among America , England and Japan on the limitation of cruisers , destroyers and submarines , with a provision for maintaining aircraft carrier tonnage at figures set in the Washington naval treaty . It has not yet been decided whether the capital ship holiday accord would go into this chapter as binding only on America , England and Japan , or whether it would go into Chapter 1 as binding on Italy and . France as Well . Chapter 2 would also contain a provision for bringing the capital ship strength of America , England and Japan to the level of 15-15-9 in 1931 , instead of 1936 . This would call . for the scrapping of five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan , although each would retain one battleship each- as a training ship not to be considered as . belonging to combatant forces. , Franco-Italian- Talks Provided . Chapter 3 would contain a declaration of a desire by France and Italy to reach an agreement on their differences and their intention to continue negotiations to that end with the friendly aid of England . These negotiations will be carried on either . through ' diplomatic channels or at Geneva under the aegis of the League ' of Nations . Provision would be made for permitting France and . Italy , once agreement was reached , to adhere to Chapter 2 , which would automatically suppress Chapter 3 . Plans for these chapters may well be altered in the next few days , but basically the subject matter of the treaty will ' not be much changed , barring-an eleventh-hour miracle . It is also planned that the treaty shall carry a prologue , which will probably refer both to the Kellogg pact and the League and covenant as factors in reaching the conclusions of the London Naval Arms Conference and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaffirm their adherence . It is evident that the London conference gives a great degree of satisfaction to the United States , perhaps more than to any other country .. America achieves official confirmation in the treaty of her claim to parity with Great Britain , which America sought in vain at Geneva .. That the United States has made concessions goes without saying , but the result is gratifying . Yet it would be useless to lose sight of the circumstance that if for two months Great Britain has held off on a hard and fast arrangement with America and Japan because of the French naval program she has not lost sight of it and the United States must face the chances of French naval building interfering with the tri-partite arrangement . However , that interests Britain more than America , and , in any event , for the first time the United States will have a consecration of parity . Cuts to Be Made in Fleet . It ' is interesting to review the size of America 's fleet as it will be fixed in the treaty . America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be scrapped , a total of 711000 tons , giving America a future battleship tonnage of 456,000 . America will have 323,500 tons of cruisers , 135,000 tons of aircraft carriers , 150,000 tons of destroyers , 52,700 tons of submarines . This makes a total fleet tonnage of 1,117,200 tons . This indicates that the American fleet will be about the same size as before the conference . On the opening day of the negotiations A. V. Alexander , First Lord of the British Admiralty , said in the House of Commons that the existing size of the ' American Navy was 1,095,000 tons . Whether or not a reduction is to be claimed will depend on whether one takes into consideration ships building and includes ships slated for scrapping . If existing strength in American battleships is put at 526,000 tons , and if in cruisers one counts the four over twenty years old at 25,000 tons and ten of the Omaha class at 71,000 tons , plus half of the eight under construction , one gets 136,000 tons of cruisers . If one takes all American ' destroyers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is 307,000 tons .. America has 88,000 tons of submarines and 90,000 tons of aircraft carriers , counting one not yet begun . This would make 1,147,000 tons , as against the proposed 1,117,000 tons . If cruisers not yet.begun but authorized are counted , it is evident that one can get a greater total . But all in all , American naval experts agree , the treaty will leave America 's total tonnage at about where it was before the conference . The British fleet may show a rCduction of 70,000 tons and the Japanese fleet a cut of some 40,000 tons . This indicates a possible reduction of some 5 or 6 per cent in the total tonnage of the three powers .                     