@@703642

txt There Is much dissatisfaction in Farm Administration quarters with the progress being made by the State Department in - expanding foreign markets for agricultural commodities under the reciprocal trade policy . This appeared yedterday as the real explanation behind the " secret " departure of F. It . Wilcox , vice president of the Federal Surplus Commodities Corp. , for Europe in quest of buyers of surplus American wheat , and . incidentally , for citrus fruit , dried prunes and raisins . Meanwhile , operations of the FSCC in connection with the plan to subsidize exports of up to 100,000.000 bushels of wheat appeared to be headed for a standstill , largely . it was said , because of State Department objection to a substantial increase in the rate of the subsidy at this time . To Try Direct Salesmarmhip Mr. Wilcox 's selling expedition to Europe constitutes a change in the policy which has governed the wheat export subsidy program since its inception late in August . It means that the Farm Administration has decided to go in for direct salesmanship. whereas , up to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been left up to private exporters . However , this does not necessarily foreshadow government entrance into international wheat trade as an actual marketer of grain . Exports may continue to be hand.ed through private hands , with the FSCC turning over to exporters whatever business it can produce through its contacts . The reported objection by the State Department to an increase in the wheat subsidy rate to a point which would enable domestic exporters to compete . aggressively . with other surplus producing countries in the world market was said to be based on the contention that such action might complicate operation of existing trade agreements and place stumbling blocks in the path-of current trade negotiations . Subsidy Policy Handicapped This stand on the part or the State Department apparently has tied the hands of the Farm Administration in so far as effective application of the subsidy at this time is concerned and has eft a direct sales campaign as the only immediate alternative . The success or failure of Milt Wilcox 's efforts to find buyers in the countries he will visitEngland% France . Norway , Sweden , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing upon the future of the wheat export program . The Administration also is sounding out possibilities for sales of wheat and flour in South American countries . In one quarter . it was indicated that a direct effort will be made , to influence foreign business concerns selling goods in the United States to use at least a part of the dollar exchange thus created to take wheat and other surplus farm products . The subsidy would be used to make necessary price adjustments . Conflict With Other Policies This plan , however , might well run into conflict with the State Department 's trade policy , since efforts to influence foreign businesses to - Ise a part of their dollar exchange for purchase of specific commodities might border upon a barter arrangement . It was largely because of the possibility for conflicts between the Farm Administration 's export program and State Department policy that the market and marketing agreement division of the Agriculture Department sought to keep Mr. Wilcox 's visit to Europe under cover . For several days inquiries as to his whereabouts have brought from his office the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation . It was not until after information of Mr. Wilcox 's departure had spread rather generally through the wheat trade that Farm Administrtion officials announced the visit to Europe and its purposes .                     