@@701977

txt The Brooklyn blue ribbon jury which listened for four weeks to testimony in the Drukman conspiracy trial had not yet agreed , at 3:30 A. M. today , on verdicts for the five defendants charged with plotting to obstruct justice in the Samuel Drukman murder case . Shortly before midnight the police cleared hundreds of persons out of the building and an army of scrubwomen took possession of the marble floors and corridors . The ousted crowds milled about in the street where ordinarily the sidewalks are deserted at that hour of the night . Scores of persons coming from the theatres drew up in taxicabs to get news . At that time them had been no word from the jury room since the jurors returned from dinner . No persons were allowed above the ground floor of the building , except the uniformed court officers guarding the vicinity of the jury room . Justice Rogers had given no indication whether he would lock up the jury for the night . Get Case at 2 P. M. The jury had been deliberating , with time out for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice Erskine C. Rogers , presiding at the extraordinary term of the court , charged the jury for an hour and forty-five minutes in the morning . Then the jurors went out to lunch , and at 2 o'clock began their deliberations . Shortly before 5 o'clock they sent two communications to the judge , one asking for testimony dealing with certain tapped-wire conversations and for the testimony of witnesses ' whose stories , partly contradicting each other , dealt with the State 's charge that the defendant , William W. Kleinman , had been seen in an automo- bile at Coney Island with a member of the Luckman family , whose relatives were implicated in the murder . Asked for Corbett Reports The other communication asked for the confidential police reports of Detective Charles S. Corbett , the State 's chief witness , and Detective Giuseppe F. L. Dardis , another defendant , who was Corbett 's partner when both were working on the murder inquiry . Dardis contends that when the murderers were first exonerated he reported that ? hey were guilty beyond any doubt . The State charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further the investigation . The second communication also asked for Corbett 's testimony in the departmental examinations dealing with his report that a $100 , - 000 bribe offer had been made in the Drukman case . The defense had charged that this testimony contradicted much of the story he told in the conspiracy trial . The jurors also asked , in this communication , for exhibits dealing with Detective Dardis 's bank accounts . After long consultation between judge and attorneys , with the ' jury still locked in the jury room on an upper floor of the court building , the testimony and exhibits were sent in , with the exception Of ' the transcript of several police department examinations of Corbett , which were not in evidence . ? Besides Kleinman and Dardis , the defendants on trial are Henry G. Singer , former Assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn ; Jacob Silverman , a bakery products dealer ; James J. Kleinman , father of Assistant District Attorney Kleinman . They are named defendants on an indictment charging three other persons as defendants and ten other persons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Drukman killers . Of the three defendants not on trial , one , Carmine Anzalone , has pleaded guilty and turned State 's evidence . Ilk is awaiting sentence . Two others , Max Silverman , a labor adjuster , and Ike Luckman , brother of one of the convicted Drukman killers , are fugitives . The Drukman murderers were Meyer and Harry Luckman and Fred J. Hull . They were exonerated by the April ( 1935 ) grand jury of a charge of killing Drukman , an employe in the Luckman trucking business , on March 3 , 1935 . Governor Lehman reopened the case months later when charges of bribery were noised about , and the three men were finally convicted I of second degree murder and sent Ito prison for long terms . Special details of police were summoned to clear the spacious rotunda of the court building and the steps and sidewalks in front of it . Hundreds of persons crowded around awaiting news of the verdict . They were , for the most part , lawyers and politicians whose chief interest lay in the fate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him may determine to a very considerable extent the political future of District Attorney William F. X. Geoghan , really the central figure , from the political viewpoint , of the Drukman cause c ? l ? bre . The Drukman special grand jury has preferred charges of negligence , laxity and incompetence against Mr. Geoghan . These are awaiting the action of the.Drukman conspiracy jury and the final report of the-Drukman special grand jury . Mr. Geoghan is not accused specifically of corruption in the Drukman case , but the conviction of a member of his staff would , it is believed , place on his administration a stigma that , taken in conjunction with the other charges , lead to drastic ac , tion . Justice Rogers in his charge to the jury characterized the Drukman case as " a very unusual case " and one that " is of great importance to the State . " He said that the indictment against - the defendants charged a crime that constitutes an " attack on the jury system " and one that " should be nipped in the bud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the justice spoke in a slow , conversational tone , peering at the jury through glasses . - His manner is gently deliberate and dignified , but his words are always forceful . " It may be , " he said , " that in an isolated case of a person approaching a juror that the very foundation of the government would not be shaken , but in these days , when we hear so much about gangsters working in cooperation to violate the law , you may realize thatgangs in this great center and in great cities are a real menace to the people . Discounts Family as Factor " It is true that if a person commits a crime very often a substantial part of the punishment falls on the wife and the children , but a man may not go unpunished because'he has a family which has to bear some of the penalty for the crime . If the charges are proven satisfactorily , then it is an attack upon the jury system . If the people-gain an idea that justice and fairness could not be had in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and properties theniselves . Interference withjuries should be nipped in the bud , it should not be allowed to gain a foothold . " Turning directly to the nrukman case ; the judge continued : " Samuel ' Drukman ' was brutally murdered . The murderers were caught literally red-handed by the police , who arrived before the culprits had an opportunity to wash away the blood on their hands . Surprisingly , the grand jury had this and other evidence before them . They failed to indict and the murderers were free in the streets of Brooklyn arid the telltale bloody garments and checks that helped to spell out the motive were returned to the culprits . The murder was to become an unsolved mystery . " If it had not been for Detective Corbett there would have been no trial for murder , and for that he was charged with being crazy and has been in the limelight since . Following ' the political campaign , an indictment was found . It had developed into ' a public scandal , and finally the murderers were tried and convicted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulwark of the State 's case , the judge told the jury that they must determine for themselves as to whether he is sane or mentally incompetent , as charged by the defense . " You have listened to Corbett on the witness stand for two days as he was cross-examined by skillful attorneys , " the judge said . " It is for you to decide if he appeared to have a normal or abnormal mental condition . It would be a sad commentary on justice if it were a fact that Corbett was normal of mind for many years and up until this case broke , and then , after his corqplaint , to the Police Commissioner was subjected to unreasonable treatment by his superior officers . ? " Meyer and . Harry Luckman and Fred Hull were indicted and convicted of murder by Mr. Todd after Governor Lehman superseded District Attorney William F. X. Geoghan upon the popular demand of the citizens of . Brooklyn and the press . " The judge told how he , a resident of Hudson Falls , N. Y. , was designated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court to preside in the inquiry . He continued : ? Plotters Work in Dark , He Says " In a conspiracy the members do not put their plans in writing . They use the side roads and the back alleys . They work in the dart and in whispers . Often they do not even speak out loud enough to I themselves - about what they are doing . " Usually a conspiracy has ah architect ; a guiding hand who helps to build up the structure toward the end for which it was formed . In this . instance , the prosecution . claims - there were two architects , Ike Luckman and Joseph A. Solovel . Ike Luckman and Max Silverman are named as defendants but are not on trial because they disappeared last December . Solovei , attorney for the Luckmans and Hull . was named in the indictment as a co-conspirator but was not made a defendant because he gained immunity by testifying before the special grand jury . " Referring to the character testimony and war records put into evidence in behalf of the various defendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry " considerable weight , " but the fact that a defendant wore a uniform and fought for his country can not excuse him from the penalty of any crimes he may have committed . Cites Counsel 's Remark The judge referred to remarks made by defense counsel in an opening address when Corbett was described as " crazy as a bedbug . " . " That is their opinion , and it is not binding upon you ; nor is my opinion binding upon you unless you , and you alone , feel that either opinion is justified by the evidence . It is not right that a man should be put on the spot because he does his'duty and does it courageously . " He also instructed the jury that they were to determine the truth or falsity of the testimony of Charles Nagel and Max Dworkin , witnesses who changed their stories while on the stand . Nagel 's testimony tended to show that James J. Kleinman bad " spoken " to him about " a case that was coming up soon , " while Nagel was serving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close of his charge , defense attorneys jumped to their feet with the usual long lists of " requests to charge " or " exceptions to the charge . " The judge heard these , but finally showed his impatience after I. Gainsburg , counsel for Singer , read off more than 115 of them . Some be acknowledged and others he refused .                     