@@701433

txt The improved status of the fertilizer companies , reflected in-the best earnings statements made since the depression , has been signalized by an increase in the quarterly dividend of - American Agricultural Chemical to 75 cents from 50 cents . This presumably establishes the stock on a $3 - annual basis , or less than half the $6.37 profit per share reported for the June 30 fiscal year just cloned . The entire fertilizer industry is viewing next year with more confidence than prevailed at the time the NRA was declared invalid when there was general uneasiness about next year 's price structure . Now it is felt that the organization of local trade associations being set up within the industry will probably be able to handle the situation adequately . Price Outlook More Favorable There is unlikely to be any price cutting started by the five big companies who are all in favor of a stable policy . Trouble is usually started by the smaller mixers and these , it is hoped , can be kept in line . At least it should be possible to localize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the larger companies that it will be better policy to withdraw temporarily from highly competitive districts than to upset their whole price structure in a struggle for a comparatively small amount of tonnage . In any event volume of business is the main thing and it is primarily the gain in volume in the last two years that has been responsible fer good earnings . While there will be no NRA next year the farmer will probably still have the same enhanced buying power that he has enjoyed for the last year if continued government efforts on his behalf are any indication . This should make for continued good volume of fertilizer next year although following the large increase in the past two years another sharp gain in tonnage above present levels can hardly be looked for . Business Diversified The American Agricultural Chemical Co. is in a particularly strong position in the industry since nearly a third of its profits comes from chemical activities outside its fertilizer business and strong efforts are being made to extend these divisions of the business . Roughly $2 a share last year came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another leading company in the fertilizer industry , also derives considerable income frorr non-fertilizer activities . Of the $1,314,085 income reported for last year $508,625 was dividends received from subsidiary companies . Of this amount $330,000 was paid by an affiliated company as a special or non-recurring dividend . A foot note in the balance sheet states that the company 's proportion of net earnings of affiliated companies for the fiscal year was $211,315 . Details regarding this special dividend were not specifically explained in the balance sheet . It apparently came from Tobacco By-Products &; Chemical Co. which make nicotine insecticides . The dividend was immediately reinvested in the capital stock of this company so it seems to be more of a bookkeeping transaction than an actual increase in V-C 's liquid assets .                     