@@698408

txt Negotiations for peace in India broke down today and the arrest of Mahatma Gandhi was momentarily expected . The Viceroy , the Earl of Willingdon , rejected the Mahatma 's terms for settlement and informed the Nationalist leader that he and the AllIndia National Congress would be held responsible for any action they might take . The government would be ready , the Viceroy said in a telegram to Mr. Gandhi , to meet any activity on the part of the Nationalists . The Mahatma smiled as he read the message . He expected , he remarked , to be arrested under a law of 1818 which empowered the government to arrest or deport any agitator without trial . " The nation must respond to the government 's challenge , " Mr. Gandhi said . " It is to be hoped , however , that while people of all classes and creeds will courageously and in all humility go through the fiery ordeal , considering no price too dear and no sufferings too great , they will observe the strictest non-violence , in thought , word and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegram addressed to Mr. Gandhi by Lord Willingdon 's private secretary at New Delhi read : " His Excellency desires me to acknowledge receipt of your telegram of Jan. 2 , which has been considered by him and his government . " They much regret to observe that . under your advice , the working committee of the Congress has passed resolutions which involve a general revival of civil disobedience unless certain conditions are satisfied . which are stated in your telegram and resolutions . " They regard this attitude as more deplorable in view of the declared intention of his Majesty 's government and the government of India to expedite the policy of constitutional reform contained in the Prime Minister 's statement . " No government consistent with the discharge of their responsibilities can be subject to the conditions sought to be imposed under the menace of unlawful action by any political organization , nor can the government of India accept the position implied in your telegram that their policy should be dependent on the judgment of yourself as to the necessity of measures which the government have taken after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all other possible remedies had been exhausted . " His Excellency and his government can hardly believe that you or the working committee contemplate that his Excellency can invite you with the hope of any advantage to an interview held under the threat of resumption of civil disobedience . " They must hold you and the Congress responsible for all consequences that may ensue from the action which the Congress have announced their intention of taking and to meet which the government will take all necessary measures . " Gandhi Sends Us a Message . After receiving the message , the Mahatma sat in his patriarchal tent on the roof of an Indian tenement house , awaiting arrest . It was 2 o'clock this morning , and all was still as he issued a " farewell message " for the United States . " On the eve of embarking on what promises to be a deadly struggle . " he said , " I shall expect my numerous American friends to watch its career and use the influence of a great nation for the sake of oppressed humanity . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value and importance . I am convinced that , if my countrymen and women retain up to the last the spirit of non-violence , they will have inaugurated a new era upon the earth . " Mr. Gandhi 's disciples wept as he spoke . He , on the other hand , remained serene and self-possessed as be said he would urge the people " not to be angry with the adminIstration , as it is not easy for the // are being reinforced at all strategic I points . In districts like Bengal , where terrorism has shown its head , white men , including Americans , now are going about armed . Indian women will play a large part in the independence movement . During Mr. Gandhi 's absence at London they increased their ranks considerably . While their husbands are in person they plan to carry on the from generation to generation . " agitation . for freedom . All women 's " Our quarrel , " he said , " is not organizations today were calling for with the man , but with the meas- volunteers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nationalist party issued a manifesto addressed qwq " I would remind the nation of the pledge I gave the Prime Minister toward the end of the Round-Table ; Conference that there should be no malice in the struggle if it fell to our lot to resume the fight and that we would do nothing unworthy . I shall trust every Indian to redeem that pledge . " As he spoke , one of his lieutenants entered the tent and announced that the Police Commissioner was on his way to arrest the Mahatma . " Let him come , " said Mr. Gandhi . " He is perfectly welcome . I have been waiting for him . " Then he asked to be left alone to snatch a little sleep while he still was outside of prison walls . Extremist Leader Arrested . Before word of the Viceroy 's decision was received here , Subhas Chandra Bose , former Mayor of Calcutta and a member of the extremist Nationalist faction , was arrested for openly declaring that he would start a civil disobedience campaign in Bengal Province as soon as he arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ train and was taken to a destination not revealed by the authorities . Just before he went to bed in his tent last night , Mr. Gandhi received a delegation from the powerful Bombay Cotton Merchants ' Association . His callers assured him the association would not export a single bale of cotton from India if civil disobedience were renewed . The Indian Gold Merchants ' Association also gave a pledge to the Mahatma that they would . not export gold from India until the present struggle with the government had been settled . Mr. Bose 's arrest occurred after he had joined with two other extemists , V. J. Patel , former president of the Indian Legislative Assembly , and Jamnadas Mehta , president of the Indian Trade Unions , in a statement urging uncompromising battle for complete independence . " We are opposed to Mr. Gandhi lowering the flag of complete independence , and we record our profound disagreement with his offer to cooperate with the government on Gel fain terms , " the Nationalists ' leaders said in their joint . statement . Reject All Compromises . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or that ordinance , nor for the right to discuss certain propositions arising out of the roundtable conference . but for outright independence for India . " The country does not want a repetition of the Delhi pact , which was abortive from the beginning but is prepared to make ma:imum sacrifices for undiluted liberty . " Heroic last minute efforts to avert strife were made today by Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru , who , as peacemaker , saved the negotiations between Mi . Gandhi and Ldrd Irwin , former Viceroy , from collapse last year and who poured oil on the troubled waters of the recent roundtable conference in London . Others in he peace-seeking group were Sir Stanley Reed , former editor of The Times of India , and E. C. Bernthal. a British member of the round-table conference . Mr. Gandhi has had no sleep for forty-eight hours and has prayed fervently in his tent . Both sides , in the meantime . were mobilizing quickly for the struggle . The authorities have long lists of Indian leaders in every district of the country who will be arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be no trials . Those arrested will be interned after being charged with violating special ordinances which will be promulgated immediately after . the government decides to suppress the Nationalists . The ordinances will make it a penal offense for any one to engage in the " no tax " campaign , the civil disobedience movement or the boycott of British goods . Strict Measures Planned .. The present British regime plans to deal much more strictly with the situation than Lord Irwin 's government did . The police are being drilled in the use of lathis ( staves ) and military forces and volunteer reserves                     