@@704072

txt Barriers to adjournment which a week ago seemed almost insurmountable were hurdled or knocked down with such rapidity during last week that predictions of an end to the first session of the Seventy-sixth Congress by July 15 or soon thereafter were revived today . The feeling prevailed , after the hot battles that produced night sessions on Wednesday , Thursday and Friday , that most of the fight had gone out of the legislators . Accordingly , it was expected that the rest of the session would be somewnat anticlimax , and that adjournment would come in about a fortnight in comparative peace , in contrast to the tumultuous closing sessions which have marked other Congresses . One reason for the expectation of early adjournment was the belief in some quarters that opposition forces had gained their objective to a degree even they themselves had hardly expected and accordingly would be content to rest on their laurels unless the Administration forced new contests . In the light of the approaching Presidential campaign it was reported that the Republicans had manufactured enough ammunition for their cause last week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was true of the anti-Administration Democrats . Bankhead Off for Vacation Unless President Roosevelt whips up the leadership to press for reversal of actions displeasing to the Administration , or injects new issues that would stir up controversy , the probabilities are that the remaining weeks of the session will see little recurrence of the hot debate and desperate manoeuvring that featured the past week . An indication that the leadership did not expect crises within the next few days at least was seen in the departure for a vacation in Canada of Speaker Bankhead , with the remark that he was " just a lit-. tle bit tired . " Undoubtedly others on Capitol Hill share his weariness . The legislators will have time to do some resting over the July Fourth holiday , since neither house will be in session until Wednesday . On Wednesday the Senate , by agreement , will vote on the monetary bill , involving continuation of the $2,000,000,000 stabilization fund , the power of the President further to devalue the dollar , and the pegging of the price of newly mined domestic silver at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still a wide difference of opinion as to whether the filibuster which kept the Senate in session until early Saturday morning and prevented enactment of the Monetary Bill before the expiration of the devaluation powers and the authority for the stabilization fund had accomplished the legal death of these measures , which the administration considers vital cogs in the gears of the fiscal program , or whether passage of the bill by the Senate next Wednesday would restore their legal status . Senator Austin , the acting minority leader , maintained when he agreed with Senator Barkley , the majority leader , to a vote on Wednesday that the powers to devalue the dollar and operate the stabilization fund died at midnight Friday night . Only affirmative legislation , he asserted , could restore them . No doubt President Roosevelt and Secretary Morgenthau will discuss this phase of the situation during the holiday at Hyde Park . Consultations with parliamentarians and legal experts probably will be held . Some indication of the attitude of the Administration in this knotty parliamentary situation may be forthcoming from official sources before Congress reconvenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Senate floor on Wednesday . In view of Senator Austin 's statement , it was considered likely that Republican opposition to passage of the bill would be perfunctory . Should it be passed and the Administration assert that its devaluation and stabilization powers remained intact , the Republican strategy might then take the form of a barrage on the legality of the Administration 's position designed to im- press the voters in the next election . Whether action in the courts would ensue can not now be predicted . Neutrality Course Uncertain Pressure is expected to be brought to bear upon the Senate to take action on the Neutrality Bill passed by the House Friday night and to remove the partial arms embargo which was written into the bill over Administration objections . Secretary Hull made it clear in a statement yesterday that the Administration still considers the embargo provision a menace to the peaceful conduct of international relations in troubled times and that his sixpoint neutrality program outlined last May in letters to the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations and the House Foreign Affairs Committees is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . Should the Administration insist upon brining up the Neutrality Bill for passage in the Senate , however , forecasts of early adjournment might have to be modified . The determination of the isolationists in the Senate to prevent enactment of any neutrality legislation which invests any appreciable degree of discretionary authority in the President has not lessened . A filibuster better organized and probably longer than that which marked the course of the Monetary Bill in the Senate last week probably would be staged in an effort to block neutrality legislation that met with their objections . On the Senate or House calendars , and in committees there are several proposals upon which their sponsors had hoped for action at this session . Some of them may be passed , but the indications are that many of them will be allowed to go over . It is considered likely that some action will be taken before adjournment on the amendments to the Social Security 9ct which have passed the House and have been approved in part by the Senate Finance Committee . These amendments represent Congress 's answer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage is considered politically important by both parties . Railroad Bill May Be Passed There are prospects also that the Wheeler bill for reorganization of the railroads may be enacted , although if any strong opposition should develop it is doubted that the leadership would seek to force it through . Indications are that the WagnerRogers bill to admit 20,000 German refugee children may be passed also , although Senator Wagner announced in a statement issued today that the provision whereby all children admitted during the next two years would be charged against the German quota for those years was unacceptable to him . He asserted that the " proposed change would in effect convert the measure from a humane proposal to help children who are in acute distress to a proposal with need ? lessly cruel consequences for adult in Germany who are in need of succor and are fortunate to obtair visas under the present drastic quota restrictions . " He said he would urge the Senate Immigration Committee to reconsider its approval of the proposed change , which he said was given at a time when a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Reynolds , an opponent of any measure that lowers restrictions in immigration , expressed ap ? proval in a statement today of the bill favorably reported by the Immigration Committee which would ban all immigration for five years . He pointed out that only the German refugee children would be admitted if that bill was passed , and then only if the Wagner-Rogers resolution should pass . He predicted defeat for the Wagner-Rogers measure . Unless something totally unexpected happened , no attempt to amend the National Labor Relations Act is likely at this session . Changes in the Wages and Hours Law also are hardly likely to see action at this session . The same fate probably awaits the bill to tax government securities , which is still in the House Ways and Means Committee .                     