@@697512

txt Enough Republican Senators stayed on in Washington to make a Merry Christmas of it by fighting each other . The row began when - Mr . LUCAS , Executive Director of the Republican National Committee , lighted the candles on the tree but told Senator NORRIS and the other Progressives that they were not to have any presents hereafter . Indeed , they were to be shut out in a cold world and left hopelessly looking for offices like so many " Christin ' as waits , " singing " GoD rest you , Merry gentlemen . " But Senator CUT'TING and others showed that if they were to be put outside , they would at least throw bricks through the window at the head of Mr. LUCAS . It is sad . to see such bitter divisions among brethren at the happy Christmastide . The President must feel like sending out a hurry call for the Cheeryble Brothers . They might succeed in stopping the flow of such epithets as " political thuggery " and other substitutes for the customary best wishes of the season . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But such effects defective come by cause . What is the explanation of this sudden burst of fury , in the name of thetNational Committee , against nominal Republican Senators who repudiate their own party and their own President ? Perhaps there is a deep political plot behind it . It may be that the astute Mr. LUCAS designedly went to work to infuriate the Progressive Republicans , so that they would refuse to vote for the regular organization , when it comes time to elect officers and appoint committees in the new Senate , and , by joining with the Democrats , compel them to take the responsibility . From it the Democrats well might shrink , for the theory is that if they were charged with it they would promptly proceed to make a mess of everything , including the outlook for their party . Then the Republicans would be ready sweetly to come back into their own . If this is the Lucas plan , under the guise of ostracizing the rebellious Republican Senators , it is too clever by half . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party of insubordinate elements , it is based upon a misleading analogy . Mr. LUCAS seems to have in his head a military conception . It is better to have a small , well-disciplined army , every officer and man in which can be trusted , than to lead into the field a larger but miscellaneous horde , many of whom are sure to disobey orders or actually to desert when the battle is joined . But a political army can not be a tight little trusted band of this Ott The reason is that in electoral campaigns it is necessary to muster , not soldiers , but voters . And it would be a queer time for the Republican party , just after an election in which it had been shown to be woefully short of votes , to take steps still further to reduce the number of its supporters . Furthermore , if the intention is to press the plan of proscription in organizing the new Senate , there will be valuable chairmanships to be taken away from Progressive Republicans , and placed in the hands of Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Judiciary Committee , or Senator BoaAH deposed from the chairmanship of the Foreign Relations Committee . That would inflict a wound upon the Republican party , not perhaps so broad as a barn door , but it would do . It is stated at the White House ' that President HOOVER will take no part in these internal dissensions of his party . But they ' are another instance of the bad luck which has pursued him in the Republican management . Whether he speaks or remains silent , the explosion will be used against him . Doubtless ways will be found to call a truce in this internecine warfare of Republicans . So long as it goes on , they show themselves out of harmony not only with the seasonable spirit of goodwill but with the rules of political common sense at any time . of the year .                     