@@702639

txt In a unanimous decision the Court of Appeals upheld today the constitutionality of a law described by Special Prosecutor Thomas E. Dewey in New York City as one of his most effective weapons against racketeering . Acting on an appeal by two de-1 fendants convicted in the recent restaurant racket trials in New ' York , the court sustained the statute of 1936 under which fortynine indictments were joined in one trial , and convictions were obtained against seven men on charges of conspiracy , extortion and attempted extortion . Mr. Dewey , at the time of the convictions , had pointed out that under this procedure " for the first time a complete industrial racket has been presented to a jury- and the verdict established that racketeering can be crushed . " He was reported as having stated in New York tonight that the Appeals Court decision was Olt " farreaching importance in the enforcement of criminal law and the protection of society against organized crime . " Besides applying to the racket trials , the ruling also bears on the conviction of Charles ( Lucky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others in a vice conspiracy , and on a succession of trials in various counties of the State . Link With Schultz Alleged District Attorney Dodge of New York County is one of the prosecutors who have made use of the statute . He was described tonight as finding the decision " very interesting . " The two men who had appealed were Irving Epstein , former business agent of Local 302 , Cafeteria Workers Union , sentenced to ten to fifteen years in Sing Sing , and John J. Williams of the same local , sentenced to seven and a half to fifteen years . Both were found guilty in what the prosecution pictured as a widespread alliance between the underworld and union officials to exact tribute from restaurants and cafeterias of the city by means of stench bombs , strikes and similar intimidation . One conspiracy count alleged a link between the restaurant racket and Arthur ( Dutch Schultz ) Flegenheimer , gang leader slain in Newark . Counsel for Epstein and Williams , who were quoted as having said on admission to Sing Sing that the amount involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the appeal that various rights of the defendants had been abridged by the joining of the indictments . The appellants argued that the multiplication of distinct charges tended to confound the defense and deprived it also of challenges to veniremen possible under a series of separate indictments . The question whether the law was ex post facto was also brought forward . Points to Like Laws Elsewhere Judge Edward R. Finch wrote the decision in which the Court of Appeals held against these contentions of the appellants . He pointed out that all the crimes charged to the defendants were committed before the enactment in April , 1936 , of the statute in question , and reviewed the law 's provisions permitting the joinder of indictments for crimes of a similar nature or connected by a common scheme or plan . Before the enactment of this statute an indictment could charge only one crime , subject to the provision , however , that allowed the enumeration of various counts in this indictment . Of the new law , Judge Finch wrote : " There is nothing unique about a statute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single trial for a number of crimes of a similar nature or connected together as part of a common law . " Laws substantially the same as those involved herein have been for many years a part of the Federal statutes and are to be found on the statute books of many of the States . Such procedure was not unknown to common law . " Question of Ex Post Facto Turning to the contention that the new law , as it applied to the restaurant racket defendants , was ex post facto , Judge Finch quoted the ruling in the well-known case of Calder v. Bull as follows : " ' I will state what laws I consider ex post facto within the words and the intent of the prohibition . First , every law that makes an action done before the passing of the law , and which was innocent when done , criminal , and punishes such action . Second , every law that aggravates a crime , or makes it greater than it was , when committed . Third , every law that changes the punishment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crime , when committed . Fourth , every law that alters the legal rules of evidence and requires less , or different testimony , than the law required at the time of the commission of the offense , in order to convict the offender . ' " Judge Finch continued : " Trial procedure may be changed by the Legislature and the new procedure may be made applicable to offenses previously committed without violation of the Constitution so long as changes effected do not come within any of the four classes outlined above . ( Beazell v. Ohio , 269 U. S. 167 , 170 ; People v. Qualey , 210 N. Y. 202 , 210 . ) " The changes involved in the case at bar were merely procedural . They do not make criminal any acts which previously were innocent , nor do they aggravate a crime and make it greater than it was when committed . " Nor do ' they inflict a greater punishment ; nor do they provide for conviction on less or different testimony or create presumption against the defendant . " Upholds Change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or ex post facto about these laws , " the court went to find likewise as to a change in Section 2190 of the Penal Law . This amendment added to the provision that separate and cumulative sentences must be imposed for separate offenses , a provision that where the defendant was convicted of a number of crimes on one indictment the court might provide that the sentences might run concurrently . Of this amendment the decision said : " Such a change can in no way be detrimental to the relators or any other defendant . It enables the court to impose a lesser sentence than was permissible under the law prior to its amendment . It does not permit the imposition of a greater sentence for any crime . " A statute which changes the punishment which may be imposed for a crime theretofore committed is ex post . facto only if it prescribes or permits the imposition of a greater sentence . " The contention that the joinder statute violates Article I , Section 6 , of the New York Constitution is equally without merit . The constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission of an infamous crime except on presentment and indictment by a grand jury . The relators have been indicted by a grand jury under a statute which does not attempt to deprive them of that right . " Bernard Kovalsky of the firm of Godstein &; Goldstein , who were attorneys in the case decided , was reported as saying in New York that as a result of the ruling the case would probably be carried to the Supreme Court .                     