@@703595

txt As part of the effort to speed up Britain 's fighting machine , War Secretary Leslie Hore-Belisha announced tonight a complete reorganization of the Territorial army of 200,000 men . This force corresponds to the National Guard of the United States and would become Britain 's first line of defense on the home front in time of war . The reorganization will give the Territorials four new divisions , which in time will be provided with all the mechanized equipment needed in modern warfare . A scheme of this sort had been expected by the middle or end of next year , but under pressure of the crisis and its consequences Mr. Hore-Belisha decided to announce it tonight at a dinner at the Mansion House , official home of the Lord Mayor of London . Although there will be no net increase in the personnel of the Territorial army , the new changes will mean that Britain will have a. civilian army patterned in almost every respect upon her highly mechanized professional army . It will have light and heavy machine-gun battalions , anti-tank . regiments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be three motorcycle battalions , to be used in the new motorized divisions . Lack of Weapons a Snag A great snag in Mr. More-Belisha 'S plans , however , is a lack of weapons with Which to equip this impressive-looking civilian army . Even the regular army still lacks machine-guns , anti-tank devices and anti-aircraft equipment . Until the army 's needs are satisfied the Territorial army will be little more than a skeleton force for making use of civilians as future fighting men . Mr. More-Belisha himself admitted a shortage of equipment when he referred in his speech tonight to the speedy calling up of 50,000 Territorial officers and men at the height of the crisis a fortnight ago . " The summons reached officers and men at their homes , in their offices , their factories , their clubs , their places of amusement or while they were on holiday , " said the War Minister , " and without hesitation they presented themselves at their appointed posts . " Within a few hours they were all in readiness for action and they endured over many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon to bear in fields or billets . Thus , literally by the stroke of a pen , the men were transformed from civilians into soldiers and airmen . " To all who contributed to this prompt and portentousiachievementl the nation owes its thanks . " The test has yielded us valuable experiences , disclosing to us both the resources of our strength and evidences of our weakness ; the former we can fortify , the latter we are - resolute to repair . " When men who are not by profession military are assembled with such suddenness , when arrangements previously untried are rapidly put into effect , it is to be anticipated that defects in the machinery will be revealed . " Much to Be Done " " In the matter of personnel , however , few of these were disclosed ; In the matter of equipment , as the country knows , much remains to be done . It must be realized that a program of ambitious proportions is of its nature progressive , not instantaneous , in fulfillment . The prograin proceeds . " A year ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units were 23,000 strong . " Today , " he said , " they are double that number ; by next year they should be almost doubled again . " But he did not mention the serious shortage of anti-aircraft guns that would have left London appallingly undefended by powerful modern weapons if German bombing planes had crossed the North Sea a fortnight ago . The smoothness and efficiency of the recent naval mobilization were also praised at the Admiralty today , although nothing was said about equipment on hand for de- ' fending dockyards and naval stations against air attacks . By Saturday , Oct. 1 , when the crisis ended , about 29,000 of all 57,500 naval reservists had been called up . The only difficulty was said to have been overcrowding at naval depots , " due partially to the speed and keenness with which the reservists reported for service . " - Reorganization and expansion of the territorials strengthens the probability that the British Government will introduce some form of compulsion into its defense effort 1 before very long . Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain recently repeated his promise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the life of . the present government . This , however , would not prevent him from announcing a nation-wide registration of man power as a prelude to compulsory training later . It is becoming more and more likely that such an announcement will be made soon after Parliament reassembles Nov. 1 .                     