@@697524

txt Magistrate Henry M. R. Goodman , whose bank accounts and judicial record have been under scrutiny for many weeks , will be the subject of a public hearing before Referee Samuel Seabury in the Appellate Division inquiry in the near future , Harland B. Tibbetts , first assistant to Isidor J. Kresel , special counsel , announced yesterday . The reversal of the vagrancy conviction of Mrs. Mary Crow , a Brooklyn nurse arrested by members of the vice squad , by the Court of Special Sessions aroused lew charges that a condition similar to the one revealed in Manhattan and the Bronx existed in Brooklyn , and speculation as to whether Governor Roosevelt would extend the inquiry into all five boroughs was renewed . It was learned that the Governor has kept in close touch with developments in the inquiry and That he very recently conferred with Mr. Seabury . Governor Roosevelt was first requested by civic leaders to extend the inquiry while in Warm Springs , Ga. , and at that time deferred any statement on the subject until his return to New York . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Seabury , asked yesterday if he had had any official indication that the inquiry would be extended , said that he preferred not to discuss the matter at the present time . Weston Studies " Fixed " Cases . The reappearance of John C. Weston , who previously testified that he had received sums of money from certain lawyers to " lay down " on the prosecution of vice cases in women 's court , where he served as prosecutor , at a public hearing in the near future was indicated yesterday when it was discovered that for several days past he has been intensively examining court records . Weston , on his next appearance at a public hearing , is expected to involve more lawyers in " fixing " charges . The statement of Mr. Tibbetts yesterday on Magistrate Goodman was : " We have been examining several witnesses today with reference to certain of Judge Goodman 's cases which we may make the subject of investigation at a public hearing in the near future . " Mr. Tibbetts limited himself to that statement and would not disclose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dates back several years , in which seven men arrested on charges of operating a policy slip gambling racket were arraigned before the magistrate and discharged , is known to have been under investigation . These men were subsequently indicted and on their appearance in General Sessions Court six entered pleas of guilty and received , suspended sentences . The seventh was found not guilty . Also it is known that the bank accounts of the magistrate , together with those of his father-in-law and other members of his family , have been subpoenaed and scrutinized . What these revealed , if anything , Mr. Tibbetts would not say . Early Hearing Expected . Mr. Tibbetts , who was in charge yesterday in the absence of Mr. Kresel , who was at home ill with a severe cold , said that the open hearing on Magistrate Goodman might not be the next one called . Although a definite statement on the time of the next hearing was not made , it was indicated that it might be called sometime before the first of the year . Magistrate Goodman Is the third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a scheduled cpen hearing . The first was Magistrate Francis X. , who resigned on the morning he was to have been called , and who was characterized in a nrief public statement by Referee Seabury as " unfit . " The second was Magistrate Louis B. Brodsky . Taking the stand on two occasions , he was shown to have been engaged in extensive stock dealings , which will be made the subject of n report to be made to the Appellate Division by Referee Seabury . Meanwhile , however , as a result of the revelations of a ring of police , bondsmen , lawyers and others preying upon women arrested in vice charges and many of them convicted in women 's court on the testimony of police , four magistrates have been transferred from that assignment . They are Magistrates Jesse Silberman , Jean Norris , H. Stanley Renaud and Earl A. Smith . Magistrate Abraham Rodenbluth , who was to have been the subject of the first public hearing , became ill and has since been recuperating in Miami , Fla . Conviction . Set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 784 Marcy Avenue , Brooklyn , was arrested last June . Although four members of the vice squad participated in the arrest , only one , Patrolman John McCormick , testified against her when she was arraigned before , Magistrate Jacob Eilperin in Adams Street court , where she was convicted of vagrancy . The Society for the Prevention of Unjust Convictions , of which Mrs. Catherine Parker Clivette is president and Michael Gold , an attorney , is counsel , became interested in the case when Mrs. Crow declared that she had been " framed . " When she was brought up for sentence on Aug. 26 , Magistrate George M. Curtis suspended sentence . The society appealed the case to Special sessions , where it was argued on Dec. 9 . The decision of Judges Freschi , Featherston and Mclnerny said : " We find no errors in the admission or rejection of testimony by the court , and the record on appeal simply presents the question as to whether the officers or the defendant is telling the truth . " The record shows that four offitatwere engaged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . The defendant enjoys a good reputation and has never been convicted of any offense . We feel that in the interest of justice a new trial should be had and all the witnesses avilable to the people be called to the stand . The trial court and this court would be in a better position to do substantial justice if all the witnesses available are summoned and examined . " To Ask Mulrooney to Act . After the decision had been handed down , Mrs. Clivette announced that she would call on Police Commissioner Mulrooney on Monday to " find out why nothing had been done in the case of Mrs. Minnie Miller , who preferred charges of perjury against Thomas J. Foster and George I. Clynes of the vice squad . " Mrs. Miller of 151 Street , Brooklyn , was arrested on the same day as Mrs. Crow but dismissed at her hearing , following which she filed charges with the Police Commissioner that she had been " framed . " Mrs. Clivette 's call on the Police Commissioner will be coincident with the reappearance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a date for a new trial will be set . Still another individual echo of the vice revelations came yesterday with the dismissal of charges against Sylvia Smith , arrested Oct. 17 , 1929 , by Plain-Clothes Patrolman Daniel Sullivan , now under indictment for perjury in another case of the same type , because Sullivan could not identify her as the woman he ? had arrested . On her first appearance in women 's court bail for Miss Smith was set at $1,000 by Magistrate Norris , but later reduced to $200 . This was declared forfeited by Magistrate George W. Simpson on Oct. 22 , when she failed to appear . More ihan a year later , on Nov. 29 of this year , she surrendered on the charge ,                     