@@699995

txt A dispatch from The Wall Street Journal 's Washington bureau reports the formations of an organization that has some earmarks of a Republican ; ' brain trust " to check up on what the Democratic " brain trust " thus been doing . Two leadg advisors of the Hoover Administration , working - under the auspices *of the nonpolitical Brookings Institution of ' Washington and financed by Rockefeller Foundation money have already set about what purports to be a. scientific c smin Lion of this new period of laissez Roosevelt . as Edward Analv terms it Economists and politicians alike will be interested in the results and publicity these new " laboratory assistants " are able to obtain . The economists , naturally , will be more concerned with the results and the politicians with the pubnatty . ' From the point of view of the country as a whole it appears reasonable to suppose this new " brain trust " will prove a healthy rather than an unhealthy development . The national government is now engaged in dPnlinr with economic problems on a scale never before undertaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means an exact science as yet and the inability of leading authorities in the field to agree now on what caused the depression  --  much less what will end it  --  is notorious . Experiments WLI Bear Watching Anyone who has even a bowing acquaintance with this particular section of mankind 's more or less organized knowledge realizes that President RooseVelt , had he chosen to do so , could have selected a group of counselors just as conscientious and experienced as those now working with him , who woulif have advised the plotting of an entirely different course for the ship of state in an effort to bring it and 125,01 ) 0,000 passengers safely through the storm . Such being the case it is the part of wisdom to recognize  --  as President Roosevelt himself has suggested  --  that vast sections of the national recovery program are essentially experimental - in nature . Theories and , hypotheares are being put to laboratory ' teats --  , probably the biggest- ec07 , inirmte , 10. bbriteory-testathat Xraia ; ever-been ; seen outaideASoViet Russia . - tinder - these circumstances , criticism and mrnintrIntion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahould prove helpful not only in the ultimate solution of the nation 's current , problenis but in providing practical answers to some of the economic questions concerning which men have hitherto been content to exercise their powers of logic and dialectic . " Trial and Error " Method Obviously , the " brain trust " that aided in formulating the program and the political leaders who are putting it into effect might be expected to benefit in the long run from unbiased or even , perhaps unfavorably prejudiced examination of the outcome . To an important extent it appears that the present Administration must rely on the familiar " trial and error " method in dealing with depression difficulties ' . The President made that clear in one of his radio talks when he said he did n't expect to register a hit every time be came to bat but that he was seeking the highest possible batting average . If this be true , then the importance of recognizing " errors " and beginning new " trials " is of the utmost importance in a situation where so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of power is sometimes referred to as " His Majesty 's loyal opposition . " That is a phrase , of course , which grows out of a system of government monarchial in ' form and republican in practice . But it expresses much of the philosophy back of the party system  --  the " outs " check and oppose the " ins " for the good of the state . So why not " loyal opposition " in this country in the form of a Republican " brain trust " ? ? Lid On the Sugar BOwl For the second time within a year the continental United States is , threatened with an interruption in its regular imports of a commodity used in practically every household . Last fall civil warfare in Brazil caused a-.blockade of the port of Santos , prevented coffee shipments to New York , sent quotations here booming , gave the Federal Farm Board a chance to sell some holdings ( acquired in one of its ' barter transactions ) at an unexpectedly high figure . Now the commotion in Cuba has stopped the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this country being by far the most important one . Brazil found its blockade expensive in more . rays than one because American coffee buyers . their stocks depleted , turned to Colombia for additional supplies of the aromatic bean . Brazil lost some business , in other , words . If the present situation prevails in Cuba for very long she will lose some trade , too . The United States , which ordinarily buys little sugar from producers outside - its own family of insular possessions and Cuba , would probably start to bring it in , even over the ** tariff wall . Puerto Rico and the Philippine Islands have little to sell at present . Just at a time when Cuba needs the trade so badly and has representatives in Washington pleading for a bigger quota under the proposed allotment plan this would be a curious development Indeed .                     