@@698696

txt Germany 's bitter presidential election campaign , which came to an end at midnight , was accentuated this evening by the attempted assassination of Dr. Hans Luther , president of the Reichsbank and twice chancellor of Germany . Luther was pacing the platform of the Potsdamer station in Berlin , waiting for a train to take him to Basel , Switzerland , when he was attacked . One shot Was fired at close range by one of two well dressed men , who had been quietly walking up and down the platform . The bullet pierced Dr. Luther 's clothing and scratched his arm before entering the heel of a nearby railway porter 's shoe . The man who fired the shot told the police his name was Werner Kertscher and that he was 34 years old . With a smile , he surrendered his pistol as police ran ur . His companion gave his name as Dr. Max Rosen of Hamburg and said that he was born in Buenos Aires 58 years ago . Admits His Intention . Kertscher cheerfully admitted that he intended to kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reichsbank 's deflation policy and wanted a " controlled inflation . " The two prisoners told police that they had been members of Adolf Hitler 's National Socialist Fascist party but had resigned owing to differences of opinion , leading police to suspect that the assailants had a political motive , which they denied . Luther , after seeing the men hustled away by the police , entered the train for Basel with a delegation of German officials to attend . a . meeting of- , the Bank for International Settle-1 ments . The shooting was a sensational climax to Germany 's political campaign , one in which several persons were slain and many wounded in riots all over the republic . Predict Hindenburg Victory . Tonight millions of supporters of President von Hindenburg are convinced that he will easily defeat Hitler , his chief rival , and Ernst Thae/mann , the communist candidate . Equally confident are the Hitler forces . They claim that their Fascist reader will secure at least 15,000,000 votes , which , they believe , will be enough to sweep him into power . Political experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on overconfidence among Von Hindenburg 's supporters , who piled up 18,654-690 votes for the 84 year old field marshal at the indecisive election on March 13 . His total then was less than 175,000 short of the required majority . In tomorrow 's runoff a plurality will be sufficient . There Is believed to be little danger of overconfidence in the Von Hindenburg ranks because his supporters ha -- e seized the offensive , forcing Hitler into the defensive and exactly reversing the situation at the previous election . Hitler 's " Anti-Lie Bureau . " The Fascist chieftain has been forced to establish an " anti-lie bureau " to issue daily answers to his opposition 's accusations that his movement is illegal , following a series of sensational raids on Nazi headquarters in Prussia and the publication by the Bavarian and Hessian governments of seized documents which were presented as proof of the subversive tendencies of the Nazis . " If President von Hindenburg can increase his vote to 20,000,000 the German republic will be safe against the onslaughts of its enemies , " Karl Severing , Prussian minister of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small majority , or if Hitler increases the number of his backers , then the Hitlerites will continue to spread unrest in Germany . That is why we want not only a victory for Von Hindenburg. but an overwhelming victory . " Chancellor Heinrich Bruening closed a week of intensive campaigning for Von Hindenburg tonight with a speech at Koenigsberg , capital of East Prussia , where Hitler ran a close second to the president on the first ballot . Appeals to Loyalty . " The world is astonished that Von Hindenburg , who is a son and liberator of Germany 's eastern regions , should have an opponent here at all , " he said . " Cut off from the , fatherland by the Polish corridor , the East Prussian is nervous and restless . I realize how the incredible violation of the rights of Germans in the free state of Memel Hans Luther , head of German Reichsbank , who was grazed by gunman 's bullet in railway station . GERMAN LEADER SHOT ON EYE OF ELECTION and other incidents at Danzig must arouse the East Prussian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany stands behind Von Hindenburg when he . says that never shall the German president or government yield an inch of East Prussian soil . " The chancellor then enumerated the sacrifices he said the country had made for the relief of agriculture in Eak . Prussia . 42 : , To cope with the situation we had to - take drastic measures  --  the emergency decree , " he continued " The miasures were necessary to safeguard the state , its finances and the country 's business and currency . We could have gambled and tried to get along without them , thereby reaping popularity . For the sake of the fatherland . we preferred to risk unpopularity . Hindenburg " Sure Shield . " " Small inflation and money experim4its were suggested as means of relieving the situation during the winters They could have given only temporary relief . We preferred to make sacrifices to create a safe foundation fon the country . With President von Hindenburg as a sure shield , we can early on the struggle to liberate Germany from the burden of reparations payments and for equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech . Police ejected several hecklers . On the outside . other Hitler followers bombarded the buildthi with stones . Others released white mice in the huge hall . Hermann Dietrich , finance minister , pictured the favorable development of the reich 's finances in an address for Von Hindenburg in Frankfort . He pointed out that " the reich is not only covering current expenses from current receipts . but has also been able to assist the communes to the extent of $55,000,000 , " He further told how besides bearing the burden of the " crisis support " of the jobless the go v ernment has " brought help to the little man as well as the big in a thousand ways ; at least 120 cooperative banks have been rescued in recent months . " President Paul von Hindenburg , who is candidate for re-election . Associated Press Photo. where he closed his campaign tonight . " Instead of addressing the East Prussians in Koenigsberg , Chancellor Bruening should be defending their province against the attacks of Poland and the league of nations at Geneva , " Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent disorders at the polls tomorrow when more than 37,000,000 voters will make their choice for president . Adolf Hitler , head of National Socialists , who is opposing Von Hindenburg in run-off election . Admits Budget Difficulties . Dietrich acknowledged that difficulties are connected with drafting a budget for 1932 , the chief problem being unemployment . " Thereupon depends our fate , " he said . " The problem of creating work is decided by the money situation , which has been steadily improving since January . If the improvement continues it will make certain possibilities of financing work . " Hitler , after speaking in the Ruhr district before industrialists and workers , rode in his airplane to Stuttgart                     