@@701737

txt With Governor Lehman determined to take the fight for his law enforcement program to the people in a radio talk , opponents to his anti-crime legislation in the Senate and Assembly remained quiescent today insisting that the next move was up to the Governor . After conferences during the day in which Speaker Ives and other Republican leaders of the Assembly participated , the Republicans who have been most conspicuous in their opposition to the Governor 's law enforcement measures decided that a policy of silence was the only one they could properly pursue at present . They pointed out that they were still awaiting a formal answer from the Governor to the resolution calling upon him to make good his statement of last week in which he declared that " strong groups " were intent upon defeating his anti-crime measures and that incidentally he was seriously " disturbed " at the attitude of " certain " legislators on some of these measures . They demanded in their resolution , adopted by the Assembly today , that he define  --  the groups and name the legislators he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tells of Plans . The quiet which pervaded the Capitol today after last night 's oratorical attack in the Assembly on the course adopted by the Governor may only prove to be the lull before another storm . After the resolution had been adopted Governor Lehman sent his secretary , Walter T. Brown , to the Assembly with a curt message in which he said that his answer would be included in a radio address to be delivered in a few days , and that copies would be sent to the Assembly . The Republican Assemblymen , resentful over his statement of last week , and further embittered by the informal manner in which he treated the resolution through which they had hoped to " put the Governor on the spot , " if they continue in their present mood , will not be satisfied with copies of a radio address as the Governor 's sole reply . They insist that adoption of the Newell resolution was an official act of the Assembly and that it called for a formal answer containing either the Information the resolution asked for , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreshadowed in his message sent after the resolution had been adopted , another explosion In the Assembly may be expected . " The Governor 's statement constituted an indictment of all the members of the Assembly ; we are within our right in insisting that he give the names of members whom he has reason to suspect have been improperly influenced in voting against his bills , " Speaker Ives said . " The burden of proof is clearly on the Governor . " Meanwhile , there was much speculation on Capitol Hill as to what the Governor would say in his radio speech , which will be his first Statewide appeal for popular support of his law-enforcement program . ? No one appeared to believe that he would point to any member of either house as having yielded to improper influence in voting against some of his anti-crime measures . Labor organizations , the Communist party , some associations of law and bar associations were mentioned in debate in the Assembly last night as groups that the Governor undoubtedly had in mind when he issued his statement last week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any one or all of these groups , because he adds that the " strong groups " were " more intent upon making crime safe for the criminal than upon protecting the law-abiding citizen . " In his speech before the crime conference here last Autumn the Governor identified three groups as promoting the increase in crime , and in his special message to the Legislature recommending passage of his crime program he elaborated to some.extent on what he had said at the conference . More Bills Are Passed . The three groups to which he referred then were shyster lawyers , corrupt politicians and venal and inefficient public officials . The Republicans insist that if the Governor in his radio speech should again mention these groups it would be even more strongly incumbent upon him to furnish the names called for in the Assembly resolution or , not being able to do so , offer an apology . Two additional bills on Governor Lehman 's program were passed today in the Senate and two in the Assembly . The Assembly action was on measures already approved by the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his anticrime bills sent to him for his signature . The Assembly also recalled the Pistol Bill , defeated last week by a vote of 93 to 45 . Since its defeat it had been on the table with a motion for reconsideration from its sponsor , Assemblyman E. F. Moran of Brooklyn . Today Mr. Moran moved to take up the bill for amendment and return it to the table . Had this course been followed , it would have run the peril of being killed without hope of revival . Comes Back As New Bill . Speaker Ives , alive to this danger and himself supporting the Governor 's aid program , rescued it . As a result the bill will appear on the third reading calendar tomorrow in its amended form , but as a new bill . Should it be defeated again , Mr. Moran would be in a position to move reconsideration for a second time . The bill in its original form provided that any pistol or other weapon found in a vehicle would be presumptive evidence of illegal possession by all the occupants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substituted for vehicle and exception made for public omnibuses . The Senate adopted the Buckley ' bill amending the penal and correcItion law to make all sentences to State prisons indeterminate , and the Ross bill requiring peace officers upon receiving complaint of a felony to send information regarding it over the police teletypewriter system , if the perpetrator has not been arrested within five hours . The Assembly , by a vote of 94 to 41 , passed the Buckley bill requiring the record of applicants for pistol permits to be investigated through the criminal identification bureau at Albany before a license is issued , and another Senate bill making permissive instead of mandatory the additional penalties to be visited upon a defendant for the commission of crime while armed . The vote on this bill stood 144 to 2 . Fifteen More Bills Reported . The Assembly Codes Committee reported fifteen additional anticrime bills , but without recommendation and merely for the consideration of the House . The committee now has reported out all such bills before it , including some which have been passed by the Senate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow . Governor Lehman left for New York early this afternoon to keep a speaking engagement before the Metropolitan Committee for Religion and Welfare . Earlier in the day he was engaged in preparation of his prospective radio address on the crime situation . It has not yet been learned when it will be delivered . Arrangements are being made , it was said , for a State-wide hook-up .                     