@@701901

txt On the ground that the interstate pricefixing provisions for bituminous coal in the Guffey act were inextricably linked with the wagesand-hours regulations , which were declared to be an invasion of States ' rights , a majority of five members of the Supreme Court today threw out the entire act , reserving judgment meanwhile on the validity of price-fixing . Congress had specifically provided that the titles of the measure were separable . The Chief Justice joined his five colleagues in rejecting the wages-and-hours regulation . But he maintained that the price-fixing regulations were legal and separable , and that lower court decisions upholding the act and the code in this and other respects should have been affirmed . Justice Cardozo , Brandeis and Stone , speaking through the former , said that the court should have upheld the interstate price and trade regulations and refrained from passing on the remainder of the sections in litigation " because they may never take effect at all : " Both the Chief Justice and the three general dissenters criticized the majority of five for " trying to imagine what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been stricken from the bill in its legislative transit  --  a speculation on which the majority justified its invalidation of the whole act . Power Over Prices Not Dented While not denying that Congress had the power under the commerce clause to provide a scale of prices and competitive conditions for bituminous coal in interstate flow , the majority of five did not assert it . Justice Sutherland , who wrote the prevailing opinion , gave public warning that the majority did not mean to convey that " if ever " this question arises for litigation the court will uphold the action of Congress . The Chief Justice and the three general dissenters gave it full validation . The Guffey act is the measure which was decided on by the administration for the relief of the depressed soft-coal industry after labor had fully endorsed it and operators had divided on its pro . visions . ' Every care was taken by , amendment to meet possible Supreme Court objections . When Congress still hesitated the President wrote a letter asking that " doubts of its constitutionalty , however reasonable , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How complicated are those doubts the divisions in the court today amply demonstrated . The general effect of the decision was not unexpected by the administration . Previous opinions by a five or six majority had prepared the way for today 's strict construction of the commerce clause . But there was some hope that the court would permit Congress to have its way about the separability of the title of the act . Perhaps the only surprise was the opinon of the Chief Justice in favor of that course . New Deal 's Score 2 to 8 . Adjournment is so near that it will be difficult for Congress , na friends of the Guffey act propose , to re-enact all the sections of the law not specifically rejected by the five justices today . There Is some talk of attempting an interstate compact , but it will be a day or two before plans are made clear . New Deal laws have now failed in eight Supreme Court tests and won I in two . The cases on which today 's opinions were written came direct from district Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kentucky judge validated the entire act . Another court upheld the price-fixing provisions , threw out the wages-and-hours regulations , and held them separable . The cases went to immediate adjudication on writs of certiorari because , . his Justice Sutherland said in the court 's opinion , " of the importance of the question and the advantage of a speedy final determination . " Today 's opinions revealed that this " final determination " is still a long way off . Questions Weighed by Court Seven questions were before the Supreme Court . These , and the views upon them , follow : 1 . Had the stockholders in the Carter Company suit the right to bring the test ? The majority and the Chief Justice , " yes . " The three general dissenters , no answer . 2 . Were the suits brought prematurely ? The majority and the Chief Justice , " no . " The three others , " yes . " 3 . Is the 15 per cent tax levied on coal sales , for future application , a tax or a penalty ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The three general dissenters , " no need to anticipate that question until it arises . " 4 . Has Congress the power to attempt the control of the Guffey bill ? The majority , ? " no , as to wages and hours . " The Chief Justice , " no , as to wages and hours ; yes , as to interstate price-fixing . " The three general dissenters , " the opinion of the court begins at 1 the wrong end ; the complainants have been crying before they are really hurt . " 5 . Are the wages-and-hours provisions a true regulation of interstate commerce ? The majority and the Chief Justice , " no . " The three dissenters , " not necessary to decide that at this point . " 6 . Was the power . to establish wages and hours unlawfully delegated to private persons ? The majority and the Chief Justice , " yes . " The three general dissenters , " not deciding that now . " 7 . Can the price-fixing regulations stand alone if the labor provisions are invalidated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't have passed the act if so amended . " The Chief Justice and the three general dissenters , " yes . " Labor Leaders See Strikes Organized labor was depressed by the decision , and its leaders freely predicted strikes and troops in the coal fields by Autumn , adding that there was nothing left but to apply " economic force in a land where Supreme Court decisions forbade legal remedies . " Democratic politicians expressed the belief that the great popular groups would vote overwhelmingly for the re-election of the President as a protest and , in the hope he could find means to produce legislation that will stand . Here is the gist of Justice Sutherland 's decision for himself and Justices Van Devanter , , Butler and Roberts : The 15 per cent tax with its drawback of 13 ' , per cent is a penalty because it affects all bituminous coal produced . It is intended , not as a true tax , but to compel compliance , and it is levied at every mine in the United States and on " captive coal " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as definite a penalty as the threat of a term in jail . The objects of the act are worthy , but did the Constitution confer on Congress the right to attain them by this means ? It did not . They are not matters , of legislative discretion . At the framers ' convention ( makers of the Constitution ) a proposal was made that Congress be given such powers , and it was rejected . The framers limited Congressional power to enumerated items and such others as are necessarily implied . The courts have consistently followed this formula . There are many subjects on which the States have been unable to act in harmony , and confusion and embarrassment have resulted . But if there is an easier and constitutional way to the desirable results of harmony through Congressional action , " it thus far has escaped discovery . " To consent to the implication in this act that Congress may take over , for objects however worthy , the powers reserved to the States is to reduce them to little more than geographical subdivisions of the national domain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce , the province of Congress . Mining has never , and can not , come in . In Kidd v. Pearson the court almost seemed to foresee the effort represented in the Guffey act by saying : " In the power contended for Congress it would be confined to the regulation , not of certain branches of industry , however numerous , but to those instances in each and every branch where the producer contemplated an interstate market . A situation more paralyzing to the State governments " ? it would be difficult to imagine . " Mining brings the subject matter of commerce into existence . Commerce disposes of it . The Guffey Act seeks to impose Federal power over mining . There is not the justification here , as in the case of Coronado v. United Mine Workers , where an intent to affect interstate commerce was proved by local acts . This attempt is like the one stopped unanimously by the court in the Schechter ( the NRA ) case , except that then the flow in interstate commerce had ceased ; here it had not begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry are grievous and even desperate . But all the evils are local evils . The relation of the employer and the employe is a local relation ( here lawyers saw the doom of the Wagner Labor Relations Act , which will soon be before the court ) . ? Congress provided that the titles of the Guffey act should be separable ; if one or more were rejected by the court , the others should stand . But work regulations as to wages and hours are inseparable from price-fixing . The latter is clearly based on the former . They are wholly interdependent . Under the statutory rule the intent of the lawmakers must be determined by considerations which establish the " clear probability that , the invalid part being eliminated , the Legislature would not have been satisfied with what remained . To uphold one part of a law and reject another they must not be mutually dependent on each other . Suppose the labor provisions had been stricken out by amendment ? Would Congress have passed the price-fixing section ? We think not . " The primary object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the regulation of labor and prices . They furnish mutual aid and support , and Congress deemed it essential to have both of them . Two-thirds of the cost of producing a ton of coal is represented by wages . Fair prices necessarily depend on the cost of production . The twcr sections are like interwoven threads in a fabric . Therefore the fall of the former carries down with it the latter . The court does not take up the question of the constitutionality of the price-fixing section , and nothing it has said is to be taken to mean that this would be sustained separately . All other sections of the act which may stand independently are left for future determination when , if ever , they are presented for consideration . Findings of Justice Hughes The argument of the Chief Justice was as follows : He agreed that the suits were proper , not premature ; that the tax is a penalty and the power to levy it must rest on the commerce clause ; that mining is not commerce and Congress has no power to regulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights of the States , it could take control over all the activities of the people and subvert the freedom principles of the Constitution . If the people wish to give Congress these powers , it can be done by amendment . " But it is not for the court to amend the Constitution by judicial decision . " The section of the act which delegates legislative power in the making of the codes is also invalid . It invests private persons with the right to make laws having penal sanctions . By forcing a minority to yield to the code it violates the Fifth Amendment . There are other objections . But Congress has power over interstate commerce , and the pricefixing section of the Guffey act exercises that power . It provides judicial remedy for administrative findings . It is a valid exercise of the authority of Congress . Congress was competent to mark separable the various sections of the act . Therefore the Chief Justice is unable to concur in the invalidation of the act as a whole . Indeed that is precluded by the express provisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress it is not necessary to go beyond the words inserted in the act at several points . " I do not think the question of separability should be determined by trying to imagine what Congress would have done if certain provisions found to be invalid were exercised . That ? " would lead us into a realm of pure speculation . " The Chief Justice found " no such tie " as the majority found between the wages-and-hours and the pricefixing sections . Their interdependence is no clearer in the coal industry than in the transportation business , where the Federal regulation of rates , which has been upheld , does not include the power to fix wages and hours . The act and the code for which it provides may be sustained in relation to the provisions for marketing in interstate commerce , and decisions of courts below to that extent should be affirmed . Views of the Minority The three general dissenters : They pointed out that the majority had not held price-fixing invalid , announced that it is valid and proceeded to find it separable from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required to come in under the code . The suits are premature , since enforcement of the sections they oppose is not imminent . They may never be invoked . Nobody has been hurt . There is no need to prejudice ; in fact , the court has several times said that " it will not anticipate " or decide a constitutional question in advance . The complainants should conform to the parts of the act not declared invalid . They can make their protests about the others when they come into play , if ever . The price-fixing section is valid , and decision is reserved on the wages-and-hours title rejected by the court . The sales it regulated constitute interstate commerce . Considerations of social benefit must be weighed in niarking the difference between reason and oppression . The words " direct " and " indirect " should not be read . too narrowly . A great principle of law is not susceptible of comprehensive description in an adjective . Perhaps " intimate " and " remote " would be better adjectives , anyhow . The regulation of prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation . The decision in Nebbia v. New York , where the court upheld the fixing of a minimum price for milk , contains reasoning which applies precisely to the coal industry . Control Needed for Stability Conditions in that industry were deplorable when Congress acted . Overproduction had turned competition into anarchy . Profit was possible to only a handful of producers . Wages came down with prices . Strikes were called , accompanied by violence , bloodshed and misery . Congress and special commissions made nineteen investigations of the industry between 1913 and 1935 . The compulsion of a code seemed the only way out . A strike , menacing the industry and the public , was impending when Congress acted to avert it . Congress " was not condemned to inaction in the face of price wars and wage wars so pregnant with disaster . " All parties admit that only through a system of regulated prices can the industry be stabilized . The labor regulations are important , but stabilizing prices will go a long way toward stabilizing labor relations . The producers can then pay a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , commissions , labor and operators are in vain . The pricefixing section was to take effect at once , but the labor provisions might never be . Yet*the court declares that Congress would not invoke the price-fixing section without the labor section . The parts are separable . There is no need to pass on the sections held invalid , since this anticipates a controversy that may never become real . The proper course would have been to withhold an opinion on this and permit to stand those sections which appear to be valid , the validity of which the majority does nof. reject . The court has begun at the wrong end and entered the domain of prophecy . The lower court , which permitted the act to have a trial do its imminent parts , including the price-fixing section , should be sustained .                     