@@701563

txt World to Mark Armistice . In New York City , as elsewhere throughout the world , a two-minute silence will commemorate the Armistice . President Roosevelt will deliver an address at Arlington Cemetery . In Rome there will be a general celebration in honor of the King . Rival political forces will parade in Paris . A procession to the cenotaph will be held in London . More than 4,000 persons attended a county-wide Armistice Day observance in Westchester yesterday . All A.tivity to Halt Here Two minutes of silence will hush the city 's din at 11 o'clock this morning as the thoughts of millions of New Yorkers go back seventeen years to the hour when the roar of the guns died away along the western front . Traffic will be halted in the streets ; subway trains will stop as the power is shut off ; in offices , stores and workshops all activity will cease , and in multitudes of homes men and women will stand with bowed heads in solemn tribute to the anniversary . Buglers scattered throughout the city will signal the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor La Guardia from his sickbed in Mount Sinai Hospital the police will enforce the suspension of traffic . Pedestrians are expected to stand with bared heads until the silence is ended by the sounding of " Taps . " Service at Eternal Light . The city 's formal commemoration of the day will be held at the Eternal Light in Madison Square , beginning at 10:45 A. M. Mayor La Guardia had been scheduled as the principal speaker but because of his illness he will be represented by Brig . Gen. Walter A. Delamater of the Fifty-third Brigade . Wearers of the blue of the Grand Army of the Republic will take part in the service . So will members of the United Spanish War Veterans , the Disabled American Veterans , the Rainbow Division Veterans , the Jewish War Veterans , the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion . The American Gold Star Mothers of the World War will be represented , and uniformed veterans representing all the allied nations are expected to attend . Representatives of the various patriotic groups will march to the front and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no speeches except for brief introductions by the chairman , Pelham St. George Bissell , and General Delamater . Mass at St. Patrick 's . Four boy buglers , all of them sons of World War veterans , will play taps at the four corners outside St. Patrick 's Cathedral as the first annual solemn high mass of requiem is being celebrated for the dead of America 's armed forces . The Rev. Edward J. Higgins , national chaplain , will celebrate the mass . The Rev. Louis C. Vaeth will be deacon and the Rev. John Quinn , subdeacon . The Rev. Aloysius C. Dineen will preach the sermon . The Right Rev. Aloysius J. Willinger , Bishop of Ponce . Puerto Rico , will pronounce the absolution over the catafalque . Taps will be sounded at the close of the ceremonies by a veteran stationed in the choir loft . The usual Gregorian chant of requiem will be sung by a quartet from St. Patrick 's , with Charles Rivetti the organ . One of the most striking observances of the day will not be held until midafternoon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around-the-world broadcast in behalf of peace . The program will be broadcast from 3 to 4 P. M. under the auspices of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , with the cooperation of the Columbia Broadcasting System . Italy . in the person of Senator Guglielmo Marconi , the inventor of wireless telegraphy , will broadcast from Rome . Dr. ** Murray Butler , president of the Carnegie Endowment , will preside during the broadcast and will introduce the speakers . After Senator Marconi , he will present Pierre Flandin , Minister of State without portfolio in the present French Cabinet , speaking from Paris . Shifting to Buenos Aires , the broadcast will continue with an address by Dr. Carlos Saavedra Lamas , Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Argentine Republic since 1932 . Dr. Butler will next introducel a Japanese spokesman , Baron Wakatsuki. who was Prime Minister in 192E and chief of the Japanese delegation to the London Naval Conference in 1930 . Lord Cecil of Chelwood will speak in the broadcast from England . Lord Cecil , one of England 's bestknown statesmen , was Minister of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1923 and 1924 . He has been chancellor of Birmingham University since 1918 . Children to Parade . More than 5,000 children are to participate in a parade and festival in behalf of peace at 2 o'clock this afternoon in Harlem . It will be under the auspices of the Conference for Children 's Peace Festival , of which Miss Agnes Sailer is chairman . Many churches , settlement houses and children 's organizations are taking part . Carrying banners and escorting floats , the children will march east from St. Nicholas Park along 128th Street to Seventh Avenue , north to 138th Street and east to the Abyssinian Baptist Church at 132 West 138th Street and the Y. W. ? C. A. Building next door . Members of the War Industries Board who functioned under Ber , nerd S. Baruch will hold their annual reunion . today with a luncheon at the Savoy Plaza Hotel , and a theatre party this evening . The group , which is expected to number 1150 , will be entertained later at Mr. 1Baruch 's home . The War Resisters League will hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Eternal Light in Madison Square Park . The Rev. Laurence T. Hosie of the Judson Memorial Church , the Rev. Manning H. Bleich , director of religious education of the Tarrytown Hebrew Congregation , and the Rev. Virgil Lauder will officiate . The World Alliance for International Friendship Through the Churches will pay tribute to the occasion at the opening session of its twentieth annual meeting at the Roosevelt Hotel this morning , at which the Rev. Dr. S. Parkes Cadman will preside . The Rev. Joseph R. Sizoo , pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church of Washington , D. C. , will speak . Kilmer Memorial Broadcast . A memorial program in honor of Joyce Kilmer , the poet , will be broadcast over WNYC at 4 P. M. under the auspices of the Bozeman Bolger Post , 1955 , . Veterans of Foreign Wars . The Rev. John B. Kelly , spiritual adviser of the Catholic Writers Guild , will speak on " Joyce Kilmer the Man " ; Colonel Julius Ochs Adler will speak on " Joyce- Kilmer the Writer , " and Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soldier . " Members of the Franklin Simon Company Post 594 of the American Legion will hold a brief service in front of the store at 11 o'clock this morning . Taps will be sounded =and the members of the post will stand at attention . ? The newly elected officers of the post will be installed at a dinner to be held in the store auditorium tomorrow night . Armistice Day services are to be held . beginning at 10:30 A. M. on the grounds of the new building of ' the Jewish Memorial Hospital , now under construction at Broadway and 196th Street . Aldermanic President Bernard S. Deutsch and Isidore S. Schweitzer will be speakers , it was announced last night by William Weiss , in charge of the Armistice Day program . Taps will be sounded at 11 A. M. John Haynes Holmes appealed to America to keep out of the next war , however it may come , in an address at a service held yesterday by the Community Church in the Town Hall , 123 West Forty-third Street , in anticipation of Armistice Day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Mr. Holmes , " should teach us the lesson to stay out of the next one . It is not so much that we were betrayed in this last war as that we failed in what was the sincere endeavor of the American people to end war forever . We shall fail again in the same way if we allow ourselves , for whatever apparently good reason , to take up arms . I count it a sign of intelligence and moral health that the slogan of this hour is ' Never Again . ' "                     