@@703943

txt A veteran New Deal economist . Leon Henderson , was named yesterday by President Roosevelt as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission . Mr. Henderson . now executive secretary of the Temporary National Economic Committee . will succeed to the vacancy on the commission left by the recent resignation of Chairman William 0 . Douglas . However , there appeared to be some doubt in official circles last night as to whether Mr. Henderson will be named to the chairmanship of the agency . Currently . Commissioner Rcbert E. Healy Leon Henderson is acting chairman , having been designated to that post shortly after Mr. Douglas left the commission to assume his duties on the Supreme Court . Mr. Healy is expected to remain as titular head of the SEC. at least until the Senate has time to give its expected approval of the Henderson nomination and possibly until in June when the annual election of chairman is regularly held . The term of Mr. Douglas which Mr. Henderson is to fill out expires on June 5 . Question of Frank 's Position There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jerome N. Frank may then be named chairman . According to the organic act of the SEC , the chairman is elected by the five commissioners . However , the White House hitherto always has been consulted in the matter , and Mr. Frank is known to be highly regarded by those closest to the President . A study of Mr. Henderson 's record indicates he will bring to the SEC a marked interest in efforts to revitalize the flow of investment funds into industry . He is known to believe that this is a necessity for economic recovery and he has supported consistently the Administration 's spending program in the belief that this is a valid way of promoting this sort of recovery . First associated with the Roosevelt Administration in January , 1934 , he has served as an economist in various capacities ever since . The new appointee believes firmly in the objectives of New Deal 's securities legislation and , more than once , has expressed the conviction that when the government undertakes a program of economic reform the program must be carried through . Fresh Viewpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and regulations . Mr. Henderson will a fresh viewpoint to the commission , and , those who know him well , say that he has no preconceived ideas that he will seek to put into effect but rather that he will lean toward the realistic approach . Mr. Henderson 's friends also point out that he has had some previous administrative experience as well as technical background . He served during the war in an administrative capacity with the Army 's ordnance branch and gained more experience as Assistant Secretary of State in Pennsylvania . He also was in charge of the National Recovery Administration 's research division for a period of that agency 's life . Special Training in Economies In his new duties as a member of the SEC . Mr. Henderson undoubtedly will be called upon to assume some of the responsibility of administering the Public Utility Holding Company Act . This law involves economic as well as legal problems in the program of integration and simplification Up to this time , the'SEC never has had a member with special training in the field of general economics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Economic Committee failed to disclose any opposi tion to Mr. Henderson 's nomination . Many members emphasized their opinion that Mr. Henderson has a clear understanding of important business and financial problems confronting the nation . Mr. Henderson is expected to remain a member of the Temporary National Economic Committee after taking office , according to Senator O'Mahoney , chairman of that group ' However , the senator believes that the SEC member probably will relinquish his special position as executive secretary . " I am hoping . " said Chairman O'Mahoney . " that be will find a way to continue his services with the committee , and I think we can work that out satisfactorily . Business and industry will find . as I have found , that he is a man of broad understanding . " Credit For Small Business . In discussing the current credit problem from the standpoint of small business . a study of which was promoted by Mr. Henderson , Chairman Oalahoney. said that he would like to see existing private credit- agencies stunu , la ted and protected by the government in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that the scheme of insuring loans for new enterprises undertaken by banking institutions was a feasible method of attaining thesobJecLives sought The evidence and statements before the TNEC in the senator 's opinion showed conclusively that individuals and groups wanting to start new enterprises are unable to get initial capital while big business can get capital at most reasonable rates . The problem to be solved , according to Senator O'Mahoney , is not only to keep the door of opportunity open for those who want to go into business but also to protect them after they have been established from the destructive effects of those practices which may be called restraints of trade . Mr. Henderson . of course , as a representative of the SEC on the TNEC , and a student of this pgrticular subject . probably will play an important part in working out committee recommendations to Congress if any are found to be necessary in meeting the credit problem which many consider to exist .                     