@@702277

txt The blue and white flag of the Duchy of Cornwall fluttered slowly to the foot of its mast at 10 o'clock this morning on the high turret over Fort Belvedere . It was a signal that made history , for at that moment King Edward was renouncing the greatest throne on earth so that he could marry the woman he loved . With his three brothers as his only witnesses , he signed the instrument of abdication as his " final and irrevocable decision " to retire Into private life . He will remain King until tomorrow afternoon , when the Abdication Bill is expected to reach him from Parliament . As soon as he signs it , however , his unhappy days as King will come to an end after the shortest reign in 453 years . The Duke of York will come to the throne as George VI and Edward will leave England as the first man in all the 1,000 years of the British monarchy to have left the throne of his own accord . Edward Again Cheerful Although he has not shown himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported on good authority tonight that he was like a man who had had a. crushing load of worry lifted from his shoulders . The depression and jumpiness of the last few days had vanished and the King was said to be cheerful and purposeful , superintending the packing of his belongings , dealing with State papers , which arrived incessantly from London , and looking forward to more happiness than he has known in a long time . Workmen and tractors were busy all day on Edward 's private flying field at Smith 's Lawn in Windsor Great Park , apparently preparing it for the take-off of an important airplane . Four police cars were on duty and a cordon of police and park rangers was drawn around the field to keep sightseers away . It was thought that the King might leave Saturday morning for Switzerland , where the bracing Winter climate would restore his health and where he would be brought near Mrs. Walls Warfield Simpson , who is still on the Riviera . His position as ex-King will be full of uncertainties , but apparently they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one thing whether or when he can marry Mrs. Simpson , although there is an impression in London tonight that the decree absolute will be expedited in a perfectly legal manner so that she can marry again at the end of January . Edward 's financial position will also be uncertain for several weeks . It is understood that he will not be allowed to retain the revenues of the Duchy of Cornwall and that a new civil list providing a monetary grant for him and other members of the royal family will not be drawn up by Parliament until early in the New Year . But it was reported tonight that Queen Mary and her other children had agreed to contribute something out of their personal fortunes until the nation has made some provision for its former King and Prince of Wales . Neither Parliament nor the royal family wants to leave him unprovided with funds , and Edward probably feels safe in the knowledge that he will not be penniless . One source of relief to him is the knowledge that he will not be barred from returning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Empire was exacted from him during the complicated negotiations that preceded his abdica- , tion . No doubt he will keep away until the bitter emotions of the moment have disappeared , but there is not the slightest reason , according to persons in close touch with Downing Street , why he should not return later as a visitor or even as an ordinary private resident a the country be once ruled .                     