@@702400

txt The Rev. Finis Jennings Dake played his ' slide trombone and his wife preached the sermon last night as he bade farewell to his congregation in the Christian Assembly church of Zion . The handsome , blond . six foot pastor will go to Milwaukee today to begin a six months ' term in the house of correction on , charges made by a girl of 16 . , The Rev. Mr. Dake wept . His wife wept . Members of the church wept . And the members frequently shouted : God save Brother Dake ! " At the close of the service , 20 persons came forward , announcing their conversion by the convicted minister and his wife . ' Church Is Packed . The church , a rival of Wilbur Glenn Voliva 's famed religious organization in Zion , ' was packed when the sery ice began . The members seemed unanimous in the belief that their pastor was innocent . " Does any one here think that God has deserted me ? " he asked in a ring ing voice .. " No ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pastor said , " I 'm not the only pebble on the beach . You can get along without me . " Then , turning to his wife , who has remained steadfast to him : " God bless this little woman . She has set an example for all to follow . Mrs. Dake beamed through her tears . Renews Divine Contact . ' At the morning service , the pastor said that since his trouble newed his communication with divine The Rev. and Mrs. Finis Dake. authority , and added that as a result , although he must go to jail : " I believe 1 am the happiest man this side of heaven . " The Rev , Mr. Dake blamed all his difficulties upon the devil , and praised as " broad-minded " those who kept faith in a minister accused . " Many worldly people have tele ? phoned me telling me how much faith they have in me , " he said . " This broaa-minded type of person can express itself better than some religious people . Religious people are my worst critics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religious will not . " Business Man Agrees . Henry Stevenson , former Waukegan business man , told the members the devil wanted " to ruin Mr. Dake and wreck his work . " But Mr. Votive broadcast in his customary Sunday radio service : " Justice is a peculiar creature . There are some people in the House of Correction who uught to be in a federal penitentiary . " Mr. Dake , who is 33 , was sentenced last Tuesday when he pleaded guilty to violation of the Mann act before Judge F. A. Geiger in the federal court in Milwaukee . The minister admitted petting parties with the girl , whose home was in Kenosha , on trips to East St. Louis and Blooming . ton .                     