@@704284

txt A broad investigation of Communist infiltration and control over seamen in the United States merchant marine was voted today by the House Committee to Investigate un-American Activities , coincident with testimony by Frederick C. Phillips , former official of the National Maritime Union , who charged that he was ousted from office because of his opposition to communism . Phillips , who gave his home as 350 West Fifty-fifth Street , New York City , tended to corroborate William C. McCuistion , another former officer of the N. M. U. Phillips , however , ascribed his difficulties in the union to consistent opposition to Communist control , while McCuistion called himself a former Communist who had turned against the party . The committee sent Phillips , as it had McCuistion , to the Department of Justice to determine whether his civil liberties had been infringed by the union . The committee also instructed Rhea Whitley , its counsel , to request the Federal Bureau of Investigation to produce for questioning a man identified as George Mink , whom McCuistion had described as agent in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in shipping on the West Coast . " These steps by the committee were planned while it still had in its files the names of a long list of other witnesses . At the conclusion of the study of maritime conditions here , Representative Dies plans to go to New Orleans to investigate N. M. U. affairs there . McCuistion , meanwhile , remained in custody of police here , following his arrest at the request of the police in New Orleans in connection with the slaying there in September of Philip ' Carey , an official of the N. M. U. Phillips Tells of Union Rows Phillips told the committee of conflict within the union and of anattempt on his life after ke was ousted by the alleged Communist faction , among which he named Joseph Curran , president of the union . The attack on him , Phillips said , was made on West Twenty-third Street , in New York City , " with lead pipes , " and " probably would have killed me if it had not been for the approach of a policeman . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The policeman assisted him to a hospital where he was treated for concussion , he went on , and later picked up the automobile used by the assailants . The car , which he said is being held by New York City police as evidence , was traced to " the Twenty-Sixth Street Strike Hall , " of the N. M. U. , in which name it had been purchased for a special-duty squad during a strike then in progress . The attack on Phillips occurred , he said , " within a week " after he had been suspended in May as secretary of the Atlantic District of the N. M. U. The witness said that he had been elected to that office by popular referendum of the 40,000 members . He told the committee that he started a prosecution in court of another official , " a former bodyguard of Curran , " and that soon thereafter " Curran and a group of Communists " called a special meeting in New York City , charged him with trying to wreck , the union and suspended him . Phillips testified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. After he finished , Representative Dies suggested that that he tell his story to the Civil Liberties Division of the Department of Justice . McCuistion finished his testimony before Phillips was called , but at the conclusion of the hearing , Chairman Dies requested him to remain for a private conference . It has been indicated that McCuistion would be held here for some time , to cooperate with the committee . The Department of Justice , in addition , is investigating the circumstances of his arrest . Committee memebrs said that the first intimation given to the New Orleans police which led to the request for his arrest was transmitted by the N. M. U. This was done on the first day McCuistion testified before the committee . McCuistion amplified today statements be had made earlier . The committee was especially interested in his description of the method of a single sailor in incapacitating a vessel , if he so desired . McCuistion had previously stated that the Communist organization makes a point of having at least one man on every United States merchant ship . Both McCuistion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the N. M. U. , although the rank and file of the union does not include more than 7 per cent Communists . When McCuistion was asked if the union could not " purge " itself , he expresesd the belief it could do so , but pointed out that this would require at least a year or a year and a half under " constitutional procedure by the union . " He compared the union with a corporation , saying there had been many instances where owners of 10 per cent of a company 's stock had controlled its policies and the election of officers . Questioned about his acquaintance with Harry Bridges , West Coast Maritime Union organizer facing deportation proceedings as a Corn munist , McCuistion said that he met Bridges in 1935 , when the latter told him " the party fraction " hac decided that he must work on the West Coast . McCuistion then wai an active Communist worker , al ? though his views were undergoing E change . " I told him I was going to shit out , " the witness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out would never get back in the party . ' " Was he referring to the Commu ? nist party ? " asked Representative Thomas of New Jersey . " Definitely , " replied McCuistion . Deatherage Drops to Ranks By The Associated Press . ST . ALBANS , W. Va. , Nov. 2 ? George E. Deatherage , who testi ? fied before the House committee investigating un-American activities , announced today that he had relinquished the national leader . ship of the Knights of the White Camelia . " The load was just too much fox me to carry any longer , " he said . He had told the Dies committee that a certain clique of Jews was plotting against the United States . He added that J. B. Martin of Houston , Texas , was chosen nation . al commander after " I informed them ( the organization ) I would n't be available any more . "                     