@@703053

txt Some Simple Changes We Might Save a Lot of Trouble by Adopting British System To THE EDITOR OF Tfur New YORK TIMES : After five futile weeks the Seventyfifth Congress adjourned its special session and went home for Christmas . Finis was thereby written to one of the most incredible years in American legislative history . At its opening many people probably expected a vigorous and successful effort in amplification of the New Deal program  --  and they had fair reasons for those expectations . At its closing they saw practically nothing accomplished and , bewildered , disgusted and a bit rancorous. they are doubtless wondering what to do to prevent a continuance or recurrence of such a frustration of popular government . Several courses are available , but it must suffice to mention a single proposal here  --  that suggested less than three years ago by Professor W. Y. Elliott of Harvard University in his arresting book , " The Need for Constitutional Reform . " Constitutional Reform Many students of comparative government have shown at one time or another how the jams and deadlocks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parliamentary system . Dr. Elliott seems to have been the first , however , to find a practicable formula for securing most of the benefits of " responsible " government while retaining whatever advantages reside in the tripartite separation of powers to which the American electorate , ration ? ally or otherwise , has grown so attached . The formula may be described as follows : ( 1 ) Withdraw from the Senate ( because it is the " entrenched stronghold " of selfish local and sectional minorities ) its present coordinate power over revenue and appropriation bills and give it instead " the power to delay the passage of money blils for only one month , but in no case beyond the end of the session . " ( 2 ) Make the House of Representatives thereby " the controller of the national purse strings " ( as the framers of the Constitution intended ) and lengthen the terms of its members to four years . ( 3 ) Permit the President to dissolve the House of Representatives once during his term of office and force it to stand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , on the one hand , " to keep his hold upon Congress throughout his administration " or , on the other , " to learn whether the country has definitely turned away front his policies . " The plan holds great promise for lubricattng the machinery of the American " leviathan . " Dr. Elliott 's book stimulated a great deal of constructive thinking at the time it first appeared , but it is even more helpfully provocative in the anatomy of our present frustration . JOHN ALBERT VIM . Iowa State College , Jan. 3 , 1938 . The Seven Seas To THE EDITOR OF THE NM YORK TDdES : I was much interested in seeing in Topics of The Times a discussion regarding the " Seven Seas . " I have been seeking the true meaning and a list of the seven seas for many years and have consulted many officers of our navy , the British Navy and the Royal Yacht Club . No one seemed to know the answer . Even Kipling , to whom I wrote , replied that he only knew it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have at last found what I believe to be the real solution . I saw a list of them as named by what were known as the Navigators  --  early exploring British seamen from about 1500 on . The list is as follows ; Western Ocean ( Atlantic Ocean ) , South Sea ( Pacific Ocean ) , Mediterranean , Spanish Sea ( south of Iceland ) , German Ocean ( North Sea ) , Arctic Ocean and Antarctic Ocean . I hope this will interest those who have wondered what the seven seas were . I believe it is the correct answer . CHARLES D. HART . Philadelphia , Pa. , Jan 3 , 1938.                     