@@699209

txt As a climax of a day of campaigning in Oneida and Madison Counties , Colonel William J. Donovan set forth his farm program to au enthusiastic Republican audience at the Majestic Theatre here tonight . The Republican candidate for Governor avowed that he had no specific remedies to offer to the rural dwellers of the State . In fact , he declared that the farmer of New York was like the farmer throughout the nation in requiring readjustment generally to attain greater purchasing power . But he pledged himself to support sound legislation to help the agriculturist in the Empire State . " The agricultural problem of the State of New York , " he said in setting the keynote for his discussion of farm problems , " is more than a State problem , it is part of a national one . This is what we must keep clearly in mind . As we improve the national condition we correct the condition in the State . " What is the national problem ? Simply stated it is this : The farmer is suffering from an abnormally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased cost of production . " New Fiscal Policy Urged . Swinging through the Mohawk Valley communities with the Republican chieftains during the day , Colonel Donovan made a number of extemporaneous addresses , in which he once more stressed the need for a change at Albany to insure a new fiscal policy that would cost the taxpayers less . He issued a warning that if the shift in policy did not come the State soon would be confronted with the same kind of financial difficulty already at hand in Chicago and menacing the government of New York City . The Republican candidate reached here this morning from New York and at once started on  --  a swing through the " valley " which took him to Rome , Oneida , Clinton , back to Utica for a women 's organization rally and for another rally in the east end of the city before he addressed the major gathering at the night meeting . About 1,200 persons heard the 1Colonel tonight , some seats in the upper balcony being vacant . Theoplore Douglas Robinson , cousin of Governor Roosevelt , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talks the candidate stressed the economy issue , once more avowing that Governor Roosvelt and his " right arm , " Lieut. 1Gov . Lehman , had followed incorrect paths in governmental fiscal affairs . He was accompanied in the journey by Moses G. Hubbard , candidate for Attorney General , a resident of Utica , and Representative IFrederick M. Davenport , candidate for re-election . To Swing Into " North Country . " Colonel Donovan was prepared tomorrow to head up through Lowville and Carthage for a swing into the " north country " reaching Watertown tomorrow night . Throughout the day , Colonel Donovan repeated his strictures on Governor Roosevelt for the financial trends in State government which he declared must be , altered to relieve the taxpayers . He pleaded for united support for Mr. Hoover and tonight , in discussion of the farm program , he hit at the Governor once more on that score . " In discussing this situation , " he said , " I am offering no panacea , no overnight solution . To my mind it is an insult to us all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , by a waft of a magic wand he would cure it all . " The Republican candidate made no pretense , of extensive knowledge of the details of the farmer 's troubles . " I do not pretend to be a farmer , " he said , , but he declared hp had consulted with leading farm experts and found that the real difficulty lay in low purchasing power . Citing comparisons between the higher cost of commodities purchased by the farmer and the prices obtained for his own products , Colonel Donovan turned back to his favorite subject of tax reduction and economy , and said : " Let us see what happened to the farm taxes of the New York State farmer during the period when his price average dropped 140 points . As I revealed in the United States census of 1920 his taxes in New York State ' represented an index of 165 , but in 1930 they stood at 266 . Now it requires no mathematician to determine that that means for him an Increase of 111 per cent . Relies on Party Record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he made a special appeal for the Republican vote and relied more on the record Of his party and its platform promises of State farm aid than upon any Personally suggested remedies . He read the Democratic platform and then cited the Republican State plank pledging the organization of a milk bureau , reduction of farm taxes and further fiscal aid to rural communities . " Now what is the duty of any Chief Executive of the State faced with this problem ? " he said . " His duty is a simple one  --  to harness up the intelligence of the agricultural , industrial and financial leaders of the State ; to sit down together with those leaders ; to determine from his conference with those leaders what emergency measures shall be adopted to mitigate difficulties , and ultimate means that must be taken to solve them . " Having ascertained those measures , then he ' must have the power of decision , to use the power of the State as an energizing and coordinating force to work but a solution that will be for the common welfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that only by legislation can such relief be obtained , then to urge upon the legislative bodies such measures as will bring about the desired relief . " Democratic Fiscal Policies Assailed . It was at Rome that the Gubernatorial candidate put forward the financial danger to the State if the Democratic fiscal attitude was not reversed . With the court house , set amid yellow-foliaged elms , crowded to the doors with an unusually friendly audience , the Colonel assp.iled the Smith-Roosevelt-Lehman stand and said : ' " And all I need to do is to point out to you what happened in Chicago ' and what has happened in New York City today to see what may well happen in New York State if we do n't , take hold of this situation now . "                     