@@699512

txt Ernie Schaaf , the young Boston i heavyweight who collapsed under ' the mighty blows of Primo Camera in a prizefight at Madison Square Garden Friday night before 20,000 fans , many shouting " faker , " died yesterday in Polyclinic Hospital . Governor Lehman immediately ordered the State Athletic Commission to make a thorough investigation into " all the circumstances , " and among members of the Legislature in Albany there arose a movement to repeal the Walker boxing law , under which the sport has flourished in this State for the last decade . State Senator Henry G. Schackno , Bronx Democrat , led the movement for repeal , saying he would introduce a bill to that effect soon . Assemblyman Saul S. Streit introduced a bill to create a commission to investigate the administration of boxing and wrestling in the State and file a report Feb. 15 , 1934 . Camera Is Absolved . Camera , examined by Assistant District Attorney James J. Daly , was willing to concede that his punch might have had lethal force , but of course , denied any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sharkey for the world 's heavyweight championship . Authorities were disposed to agree that there was no direct connection between the Italian heavyweight 's punch and Schaaf 's death . Chief Medical Examiner Charles W. Norris said that the absence of any skull fracture or external cerebral hemorrhage indicated that Schaaf was suffering from an old injury or some undiscovered and perhaps undiscoverable constitu1 tional weakness when he entered the ring to face Camera . Dr. Benjamin N. Vance , Assistant Medical Examiner , who performed the autopsy , said death was due to a cerebral hemorrhage , but he declined to " go so far as to say death was due to natural causes . " It would take several days , perhaps a week , he said , to complete the microscopic examination of the brain which would provide the final answer to the question . Mr. Daly , after questioning most of those directly connected with the fatal fight , declared he had found no evidence of criminal responsibility or negligence on the part of any one . The investigation would be continued , he said , until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it was understood that prospects of a grand jury investigation were slight . No charge was made against Camera , who agreed to hold himself available for further questioning . Commission Upholds Officials . The State Athletic Commission , popularly known as the boxing commission , of which James A. Parley , Democratic National Chairman , is head , held a hasty meeting , and after investigation into the circumstances of the boxer 's death issued a statement absolving its officials of negligence . The statement signed by William Muldoon and General John J. Phelan follows : " In connection with the death of Ernie Schaaf , the commission , while deeply regretting this unfortunate occurrence , is thoroughly satisfied that none of its officials were negligent either in examining the boxer , permitting him to box or attending him after the bout . " Everything within discretion on the part of the commission 's representatives and the medical skill of the commission 's physician , as well as Schaaf 's personal physician , who was present at ? Madison Square Garden , was done prior to his con finement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical attention . " Mr. Farley , who returned from Miami too late to attend the meeting of the commission , issued a statement expressing regret at the death of Schaaf , whom he described as a " good fighter and a mighty fine individual , " but adding that fatalities occur on the football field , the baseball field and in swimming , diving and bicycle contests as well as in boxing . The death , he said , was no reflection upon the conduct of boxing in this State . Over The Associated Press wires came similar expressions of regret from such oustanding figures of the boxing world as Jack Dempsey , Gene Tunney and Jack Sharkey , the latter one of Schaaf 's managers , who is due here this morning from Miami , where he went after Friday 's fight before learning of the gravity of his prot  --  g ? ' s condition . Johnny Buckley , co-manager of Schaaf , James J. Johnston , boxing director of Madison Square Garden , and William F. Carey , president of the Garden corporation , also issued statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pugilist . Operation Fails to Save Him . Schaaf died in Polyclinic Hospital at 4:10 A. M. He had been operated upon a few hours earlier in a last desperate effort by surgeons to relieve the deep-seated intra-cranial pressure that had kept the 205-pound fighter in a condition of coma and partial paralysis ever since he was carried from the ring . The surgeons in attendance were Dr. Byron Stookey , who said after the operation that he believed Schaaf must have received his injury in the fight with Camera ; Dr. Harold Meeker , Dr. William V. Healy and Dr. Phillip Goodhart , Professor of Neurology at Columbia University . Schaaf rallied a little immediately after the operation but by midnight was so much worse that hope of saving him began to vanish . Soon after midnight , Schaaf 's DEAD AFTER BOUT . Times Wide World Photo . Ernie Schaaf , Pugilist , Who Died in Hospital Yesterday . mother , Mrs. Lucy Schaaf , and his sister , Mrs. May Daly , were summoned to his room . A priest administered extreme unction and a little before dawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight which he had looked upon as a rung on the ladder of fame , Camera hastened to New York from New Jersey , issued a statement expressing sympathy for the bereaved family of his opponent , sent a telegram of condolence and awaited the arrival of detectives to take him to the District Attorney 's office for questioning . Boxing Figures Questioned . Others who were questioned by Mr. Daly were Dr. Vance , Dr. William H. Walker , brother of the former Mayor , who is the Boxing Commission 's examining physician ; Buckley , Johnston , the match maker Billy Duffy , American agent for Camera : Mannie Seamon , one of the Italian 's trainers ; William J. Cavanaugh , who refereed the bout ; George Bannon , the timekeeper , and the two judges , William P. Dunn and George Bannon . Sharkey and Charlie Goodman , the deputy boxing commissioner who supervised the matches , probably will be questioned today . During the examination of Carnera , the proceedings were interrupted long enough to permit the boxer to discuss the case for the sound news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not keep him from fighting on . Camera , who believed he would be matched to fight Sharkey for the championship title if he succeeded in disposing of the champion 's prot  --  g ? , said he noticed no signs of distress on the face of his opponent , who , according to observers , sagged and started to fall even before the blow which looked so inconsequential . The big fighter , who outweighed Schaaf by more than fifty pounds and stood six inches taller than the 25-year-old Boston pugilist , added : " The blow may not have appeared so powerful to the spectators , but I know it was . I delivered several like it in the fight , but that last one was the hardest . " Not in Good Condition . Dr. Norris declared it would be " grossly unfair " to say that Schaaf died as the result of Camera 's blow because there was no fracture of the skull , no evidence of any outside hemorrhage and because the " compression seems to have been caused from within the brain . " . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from influenza , was not in perfect condition , having a " superfluity of subcutaneous fat . " The chief medical examiner , at pains to emphasize that he meant no reflection on the doctors who examined Schaaf prior to his appearance in the ring , said that his investigation thus far indicated that the boxer was suffering from some constitutional defect which might have resulted fatally from a run after a trolley car as easily as from a blow in a fight . He insisted that there was no disagreement between him and his assistant , Dr. Vance , who , he said , merely was reserving final judgment . Dr. Walker , who certified that Schaaf was fit to fight , declared he found the fighter 's heart and lungs in perfect condition and said that Schaaf assured him he felt as well as he ever did . There were no indications , Dr. Walker said , that Schaaf was not in condition to fight . Schaaf 's body was sent from the morgue to Sheldonville , Mass. , last night for burial from the home that he bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Product of Amateur Ring . Ernie Schaaf was a product of the navy and the amateur ring . His interest in fighting began during a short hitch in the navy where he came in contact with Jack Sharkey the present heavyweight champion , who was one of his managers in his last fight . After some months of navy boxing , Schaaf , who was born in Elizabeth , N. J. , Sept. 27 , 1908 , of German-French parentage , turned to the amateurs for further experience . His fine physique and skill as a boxer made him an outstanding performer of the non-professional ring . His powerful build also led to his being selected as the model for the Muldoon-Tunney Heavyweight Trophy which stands in the lobby of Madison Square Garden . Schaaf 's development as a fightet under the management . of Phil Schlossberg from 1925 to the middle of 1930 was slow but comparatively steady . Up until the night of his last fight records failed to show that he ever was knocked out . He lost few fights of consequence , although among the reverses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Loughran in 1929 In 1930 , when Schaaf lost a decision to Babe Hunt , Schlossberg gave him up and sold his interest in the fighter 's contracts to Buckley and Sharkey , who was then a challenger considering retirement . Since then Buckley and Sharkey have recovered their original investment with interest . Under their management Schaaf became a determined fighter campaigning for the heavyweight title He went along smoothly until last Summer , when he suffered reverses in bouts with Stanley Poreda , Unknown Winston and Max Baer . Schaaf 's followers attributed these setbacks to a breakdown in his physical condition . Recovering , Schaaf started his come-back with a knockout over Winston and another over Poreda . Just before his bout with Carnera , Schaaf , who , according to his friends , was a devout Catholic who always wished he had become a priest , went into seclusion in a religious retreat near Boston to recuperate from an attack of influenza.                     