@@697444

txt In Poland the parliamentary electoral campaign has developed picturesque innovations by which even places like Latin America might profit . Other countries are acquaintsd with discovery of irregular nomnations leading to the disqualifica:ion of Opposition tickets . Other : ountries have seen Opposition Leaders sent to jail on the eve of an section because they have unpatriotically violated the law or endangered public order . But Marshal PILSUDSKI , in sending no less than sixty-four Opposition candidates to prison , has not taken it upon himself to deprive them of their constitutional right to run for office . rite legal nomination papers have been sent to the prisoners to be Filled in and their names have been kept on the election lists . Almost me might argue that the candidate thus sequestered from the hurlyburly of an electioneering campaign s in a much better situation to work Put his program than if he were 2ompelled to step right out of the arena into the halls of Parliament . In the last Sejm , or House of Representatives , the Pilsudski following numbered about one-fourth of the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the time , but only at the cost of perpetual conflict and by methods which left little of the principle of parliamentary government . It is now PILSuDSKes purpose , by the electoral devices just described , to secure a straight majority in the Sejm in Drder to proceed with the task of : onstitutional revision , which he regards as essential . This offers the somewhat novel spectacle of a statesman invoking dictatorial power for the purpose of vindicating the constitutional principle . It is true that even in Italy parliamentarism is recognized to the extent that a Parliament exists and that the people elect its members , though the choice of candidates is determined by the Fascist organization . But whereas in Italy this is a system of control thought of as continuing into the indefinite future , Marshal PILSuDsKI 's rough-andready way is an emergency measure . The group of parties supporting him calls itself the Sanitation Bloc . In Italy provisions have been made for the passing of MUSSOLINI by regulating the successorship in the Fascist Grand Council . In Poland there is no attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guess at the mental operations of so highly complex and emotional a personality as Marshal PILSUDSKI , his procedure would be that of a father who decidedly will not spare the rod and spoil the child . He employs the scourge of the spoken word or the pen or direct action to drive in upon the consciousness of the new Poland , which he has so greatly helped to build , a sense of national responsibility and self-control as against the spirit of factionalism . The abuse of the Ziberum veto in the national councils of old Poland helped to bring about the ruin of the country ; It is a danger now to be guarded against . At the same time , one may surmise that PILSUDSKI is proud of Poland 's early apprenticeship in parliamentarism , and would see the Constitution preserved  --  even at the cost of throwing obstinate parliamentarians into jail .                     