@@702260

txt Thousands stood for two hours in a heavy downpour of rain this afternoon so that they might for two or three seconds throw flowers at President Roosevelt 's automobile as he passed them on his way to the port to board the cruiser Indianapolis and sail for Montevideo . In many ways the demonstration was even more notable than the unprecedented outburst of popular jubilee when he arrived Monday . The day of his arrival had been decreed a holiday and the weather was splendid . Today was dark and cold and it had been raining hard since yesterday evening . Yet people braved the weather to show Mr. Roosevelt this last evidence of their almost unbelievably deep admiration for him . Long before the President reached the Indianapolis his automobile was literally covered with flowers that had been showered upon him from balconies and from the sidewalks . Cancels Sight-Seeing Plans Because of the funeral services at the United States Embassy for August Adolph ( Gus ) Gennerich , his personal bodyguard , who died Monday night , the President canceled plans for a sight-seeing trip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At noon he gave a large luncheon party in the embassy in honor of President Agustin P. Justo of Argentina and Mrs. Justo . Immediately after the luncheon he set out for the port and embarked on the Indianapolis for the trip down the River Plate to Montevideo , where he is due tomorrow morning for a one-day stay . Mr. Gennerich 's funeral service was conducted in the ballroom of the embassy by Commander C. V. Ellis , chaplain of the Indianapolis . A detachment of American Marines and Argentine secret service men stood guard around the flowerblanketed casket . The services were attended by President Roosevelt , Secretary of State Cordell Hull , head of the United States delegation to the Inter-American Peace Conference ; Assistant Secretary Sumner Welles , Ambassador Alexander W. Weddell and Mrs. Weddell . American secret service men acted as pallbearers and took the body aboard the Indianapolis . The President was visibly moved by the death of the man who had been his personal bodyguard since 1928 . He spoke movingly of him at a press conference yesterday and said that the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We might stay over a few hours at Warm Springs Ga. , " he added . " Gus would have liked that . " President Confers With Hull After the funeral President Roosevelt talked with Mr. Hull and Mr. Welles for more than an hour on projects discussible at the peace conference . This was the longest conference the President had with Mr. Hull during his short visit to Buenos Aires . The conference finally had to be terminated as the hour approached for President Justo 's arrival for lunch . The luncheon was attended by members of the Argentine Cabinet , several other Argentine notables and their wives . At its termination President Roosevelt spoke briefly and extemporaneously , thanking President Justo for the many courtesies during his short visit . " I can not imagine a more delightful three days than I have had here , " he said . Then he read a short statement pledging to do everything he could to persuade the United States Senate to ratify the Argentine-American sanitary agreement , which would remove quarantine restrictions from Argentine mutton . Holds Method Unfair President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty to adopt such measures as it considered necessary to prevent the entry of contagious diseases from abroad . these sanitary regulations should not be disguised as tariff measures nor should they be applied except in accordance with strict justice . He declared that the manner in which the United States applied sanitary restrictions against Argentine meat was unjust . On the eve of Mr. Roosevelt 's arrival Foreign Minister Carlos Saavedra Lamas in an interview with this correspondent said that these sanitary regulations were the sole remaining sore point in the relations between Argentina and the United States . The President 's statement today was a clear promise to do what he could to remove this sore point . Long before the time announced for President Roosevelt 's departure from the embassy thousands , including hosts of women and children , were standing in a drenching rain on the wide avenue in front of the embassy . The same 10,000 troops that lined the streets Monday were out in the rain to present arms as the President departed . General Justo and James Roosevelt accompanied him in a closed automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Argentines who met Mr. Roosevelt upon his arrival . Buenos Aires has never seen anything to compare with today 's demonstration . If there ever was the slightest doubt as to the deepfelt sincerity of Monday 's reception it was wiped out by today 's manifestation , which required a real sacrifice of personal comfort and the risk of illness by the thousands who took part in it . President Gets a Gift At the dock President Justo presented President Roosevelt with a splendid specimen of gaucho poncho , woven of fine quality vicuna wool . President Roosevelt immediately went aboard the Indianapolis , followed by General Justo and the others who had accompanied him from the embassy . In bidding farewell the two Presidents threw their arms around each other 's shoulders and were locked for a moment in a close Latin embrace . Then Mr. Roosevelt shook hands warmly with Mr. Saavedra Lamas and the other members of the party . At 3:30 P. M. the Indianapolis blew one short sharp blast of its whistle and two powerful tugs began to warp it away from the dock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its moorings at another dock with American newspaper men aboard . Immediately there was an explosion of whistles , sirens , church bells and automobile horns in a noisy farewell salute . Within a few minutes the Indianapolis began moving slowly out of the North Basin , its gray bulk fading into invisibility in the mist overhanging the river . The last that Buenos Aires saw of its greatly admired Roosevelt , he was standing on the bridge alongside his son , James , his new gaucho ; poncho hanging over his shoulders and protecting him from the rain as he waved an old soft felt hat in farewell to the city that in three short days had given him a triumphal reception such as it had never extended to any one else .                     