@@697202

txt Stocks experienced further bad breaks at the week-end on the largest volume of trading for a Saturday session in the history of the Stock Exchange . Friday 's severe declines in the general market caused a large amount of necessitous liquidation from marginal accounts in impaired condition . Pressure was increased by the Stock Exchange loan figures for April . showing a gain of 5406,829,020 , which was about S100.000,000 more than net forth in the Federal Reserve reports for approximately the same period . Price cutting in the steel industry caused particularly large offerings of Steel common , which suffered a further extensive decline into new low ground on the current reaction . Additional recessions also took place in Radio . General Electric . Consolidated Gas and other issues which were features of tremendous activity on the upside last month . With the trading proceeding in record volume , the tape steadily lost ground until it was running close to an hour behind the market . While a steady stream of selling went ahead through the first hour , signs of better support developed around 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a renewed outburst of selling took place during the last hour , which quickly wiped out the slight improvement in pivotal shares . Steel again dipped sharply . and the whole market was under severe pressure at the close . ? ? After reliving about 65 points from the low of the secondary reaction in December to a high of 294.07 on April 17 , industrials used in the DowJones averages have reacted nearly 40 points . closing Saturday at 258.31 ? Severe declines in the principal trading stocks over the last week have caused some observers to draw an analogy between the current decline and the OctoberNovember collapse . These authorities call particular attention to the woeful lack of support in the leading rails , which closed Saturday at 140-24 . This level compared with 142.02 at the low point of the December reaction , and was not much more than 10 points above the extreme low of the autumn crashDespite this situation , however , it is evident that a much better balanced market exists at present than prevailed last fall . At the present time , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short interest has swollen to large proportions , whereas in October and November contracts for the decline were negligible . Moreover . there is now no large volume of weakly held stocks overhanging the market such as aggravated the autumn panic , and caused it to persist long after a turn for the better had been looked for . Generally speaking , the recent setbacks have been due to an overbought condition in the market following the substantial gains since the start of the year . This impairment of technical conditions left the general list in poor condition to withstand the recent Rood of unfavorable news , such as poor quarterly statements , adverse trade developments , and actual and prospective dividend reductions . Downward revision of 4 cents in the price of copper has failed to stimulate buying . and a further cut is now generally expected , while the price structure for important iron and steel has also been in a wobbly state . Railroad earnings statements have been outstandingly unfavorable , and April car loading figures suggest that little improvement can be expected in the statements for last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poorest thus far coming to hand . showing a decrease of 113.000 cars from the corresponding period last year . although allowance must ne made for the fact that this was the week before Easter . ? ? ? All these factors have given definite assistance to the bear cause , and operations for the decline became increasingly aggressive Friday when the market failed to respond to the cut in the rediscount rate and President Hoover 's optimistic resume of business conditions . Volume Saturday was at a rate of 12.000.000 shares for a five-hour session , suggesting that necessitous liquidation had reached such proportions as to indicate temporary culmination of the current downward movement , and to point to at least a technical rally . Factors in the economic situation favoring a development of this nature are the noteworthy ease of money , which has invariably proved a stimulating market influence in the long run , and the forthcoming Reparations loan which bankers on both sides of the Atlantic are extremely anxious to promote . In addition . much of the unfavorable side of the business situation has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a slow upward trend in commercial and industrial activity , particularly in merchandising and building lines Rhoades &; Co. have issued the following opinion " We expect a sharp rally in the general market from these levels . This is not the time to become bearish . with interest rates all over the world at the lowest levels in many years . " Care should be exercised in the purchase of stocks for the next advance , however We believe after the marlzet has had a sharp rally the general list will quiet down into a small trading area for some little time . During this period of relative dullness. certain stocks will forge ahead of the rest of the market into new high territory " We list below stocks we feel sure will make the most profitable purchase at this time for the long pull and immediate future : American Tobacco . Radio-Keith-Orpheuna Loew 's , Paramount-Publix Corp. , Warner Bros Pictures , General Electric . Standard Oil of New Jersey , Vanadium and Eastman Kodak . " ? ? ? United Carbon 's net earnings for the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported for the fourth quarter of 1929 , and the 3240.395 shown for the third quarter last year . although they were below the $412,886 reported for the corresponding 1929 period Such a showing would exceed earlier expectations and since the carbon black situation was unfavorable , would indicate a faster up-building of natural gas earnings than had been anticipated . United Carbon shipped in April a volume of carbon black 25% in excess of the monthly average of the first quarter . Natural gas sales are showing a steady increase . General Electric 's decline over the last few days has been accelerated by group operations on a tremendous scale which accompanied the advance in the stock last month to the year 's high of 951 . ? Activities of this character attracted a large speculative following , and created a weak technical situation which has helped to accentuate the break in the stock . However , good buying has been proceeding in General Electric on scale down , due to the fact that the company was able during the first quarter to show improving earnings over the corresponding period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become highly selective after the current period of correction , favoring to pronounced degree the shares of companies resisting the downward trend in profits since the start of the year . General Electric 's sales in the first three months of 1930 totaled $91,205,732. compared with $83,385,105 in the corresponding 1929 period . Balance for the common stock amounted to 50 cents a share , against 48 cents a share in the initial quarter a year ago . In view of this showing in a period of generally depressed business , the sponsors of the stock look for an improved showing with any pickup in general trade . Company entered 1930 with $94,623,000 forward business , which was an increase of 30% over unfilled orders at the start of 1929.                     