@@697738

txt Belittling a Gift . To the Editor of The New York Times : Elihu Root , in the Spring of 1904 or 1905 , tried to tell the graduating class at Hamilton University that it is possible for a man to set his brains at work on a serious problem and leave them to work out the answer for him while he himself was busy thinking of other matters . He told them It was a gift that he considered one of his most practical and valuable possessions . But they laughed behind his back . Nevertheless , I can add my witness to that of Mr. Root , and it positively hurts to find a scientific article in The Times referring to this tremendous power of the human brain as if it were nothing more important than " hunches . " If the author of that article will read Dr. William Hanna Thompson 's modern book on " Brain and Personality , " and compare it with W. B. Carpenter 's " Mental Physiology , " published in 1877 ? especially his Chapter XIII , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most important article ever yet published to this generation of thinkers , who are so ignorant of the ways in which they think that , instead of striving to practically develop this wonderful gift , they set it to one side as " hunches . " J. V. COOPER . Lynbrook , N. Y. , April 1 , 1931 . ' Doughboys ' Served In the Infantry . To the Editor of The New York Times : Without meaning to quibble , I should like to call attention to the misuse of the term " doughboy , " which has become almost universal in newspapers . It appears again in THE Times in a story about artillerymen . Realizing that " doughboy " fits much more snugly into headlines than " artilleryman , " I nevertheless hate to see the public confused on a term which belongs exclusively to the infantry . I say this as a field artilleryman . Those who have read General Pershing 's series will note that the American Army , as a whole , was on the offensive throughout its part in the war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the artillery and a much more dangerous one for the infantry than is the case in defensive or in rear-guard actions , when it is often impossible to get the guns out of range . I do n't mean to belittle the part of the field artillery  --  it has its own peculiar hazards . But the term " doughboy , " together with its picturesqueness. belongs to the infantry alone . CHARLES WOOD . New York , ' March 30 , 1931.                     