@@697759

txt In a unanimous opinion affirming decisions of the Supreme Court and the Transit Commission the Appellate Division held yesterday that the five-cent fare clauses in contracts between the city and the Interborough were binding as to both the subway and elevated lines . The opinion , written by Justice John V. with the concurrence of Presiding Justice Edward R. Finch and Justices Francis Martin , Henry L. Sherman and James O'Malley , declared that the Transit . Commission had no jurisdiction to alter the rate of fare . The decision , embodied in a thirtytwo page opinion , affirmed the decree of Supreme Court Justice Phoenix Ingraham in the suit brought by the Transit Commission , as agent for the city , ordering specific performance of the five-cent fare contract on the company 's combined subway and elevated system . It dismissed the company 's certiorari proceedings directed against the Transit Commission 's refusal to pass upon its application for a ten-cent fare on the elevated lines . Likely to Go to Appeals Court . The company 's appeals in both cases were heard by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the company would take both cases to the Court of Appeals for a final ruling . The permission required for such an appeal , it was said , will undoubtedly be granted by the Appellate Division because of the importance of the litigation . The decision upholding the fivecent fare was hailed by Mayor Walker , William G. Fullen , chairman of the Transit Commission , and Samuel Untermyer , special counsel for the corm-nission , as a vindication of the stand they have taken from the beginning of the company 's efforts to increase the fare . " This is just another victory for the people , " the Mayor said . " We have fought and will continue to fight through every court to make the companies live up to their contracts and keep the five-cent fare . " " It is another great victory for the city , " Mr. Fullen said . " The fact that the Appellate Division voted unanimously to uphold the fare is especially gratifying . " Declaring the decision " gratifying but by no means unexpected , " Mr. Untermyer said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Court of Appeals before the Summer recess . " Perhaps this unanimous decision , " he said , " may have its effect upon the willingness of the security holders of the Interborough to accept a reasonable price for their proper ! ties . " City and State transit officials received word of the decision soon after they had learned that the Legislature had passed the Thayer amendment to the rapid transit act empowering the city , through the Board of Transportation , to initiate its own unification program in case the Board of Control plan , recently sanctioned by the Legislature , should prove unworkable . The fare decision , in their opinion , adds considerable strength to the prospects for the successful conclusion of a rapid transit unification plan . Only Two Cases Cited . The Appellate Division opinion was regarded by lawyers as somewhat unusual in that it cited only two cases  --  the United States Supreme Court decision in the Interborough 's seven-cent-fare case and the Court of Appeals ruling in the so-called Drydock case , holding that fares fixed by statutory process could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission . Almost the entire opinion was devoted to the history of the fare contracts and the analysis of the rapid transit act of 1909 and its numerous amendments . The court found that the Public Service Commission law of 1907 , with its provisions for " reasonable fare , " did not apply to the five-cent-fare contracts and could not override the rapid transit act in the case of Interborough subway and elevated lines . Although the Appellate Division , in ti. : proceedings relating to the fare for the combined subway and elevated system , decided on the merits of the contract controversy , its opinion declared that the decision in the Drydock case was ample authority for enjoining the company from , increasing the fare from five cents to seven . By bringing its fare rise proceedings under Section 29 of the Public Service Commission law , which relates to posting of new schedules , the court found , the company had failed to make those schedules legally effective . " There is no doubt that the city was entitled to restrain the Interborough Company from charging seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 29 , " said the opinion , " and the judgment could be sustained on that ground alone on the authority of the Drydock Railroad Company case . " The opinion pointed out , however , that the lower court had ordered specific performance and the city , through the Transit Commission , had chosen to ignore the defect in procedure and to rely on the commission 's lack of jurisdiction to act on a petition for a fare increase . Elevated Fare Case Disposed Of . The opinion disposed of the company 's certiorari proceedings for a ten-cent fare on the elevated lines by finding that they were improperly brought while other litigation , involving the same legal questions , were pending in the Supreme Court . " It is also asserted , " the opinion declared , in discussing the Transit Commission 's specific performance suit , " that bringing the certiorari proceedings , while this suit was pending , and after denial of petition under Section 29 of the public service commission law , was improper because of the pendency of this suit and various restraining orders which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with respect to fares on the elevated lines and the commission was then without power to consider such questions with respect to such fares on the elevated lines . With this contention we are in accord . " In dealing with the case relating to the combined subway and elevated systep the Appellate Division opinion declared that the decision of the United States Supreme Court in the company 's seven-cent fare case , while not a holding on the merits , did express disagreement with the Interborough 's contention that the so-called Nixon case in this State had established that the subway and elevated fare contracts imposed no inflexible rate of fare . This case was the company 's mainstay in the State court proceedings also . Although it did not so state expressly , the Appellate Division opinion in effect voiced complete agreement with the Federal court 's viewpoint . Contract Found Binding . After disposing of preliminary questions Justice 's opinion recited in detail the history of New York City rapid transit and ' the relation of the rapid transit act of 1891 and its many amendments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He found that the intention of the contracting parties was to fix the fare at 5 cents for the entire period of the contracts . He found also that the Legislature acted in harmony with that intention , and that it gave no indication , in passing the public service commission law of 1907 , of any intention to subject the nickel fare contracts to regulation py the Public Service Commission lor its successor , the Transit Commission . The same conclusions were reached as to the elevated extension certificates . " Nowhere in the public service commission law , " says the opinion , " is there anything subjecting the rapid transit act to the terms of such law . There seems no basis for the contention of the defendant that the public service law inferentially subjected the rapid transit act to its terms and provided a means for increasing the five-cent fare which was fixed by contract under a special act of the Legislature , to wit ; the rapid transit act . " Studies Legislative Intent . If the Legislature intended to make the fare contracts subject to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so indicated by abrogating the Transit Commission 's power to contract for fixed rates . All that the Legislature did with reference to contract rates , the court held , was to name a new agent  --  the Transit Commission  --  to act for the city . Justice 's opinion found in the negotiationA which led to the city 's contract with the Interborough a clear indication of intent to establish a permanent five-cent fare . " Much of the labor of the negotiators and the defendant the Interborough ) was devoted to making perfectly clear that the five-cent fare proposed to be agreed upon was to endure during the term of the agreement , " it declared , asserting that the company 's annual preferential payment was evidence that it was expected to rely upon such a fare for its profits . " When these contracts were agreed upon there was no doubt in the mind . of any one of the conference , as expressed in the record of the negotiations , " the opinion continued , " that the five-cent fare in each contract would constitute an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ binding upon all the parties irrespective of the profits it might yield or the losses It might cause . " The court found that for many years the Interborough 's profits under the dual contracts were such " that the five-cent fare might have been reduced under the public service law except for the apparent recognition of the binding force of the contract so far as the fare was concerned . " It found also , in the Interborough 's withdrawal of one higher-fare action and its subsequent memorial to the Legislature , an indication that the company itself recognized a lack of Transit Commission jurisdiction to alter the contract rate . After further discussion of the legislation applicable to fare contracts the opinion declared that the Legislature had not only deprived the Transit Commission of regulatory power over them but had also required the city 's consent to any fare fixed as part of a unification procedure . Commission Has No Jurisdiction . " We think therefore , " the opinion declared , " that the commission has no jurisdiction over these rates ; that the Legislature has not given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that since all doubt should be resolved against the jurisdiction of regulatory tribunals and no such jurisdiction clearly appears , but on the contrary a determination of the Legislature to prohibit such regulation , it would seem to follow from the history of the legislation with respect to this Transit Commission 's power that no such power is to be taken by implication and only language which admits of no other reasonable construction should be deemed to confer it . We find a lack of jurisdiction over these rates which prohibits the Transit Commission from exercising any jurisdiction thereof . " Declaring that the fare contract made by legislative authority must be the supreme test where reasonable rates do , not coincide with those fixed by the parties , the decision declares that the legislative authority would be meaningless if the five-cent fare were to . be as much subject to regulation as though no contract was ever made . " The fare provision of a contract is absolutely useless , " the opinion declared , " if it means no more than that the contract rate will only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produces such a revenue that it would be imposed in any event by the Public Service Commission law . The statute should not be construed to authorize that to be done which could be done without its enactment . "                     