@@703848

txt Mr. Stimson 's letter to THE TIMES today is an eloquent appeal for an " affirmative " foreign policy . It meets directly , and in our judgment successfully , the two arguments ordinarily made against such a policy : namely , that it is not our business to concern ourselves with the policies and the objectives of the fascist nations , and that if we do make it our business we shall only increase the likelihood of our being drawn into war . So far as the first point is concerned , Mr. Stimson is ready to agree that if modern fascism meant merely a system under which a nation voluntarily submitted itself to an autocratic ruler and was content under him to live quietly and at peace with its neighbors , we might properly regard its preference as a domestic matter which concerned that nation alone . But this is not the situation with which we are confronted . Modern fascism is an aggressively active force . It does not stay at home . It is , as Mr. Stimson says , a radical attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has grown , and it does not and will not leave the democracies alone , even if they profess to ignore it . It is idle to say that we need not concern ourselves with the policies of the fascist states , when these states themselves are shaking the whole structure of , peace throughout the world . The question , then , is whether an " affirmative " foreign policy will increase the likelihood of our being drawn into such a war as the policies of the fascist nations now seem to be inviting . We are as thoroughly in agreement with Mr. Stimson 's analysis here as we are with his conclusion that fascism is a direct challenge to democracy . Experience has shown that once war on a large scale begins it is almost impossible for an important nation to stay out . The best hope of remaining at peace , therefore , does not lie in attempting to make ourselves immune to the effects of war after it has started , but in making the outbreak of war itself , on a large scale , less likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " foreign policy which simply invites the aggressor nations to believe that they can continue to press remorselessly ahead without risk of encountering real opposition . If they believe this to be the case they will be encouraged to resort to increasingly reckless acts until some day a particularly reckless act suddenly involves the whole world in the tragedy of war . There is no safety here for any of us. the best hope of averting a new world war into which we might readily be drawn lies in an " affirmative " foreign policy : in the building up of such a preponderance of military and diplomatic power on the side of the lawabiding countries that no predatory nation will dare to challenge that authority . Such a policy , for the United States , does not require alliances abroad . It does not require secret understandings or the making of advance commitments . But it does require certain steps which alone can create a preponderance of strength on the side of international law and order . It requires a strong American navy and an adequate air force . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-defense , It requires assur- ance that these law-abiding nations wi be able to obtain from us in time of wa weapons with which to protect them selves in case of unprovoked attack . requires a sound fiscal policy at hom ( so that the credit of the Governmen will be equal to any strain that may b placed on it in time of unexpected need It requires a strongly united people torn by no factional or class dispute . and determined to make democrac : work .                     