@@703528

txt Definite indications that Canada has been asked to surrender at least a portion of the tariff ' advantage which her wheat exports now enjoy in the British market came from government circles last night . This proposal , designed to facilitate the Anglo-American trade pact , was revealed on the eve of a conference here between Canadian and United States officials on possible joint steps to facilitate wheat exports by both countries . Prime banister Mackenzie King . questioned concerning a possible Canadian move to give up the wheat preferential , replied that nothing had been settled . However , it is understood that the Dominion Government has been approached on the matter , and , at least , has not definitely refused . A 6-cent tariff imposed on non-empire wheat entering the United Kingdom was a feature of the empire trade agreements signed here a few years ago . Aside from the price advantage given the Canadian produce on the British market . the preference resulted in most of the export business the U. S. Atlantic ports formerly enjoyed In Canadian wheat being diverted to Montreal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today Two experts from the U. S. Department of Agriculture will be here today for conferences with Canadian officials on the wheat question . Mr. King said , adding that the discussion would be entirely informal . Secretary of Agriculture Wallace , however , is not coming to Ottawa . The Prime Minister did not disclose the nature of the conference , but it was assumed some details of Secretary Wallace 's supposed plan for cooperation between Canada and 13 . S. in marketing this year 's crop would be under consideration . Faced with a common problem of disposing of a large crop in restricted markets overseas , it was taken for granted here that U. S. and Canada would welcome some scheme of - cooperation . Difficulty noted by observers here . however , was that the policy of the Canadian ' government has been fixed for the 1938-39 crop year , and would not likely be altered in any fundamental manner . Canadian Policy Meanwhile Canada has launched a policy of direct salesmanship in an effort to dispose of a crop which is estimated at least as high as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the British Isles and Europe to discuss wheat sales with buyers . Ana he confers with English millers , he plans to visit Germany and Italy in the hope of persuading those governments to admit large quantities of Canadian wheat . Reports are that both these European countries are , in the market for large quantities of wheat , if some sort of reciprocal trade agreement can be worked out . While the program of Secretary Wallace is still in the realm of speculation as far as the Ottawa government is concerned , some obs-ervers see the situation as one where Canada and the U. S. are actively bidding for European business and suggest that the Washington government seeks an agreement to prevent cutthroat competition . Direct bargaining can be carried on with the Canadian government this year because belief is that on account of the high price the wheat board is paying for the crop , practically all the spring wheat will pass through the of the government agency . Crop Board Operations In the last crop year , the board 's price was below the open market and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was struggling to dippose of an immense , surplus which had been built up by a policy of buying and holding oft the world market . Although drought aided in finally disposing of the board 's holdings at a small loss the Treasury a few years ago faced a book loss estiniatea at $100.000,000 on the current price . The memory of that near disaster led the government this year to enunciate the policy that there would be no hoarding to enhance the price . Considerable progress has been made in negotiations for a trade treaty between Britain and United States and a revised treaty between ' United States and Canada , King stated , and expectation is that a conclusion will be reached not later than the end of September . Mr. King said he might have to go to Washington in connection with trade matters and if so he would probably visit President Roosevelt at Hyde Park . The Prime Minister was asked whether President Roosevelt had invited him to confer at Hyde Park on the StStawrence Waterways question , but ar.swered that no specific matters had been proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   