@@702276

txt As the news of King Edward 's abdication sped to the far corners of the empire this afternoon Britain received confirmation of her worst fear with mixed emotions , sadness at losing so popular and beloved a sovereign and relief that the gnawing suspense of the last week at last had drawn to an end . Massed thousands stood silently outside the towering iron gates of Parliament while the terse , restrained statement of the first monarch in England 's history ever to renounce the throne voluntarily was read to the House of Commons . Presently , as the twilight shadows of Westminster Abbey lengthened over Parliament Square , word sped from mouth to mouth that the reign of Edward was coming to an end . Although the atmosphere a few minutes before had been highly charged with tension and anxiety the news was received calmly and with typical British reserve . There was no demonstration and no show of feeling save for the serious , strained faces in the crowd and the flutter of women 's handkerchiefs here and there . Crowds Gather Throughout Day Throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of varying proportions gathered outside all the buildings associated ' with the historic happenings of the day . People clustered about No. 10 Downing Street , the Houses of Parliament and all the royal residences , standing stolidly and silently when allowed or moving along without protest if required . If any emotion was perceptible that could be described as a corporate reaction , it was one of bewilderment and incredulity that such a thing ever could actually happen . A throng composed mostly of women , which at times reached 10,000 or more , stood on the pavement before Buckingham Palace forming a wide semi-circle.around that portion on which last January was posted the announcement of the death of King George . They spoke in subdued tones gazing up at the great French windows and at the Royal Standard which still fluttered over the palace . As night came on the crowd grew in size and the stream of hundreds of cars which circled the Victoria Memorial was steady and continuous . Small groups gathered in the gray mists which enshrouded Fort Belvedere and the circle of dense woods which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two mai% entrances on the Sunningdale And Ascot roads to watch the comings and goings in the drama being unfolded . Queen Mary Cheered Hundreds swarmed on the pavement outside 145 Piccadilly , the home of the new King and Queen . I Just before 4:30 P. M. Queen Mary 's car swept through the drive and drew up at the door . As Queen Mary , accompanied by her lady-inwaiting , alighted from her car the crowd broke into a wild chorus and surged through police lines and up to the railing of the grounds . A few minutes later a blind was drawn back from one of the upper windows of the house and the two little Princesses looked out . When the crowd sighted them it broke into repeated cheers . News dealers all over London quickly sold out their late editions of the evening papers when the vast army of office workers poured into the streets rushing for trams , buses , subways and commuters ' trains . Here and there the momentous news was eagerly devoured under street lamps and in the reflection of shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversation than the one blazoned across the papers in the largest type seen here since the war . The announcement of the abdication was flashed on the screens of most of the West End motion-picture houses shortly after 4 o'clock . It was received in sympathetic and unhappy silence , but when the news of King Edward 's successor followed it was greeted with applause and scattered cheering . Half an hour later theatres were showing special short films based on the recent public appearances I of the Duke and Duchess of York , the Princesses Elizabeth and Mar ' garet and Queen Mary . In some theatres where the abdication was not announced the special film was received without response from the audience . Large cinema combines throughout Britain sent out instructions immediately to refrain from showing Edward 's picture to close perform ! ances but to play " God Save the King . " The procedure brought I varying reactions , some audiences spontaneously rising to attention while others did not stir and had no heart to sing . In the two large London chains the national anthem was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was substituted . British Fascists Demonstrate Several hundred British Fascists who used last week 's crisis to institute a vigorous pro-Edward movement demonstrated again tonight , first appearing at Buckingham Palace , where 10,000 were gathered before the gates and around the memorial . Shouting prearranged slogans in favor of Edward , they distributed thousands of printed leaflets giving Sir Oswald Mosley 's view of the situation . Marching in loose military formation they paused occasionally to sing " God Save the King " and " He 's a Jolly Good Fellow . " Then with arms upraised in the Fascist salute they shouted such slogans as " We want Edward " or " We want . the workers ' King . " A little after 10 o'clock the group marched along the Mall to Whitehall and on to Downing Street , where a few attempted without success to push their way past the police who had blocked off the street . Reserves were called to cope with the demonstrations and in only a few instances did they have to use force to maintain order . The fact that public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was indicated by the wide variations of views expressed in pubs , coffee houses and small caf  --  s and wherever laborers and the lower middle classes gather . Some feel a deep sense of personal sorrow in losing the dashing and colorful figure of Edward as a monarch , while others are openly bitter and resentful because he refused to " play the game , " and still others are inclined to put the whole blame on Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin for " bungling the mess . " In the Provinces the news proyoked much the same mixed reaction as in the capital . Two notable exceptions were the wide areas in Wales where the King was especially beloved and most of Scotland , which generally was happy at the prospect of a native daughter ascending the empire 's throne as Queen . ' A little more than two weeks ago the King received an ovation during a tour of the distressed areas of Wales , leaving no doubt of the affection in which he was held , and ' the links forged between the Welsh people and the King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prince increase their sense of personal loss at his abdication.                     