@@704304

txt The Belgian Government today took preliminary steps to discover whether it can obtain under Belgian registry some inactive United States liners . Count Robert van der StratenPonthoz , Belgian Ambassador , called on Sumner Welles , Undersecretary of State , to ask whether President Roosevelt 's indicated dis ' approval of the proposed transter of U. S. flag ships to American neutrals applied equally to European neutrals . He pointed out the strain on Belgium 's economy caused by the cessation of U. S. maritime commerce in war danger zones . This development introduces a new factor into the ship transfer problem , which is a vital test of whether American neutrality is to be administered rigidly or flexibly . From the viewpoint of critics of the proposed Panama transfer , the shift to Belgian registry might be almost equally evasive of the neutrality law 's intent . On the other hand , an American neutral is not involved , and that was the objection advanced by President Roosevelt late yesterday in indicating that the transfers probably would not be permitted . Should some U. S. lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably concentrate on traffic to Europen neutral countries , not to belligerents . The purpose would be to reopen vital lines of communication to the smaller nations . Belgium has a very small merchant marine , while the Netherlands is more amply supplied , but both would be greately interested in the proposed transfer . Non Involvement Plan With President Roosevelt placing an apparent veto on the transfer of United States merchant ships to Panama registry , on the ground of concern for the neutrality of Latin American countries , attention swings to the broader field of what may be called Hemispheric Noninvolvement . The Inter-American Economic and Financial Committee , a standing body of experts from the 21 New World Republics , had its opening official sessions here today , after having elected Sumner Welles , Undersecretary of State , as chairman . The group , which is composed mostly of experts resident in Washington , will sit in continuous session for the duration of the European war , seeking . to set up barricades against economic disturbance . Important Decision However substantially all this inter-American work contributes to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt 's apparently final decision on the ship transfer matter is of even more importance . The President 's decision did not effect merely eight ships , but the whole nature of neutrality enforcement . After Secretary of State Cordell Hull and Congressional leaders had impressed upon the President that enforcement must be of a firm and determined character , and it was apparent that public opinion would regard the ship transfer as an evasion of the Act , Mr. Roosevelt changed his prior indorsement of the transfer . In doing so , he had to have some face-saving formula , and an ingenious one was produced . On Friday last , the President announced that he was more interested in the seamen thrown out of work by the effect of the Neutrality Law than in the ship companies . So far so good : the Executive 's statement was a hint that he was going to decide against the transfer . Then , late yesterday , he was asked at press conference what developments there had been in the ship problem , and answered that reporters could see which way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corps to say that indeed they could . On the Record But to get the President more definitely on the record , a reporter said : " last week , Mr. President , you said you were bound by the letter of the law in regard to these transfers ; do you think the transfers are in violation of the spirit of the law ? " The President replied that in part he believed the transfer did so violate the law 's intent . And hd added the second section of his face-formula . One point , he said , had not been discussed in the ; papers . Do we want to put any sister American Republic in any , position which is different from our own on the subject of neutrality ? ' Transfer of United States ships to Panama registry , already au- : thorized , were water over the dam ; he said , and could not be prevented now . But  --  and these were the significant words  --  the more we think it over , continued President Roose4 velt , the more we hesitate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , the formal rejection : must come from the Maritime Commission .                     