@@700740

txt Indicated cotton crop of 9.195,000 bales this season " definitely points " toward modification of the AAA adjustment program for that commodity to permit an increase in acreage in 1935. according to Cully A. Cobb , chief of the Administration 's cotton section . However , Mr. Cobb holds that It Is still too early to determine what acreage increase will be sought in 1935 . The foreign situation . especially the unsettled economic and social conditions in western European countries , will influence exports during the current year and will be an important factor in determining next season 's crop , he states . Mr. Cobb declares he does not anticipate the United States voluntarily giving up a part of its world cotton trade . AAA. anticipates continuing benefit payments to producers cooperating in the 1935 program at about the present level , although a part of the area rented to the Secretary of Agriculture will be returned to production of cotton . It is planned that the pre-acre payment will be increased above the present rate , thus inaintainz ing the flow of benefit payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of between 32,500.000 acres and 35.000,000 with a production goal of approximately 13.000.000 bales is talked in some AAA quarters . However , it is pointed out that decision on the program to be adopted for next season can be delayed until the first of the year if conditions warrant it . " We will move back to normal production as rapidly as economic conditions will permit . " Mr. Cobb declares . " but we must maintain a balance between production and demand . Unless some control is exercised , we will return to the old surplus situation " Mr. Cobb is confident that the majority of cotton farmers will be in favor of employing the control machinery provided by the Eankhead Act to keep a check oil production in 1935 . ' They must lime some device to enable them to shut down a part of their factory and keep the recalcitrant minority in line , " he asserts . Allocations Proceed Slowly Local committees . charged with allocating a county 's quota among the individual producers ? Inder the terms of the Bankhead Act , are moving rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few counties and all individual allotments have been made in no state . Mr. Cobb holds that southern cotton farmers stand to gain in three distinct ways this season from the AAA program . First , it is pointed cut , prices have improved : second , benefit payments are being i eceived fin acreage retired from cultivation and rented to the Secretary of Agriculture ; and third , farmers producing less than their allotments will be permitted to sell their Bankhead tax exemption certificates to surplus producers .                     