@@703466

txt Enlargement of the membership of the Securities and Exchange Commission to allow more satisfactory handling of the many laws now under its administration is a question which may come up for consideration at the next session of Congress , according to reliable reports here . The subject already has been discussed unofficially in several quarters and early reactions appear to favor increasing the number of commissioners to seven . At present there are five members of the SEC . When the commission was created in 1934 , a membership of five commissioners was adequate to administer the provisions of only the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the ? Securities Act of 1933 . Since that time , however , the commission has been given the administration of the Public Utility Act of 1935 , the Chandler amendments to the Bankruptcy Act and the Maloney over-the-counter amend- ments to the Securities Exchange Act . In addition , there have been amendments to the Exchange Act in connection with unlisted trading and over-the-counter brokers and dealers . Commissions Supervise Divisions The Commission 's policy since its creation has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divisions under one of the commissioners . For example , Commissioner Healy directs the activities of the public utility division and the investment trust study . Commissioner Frank , among other things , will supervise reorganizations , Commissioner Mathews watches the work of the registration division and more recently has taken on the work of supervising administration of the Maloney over-the-counter amendments . Upon Chairman Douglas falls supervision of the trading and exchange division . It has been found practically impossible for the commissioners to supervise their respective departments and keep up on all their other duties . For example , it may be necessary for Commissioner Mathews , in . his supervision of the work under the Maloney Act , to make several trips to various sections of the country . Organizing the investment banking Industry with its 6,500 registered brokers and dealers is in itself more than enough to keep a commissioner busy during his spare time from commission meetings , officials feel . If additional duties of the commission were to stop here , it might be possible at some future time to get affairs so well organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Just the opposite appears to be the trend . however , officials feel . Monopoly Study Increases Work The commission is in the concluding stages of its investment trust reports and the next session of Congress will find itself faced with recommendations for a comprehensive program for federal regulation of this industry . The Barkley bill for regulation of indenture trustees and the Lea bill for the supervision of activities of protective committees will be revived at the next session . In time to come , almost anything can grow out of the monopoly investigation to heap more duties upon the commission , to say nothing of the additional work which it takes On in assisting in the monopoly study . Those who have given thought to the need of expanding the membership of the SEC favor the idea . They believe , however , that the commission should not be expanded beyond two additional members , bringing the board 's number to seven . It is felt that too large a membership might tend to complicate the machinery in handling problems of such a delicate nature as some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    