@@698871

txt Having opened the way for private agreements which are hoped to lead the Disarmament Conference from it impasse , Prime Ministers and Foreign Secretaries today sped to Lausanne and held preliminary meetings of the Reparations Conference . Decision of the Disarmament Conference 's bureau yesterday to stIspend formal activities until agreement had been reached between the leaders means in effect that two vital negotiations will be proceeding at once for the next few days , mostly at Lausanne . Fruitless efforts of the expert committees for two months were frankly acknowledged by the chief delegates . Mr. Arthur Henderson of Britain . chairman of the conference , announced to the bureau that since no agreement exists on the prime problem of the treatment to be applied to aggressive armaments , leaders must talk privately until they work out a decision . Mr. Ramsay , British Prime Minister , and M. Edouard Herriot , French Prime Minister , were joined yesterday by Mr. Hugh S. Gibson of the American delegation , and they have already begun to explore the ground of the agreement . The Germans added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms banned by the Treaty of Versailles be those tackled by the present conference . Russia immediately supported Herr Rudolf Nadolny 's move . The conference therefore is confronted by four chief suggestions . First comes that of the Germans , Italians and Russians , with its drastic proposals . The second is that of Mr. Ramsay , who still favors qualitative disarmament , applied chiefly on land , and who would interpret it by means of an armaments truce , which particularly checks aggressive weapons . Third comes the proposal of M. Herriot , who now leans toward a budgetary cut , and yesterday for the first time France advanced the necessity of controlling , perhaps suppressing , the private manufac- Lure of arms . Finally , the recommendation of the American delegation , although favoring qualitative disarmament . now ' places greatest importance upon the limitation of eirectives by the peace treaty method  --  which , however , means nothing so drastic as the German proposals , With sufficient leadership among the statesmen , observers agree that there Is no reason why mutual ground between these proposals can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private talks alone can work out an agreement , and settlement of the reparations question obviously will have a direct bearing upon the disarmament solution . The good impression produced by the Franco-British talks still continues . The Germans , although instinctively apprehensive of too close a revival of the entente cordiale , felt better after once more pushing the peace treaty method and receiving Italian support . At Lausanne , Mr. and I M. Herr ( ot will be able to talk directly with the Berlin chancellor , Capt . Franz von Papen , and Baron Constantin von Neurath , Minister of Foreign Affairs , and thus get as close as possible to Germany 's official judgment . Altogether , therefore , the prospects of the next few days arc well regarded here despite vast obstacles which still persist . Never before have so many vital international subjects been under discussion at once , and these days are recognized by all as being the most momentous perhaps In the present generation . Starting In titter realism anti without Illusion , It is hoped the conferences will progress better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another in a monotonous chain since the World War . The imperious demands of the peoples of the world ring louder in the leaders ' ears than ever before and they penetrate even through national boundaries to leaders who place national self-interest properly first , but who today must interpret it in broader terms .                     