@@703770

txt A broadening of the powers of the State government to deal with the problem of corruption on the part of public office-holders was demanded today by Governor Lehman in a special message to the Legislature . Disclaiming any intention of encroaching on the functions of local governments , Mr. Lehman at the same time asserted that while honesty in all public offices was a matter of " vital concern " to the State , the powers of the Governor and other State officers to deal with the problem were much narrower than generally realized . To carry out his theory , he asked that the Legislature enact a broad , six-point program , covering the following points : First , that the Governor 's power to supersede local District Attorneys be increased by giving him additional grounds for such action and that the Governor receive the right to name the special prosecutor directly , instead of leaving that selection to the Attorney General . Second , that the Moreland act , which now permits the Governor to name a commissioner to investigate any State agency , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigate and report to the Governor on the management and affairs of any county , city , town or village in the State . Would Check on Prosecutors Third , that the State Controller , now empowered to investigate the accounts of fiscal officers of the localities , be required to turn over any evidence of irregularities to the Governor , the Attorney General and the local District Attorney . Fourth , that a constant check be made on the diligence of District Attorneys by requiring a grand jury in each county to investigate annually the disposition made of all indictments which are over twelve months old . Fifth , a requirement that District Attorneys or their assistants , in the more populous counties , be prohibited from the private practice of law . Sixth , a recommendation , made in previous years , for the establishment of a State Department of Justice , modeled along the lines of the Federal department . Five bills , carrying out the Governor 's program , are scheduled to be introduced in the Legislature tomorrow . The Governor 's message now furnishes the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is particularly true of the recommendation that the powers of a Moreland Act Commissioner be broadened to include the affairs of the counties , cities , towns and villages . Centralization Point Raised While leading Republicans said that they preferred to study the message before making any comment , that particular recommendation is likely to be resisted by some of them . The power , should it be misused by future Governors , might vest in an Executive the chance to collect , for political purposes , campaign ammunition during his entire term of office , it was said . In addition , its trend was declared to be too much toward the idea of centralization to suit the present . stand of the Republicans , in both the State and nation , for increased local responsibility in government . The Republicans in the past have opposed the proposed State Department of Justice with an appointive head , on the same anti-centralization grounds . What attitude the Republicans may take on the other points in the program is not yet clear and may not be for some time . The reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has appeared thus far in the Legislature , the Governor 's anti-corruption program is the most certain to be referred by the Republican leaders to Thomas E. Dewey , New York County District Attorney , who was the Governor 's unsuccessful opponent in the recent Gubernatorial campaign , for Mr. Dewey 's opinion and advice . Official corruption was , in fact , the principal Republican issue in the campaign and observers say that it would seem at present difficult for the Republicans to ignore the issues that the Governor has raised , even if they should be disposed to do so . The Governor , in his message to the Legislature , declared that public service " must not be brought into public disrepute by a few who betray their trust . " " Our common purpose , " he declared , " should be to weed out , so far as we are able , all official corruption , no matter where it exists . "                     