@@702994

txt A Democratic effort will by made to shelve the Roos ev e It farm dictatorship bill by referring it back to the agriculture committee , it was revealed in the senate today after the measure had been condemned in a riot of oratory as an attempt at the greatest centralization of power ever proposed . " There can be Alben W. Bartite7 , no question that the bill would make the secretary of agriculture , to use a word that is common these days , a dictator , " said Senator William H. King D. , Utah . " It is in harmony with the views of those who wish to turn over to the federal government full power such as Stalin has , such as Hitler has , such as Mussolini has . " Debate Is Limited , Senator Robert J. Bulkley D. , Ohio disclosed that an effort to recommit the bill would be made before consenting to a unanimous consent agreement to limit debate beginning Monday . Majority Leader Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , who pointed out that the debate on the farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained a limitation agreement but was forced to stipulate that it would not apply to any substitute bills or amendments thereto or a motion to recommit . On the pending bill , no senator may speak more than once or more than 30 minutes , and on any amendment offered to it no senator may speak more than 15 minutes . Democrats Attack BM Off the senate floor three Democrats who have been consistent supporters of the Roosevelt a.dministration indicated that they would not support the farm bill as it stands . Senator George L , Berry D. , Tenn. said he was not satisfied with the measure and would not be surprised to see it sent back to committee . Senator Claude Pepper W. , Fia.2 said he would not vote for it unless broad changes were made . Senator Robert F. Wagner D. , N. Y. also advocated sweeping revisions . After the session senators reported increasing support for the proposal to send the bill back to the agriculture committee . The house of representatives was not in session today but will resume consideration of a similar but slightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be passed in that body by the middle of the week , The senate is not ex ? pected to act before the house bill comes over , when various substitute proposals will be offered and the motion to recommit will be made . Vandenberg Causes Laughter , Senator King 's denunciation of the dictatorship aspects of the bill elicited from Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg ER. , Mich. , a contribution that produced much merriment . Senator Vandenberg directed attention to the situation in Brazil , where " the ereator of the so-called corporative state started with the dissolution ot the judiciary . proceeded on Nov , 27 to burn the flag ? of the republic 's 20 states and followed on Dec. 3 with a decree disbanding all political parties . " " All 01 this is extremely interest . mg and significant . " said Senator Vandenberg , in the light particularly ot the fact that when the distinguished President ot the United States visited Rio de Janeiro in the course of his good neighbor voyage he stated , according to the New York Times on Nov. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator the New Deal  --  the President of Bra zil and the President of the United Slates . ' " Senator Guy M. Gillette ID. , Ia. interrupted Senator King to support his contention that the bill proposed an unprecedented centralization of power in the hands of the secretary of agriculture . " It is expressly provided , " said Senator Gillette , " that the allotment of acreage , and in another provision the marketing of quotas , shall be assigned to the state , to the county , to the administrative unit , and to the farm , through the state and the local committee  --  not by them , but through them . " Power Under Attack . Senator King , replying that the bill unquestionably made the secretary of agriculture a dictator , continued : " The power is in his hands . He is the agent who secured the operation of the bill and compelled the proceedings which are adopted under the bill . He makes the allocations and de ? t.ermines the agencies for the state , and he fixes their duties and their responsibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I recollect , containing greater concentration of authority in a federal agent than the bill now under consideration . " It is in harmony with the philosophy of many Democrats these days , and of course the Socialists and the communists . It is in harmony with the views of those who wish to turn over to the federal government full Power such as Stalin has , such as Hitler has , such as Mussolini has . It ie contended by such persons that the people can not govern themselves ; that the farmers do not possess the ability to run their own farms and determine the crops which they shall plant ; that agriculture is incompetent to govern itself and formulate its rules and that we must have dictator . Thirsts for Power . " The dictator wants such power . He exercises such power . Other agencies of the government under this s , ici philosophy , this dangerous , destructive philosophy , are arrogating to themselves power and demanding power utterly outside the terms at the constitution , and it we proceed ' n this way for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Senator Royal S. Copeland LD. , N. Y.l said Senator King was render . e .. g a public service by calling Eaten . lion to the dangers he had in mind lint expressed doubt that the warning would he heeded .                     