@@702000

txt A maximum increase of 79% in the revenue which railroads receive for servicing refrigerator cars with ice and salt may result from the Interstate Commerce Commission 's decision yesterday revising certain sections of the refrigeration tariffs , it was estimated in official circles The decision covered two points : First , the establishment of rates for standard refrigeration service on fruits and vegetables moving from California and Arizona to certain representative destinations scattered over the country and . second , the fixing of charges which shall apply for servicing retrigerator cars throughout the country under Section 4 of the Perishable Protective Tariffs . The decision becomes effective Septembei 10 . Rates which raiiroe.ds will be able to charge on apples , citrus fruits , and melons moving from California and Arizona to eastward destinations in refrigerator cars are generally higher than those of temporary tariffs in effect since May 10 , 1933 . The new rates on deciduous fruits and vegetables , however . are somewhat lower than present temporary tariffs For this reason officials said it was impossible to foretell the effect of the changes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decision , revising charges for icing and handling refrigerator cars , is certain to cause an increase in revenues received for such services by as much as 797e. according to rough estimates Previously railroads have supposedly charged only for cost of ice in servicing refrigerator cars . Yesterday 's decision , however , orders them to make definite charges for switching refrigerator cars to icing platforms , for supervising the icing . for accounting expenses , for bunker repairs , and for ice haulage . Charges prescribed for these services , in addition to cost of ice , are as follows : For switching refrigerator cars to and from ice docks , 45 cents per icing at stations of Santa Fe , Southern Pacific , Union Pacific , and Western Pacific systems in Arizona , California , Nevada and Oregon and 80 cents per icing at all other stations except stations in territory east of the Mississippi River and south of the Ohio and Potomac Rivers . Supervision Fees Vary For supervision , 82 cents per icing in territory west of the Mississippi , 97 cents per icing in territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the southern boundaries of Virginia and West Virginia , and 69 cents per icing in territory cast of the Mississippi and south of the Ohio River and the southern boundaries of Virginia and West Virginia . For station and auditors accounting , 35 cents per car per trip . For bunker repairs $5 per car per trip , provided that no such charge shall be made on shipments moving in cars owned or leased by the shipper , the costs of repairs to which cars are not borne by the carriers . For ice haulage 0.75 mill per ton-mile . Heretofore these charges , other than cost of ice , have supposedly been included in the linehaul rate , the commission pointed out , but this general supposition was found not to be war ranted The decision , however , invited shippers.1 where they believe the switching and other service charges to have been covered in line haul rates , to raise the question by specific complaints . Eight Representative Destinations Rates for standard refrigeration service on fruits and vegetables moving from California and Arizona eastward were fixed for eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wichita . Kansas City and Boston are four of these destinations . Chicago and St. Louis are grouped together , as are Indianapolis and New Orleans , Cincinnati , Detroit and Pittsburgh . New . York . Philadelphia and Atlanta Commission officials explained that these destinations roughly divide the country into tiers of zones moving from West to East . Rates within each zone will conform to those of the appropriate " representative destination " unless modified by separate orders .                     