@@697320

txt King Victor Emmanuel today spent another ghastly day amid the destruction and grief of two provinces of Southern Italy . Beginning at 6 o'clock this morning , for fourteen hours under a blazing sun he looked on the scenes of death , ruin and bereavement which could not but shock the most hardened heart . Several times he appeared to be on the point of breaking down under the physical emotion and strain , but each time he recovered and proceeded grimly with his harrowing duty . He also saw much , however , which must have caused his heart to swell with pride  --  the rescuers ' devotion to duty , tho enthusiasm with which he was received by the populace and the fortitude with which the hard-smitten inhabitants stood the calamity which had befallen them . The King began his tour of . the damaged region in Melfi , where the scenes were rendered more horrible by the aftermath of an earthquake disaster . Many details of soldiers were struggling valiantly to clear away the wreckage and  --  recover and bury the dead , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of collapsed houses , that they appeared hardly to make an impression on the huge piles of tumbled masonry . Cheers Little Girl in Hospital . After inspecting the town and seeing the extent of the damage , the King visited the Red Cross hospital improvised under tents , where he fondled a little 4-year-old child who had been saved by soldiers after she had been lying for three days under wreckage . Her legs were badly crushed , but she is expected to live . She wept weakly when the King laid a hand on her head and spoke to her in baby talk . In the same hospital the King visited ten men who also were rescued from the ruins today . They are all in a serious condition , but are expected to live . The King then set out in his motor car and visited other damaged areas . He was followed only by two aides and a few officials . The sovereign wishes to come into contact with the humble folk , which it would be impossible to do if he were surrounded by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking advantage of the King 's wish . They crowded around him eagerly , telling him their troubles and pointing out the damages of their houses . The King had a kind word for all and made no secret of how profoundly he was affected by the suffering he saw all around him . The villagers were moved by the King 's graciousness , and his obvious concern and grief raised to a high pitch the enthusiasm of his subjects , who cheered him loudly wherever he went . Desperate digging by rescue parties throughout the damaged region is still bearing fruit , and a few persons have been saved from beneath wreckage after having remained buried for more than three days . Ring Congratulates Woman . Vincenzina Scarano , another 4-yearold girl , was rescued in Lacedonia . Her faint cries for help were heard by a woman who happened to be passing . Soldiers immediately started digging and found her pinned under a wooden beam which had prevented the full weight of the ceiling from falling upon her . She is in a very grave condition . Her three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be dead . In Rionero the King congratulated a woman who had been saved from a ruined cellar without receiving dangerous injuries . It has been learned that efforts to save a young woman in Aquilonia , which the King watched yesterday , were unsuccessful , because she died soon after being reached by Fascisti after three days of digging . She was named Giuseppina Bachetta , 20 years old . Words can not be found eloquent enough to praise the self-sacrificing behavior of all the rescuers . Soldiers who are participating in the rescue work have voluntarily given up their meager pay , wishing it to be dedicated to softening the hardships of the stricken populace . During the first two days , when shelter was scarce , they slept in the open , giving their tents to women and children . Some even gave their tunics and other articles of clothing to the half-naked peasants , that they might keep warm during the bitterly cold and rainy nights . In Aquilonia yesterday the King warmly shook by hand and congratulated Corporal Dea.ngelis of the Army Medical Corps , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours , rushing injured persons to hospital at Potenza . The soldiers constantly risk their lives amid the tottering ruins in order to save the lives of persons trapped there . Touching also is the prompt way in which the whole of Italy has rallied round the stricken region with offers of help . In Bisaccia the King watched a squad of men at work who had come all the way from Milan . Firemen from Rome are at work in Vallata . Between Melfi and Lacedonia the King saw motorbuses from Rome taking orphaned children off to homes in the capital . So numerous have been the offers of help , indeed , that some are more embarrassing than useful and the authorities have been obliged to refuse the vast majority . Death List Rises to 2,142 . According to official statistics , the total list of dead up to 8 o'clock last night amounted to 2,142 , while the injured numbered 4,551 . The communique added , however , that these figures were liable to be increased with the progress of the rescue work amid the ruins . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been finally ascertained , but that it would certainly be larger than previous estimates . Yesterday 's communiqu ? put the total number of houses totally destroyed at 3,188 and the partly destroyed at 2,757 . That the final losses will be higher than is indicated by the official figures is certain because details are still lacking from several isolated villages . Today , for instance , the first messengers arrived from Monteverde , a small village among the Apennines . They urgently pleaded for help , describing the terrible situation in their village , which , they said , was completely cut off from the outer world and was in desperate need of food , water and medical supplies . They said most of the village had been destroyed and that there were many dead . The messengers received a sympathetic hearing from the Duchess of Aosta , as a result of which the first rescue party , composed of infantry and Fascist militia , was dispatched with the most urgently needed supplies . The relief party was obliged to go on foot over the fields because the roads are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work repairing the roads and it is hoped motor trucks will soon be able to make the trip to Monteverde . Lacedonia today still heads the list of towns which suffered the most damage . Reports from there say 700 bodies have been extracted from the wreckage so far . Some of the smaller places where the toll has not been exceptionally heavy nevertheless suffered very extensive material damage . For instance , at Accadia 850 houses are uninhabitable and must he demolished . At Coli there are 500 such houses . This work is being done by army engineers with the utmost dispatch as the insecure walls are constantly threatening to fall and form a permanent source of danger to the motor trucks which must pass through the village streets to the neighboring points . In many areas the peasants returned to work today in the fields as the crops are now ripe for the harvest . The crops on the whole suffered very little , but much livestock was killed . These comparatively happy conditions in the Melfi district , however , are not duplicated everywhere else . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the greater part of its communications with Naples , is still swamped with injured persons waiting to be taken to hospitals , and the shortage of supplies continues there . Nor can the transportation of supplies be speeded up because the roads already have more traffic than they can hold . The authorities have decided that every one who has relatives or friends elsewhere who are willing to afford temporary hospitality must move out of the district . They will be moved out as soon as the transportation of the injured has been completed . Similar action has been taken by the authorities in Melfi , who hope within a few days to send 14,000 people out of their district , thus lessening the number of mouths to be fed . This evacuation is already proceeding . Meanwhile food tickets are being distributed to all inhabitants in the stricken zones . Despite the improved conditions , much urgent work remains to be done in all districts . The most urgent requirement is burial of the dead . So the practice of digging individual graves has been abandoned for the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Water supply also represents a grave problem in the majority of districts . At present , water is still arriving in tank cars from neighboring cities , but army engineers are at work on aqueducts with considerable home of having them in working order again within a few days . Food and other supplies also must still be sent from the outside . Those supplies which escaped destruction were soon consumed . Great efforts are being concentrated on improving communications . Army engineers are busy repairing and clearing wreckage from the roads , with the double purpose of facilitating the moving of persons out of and supplies into the damaged areas and of permitting rescuers to reach isolated villages , many of which are believed to be sorely in need of help . Plenty of Tents for Homeless . There is plenty of other work , though of a less urgent nature , which is about to be undertaken now . In the first place it is necessary to find suitable shelter for all the homeless . A sufficient number of army tents has now been sent to the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spared the suffering of the first days , when they were obliged to sleep in the open under a terrible downpour of rain , but obviously something more ? permanent must be provided with all possible dispatch . Later still it will be necessary to rebuild the destroyed homes . Reconstruction plans already are under way , but they are now awaiting the meeting next Tuesday of the Cabinet Council , when final decisions will be made by the Central Government . In any case , it is hoped to have sufficient houses rebuilt to shelter the whole population before next Winter . It is also necessary to provide sheds or barns for the crops which are now about to be harvested and which otherwise would be wasted . The populace of the stricken zones have been touched by the unanimous sympathy showered upon them from all parts of the civilized world . The first day on which the telegraph office at Potenza opened for private messages 200,000 telegrams were received . Many came from the United States where many of the inhabitants have relatives . One telegram was received from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the World War . He expressed horror at the disaster which had befallen the people whom he had learned to love . Extra Priests to Hold Services . NAPLES , Italy , July 26 ( A ' ) . ? King Victor Emmanuel concluded one of the most sorrowful pilgrimages of his thirty years ' reign tonight . So sweeping was the effect of the earthquakes that tomorrow morning will see fully half of the houses of worship in the region either destroyed or rendered too dangerous for congregations to enter . Extra masses will be said or sung in the religious edifices still standing and solid to bring comfort to the pious village folk who wish to offer thanks for their escape from the tremor s wrath , and who , above all , wish to pray for the repose of the souls of their beloved ones . The local clergy within the earthquake area will not suffice to read all the masses requested . There has , therefore , been a great marshaling of priests from the non-stricken adjoining regions . The opening of the telegraph wires to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives . During the first days after the quake the government had reserved the telegraph lines to official messages having to do with relief work . Not only from other parts of Italy , but also from North and South America . thousands of anxious relatives and friends inquired about the fate of their loved ones . Papal Envoy Gets Data in Area . BENEVENTO , Italy , July 26 ( M ) . ? Mgr . Chiapetta , the Pope 's special envoy , today arrived in the earthquake zone , where he was received by the civil and military authorities . Mgr . Chiapetta , with his assistants , at once began compiling a list of missing clergy and information regarding damage to church property . The papal envoy traveled by motor car from Vatican City and pursued his journey through the stricken localities today by that means . He expressed appreciation of the work of the physicians and nursing nuns as he went through the tent city near here . Hut Cities Will Be Built . ROME , July 25 GP ) . ? Signor Crollalanza 's report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of several ruined villages and the relatively short time in which Winter would be upon the mountain territory , he had arranged in the districts badly damaged for the erection of temporary hut cities . The government announcement today also said that many of the local bakeries in the quake zone were resuming operations so that the rationing problem from now on would be less serious . Since Wednesday 's earthquake many people in the affected zone of Southern Italy have been suffering from nausea , which is believed due partly to nervousness . The slight shocks Thursday and Friday have contributed to this . Such sickness has been noted much less in Naples , Amalfi and Sorrento on the coast , which lie in the regular tourist path and were little affected by the shocks , but common in the mountain towns inland .                     