@@701768

txt The New York Stock Exchange can be nothing more or less than a market place where buyer and seller meet on equality , and Exchange officials are not unmindful of their social obligations in curbing uninformed and reckless speculation . Charles R. Gay . president of the Exchange , declared at a dinner tendered by businessmen here . He struck out sharply at misunderstandings concerning the functions and actions of the Exchange which have been widespread since the market collapse of 1929 , adding , however , that he believed considerable progress had been made in removing these prejudices . The Exchange has perhaps done more than any other institution in the country to discourage reckless speculation , Mr. Gay asserted . He pointed out that the Exchange , through insistence upon agreements with companies with securities listed , had brought about a wide dissemination of accurate information showing the financial status of the various companies . More extensive use of the information made available through the Exchange 's channels was urged . The question of speculation is a complex one , Mr. Gay said , maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate speculation , a form which has in the past played a vital part in development of the nation 's resources . The Exchange does not attempt to pass judgment on market values , and the only appraiser of these values is that part of the public which makee use of the Exchange 's facilities , he declared . " Often , too , the Stock Exchange itself is accused of a greater or lesser degree of responsibility for ' making ' the prices established on its floor , " Mr. Gay said . " For , unlike most unorganized markets for merchandise , the organized securities market on the Exchange is conducted by a definite and known membership , in a solid and definite building . In the absence of anything more tangible to vent his indignation , the speculator with a grievance is likely to blame his losses on the Exchange . "                     