@@702027

txt Remote from the tumult of Germany 's welcome to the American Olympic team , Mrs. Eleanor Holm Jarrett marked time tonight in a Berlin hotel , hoping that any minute might bring her word that the apparently inexorable Olympic committee had responded to a plea by high German officials that she be restored to good standing among Uncle Sam 's athletic forces . Mrs. Jarrett , famous for years as America 's greatest backstroke swimmer and no less renowned as the nation 's most photographed bathing beauty , was dismissed last night from the Olympic team as a disciplinary measure after two champagne drinking parties aboard the liner Manhattan en route from New York to Hamburg . Tearful and Defiant . But the last cork was popped yesterday and tonight Mrs. Jarrett is just an anxious girl , wondering whether her swimming career is ended . Tearful and defiant by turns ; she had pleaded for a chance to show that she bad learned her lesson and had refused flatly to obey the committee 's order to leave Berlin and sail for the United States tomorrow aboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awakening after last night 's party to learn that she had been dropped from the team , - The officials had reached their decision while she was asleep . A.6 the morning progressed she experienced a further setback when a special committee headed by Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft of Princeton granted her a hearing and then rejected her plea for reinstatement . Athletes Ask Reinstatement . Her hopes were revived in the afternoon when her teammates rallied round her with a petition bearing 21 : : 0 signatures asking Avery Brundage of Chicago , chairman of the American Olympic committee , to reconsider . She was still further buoyed up when Dr. Graeme Hammond of New York , president emeritus of the American Olympic association , made a personal plea in her behalf . And tonight her chances rose to a new high when German officials went to Brundage with the statement that " she has been punished enough and discipline is bound to prevail after this public warning . " Not Off Olympic List . It was pointed out tonight that the Olympic committee Might not be absolutely inflexible in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her name remained among the entries in the 100 meter backstroke notwithstanding the fact that officials had announced last night that her entry had been canceled . Mrs. Jarrett first encountered the disfavor of the Olympic committee by attending a stateroom champagne party last Friday night . One of her escorts was Charles , playwright husband of the actress , Helen Hayes . Miss Hayes was with her husband on the voyage but was not present at the party . Before the festivities ended , Mrs. Jarrett and several others moved out on deck , where the party continued until dawn . Saturday afternoon , Mrs. Jarrett was called in for a conference with Brundage and ordered to respect the training rules or take the consequences . Yesterday , however , she attended another party which started in the afternoon . In the evening , despite the advice of friends , she insisted on promenading on the deck . There she encountered Mrs. Ada T. Sackett of Atlantic City , one of the chaperons of the team . This meeting led ultimately to her dismissal . Brundage today gave no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " No Alternative , " Says Brundage . " We had no alternative under the circumstances , " he said . " No one regrets the necessity of such drastic action more than I and my associates , who considered all possible grounds for leniency and found none on the basis of reports from the chaperon , team managers , and physicians . Mrs. Jarrett forced our hand and I do n't see how we could have escaped censure if we had acted otherwise . " After establishing herself in a Berlin hotel and flatly refusing to start back for the seaport to take passage aboard the Bremen as the committee had requested , Mrs. Jarrett announced that she would continue her fight for reinstatement . She admitted that she had been drinking but said that she was now ready to abide by all training rules , Wants Another Chance . " All I want is one more chance to show that I can take it and make good , " she said . " I talked for an hour with committeemen on the train from Hamburg , but I feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure is brought to bear . I 've taken it on the chin , but I have n't taken the final count Yet . I still hope I will be given another chance . I 'm delighted my teammates are willing to back me up and I feel the petition they circulated should have some effect with the au thori ties . " In stating her case before the subcommittee aboard the train to Berlin , Mrs. Jarrett said : " I know I 've been drinking too much and I 'm all wrong . I ca n't put into words how badly I feel now . I did n't realize how seriously the offense would be regarded . Enjoys Night Life . " I 've been night clubbing and having a good time for the last three years , always doing as I pleased , going where I liked , drinking what I wanted and when I wanted . " The night before the final tryouts I was up all night on a party with my husband but 1- won the race the next day . I 'm on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow training rules . " Mrs. Jarrett combined night club work with swimming . She appeared as an entertainer with her orchestra leader husband , Art Jarrett , in theaters and clubs of Chicago and other cities . Veteran of Olympics . She has competed in two previous Olympic games and it was considered certain that she would retain the 100 meter backstroke championship that she won in the 1932 Olympics at Los Angeles . In addition to eleven accepted national records for backstroke events from 100 yards to 220 yards , Mrs. Jarrett holds the world record for 150 yard backstroke , and the Olympic record at 100 meters. lfer world mark in the latter event is now up for consideration by the International Amateur Athletic federation . Whereas some of the coaches were . inclined to side with the athletes in supporting Mrs. Jarrett , Dean Cromwell , University of Southern California track coach , thought the committee had acted justly . " She asked for it , " Cromwell said . " In fact she begged for it . If it just had been one time it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a week . Of course I feel sorry for her now , but it 's her own fault . " When Cromwell was asked if the ship 's waiters could have been ordered to refuse her drinks , he re-plied : " That was tried but she said she was free , white and 22 and demanded them . " Dr. Graeme Hammond of New York , president emeritus of the American Olympic association , talked with Mrs.1 Jarrett and then made a personal ap-1 peal that her case be reconsidered . Coach Defends Her . " She deserves punishment for her misbehavior , but many of us feel she 's being made the goat for other but less conspicuous offenders against ) disciplinary orders , " one athlete stated . Lawson Robertson , head of the men 's track and field squad , said : " Mrs. Jarrett is getting a. rough deal . " The Jarrett case stole the show from the two receptions  --  one at Hamburg and the other at Berlin  --  which otherwise would have dominated the day 's events . Representatives of the Hamburg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played German and American anthems . The civic welcome in Berlin attained greater proportions . Brundage , first off the train , was kissed on the cheek by Duke Adolf Friedrich von Und Zu Meckelburg , a member of the international Olympic committee . The athletes then got off and were greeted by other Olympic officials and Frank Lee , secretary of the American embassy . The squad then proceeded to the city ball for more ceremonies .                     