@@697624

txt The Court of Appeals today ruled that former Judge Francis X. Mancuso , chairman of the . board of the City Trust Company , and other directors , including Salvatore Soraci , Leonard Rose , Isadore Siegel Tuch and Francis S. Paterno , must stand trial on the indictment charging them with fraudulent ' participation in the failure of the bank .. The indicted men had attacked the indictments in demurrers alleging Section 297 of the penal law , which makes the acts charged criminal , was invalid and unconstitutional . Judge Tompkins in Supreme Court upheld the demurrers and the Appellate Division unanimously affirmed his ruling . Reversing the lower courts , Chief Judge Cardozo wrote the majority opinion , which was concurred In by Judges Lehman , Pound , Crane and Hubbs , Judge Lehman also writing a separate ' opinion . Judge Henry T. Kellogg dissented in an opinion in which Judge John F. O'Brien concurred . Asserting that " Section 297 of ? the penal law is descended from Section 604 of the Penal . Code enacted in 1881 , which in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statutes to mean : " The insolvency of a moneyed corporation is fraudulent unless its affairs have been administered by its directors fairly , legally and with the same care and diligence that agents receiving a compensation for their services are bound by law to observe ( of Banking Law , Secs . 123-124 ) , and the burden of proof shall be on a director , when insolvency is proved , to show that it was not fraudulent or that he did not participate in the fraud . " Responsibility of Directors . He continued : " We think the statute is not invalid . That objection failing , we think the negligent and illegal acts and omissions enumerated in the indictment are sufficiently stated to have , been factors leading to insolvency and ruin . Proof there must be of a causal connection between the wrong and the collapse before negligence , will charge it with a penal liability . " In brief , the insolvency of a moneyed corporation , resulting from the failure to administer its affairs with reasonable care and diligence Is a fraudulent insolvency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participates in the fraud when he participates in the negligence which ruins as the the consequence . " Judge Lehman wrote that " though I can not agree in whole with the construction placed in the prevailing opinion upon the statute , my own construction leads in this particular case to the same result . " Perhaps the Legislature should speak in less uncertain terms in warning directors of banks that they must be vigilant in the performance of their duties . In the absence of warning that misplaced reliance by directors in the officers , of the bank may result in placing criminal responsibility upon directors , I hesitate to join in any decision which may place the brand of a criminal upon men of good intentions . " Former Judge Manusco was indicted in the City Trust case two days after he resigned from the Court of General Sessions in October , 1929 . The failure of the bank had caused a loss of $5,000,000 . In a Moreland act inquiry conducted by Robert Moses as commissioner , Manusco and Frank H. Warder , then Superintendent of Banks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Ferrari , president of the City Trust . Warder has been convicted of accepting a $10,000 bribe from Ferrari to forego examination of the City Trust 's books and is serving a sentence of from five to ten years in Sing Sing . Bank of U. S. Application Seen . The Court of Appeals decision upholding the misdemeanor indictment against former Judge Mancuso and other directors of the defunct City Trust Company was looked on by officials in the Criminal Courts Building yesterday as having a direct effect on the current grand jury investigation of the Bank of United States . The reversal of the rulings of Justice Tompkins and of the Appellate Division became known soon after the grand jurors had handed up the six indictments accusing eight former officials of the Bank of United States of wrongdoing in the handling of its funds . While District Attorney Crain awaited a copy of the higher court 's decision , the impression appeared to be general in Mr. Crain 's office thail all of the directors of the Bank of United States could be proceeded against in the grand jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Hastings , who aided in presenting the evidence on which the indictment was returned against Mancuso , had insisted that the section of the law under which t- Court of Appeals rendered its decision applied to the City Trust directors , and the arguments for the State were based to a great extent on his contentions . The . Mancuso indictment was held in suspension at the District Attorney 's office after the first objection to it was sustained by Justice Tompkins . It will be revived after a copy of the Court of Appeals decision is received , when Mr. Crain will order the case restored to the calendar of General Sessions . Most of those named in the bill then , for the first time , will enter formal pleas on the charge , after which bail will be fixed and the case await trial .                     