@@698427

txt Appointment of Major Gen. McCoy as our representative completes the membership of the commission of inquiry on Manchuria set up in the League Council resolution of Dec. 1.0 . Great Britain , France , Germany and Italy have already named their delegates . By comparison with the advance of the Japanese military machine , cutting grimly through to its objectives , this internatione board of researchers may seem a futile gesture . A commission on Manchuria , called into being just when Japan has made herself mistress of Manchuria , will be hailed by the cartoonists who are fond of depicting a dove of peace or an old maiden lady in smoked glasses seeking to impose obedience upon a huge and beetling Mars . The commission will inquire and report and Japan will retain in Manchuria the gains she has made with her good right arm , and the " failure " of the League of Nations will be demonstrated to the world in more convincing fashion than ever . Professor ALBERT BUSHNELL HART has just found in the League 's rebuff in Manchuria proof that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international crisis than invoke the moral sense of mankind . Has it ever been seriously maintained that for a long time to come the League can work for peace by any other than moral sanctions ? The French are alone in insisting that the only effective peace league is one commanding an international police  --  that is to say , an army . Elsewhere this thesis invoking war to discourage war is rejected . Short of the power of the sword , the Covenant does contain provisions for the use of the economic boycott against an aggressor nation . But even here the nations have wisely held back , knowing how easy it would be in the upflare of war passions for an economic boycott to pass into an " unfriendly act . " For years to come , in the absence of unforeseen developments , the moral weapon must be the League 's chief weapon in controversies involving a major Power . In its use the League may be successful or may be defeated , precisely as may happen to any combatant in real war . But there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In Manchuria it has unquestionably been a defeat till now , but not failure . It would have been failure if the League hut utect-oth9lxim than it did . If the Council , recognizing that In . Japan it had a much more formidable problem than in the case of Bulgaria or Finland , had set out to play safe in Manchuria , if it had hastened to decide that the right was on the side of Japan 's in-vincible battalions and wrong was with the undisciplined and disunited Chinese  --  that would have been a failure of the League . It would have failed by the moral test which is the only one that can as yet be properly applied . But the Council did just the opposite . It addressed Japan in a tone and manner which many people everywhere have found to be unduly harsh . It accepted China 's side of the case without sufficient check . It fixed a date for the evacuation of the seized regions by the Japanese troops , so that it sounded like an ultimatum . Timidity is the one crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be accused . That its reverse is irretrievable is not yet certain . Much can be saved out of defeat . After all , an international inquiry is to pass on the rights and wrongs of the Manchurian conflict . If the finding is against Japan , it does not yet mean that an international army will march to enforce the League 's verdict . But it will be a mobilization I of that moral opinion which in the long run can not be ignored by the War Offices .                     