@@701326

txt A hearty laugh backed by his robust appearance was President Roosevelt 's reply at a press conference today to a question as to the state of his health . The question , which had not been asked in a press conference for more than a year , was prompted by the spread of rumors that he was not a well man . Mr. Roosevelt 's only verbal reply to the question as to whether he was " in a little bad health " was a query addressed to more than 200 newspaper reporters in his office as to what they thought of his condition . In this manner he indicated that he would take no public notice of the rumors by word or action , but observers believed that the reports probably would influence him to take advantage of appropriate public appearances and wide travel this Summer in order to be seen by as great a number of persons as possible . To do this he would need only to carry out tentative plans already made , contingent only on the adjournment of Congress by the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would permit an extended absence from the capital . Some of His Plans Discussed . Some of these plans were discussed by the President at the . press conference this morning , although there was no direct connection between the discussion of his plans and the question as to his health . The travel program entered into the half-hour talk with correspondents only as one of a dozen topics about current affairs . The President made it clear that he hoped to be able to visit San Diego late in the Summer , a trip that would take him to Boulder Dam and into a part of the United States which he has not visited since he entered the White House . If circumstances permit he also will go to Milwaukee on Aug. 23 to address the - nnual convention of the Young Democrats of America . When he was asked today if he planned a series of speeches on his way across the continent Mr. Roosevelt replied with a quizzical smile that he was not planning a series of speeches , except for one at Boulder Dam , but that circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He compared the contemplated tour with his trip from Portland , Ore. , to Washington last year , saying that it would be of the same character . On that trip Mr. Roosevelt made only one political speech , at Green Bay , Wis. , but correspondents who traveled with him then recalled that he made at least one extemporaneous speech each day and that each had sufficient substance to make front-page news throughout the United States . Probably of great importance to the President , however , was the fact that he faced directly on that hurried trip 250,000 people who gathered to hear him ; that at least half a million saw him momentarily on the observation platform of his car , and that they carried eyewitness reports of his good hu- mor , optimism and health back to their homes throughout the Northwest . The tour to San Diego would bring Mr. Roosevelt in contact with a far greater number in the same manner as his trip across the mountains and prairies to the north . The rest of today 's press conference consisted of questions presenting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantial replies . The President declined to discuss the investigation of the Virgin Islands by the Senate Committee on Territories and Insular Affairs . He described , in response to questions , the work started yesterday on his orders for the relief of flood sufferers in New York State . He denied knowledge of plans to reorganize the housing activities of the government . When asked about his conference last night with House leaders on the future Congressional program , Mr. Roosevelt said that he would stand on reports of the meeting made public immediately afterward by those who were present . In response to another question as to when he would take up the securities underwriting features of the Banking Bill , Mr. Roosevelt said he planned to do so at a conference tomorrow , but added that he had not decided who would be called to the conference .                     