@@702263

txt In the background of much thinking about broad securities market problems that goes on in Washington there lies a growing , though still vague , conviction that the next stock market boom might have to be dealt with in terms of some price-earnings ratio . This conception goes far beyond such matters as margin rules , safeguards against manipulation . truth-in-securities laws and similar limited controls . Speaking before the Investment Bankers Association at Augusts ; Ga yesterday , James M. Landis , chairman of the Securities and 1-change Commission , brought this basic conception into the open . Discussing the questions that underly " administration for recovery , " Mr. Landis said : " Of one thing we can feel sure , that when price has no relationship to earning power , present or prospective , a mechanism that will permit maintenance of values of that character , has lost its justification . Every aspect of trading must be adjusted to operate against the potentiality of such a condition . " Other Market Guideposts Chairman Landis ' open suggestion of a price-earnings relationship as the yardstick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Reserve System circles that former guideposts such as brokers ' loans and former controls such as margin regulations may be outmoded . Official recognition is being taken of the possibility of a " cash boom " , financed by the enormous bank deposit accumulations , developing outside the scope of the System 's credit controls . At the same time officials assert a belief that the Reserve Board can not flys:Ad sonic responsibility for price movements . Immediate responsibility for price movements in the security markets was placed by Chairman Landis yesterday on the members of the financial community . This disposition to place the initial responsibility for future price movements on the exchanges and their members is general in Washington but It carries the implication that , if private restraint does not prevent artificial value , the government will take a hand through new controls . What the Securities and Exchange Commismission or the Federal Reserve Board could do to preserve what in their opinion is a justifiable price-earnings ratio is still very vague , even in official thinking . The importance of recent developments and utterances , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidental matters such as margins and manipulation to the basic problem of price supervision . Concerns Industrial Prices . Too In its widest aspects this new official state of mind carries implications which , through the Reserve Board 's credit controls , concerns not only securities prices but also industrial prices . At the same time the Board is realizing that its margin control , as such , is not 100% insurance against an unsafe market boom . The SEC thinks of the security exchanges as investment markets primarily and is committed to a program of " protecting investors " against conditions which reflect nothing of a security 's value except its liquidity . To this end the SEC has been attempting through registration statements to accumulate data reflecting the intrinsic worth of securities . In his address yesterday , however , Chairman Landis recognized the limits of full reporting as a means to achieve " values that have a relationship to something more permanent than mere liquidity . " " One wonders , " the SEC chief said , " just how the battle between the dull registration statements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The SEC 's report on broker-dealer segregation published last June made plain that the Commission believes that liquidity has become a fetish . This report discussed the matter at some length and contended that excess speculation provides false liquidity which disappears when it is needed so that security prices go below fair values . The Commission 's recent efforts to restrict floor-trading is one direct attack on what it considers to be excessive speculation by Exchange members . The SEC also has certain powers to limit trading by the public but probably is not convinced that such methods as limiting trading hours or closing exchanges would be practicable in the process of checking a boom .                     