@@700285

txt President Gabriel Terra of Uruguay will inaugurate the seventh Pan-American Conference at 6 P. M. tomorrow with all the pomp and solemnity with which it is possible to surround such a ceremony under a democratic form of government . It will be the first time that ten Foreign Ministers have assembled for an international conference . With them are seventy-eight other delegates , representing all twentyone members of the Pan American Union . Louis Anderson of Costa Rica arrived by plane this afternoon just in time to prevent Costa Rica being the only absentee , as had been expected . The inaugural ceremony will take place in the Chamber of Deputies in Uruguay 's beautiful marble legislative palace . President Terra will be accompanied by members of his Cabinet and the governmental junta . The uniformed diplomatic corps will occupy the galleries . The chiefs of the several delegations will be seated in the front row in alphabetical order by the names of the countries they represent . The palace will be surrounded by troops , which will render the mill- , tary honors due to Ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Hour . The ceremony was scheduled for 5 P. M. , but will be delayed one hour to await the arrival of Dr. Afraniode Mello Franco , the Brazilian Foreign Minister . The Haitian delegation launched the opening bomb in its campaign today in the form of a statement by Antoine Pierre Paul , labor member of the delegation . While it stressed that M. Pierre Paul spoke only in his individual capacity , it was evident that he echoed the sentiments of the entire delegation . He said the Haitians would ask the conference to adopt a resolution calling for strict non-intervention in such form that the United States would be compelled to withdraw . After reviewing the history of the Haitian loan as well as of fifteen years of military occupation . he said President Roosevelt 's good-neighbor doctrine could not be regarded as a factual basis for the conference negotiations as long as financial supervision of Haiti continued . The Haitian delegation will seek to have the conference pass a resolution calling upon the United States to declare her intention of terminating all " extra-territorial occupation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that Haiti would not withdraw from the conference if such a resolution was not passed , as had been rumored . There also is some uneasiness among the delegations that Cuba may throw a controversial bombshell into the first plenary session Monday . It is customary for the head of the delegation representing the country where the previous conference was held to reply on behalf of all the delegations to the wel1 coming address of the local Foreign Minister . Angel Giraudy , Cuban Minister of Labor and head of the Cuban delegation , therefore will deliver the response Monday . While the delegates hope he will I not introduce any controversy while speaking in the name of the twenty other delegations , they admit he has a perfect right to talk about anything he chooses . With the exception of Haiti and Cuba , there seems so far to be little disposition to assail the United States . In fact , there is a surprising spirit or cordiality and good fellowship , which is so unusual at Pan-American conferences that it is being talked about wherever the delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphatic in stating there is nothing at this conference which even approaches the anti-American spirit at Havana . The conviction that this cordial spirit will lead to successful practical results grows visible daily . Dr. Jose M. Puig Casauranc , the Mexican Foreign Minister , said this morning : " My hope and optimism regarding the conference have increased tremendously since my arrival at Montevideo . " Bolivian Delegate Optimistic . Dr. Castro Rojas , chief of the Bolivian delegation , said after his reception by President Terra that he was most optimistic as to the outcome of the conference and expected " great results for the economic and financial ' prosperity of this continent , as well as closer relationships which will arise from the personal contacts of the delegates at Montevideo . " All the delegates are watching interestedly Secretary of State Cprdell Hull , Dr. Puig Casauranc and Foreign Minister Miguel Cruchaga of Chile . It is becoming more evident day by day that they will take prominent roles throughout the conference . It is also noticeable that they are making a particular effort to get onto a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forming a bloc of any kind , but to discuss frankly and to try to understand their mutual problems . Dr. Puig Casauranc dined witty a prominent member of the United States delegation last night , had luncheon with Senor Cruchaga today and visited Mr. Hull to return the Secretary 's visit of yesterday . Senor Saavedra Lamas called upon Mr. Hull at 8 o'clock this evening to return the Secretary 's visit of this morning . When Mr. Hull called on Senor Saavedra Lamas a few hours after the latter 's arrival the American suggested that the Argentine interpreter on Senor Saavedra Lamas 's staff be used , believing that the Argentine Foreign Minister would feel freer with his awn interpreter . This evening Senor Saavedra Lamas returned the compliment , suggesting that Mr. Hull 's aide , James Clement Dunn , act as interpreter . Mr. Hull and Senor Saavedra Lamas got onto a friendly informal basis almost immediately and agreed to meet again at the first opportunity . Economic Trend Is Strong . There seems to be a strong possibility that the conference may develop into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger countries , are frankly inclined to avoid controversial political topics and to concentrate their attention on economic topics under Chapter 4 of the agenda . The principal stumbling block in the way of this move is the uncertain situation in the United States , which admittedly will make it difficult for the United States to cooperate in any general plan just now . At least one of the largest delegations is working on the idea that the economic section of the agenda should be handled at this conference in such . a manner as to prepare a foundation for a PanAmerican economic conference , to be called when the United States ' situation is clearer . There appears to be a general understanding of President Roosevelt 's difficulties and why it is impossible for the United States delegation to take up matters of tariffs and currency stabilization and similar difficult problems until more progress has been made with the NRA . There seems to be a disposition among the delegates , therefore , to get together with Mr. Hull on those questions in which he can cooperate , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by home conditions he can not overcome at present .                     