@@702203

txt In his final appeal to the people on election eve , Governor Landon urged in a radio address tonight that all possessing the suffrage go to the polls tomorrow and vote as Americans without distinction of class and " for the future of America . " His appeal was essentially one for democracy . It was made in a tone of quiet faith in the future of the country and without partisan rancor . " We must prove to the world , by our calmness , understanding and unity , that democracy still lives , " he said . Governor Landon delivered his address from the library steps of the Executive Mansion as the last speaker in an hour 's program , which began at 10 o'clock ( Eastern standard time ) under the auspices of the Republican National Committee . Speakers preceding him included Colonel Frank Knox , Mrs. Alice Roosevelt Long-worth and others from various walks of life in different parts of the country . Appeal to Those Going to Polls " Let us go to the polls tomorrow , " Governor Landon counseled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us great lovers of liberty , a passion for justice and the habit of human tolerance . Let us resolve to preserve a form of government that is the envy of the world . Let us go resolved that the American way , of life shall not , can not fail . " And let us go resolved to keep the faith . Let us remember the Almighty God who presided over our beginnings , who carried us through storm and trial , and without whose guidance we can never attain the destiny that our fathers saw . " He quoted from James Russell Lowell 's " Democracy " : " Our healing is not in the storm or in the whirlwind " * but will be revealed by the still , small voice that speaks to the conscience and the heart , prompting us to a wider and wiser humanity . " Governor Landon declared his confidence that so long as the citizens understand the issues the decision will be the right one and that they understood the issues in this election . " I am confident , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow united in one aim  --  to vote as Americans for the future of America . " Repudiates Idea of a Class Vote He repudiated any idea that the voters would cast their ballots on a class basis , as farmers , industrial workers or persons on relief , but would register their choice as a united people . " We face tomorrow a grave responsibility . " he asserted . " This responsibility is not only to our own well-being in the years just ahead . It is a responsibility to the ideals of free and popular government upon which our nation was founded . It is a responsibility to a world which stands at a parting of the ways. , The world needs a free America . We must hold the line of democracy . We dare not fail . " He appealed to the spirit of the pioneers , whose trails his own State knew so well , saying : " We need the courage of those men and women . We need their determination and their self-reliance . We need the vision that enabled them to look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children would prosper and be free . And above all , we need their simplicity , their steadfastness and their abiding faith . " After his radio speech , Governor Landon , accompanied by Mrs. Landon and the Governor 's father , John M. Landon , boarded his special train for an overnight run to Independence , his home city , where all three will vote tomorrow . He will return to Topeka tomorrow afternoon and , surrounded by friends , receive the election returns in the Executive Mansion . Unlike President Roosevelt who utilized the last day for campaigning , Governor Landon , except for his radio speech tonight , indulged in no such activity . He calmly awaited the verdict of the people , and with seeming confidence . He devoted the morning to State business at the Capitol and this afternoon remained in the Executive Mansion preparing his radio speech and attending to personal matters . He was said to have been in touch with Republican National Committee headquarters in Chicago by telephone on one or two occasions during the afternoon . At a press conference this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt in Madison Square Garden on Saturday had answered his challenge to state his program for the next four years , if elected . Mr. Landon said the President 's speech spoke for itself but that , while it was not specific on the questions of future program , the inference was plain that Mr. Roosevelt intended to revive the NRA , AAA , and other invalidated features of the New Deal . Questioned on Word ' Master ' Governor Landon was asked about the President 's assertion that he would like to have it said of his second administration that it was master of the " old enemies of peace ? business and financial monopoly , speculation , reckless banking , class antagonism , sectionalism and war profiteering . " In particular , the Governor was asked , did the use of the word master indicate a desire to master all business ; was it used in a personal or governmental sense ? Governor Landon did not reply definitely , and maintained that attitude , ' although pressed several times to say whether he thought the President had used the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow , a homecoming celebration will be given for Governor Landon . He will be escorted in a parade to thei Booth Hotel and then vote in a polling place that has been set up in an automobile sales room a few doors from the hotel . After performing this duty , the Governor and Mrs. Landon will receive old friends and call on others . ' Their home in Independence is closed . They will attend a lunch- I eon and then leave on the special train for Topeka in the early afternoon , arriving in the capital late in the day . A Democratic parade was held here tonight but that did not worry Republicans at the Capitol , who claimed the State for Landon by 50,000 and for Senator Capper , who is running for re-election , by 60,000 . The voting may be affected by adverse weather , as the forecast today was for snow and cold weather over much of the State tomorrow .                     