@@698793

txt Albert F. Lebrun was elected President of the French Republic today by the two houses of Parliament . He received 633 votes to 114 given to the Socialist candidate , Paul Faure , merely as a party gesture . When the new President reached his home here this evening from the ceremony at Versailles , Premier Andre Tardieu and his Cabinet formally turned in their resignations . In a letter saying that he would refuse to accept a renomination , the Premier explained that the changed majority resulting from last Sunday 's elections would deprive him of " freedom of action . " He promised to remain in office for the expedition of current affairs , but only until another Cabinet could be formed when the new Chamber of Deputies met on June 2 . Shadow . Hangs Over Election . Over the election ceremony in the old palace at Versailles there hung a deep shadow . This election was no social function as have been others in the past . It was the fulfillment of a civic duty . The two hours during which one by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ceremony just a year ago when the same National Assembly made the choice between Aristide Briand and Paul Doumer . There was party feeling then , excitement and tremendous interest . Today there was only ritual and regret  --  regret for both these men  --  for Briand , who had died broken by the task of trying to rid peace of politics , and for Doumer , who had been struck down only four days ago by an assassin . In Elysee Palace , to which M. Doumer had been so proud to go only a year ago , his body lay while thousands filed past his bier and while this election of his successor was going on . To his memory , to the memory of a " noble and loyal figure , " M. Lebrun as presiding officer of the National Assembly paid tribute briefly before the voting began . There had been no doubt after the withdrawal of Paul Painleve yesterday about M. Lebrun 's election . He was the man designated by all parties , the man chosen by Raymond Poincare in the past for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of his peers best fitte to hold the office of arbitrator and guide , that is the Presidency of the French Republic . Rivals Clash in Corridors , The roll-call began with a letter chosen by chance . There were wild demonstrations when such figures as Premier Tardieu , Edouard Herriot , M. Painleve and others responded to their names and dropped their voting papers into the ballot box . In the corridors several incidents occurred between defeated candidates of the old Chamber and their successful opponents . There were Communist cries and interruptions from Andre Marty , Communist Deputy , and others with their " A bas Tardieu ! A bas la guerre ! Les Soviets . les Soviets ! " They were cries of defeated men and a defeated party . ' Through the long and tedious business M. Lebrun sat smiling from the Presidential chair . He shook hands warmly-'with M. Painlevd , who by his retirement earned the approval of all parties . For by giving way M. Painlev ? made this election and the immediate future more stable and more soundly republican . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite the withdrawal of M. Painleve he received 12 votes and Marcel Cachin , Communist leader , received S. When the result was announced Fernand Rabier , Vice President of the Senate . took M. Lebrun 's Presidential chair . From the whole Assembly rose a cheer and , a long roll of applause . In this moment of stress for France one point at least had been won without discord . " A bas la Guerre ! " M. Marty was still shouting from his seat " Let him shout , " said some one . " He is making his last speech . " For M. Marty was defeated in last Sunday 's election . In a private room behind the assembly hall which was the old theatre of the Versailles Palace , M. Lebrun received the congratulations of his colleagues and was invested with his new office . M. Tardieu as Premier spoke , saluting the new President . In a sober rpecch M. Lebrun replied referring to his duty of impartiality , of national interest and of fidelity to the republic that is above party quarrels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponents on the Left might approve , a speech that gave assurance that the promises made by the new President yesterday when M. Painlev ? had withdrawn would be kept and that whatever governing was done from Elysee would be done with complete impartiality . Faces a Political Crisis . M. Lebrun is faced at the very outset of his term of office with a political crisis of an unusual character . Premier Tardieu 's letter that accompanied his resignation and explained his decision to refuse renomination said : " The change of majority caused by Sunday 's elections deprives us of that freedom of action which is indispensable to any Cabinet faced with the present heavy responsibilities . " Important international negotiations are being conducted which may demand each day decisions that will affect the future . Furthermore , the new - political situation may have consequences independent of the desires of the government . " You will not be surprised that we should desire not to be called upon to take , with regard to the former , decisions contrary to the views of our successors , and with regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner of avoiding this double risk is a definite resignation , which we ask you to accept . " M. Tardieu in promising to expedite current affairs expressed the hope that the time that . was to elapse before the new Cabinet was formed would be as short as possible . He asserted that his government was leaving France calm and orderly , with assured security , protected industry intact , solid money and unemployment only a twentieth of that in neighboring countries . Finally , he boasted a " policy of peace and reparations approved by a quasi-unanimity of parties . " The situation is complicated by the fact that despite M. Tardieu 's desires that a new Cabinet be formed at once , a new Cabinet would not be able to do more than conduct current affairs until its declaration of policy had been approved by the new Chamber , which meets June 2 . So it seems likely that whatever happens France must remain without an active government for at least another twenty days . Lebrun Visits Downer Bier . M. Lebrun 's first act on returning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restraint befitting the occasion , was to drive to the Elysee and bow before the catafalque on which rests the body of his predecessor and then pay his respects to Mme. Doumer . Outside - the Presidential palace thousands of persons were waiting in line to pay tribute to the slain President . As his successor drove past they bared their heads , but there was no demonstration . The silent tribute was deeply moving . All felt conscious there before the dead and living Presidents that this honor was no empty thing nor a political job , but a post of responsibility and danger . For the present President Lebrun will continue to live in the home given him as President of the Senate . It was there that he received from General Yvon Dubail the insignia of Grand Master of the National Order of the Legion of Honor , which is his as head of the State . M. Lebrun is the fourteenth President of the republic .                     