@@701196

txt The steel industry is feeling the effects of the motor strike , which has compelled some of the companies supplying the auto makers and the accessory manufacturers to reduce operations . The buyers are not cancelling contracts , but they have been requesting the postponement of deliveries which should have been made at this time azainst orders placed heretofore . It had been the general belief in the steel industry that operations would move downward moderately in the coming weeks , and unless there is a change in the motor strike situation the decline may become larger than anticipated . However , many believe that a settlement of the labor dispute in the motor trade might bring a snap back in steel operations for a short period , thus interrupting the downward trend for a time . Automobile Strike Costly The strike in the motor industry is costing employes of the American Rolling Mill Co. many thousands of dollars in wages because shipment of large tonnages of auto sheets already on order are being held up , according to Charles R. Hook . president of Armco . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready to ship , and Mr. Hook points out that because of the lack of vast warehouse facilities necessary it is impossible to continue the manufacture of the remainder of the contracts booked so that the work must be held up until the trouble is settled . He continued . " Naturally the automobile manufacturers affected are not placing new orders . The declining rate of bookings in the industry is sufficient evidence of that fact . This is a clearcut example of an innocent third party suffering as a result of a strike in an entirely different industry with which the third party and its employes are not personally concerned . " After about the middle of next month the steel trade will reflect the usual summer dullness . At present most of the companies are planning to bring down their activities to as near the rate of incoming orders and specifications as is possible . This is due to unwillingness that " unless General Motors changes its attitude " he would call out all the company 's plants ; ( 4 ) The A. F. of L. seized on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a determined effort to win a General Motors contract . The signed contract is the only obstacle to peace in the industry , since the company is offering higher pay than the union is demanding . Although comparable retail reports demonstrate that an equally strong demand for cars exists , the sharp curtailment in Chevrolet output , which normally accounts for about onefourth of the industry 's total , will probably bring a decline in production this month . since no important producer is planning an increase in schedule sufficient to offset the forced curtailment in Chevrolet 's activity . Other Plante Offer Aid In Toledo , the headquarters of the United Automobile Workers Federal Union reported the receipt of telegrams from unions in General Motors plants throughout the country after announcement of the rejection of the peace terms by a two-to-one vote . The At/ant ? . and Cleveland unions were reported to have pledged full support for continuation of the strike . James Roland , chairman of the strike committee in Toledo , declared that a conference of workers in all General Motors plants will be called to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The April automobile production figures , as estimated by the Automobile Manufacturers Association , showed output of 477.546 cars and trucks , compared with 451,805 in March and 371,338 in April . 1934 . This total was the largest for any month since August , 1929 , in addition to being the second largest April on record . For the first four months , production in the United States and Canada was 1,591,381 units , compared with 1,125,349 a year ago . The extent of the recovery in automobile activity is demonstrated by the fact that both the April and the four months ' output figures were 11% larger than average output in the comparable periods of the six years 1923-1928 which represented the peak period in the industry 's history , preparatory to the 1929 boom . Furthermore , the April total was larger than the output in any month during those years , with the single exception of August , 1928 , when 492,543 units were produced . In 1929 , production exceeded 500,000 units per month for half the year with a peak of 663,811 in April . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday at the Toledo transmsision plant was a surprise . It was rather confidently expected that the vote would find the men willing to accept the offer which in turn would mean that the plant would be reopened immediately and production anti assembly of cars would be resumed within a few days . The outlook for immediate or near term settlement was considerably diminished by the unfavorable vote . Observers found it difficult to locate a possible " out " which General Motors tion 's stand on a union contract and recognicould accept . It is believed that the corporation remains and will continue to remain unchanged . Inasmuch as tthe wage scale at Toledo is already comparable with that of other automotive plants in that city it is clear considerable difficulty might be encountered in attempting to bring settlement by a further increase . General Motors ' proposal of increases ranging from 5,7 , up has ben considered a generous offer and not likely to be raised , for fear that It might require similar raises in other General Motors plants . The Muncie Move Another possibility that might thwart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indiana , is the sympathetic cooperation which might come from other General Motors plants . Threats of labor trouble at Cleveland and Flint have been made by unions in General Motors plants in those cities . The Muncie plant has been started but its output as yet is by no means a substitute for the Toledo plant 's production . The plant is being expanded and will be capable of nearly duplicating the Toledo production in time but whqther or not its operation can be continueil without serious labor trouble in other General Motors plants is a problem the answer for which is none too evident . The situation at Flint remained quiet yesterday despite threats made last week by the A. F. of L. local in the Buick plant to walk out if the Toledo strike were not settled . Fisher body plant number two which makes Chevrolet bodies , shut down Thursday because of lack of materials with 1,300 men being put out of work . Operations of the main Chevrolet plant of Fisher Body plant number one making Buick bodies . the Buick plant and the A. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlikely that the A. F. of L. locals could cause a walkout among Flint workers but there is a possibility that the union men could strike and tie up the plants by drawing a large share of the men out of a few departments or by picketing the plants and keeping loyal workers from going through the ' picket lines .                     