@@703872

txt Britain and France today notified the Reich government of their refusal to recognize the juridical validity of Germany 's annexation of the Czech Provinces of Bohemia and Moravia and they added that they considered the Reich invasion of those provinces a breach of the Munich four-power agreement . This diplomatic step of the two powers was promptly communicated to Chancellor Hitler and Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop who are on their way to Berlin from Vienna . Late tonight it was announced that the joint protest had been rejected and that Dr. Herbert von Dirksen , German Ambassador to London , had been recalled to Berlin . Dr. von Dirksen 's departure practically synchronizes with that of Sir Nevile Henderson , the British Ambassador , who left for London tonight to report to his government . Protest Is No Surprise The Anglo-French protest provoked no surprise at the Wilhelmstrasse , where it was expected following the vitriolic outbreaks in Parliament and the British press and after Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain 's speech at Birmingham . It was viewed as an idle gesture in that the incorporation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The recall of Sir Nevile obviously called for retaliatory action on the part of the Reich . Two major embassies in Berlin , the British and that of the United States , are without their envoys . The Anglo-French demarche was undertaken this afternoon through individual calls by the Ambassadors of both countries . In the absence of Herr von Ribbentrop they were received by Under-Secretary Ernst von Weiszaecker . The protest took the form of an oral declaration , which , it is learned , closely followed the British attitude as enunciated in Mr. Chamberlain 's speech . Hitler to Get Ovation Meanwhile the capital of Great Germany is being primed for Chan:ellor Hitler 's return tomorrow ' rom his newest tour of conquest . : t is recalled that within twelve nonths Herr Hitler has thrice ! xpanded the Reich 's territorial domain and pushed its frontiers ar to the east and southast . Propaganda Minister Joseph 1oebbels in a highly eulogistic wroclamation today summoned the , 500,000 residents of the metropois to honor Herr Hitler 's " historic deed " by according him a triumphant reception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Dr. Goebbels declared . " The historic domains of Bohemia and Moravia have been reincorporated in the Reich and thereby the Fuehrer has permanently safeguarded the peace of Central Europe . " Goering to Deliver Greetings Field Marshal Hermann Goering will deliver official greetings at Goerlitzer Bahnhof , where Herr Hitler 's special train will arrive soon after 7 P. M. The official cavalcade will move through the eastern sections of Berlin to the Reich Chancellery while fifty bands will regale the Sunday crowds assembled along the route . The work of consolidating the Reich administrative organs in the new protectorate is rapidly being perfected . Baron Constantin von Neurath , former Foreign Minister and at present head of the Privy Cabinet Council , has been appointed as Reich Protector of Bohemia and Moravia . His official residence will be in Prague . He will he Herr Hitler 's personal deputy and as protector he has the task of assuring the fulfillment of the policy of Herr Hitler . Baron von Neurath will be empowered to inform himself of all measures taken by the autonomous government of the protectorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deemed necessary . He will have far-reaching veto powers and in an emergency he can himself dictate measures believed necessary in the interests of the protectorate . Frank Named As Aid K. H. Frank , Sudeten leader , has been assigned to Baron von Neurath as Secretary of State . The Frankfurter Zeitung today declares : " Recent changes in the map of Europe and the fact that they occurred so swiftly are drastic reminders that the basis of the policy of European reconstruction , for which we all wish and hope , is still in a very unfinished state . " There still remain the complexes of European problems that have not yet even been tackled . Others are awaiting decisive action . Of these the most important , but as yet entirely neglected , Is the French-Italian dispute . " Germany at any time will throw her full political and moral weight into the scales in support of all justified Italian demands . Italy is not making her demands because she believes it is now her turn , although it would be Italy 's turn if there were any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nevertheless , that the time may not be far off when Italian claims on France will be formally presented . The paper assumes that the formulation and limitation of these claims and their presentation have been witheld until the settlement of the Spanish problem has been reached . New Ithr Command Created BERLIN , March 18 UP ) . ? Field Marshal Hermann Goering announced today formation of a new air force command for Germany 's new Eastern domains , a move officially described as " a tremendous strengthening of the German air force . " In official quarters it was said this step meant " exceeding all plans hitherto made for building up " the Reich 's already powerful military aviation . Marshal Goering , as Air Minister , announced the new command would be known as Number 4 and would embrace Austria , Bohemia , Moravia and parts of the Sudetenland and Silesia . Lieut . Gen. Alexander Loehr , until now in charge of the air force of Ostmark ( Austria ) , was promoted to general of aviation and placed in command of the new unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Loss of ' Objectivity ' Wireless to THE Navr YORK TIMES . BERLIN , March ** circles here are " surprised " that Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain in his Birmingham speech was unable to " view with his former objectivity " the events of last week , a specially designated news agency dispatch intended only for foreign consumption reports today . " Clear proof of the one-sidedness of English thought , it is believed here , can be recognized in the contention that deviation from the line of the Munich policy was first made by Germany , " the dispatch adds . " If those in Britain attentively read the southern European press , then they will find that statements and certain utterances of western European statesmen must be recognized as encouragement to the southeastern European countries not to conceive their European role as different from that designed for them by the western powers before Munich . " This " break with the Munich line , " as those in Britain and France know , was so interpreted in Prague , the comment continues , and plenty of warnings appeared in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred at the behest of the Czech President , the comment continues , on which point Mr. Chamberlain appears to have been incorrectly informed . The Diplomatische Korrespondenz complains that Mr. Chamberlain did not allow sufficient time to pass to be able to view objectively and completely the latest Reich coup , and adds that " inner political grounds and incitements from across the ocean influenced Mr. Chamberlain in Birmingham . " Mr. Chamberlain 's objection that he was not consulted before Chancellor Hitler 's most recent move eastward is met with the comment by the Diplomatische Korrespondenz that Germany was not consulted on the procedure relative to the " territory claimed by Britain , for example , Palestine . " Other papers declare with unanimity that " Britain must choose . " The tenor of all comment is reflected in the Lokal-Anzeiger : " Either the words of Chamberlain and the British press are representative or not representative of British opinion . If the former , certainly the British nation is an embittered enemy of Germany 's national existence and Germany would be forced to undertake a decisive and definitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   