@@697818

txt The : operation . on King Prajadhipok of Siam for the removal of the cataract in his left eye was performed with complete success today at Ophir Hall , Westchester County , residence of the royal family while in America . There was not the slightest mishap or untoward development . Persons who witnessed it described it as perfectly performed . Both the King and his physicians look forward confidently to the restoration of the monarch 's sight . The King 's first remark after Dr. John M. Wheeler , the operating surgeon , removed the cataract itself was : " I see light . " At 1 P. M. , an hour after the completion of the operation , . the attending surgeons and physicians issued the following bulletin : May 10 , 1931 . The cataract has been successfully removed from the King 's left eye . No complication was found at operation , and we have every reason to believe that the result win be favorable . The King is suffering no pain . JOHN M. WHEELER , THOMAS H. JOHNSON , ROBERT A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This bulletin ; was cabled to the King 's capital , Bangkok , and was made public here by the Committee of American Friends of Siam , of which Ralph Hayes is secretary . Although he is free from pain , the King must undergo considerable hardship for about a month . , He will be under the closest medical supervision to avoid any accident to his eye . It is understood that he must stay in bed for a brief period to avert any strain on the eye , and he will have only a liquid diet . He must remain in a darkened room . The final stage in remedying the King 's sight will be the fitting of glasses . Since the operation consists of the removal of the crystalline lens within the eye , because in cataract it becomes opaque , glass lenses must be used as a substitute . They are worn like any other spectacles for defective vision . Two sets will be needed , one for close vision and one for distant . The operation , contrary to the earlier understanding , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room on the second floor of the mansion of the late Mrs. Whitelaw Reid . It had been converted into an operating room under the direction of Dr. Wheeler , who is head of the eye department of the Medical Centre . In the room when the King was wheeled in were Dr. Wheeler , Dr. Johnson , his assistant ; Dr. , Dr. Cooke and Dr. Iago Galdston as observer for the New . York Academy of Medicine . Four nurses were on duty  --  the Misses Alice Flynn , Marion Johnson , Annabelle and Mrs. Helen Williams . Admiral Thavara Chayant , the " Ring 's physician-in-ordinary , was not present . After the consultation yea- terday the Admiral , who has been ill of fever for ? several days , was compelled to go to New York for medical treatment at the Harbor Sanitarium . Dr. Cooke , who has been treating the King 's hay fever , took over Admiral Chayant 's task of looking after the King 's general condition . The King and Dr. Wheeler , who have come to know each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Ophir Hall , chatted this morning before the operation . When at last the King was taken- into the operating room a few minutes after 11 o'clock he was completely swathed in white , except for the eye that was to be operated upon . There was little conversation . The operating room team began to function quietly and with no waste motion . Meanwhile , Queen Rambaibarni and her father , Prince Svasti , waited in an adjoining room . There was an atmosphere of slight tension in the household , but the members acted outwardly as if nothing unusual was going on . When all was ready in the operating room , Mrs. William Korker , the anesthetist , began to administer cocaine to the King 's left eye-ball . With this at the last she administered a drop of adrenalin to preventl hemorrhage . The eyelids were anesthetized with novocaine . This took only two or three Minutes . The actual operation began at 11:15 A. M. It consisted of cutting through the cornea  --  the outer shell in the front of the eye . The crystalline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eye  --  and when normal it focuses the light rays which come through the pupil , the opening in the iris , on the retina at the back of the ' eye . First the surgeon cut through the conjunctiva , the membrane covering the cornea , and made stitches of fine silk thread with which to pull the edges of the incision together after the operation . Then he went through the cornea to the region behind th , . : iris . The clouded crystalline lens then was extracted through the pupil and through the incision made in the cornea . Quiet in the patient is extremely important in so delicate an operation . Despite the King 's cough and his hay fever , he made no movement that might have disturbed the surgeon . Dr. Wheeler proceeded cautiously . As he began he asked the King whether he felt anything . The Kingresponded from beneath his swathings that he did . " Does it hurt ? " the surgeon asked him . " No , " said the King . From time to time Dr. Wheeler told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next step would be . Occasionally the surgeon instructed him how to move his eye , and he unfailingly obeyed . Near the end of the operation , after the lens had been removed and the King had exclaimed at the light pouring through , Dr. Wheeler readjusted the disturbed iris to leave a normal pupil , drew tight the silk threads and bandaged the eye . The removal of the cataract had taken only about a half hour and the entire operation was completed at 12:10 P. M. Times Wide World Photo . DR . JOHN M. WHEELER , Physician Who Removed the Cataract From the King of Siam 's Eye .                     