@@704156

txt In the absence of any definite news concerning the outcome of the Salzburg conference between Count Ciano and Joachim von Ribbentrop , the Italian and German . Foreign Ministers , over the week-end , many reports are . being circulated . Among these is one that the Vatican has been or will be approached by both the German and the Italian Governments and the suggestion will be . made that Pope Pius call a four-power conference to deal first with the Danzig question and then , if that succeeds , with other major issues between the Axis and the democratic powers . It is said that for very obvious reasons confirmation of this report will be withheld until the Vatican decides whether or not to assume the role of inviting authority , It is known that the Pope has already once seriously considered the possibility of such a conference but abandoned it in view of opposition in Paris and London following Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's action in tearing up the Munich agreement when he entered Prague last March 15 . New Move Credited to Rome More recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new attempt . It is believed not impossible that at Berchtesgaden , where he talked with Herr Hitler last week end , Count Ciano obtained the latter 's consent to such a " peace offensive , " as it is called , through the intermediary of the Pope , if that could be obtained . There seems in the fragmentary accounts of the Salzburg decisions to be some measure of confirmation of the likelihood that this method of solution is being sought . It would provide a means of escape for Signor Mussolini from immediate . decision . Moreover , if such a conference is called and succeeds , he will have an almost equal share with the Pope in its success , whereas , if it is not called or if it fails , the responsibility in the eyes of the Italian and other peoples could be laid , with the propaganda services of fascism working as they do , more easily on France and Great Britain . Herr Hitler also may consider that he stands to win both ways . The report runs tonight that the German and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identical notes to the Vatican , asking that , in the interests of peace , a four power conference be called to seek a solution of the Danzig issue . Poland would not he invited to take part , but if an acceptable solution should be reached , the British Government would be invited to submit it to Warsaw . Thirty-Day " Truce " Proposed It is suggested that a thirty-day truce , to he extended to press comment , be declared during the period necessary for the arrangement of a conference . This truce would be extended if a solution should be found , and the four Foreign Ministers who would take part in the conference could then proceed to the discussion of other matters . No official confirmation of these reports had been received , or at least admitted received , in Paris this evening . It is generally believed , however , in official circles that this or some other very similar plan was discussed and decided on at Salzburg and that within the next few days some diplomatic move will be made that will make it clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain , of course , that the Vatican will , if this report is correct , consent to take the initiative . There will certainly ho a good deal of preliminary sounding , and it will be only after the Pope has taken his decision and if that decision is favorable that the French and British Governments will be able to make their comment . What the French attitude may be expected to he was reflected in tonight 's comment in the Temps regarding other reports that a fourpower conference would he proposed . The Temps insisted that in the first place Poland must also be a full party to any such discussion and secondly that , since the tearing up of the Munich agreement and all the disturbance of Central Europe that has followed , any suggestion for a peace plan elaborated in advance by Berlin and Rome will necessarily call for the most careful scrutiny .                     