@@701406

txt A bold challenge to the extralegal and terroristic National Socialist campaign against Jews , churches , Freemasons and various other alleged enemies of the German State was issued today by Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , Minister of Economics and President of the Reichsbank , in a speech opening the Eastern Fair in Koenigsberg . He likewise took issue with and even ridiculed those National Socialist economists who proclaim that I economics is merely a function of politics in which money is no object . In that connection he held up to scorn various favorite Nazi slogans which have appeared in the Voelkischer Beobachter , official organ of the National Socialist party . In many respects , Dr. Schacht 's speech recalls the famous broadside against the radical elements in the Nazi party delivered by Franz von Papen , then Vice Chancellor , in Marburg shortly before the party " blood purge " in June , 1934 . Dr. Schacht accepted the legal and official measures taken against Jews and dissenters from National Socialist dogma , and again paid high tribute to the " boundless courage and statesmanlike boldness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has pulled Germany out of economic misery and regained for her national honor , freedom and armaments . This accomplishment , . he said , is so stupendous that ' its completion requires the full and united ehdi ? - glee of the entire people , Which must he kept apart from all unnecessary disturbances . He announced that the government would continue to use all the savings of the people in the interests of that task " until normal conditions have been restored . " Critics Are Attacked . Dr. Schacht started out by making an obeisance to the official National Socialist propaganda and by assailing those circles abroad " which turn every smashed window in Germany to cultural shame . " He again expressed Germany 's desire for cultural and economic cooperation with the rest of the world . " Whoever , without authority , disturbs our economic and financial policy is a saboteur , " he continued . " The policy of the Fuehrer can succeed only if the people , in unanimous solidarity and one single concentration of will , put themselves behind it . Just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so must every racial comrade have the feeling in business as well that he stands in the service of the whole . Duty and the will to bear arms are analagous to economic duty and the economic will . " Unfortunately , this consciousness does not yet exist among all our racial comrades . There are 10 per cent of the unteachables , of deliberate opponents and . saboteurs , to whom the Fuehrer recently directed very plain words . " There are also , however , some contemporaries who have induced in us the feeling ' Lord , protect us from our friends . ' These are the people who during the . night heroically . smear window panes ; Who , placard every German buying ... from a ? Jewish Store ' air a traitor to the nation , who declare every Freema . On a scoundrel and who ; . in the justified . battle against c political pastors and chaplains , are . noW no longer able to distinguish between religion and the misuse of the pulpit . " The aim that these . people have in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even when harmless ; there is no room in the Third Reich . Pastors and chaplains shall care for souls and not mix in politics . " Jews must reconcile themselves . to the fact that their influence among us - is over , once and for all . : We want to keep our people and our culture pure and our own , just as the ' Jews have put up this demand for their people since the Prophet Ezra . But the solution of these problems must take place under State leadership and can not be left to unregulated individual action , which constitutes a grave dial turbance of the national economy r and therefore Is constantly forbidden by the State and party organs . " Now , as before , according to the legal situation and the various declarations of the Fuehrer 's deputies ? the Reich Minister of the Interior and the Reich , Minister for Popular Enlightenment and Propaganda , not to speak of the Economics Minister  --  IeWish business men can still conduct their business activities . It is a matter for the Reich Governmeth. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are ' those who do not submit to this stand ? of .  --  the Reich Government , but act without discipline . I shall make them responsible for it if the financial and economic completion of the task set up by the Fuehrer is made impossible . Consequences Are Noted . " National economy is a very sensitive organism . ' Every disturbance , from whatever side it may come , acts like sand in a machine . As our economy is intertwined with that of other countries , nobody , in fact , and I particularly , as the Minister responsible for the German economic machinery , can be indifferent to the consequences that these disturbances create at home and abroad . " It . is absolutely essential for the leadership of our economic policy that confidence in Germany and in the law remain unshaken . Nobody in Germany is outlawed . Accord ' ing to Point 4 of the National Soeland party program , a Jew can be neither a State citizen nor a racial comrade . But Point 5 of the party program provides legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed to arbitrary power , but stands under the law . " The necessary laws are now . in preparation and must be awaited . I Until then , the existing laws must be respected . I say that here in reference to the church question as well , which for Germany is far greater in importance than the Jewish question . " Preceding this challenge , Dr. Schacht turned against the " frivolous dilettante who has not the faintest idea of . the financial and economic effort necessary to en- , able the nation , despoiled by war and war tribute , by inflation and deflation , to achieve ' those enormous economic sacrifices necessary for the great task before us . " He quoted from the Voelkischer Beobachter- the slogan : " The flag more than the bank account " and " The people 's primary consideration is not business . " ' " Such sentences are disarmingly correct , he said , but what can the economic leader . do with them in practical work ? When I recently pointed out in public that German economy must he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question as to whether any measure disturbs business Is ' liberalistic . ' My statement that the rearmament of our people demanded concentration of all our economic and ' financial ? strength was pushed aside with the reference that only ' old spinsters ' ? could still shake their heads .. " At the risk of being regarded as an old spinster I want to declare here with all emphasis that the problem of the material execution of the task set . for us ' causes me considerable headaches . " My German comrades : To pass over the seriousness of our German task with cheap-phrases is not only senseless but is damned dangerous . " than to lend his savings to the German Reich , " Dr. Schacht concluded . " Everybody must , therefore , in his own interest , see to it that the gigantic reconstruction work of the Fuehrer is continued and completed by putting his savings in the service of this urgent task until normal world economic conditions have returned . " What effect this speech will have on various National Socialist campaigns remains to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounced were sponsored by high Nazi district leaders and the National Socialist retail organization , his reference to the legal situation and to official expressions of policy must be considered highly optimistic . The first reactions were not very promising . Both the official news agency and the first newspapers published tonight omitted all those parts of Dr. Schacht 's speech that might get them into trouble with the party . And it was also noticed that propaganda trucks of Storm Troops driving through the streets today bore inscriptions directed not so much against Jews as against " reaction . " ? Debt Problem Revealed . Thereupon Dr. Schacht launched into a general explanation of how Germany had raised ? unds for her labor-creation and rearmament programs . He admitted that Germany had created a large shortterm debt that would require consolidation and then said that the financial success of the program would stand or fall with confidence in the bonds of the Reich and its enterprises . In this matter , he ' said , alr Grerimans are in the same situation and " nobody will ? be permitted : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no better nor more useful investment for any German                     