@@702762

txt " No , you dare not make war on cotton . No power on earth dares to make war upon it . Cotton is king ! " ? J. U. Hammond , In ? speech delivered before the United States Senate , March 4 , MS . The position of senators and representatives from cotton-raising states is today genuinely difficult . One of the greatest , crops in all American history is being picked . Foreign markets are still disappointingly slight . Even the domestic market is not what it was and the price has gone down from the luxuriant level of 12 cents a pound nearly to 10 cents . There is mourning on the levee at this , for it means the good times cotton farmers have enjoyed for a couple of seasons are no more . Cotton congressmen have got to go home to face cotton planters who want a continuance of cotton loans at the rate of 12 cents a pound . In wide areas , cotton is still king . Just about all that the constituents of maybe one quarter of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the price of cotton . The Supreme Court ? Oh , that 's Just something way off in Washington . Wages and hours bills ? Housing ? Foreign affairs ? Why , these are n't issues at all compared to the price of cotton , and the possibility of holding it at . 12 cents a pound by Government loans . These are the genuinely pressing reasons why the cotton bloc , including such friends of the President , as Senator Black , are kicking up a fuss and threatening to prevent adjournment if Mr. Roosevelt does not reverse his decision against commodity loans . Wheat and Corn Are Dotter Off Things are not so bad in the Wheat fields and in the corn belt . There prices are staying up very well . The wheat tanners are having the exhilarating experience of harvesting one of the finest crops in history , still at a good price . But if , in the face of current world and domestic markets , the price begins to slump , then the demand for Government , money will rise as urgently from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt 's problem , seen from his point , le to stall off the demand for money until there is time  --  and leverage  --  enough to work out the other end of the bargain . It farmers expect subsidies , they must be prepared in some way to adjust production . Otherwise the Coveinment , as under the Hoover farm board , buys crops at an artificial price . and holds onto them fruitlessly while prices slide away . For prices are responsive to underlying conditions : to the size of the crop , to markets , to theextent of the holdover which the Government has simply enlarged . In the end , as before , the Government loses a lot of money and the farmers have only had temporary relief . At the same time , It is not at all certain that crop control will work either . Under the AAA , years of drought rather . than acreage reduction was the main factor in reducing the holdover and raising prices . Whether any form of crop restriction , in good years and without a restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far from proved . Moreover , as before , restriction of one crop may produce excess in another . Dust Clouds From the West So farm problems remain just as troublesome as ever . No complete remedial program has been presented , and the suggested remedies get , more and more complicated . If President Roosevelt stalls off the farmers this summer , Congress is likely to return next January  --  election year  --  just eating to pass sweeping farm legislation . It will take the combined wisdom of everybody concerned to turn this energy Into sound , restrained , constructive channels . While these great events are unrolling across the national stage , a lesser event took place In near-by Fairfax County , Virginia , which ought to be repeated all over the country : with its repetition there will be much help for American government . What happened was that a fairly well ; known national worker and thinker , Francis Pickens Miller , founder and secretary of the National Policy Committee and equally a pioneer in the Public Affairs Committee , put his foot to the bottom rung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent years have been published the invaluable little 10-cent pamphlets summarizing authoritative research work In great national problems . Under his guidance , the National Policy Committee has brought together many groups of able , non-governmental thinkers with the object of " the development of governmental policies by democratic means on the basis of the general interest rather than of any special intereste . " Work of these two committees has been as significant as anything happening in American public education today . Now Mr , Miller , believing that ho must get into practical politics , has gone through the hard work o ( campaigning for the Virginia House of Delegates . Tills week he was successfully nominated , and his later election  --  on the Democratic ballot In Virginia  --  seems assured . Perhaps if more men who believe In clean and intelligent politics would plunge into the stream , they could " translate political thought ... : Into action . "                     