@@701107

txt Governor Lehman and Mayor La Guardia clashed directly today on extension of the city 's emergency tax powers . The Mayor saw the Governor with a group of other municipal officials who were attending a meeting of the Executive Committee of the State Conference of Mayors , and the New York City problem was discussed as part of the general State situation . The battle was brought into the open by a series of statements and legislative moves . The Governor threw down the gauntlet to the Mayor on his de/ mand for extension of the city 's emergency taxing power by send ! ing a special message to the Legislature urging enactment of a measure continuing that power to tax for unemployment relief until July 1 , 1936 , only . The Mayor wants the extension to continue until the end of 1936 . In addition the Governor said pointedly in his special message in which he dealt in detail with a previous conference attended by Mayor La Guardia and Controller Taylor : " It was my very definite understanding when the Mayor left the conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxing power be extended to July 1 , 1936 . " Mayor La Guardia struck back , asserting : " The only thing we agreed to was that he 'd make the statement and I would make one when I got home that day . " The Mayor and the Governor were at swords ' points on another major proposal . The Mayor said he wanted the city to have power to use the revenues from the special taxes for such purposes as welfare , hospitalization and general charitable work , asserting that these constituted an indirect relief burden . The Governor , however , made it clear that he was strongly opposed to the use of revenues from the special taxes for anything except direct unemployment relief and that he regarded this as a major issue . Meanwhile Senator Joseph Clark Baldwin 3d introduced in the upper house a bill extending the city power to levy special taxes until Dec. 31 , 1936 . Coincidentally , he issued a sharp statement that Governor Lehman was playing politics in an effort to win re-election . Governor Lehman smiled when told of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bill and Mr. Baldwin 's statement . " My message still speaks for me , " he said . Tells of Mayor 's Visit . In his message he said : " Last year upon my recommendation the Legislature passed a bill giving to the City of New York for a limited period extraordinary taxing powers for the levying of taxes for emergency unemployment relief . The power so granted to the city can be exercised under existing law up to Jan. 1 , 1936 . " A few days ago the Mayor and the Controller of the City of New York came to Albany to discuss with me and with the temporary president of the Senate and the Speaker of the Assembly the extension of this extraordinary tax power and the diversion of unemployment relief moneys to general city purposes . The latter , which I consider of far greater importance , I will discuss later in this message . " I stated to the Mayor and to the Controller that as Governor I would approve a bill extending the present extraordinary taxing powers of the city up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for not favoring an extension at this time beyond July 1 , 1936 . I drew attention to the fact that the Legislature has just created a commission of seven persons appointed by the Governor to make a comprehensive study and analysis both of State aid to municipalities and of the relations that affect taxation as between the State and its municipalities . Cites Huge State Costa . " For the fiscal year 1935 the aggregate amount of money given by the State to its communities either in direct aid or in shared taxes was approximately $183,000,000 , or nearly 60 per cent of all the taxes collected by the State within the year . The entire question of the financial relations between the State and its municipalities is of the utmost importance to the State and to its every citizen . It is a highly complex subject . The problems and difficulties of State aid and shared taxes have already been greatly increased by the recent grant of special taxing powers to the City of New York . " The commission will collect facts and make definite recommendations to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 15 . ( It may recommend important changes in the financial arrangements between the State and local governments . ) The Legislature , therefore , will at the next regular session be in a position to give careful study and consideration to all aspects of State aid , including tax relations between the State and its municipalities . Any action by the Legislature will affect not only New York City but all of the municipalities of the State . " I explained to the Mayor that were the extraordinary and most unusual taxing powers which had been granted to the city because of the urgent need of funds for unemployment relief to be extended now beyond July 1 , 1936 , which is the end of the State 's fiscal year , we might readily find that the Legislature was seriously handicapped and shackled in taking action at the next session in behalf of and for the benefit of the State and its municipalities . This would not only be unwise but would be unfair to the other municipalities of the State which have rights equal to those of the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the needy unemployed of the City of New York can adequately be taken care of through extension of the extraordinary taxing powers granted to the city until July 1 , 1936 . The city , under the extension of its powers until July 1 , 1936 , has fifteen months of substantially unlimited taxing powers . The amount expended or obligated by the city for unemployment relief is not included in the regular city budget but is voted by the governing body usually only one month in advance of the period for which the funds are needed . So far as I recollect , in no case has relief money ever been appropriated more than two months prior to its expenditure . Sees Time for Later Action . " If later on there appears to be reason for extending the extraordinary taxing powers for unemployment relief beyond July 1 , 1936 , authority can easily be asked from the Legislature which will meet on Jan. 2 , 1936 , virtually six months prior to the expiration of the period of the city 's extraordinary taxing powers . " Under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York through the extension of the extraordinary taxing powers for unemployment relief for the period ending July 1 , 1936 . " At the conference I also stated to the Mayor and to the Controller that I felt the City of New York should not impose any taxes on incomes or on inheritances because such taxes not only invaded the taxing field of the State but I felt certain were driving people out of the city and out of the State in order to avoid the three-fold tax on incomes and inheritances imposed by the Federal Government , the State government and the city government . The Mayor and the Controller agreed to excepting this power from the extension agreement . Opposes Diversion of Funds . " The Mayor and the Controller then asked that the city be permitted to divert unemployment relief revenues to general city uses . This involves a question vastly more important than the mere duration of the city 's taxing power . ( I stated that I felt strongly that it would not be sound or fair that moneys collected from taxes expressly imposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) " So far as I am informed at no time in the history of the State up to two years ago have general and extraordinary taxing powers been granted to any municipality of the State . The Legislature granted the extraordinary powers to the City of New York exclusively on the representations of the city officials that revenues were urgently needed for unemployment relief and could be obtained in no other way . " Chapter 873 of the laws of 1934 embodies the clear intent of the Legislature by providing that all revenues shall be used solely and exclusively for unemployment re'lief . I advised the Mayor that I believed it was not fair to the people of the City of New York that moneys collected from taxes avowedly imposed to procure funds to meet the unusual cost of unemployment relief should be siphoned to meet other expenses  --  expenses which constitute and have always constituted a part of the regular functions of municipal government . Sees Dangerous Precedent . ( " The extraordinary taxing powers given temporarily to the City of New York can be justified only on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To permit the use for general city purposes of funds collected for the specific purpose of unemployment relief is unfair , dangerous and unsound government , New York City is only one of the many municipalities in the State . The authority now demanded by the City of New York if extended to the other municipali ties of the State would inevitably lead to complete tax chaos . ) I therefore advised the Mayor and the Controller that I could not agree to the diversion of these unemployment relief funds . " As I stated to the Mayor , I will approve a bill extending the extraordinary taxing powers of the City of New York up to July 1 , 1936 , the revenues to be used solely and exclusively for unemployment I relief . " A bill covering the provisions outlined above will be introduced . " La Guardia Defends Stand . Mayor La Guardia in reply to the Governor 's message said : " I am sure that the pressure of State matters has not permitted the Governor to give the New York City tax bill the complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be no question of the soundness of the city 's position in its effort to conservatively , safely and prudently arrange its fiscal matters on a one-year basis . A city of 7,000,000 people surely must pro- I iceed on a definite financial pro-1 gram . ' The Governor 's proposition establishes what might be called ' the pawnshop system of city finances . ' It will be recalled that when I took office I had to take a bankers ' agreement where the city revenues had been pawned . The agreement called for 4 per cent interest on short-term borrowings , which we have been able to reduce to 3 per cent ; but the short-term rate which the city can obtain when not compelled to borrow through the bankers ' agreement is 0.80 per cent interest . That tells the story . " I invite a comparison of the city 's credit when I took office and the credit today . Why destroy that at the expense of the taxpayers ? I am still hopeful that after reapportionment is out of the way and the Governor gives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps chaos of substituting anything for the city 's bill . " The Mayor supported his contention that some of the revenues from the special taxes should be available for indirect relief burdens of hospitalization and welfare services and should be put on a one-yearl basis so they could go in the budget . " Why not ? " he said . " These ex+ penditures are directly related td relief and we do n't earmark our taxes ; so much for police ; so much I for fire ; so much for debt serviced We have got to have the revenues and real estate ca n't carry the burden . " Baldwin Attacks Governor . Senator Baldwin in his statement I said : " The Governor 's message is palpably ridiculous and shows little or no knowledge of the real situation . In the first place , the Governor says that he and the Mayor reached an agreement providing for an extension of six months in the city 's present taxing powers . " The Governor is in error . No such agreement could have been made in that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows the fiscal needs of the city . He has long been aware , as has the Controller , of the definite necessity of extending the city 's present tax powers for twelve months and has by no means kept that knowledge secret . " The Mayor left for New York City immediately after the Mayors ' talk with the Governor and did not even come to the third floor of the Capitol , where many important items in the legislative program for , New York City are being held up .                     