@@697346

txt The New York County grand jury spent yesterday trying to deride whether it had made a mistake last Thursday when it failed to find an indictment in connection with the appointment of George F. Ewald to the magistracy three years ago . Reconsideration of the case followed Governor Roosevelt 's demand for all the records and an announcement by District Attorney Crain to the effect that if this grand jury failed to act he would seek the court 's permission to submit his evidence in a new form before another grand jury . The next time , he said , there would be no John Doe investigation but a proceeding in which indictments would be sought against the former magistrate , his wife , Mrs. Bertha E. Ewald ; Martin J. Healy , Tammany district leader and suspended Deputy Commissioner of Plant and Structures , and Thomas T. Tommaney , chief clerk in the office of Sheriff Thomas M. Farley . Grand Jury in Five-Hour Session . After five hours in which they sat as auditors while William Fishbough , their official stenographer , read from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Healy through Tommaney by Mrs. Ewald just prior to her husband 's appointment , the grand jurors still had not made up their minds whether or not to take a new vote . As the grand jurors began their reconsideration of the case , which it had been understood was closed as far as they were concerned , Mr. Crain went before Judge Allen in General Sessions and obtained permission to turn over copies of the minutes of that body 's inquiry to Governor Roosevelt and to United States Attorney Tuttle , who has summoned at least a dozen witnesses to apear tomorrow before the Federal grand jury to tell what they know about the alleged loan . Roosevelt Gets Records Today . The grand jury minutes , together with a sheaf of statements including one by Mayor Walker denying that Healy influenced him in his appointment of Ewald , will be placed in the Governor 's hand this morning at 10 o'clock by Joseph Durkin , the District Attorney 's secretary , who left with them and a letter from Mr. Crain to the Governor on the 9:30 train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take will not be announced officially until he has studied the evidence , but the demand for a general State investigation of municipal affairs continued unabated yesterday despite the indicated willingness of the grand jury to reconsider its action of four days ago . A letter suggesting some such action by the Governor has been drafted , it was learned by the Bar Association 's committeee on criminal law and procedure . Kenneth M. Spence , chairman of the committee , however , refused to make public its contents , explaining that as a matter of courtesy he preferred to have Governor Roosevelt do so . Knight Ready to Aid Governor . At the same time in Albany Senator John Knight , Republican leader of the upper house , declared that , whatever developments there may be in the Ewald case , there still exists " an imperative necessity for an investigation of the whole city of New York . " He added : " The offer Republican leaders made during the past session stands . The Governor 's action in the Ewald case does not alter the situation . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there was last Winter . It is entirely up to the Governor . He has the sole authority to act and the responsibility rests with him . If the Governor feels he needs additional authority to clean up New York we will give it to him . " A dramatic note was introduced into the case in the afternoon when Emmerich Boczor , one of the prosecution 's mainstays , who asserts that the former magistrate told him in Mrs. Ewald 's presence that his appointment to the magistracy cost him $12,000 , announced that his life had been threatened , once over the telephone and twice in anonymous letters . It was reported that Secret Service men had been assigned to protect Boczor and that plans were being made to ' give him refuge on Governors Island should the threats be repeated ; but United States Attorney Tuttle said the witness had not requested such protection . If a guard had been assigned to Boczor , Mr. Tuttle said , it was without his knowledge or that of his assistants . Mr. Crain , who spent the week-end at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office about 10 A. M. He conferred first with his assistants , Albert B. Unger and George N. Brothers . Then he dictated a reply to Governor Roosevelt 's telegraphed request for data on the Ewald case . Next he sent for Bartholomew J. Barry , foreman of the grand jury which was expected to report in the forenoon to Judge Allen that it had decided to vote " no bill " against any one involved in the financial transaction that preceded Ewald 's appointment . Crain. to Press for Indictments . When Mr. Barry had left the District Attorney 's office and rejoined his colleagues in the grand jury room on the floor above , Mr. Crain summoned newspaper men to his office . Gravely , and as though weighing each word , he said : " The grand jury , is I have been informed , is now considering the question as to whether or not to indict . I await their call and , in any event , the conclusion of their labors . If this grand jury does not indict I will apply at once to Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case to another grand jury . " The resubmission will be directed against George F. Ewald , Mrs. Bertha E. Ewald , his wife ; Martin J. Healy and Thomas Tommaney . I will file with that application an affidavit setting forth at length the reasons for such action . " Mr. Crain , who last week declared he had made no suggestion to the grand jury relative to whether or not it should return indictments , was asked why he had not requested a true bill in the first case . He re-plied : " Because to do so would have been a violation of the law . There is a popular misapprehension of the grand jury and of the duties of the District Attorney in his relations to them . " Mr. Crain called attention to the section of the Code of Criminal Procedure dealing with the matter . The law directs that the grand jury shall find indictments when all the evidence before them is such that in their judgment it is sufficient to warrant a conviction by a trial jury unless it be contradicted or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty of the District Attorney to present all the evidence and give his advice upon its legal sufficiency if the grand jury should request it . In the midst of his explanation the grand jury sent for Mr. Crain . Before he went into the grand jury room the District Attorney said , in answer to a question , that up to that moment . his advice had not been sought . By other officials of his office the grand jury 's failure to indict last week was explained on the ground of a misunderstanding of the law . They felt , it was said , that because there was no evidence that Healy or Tommaney actually performed any service foe Ewald in consideration of the loan from Mrs. Ewald , no crime had been committed . Although assistants of Mr. Crain let it be known last Thursday that the failure of the grand jury to indict was no surprise to them , Mr. Crain took occasion yesterday to assert that in his opinion the evidence was strong enough to warrant indictments against more than one person . Gets Records for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a short time . When he emerged he went immediately before Judge Allen to ask permission to turn over copies of the grand jury minutes to Governor Roosevelt and Mr. Tuttle . In making the motion , which was granted at once , Mr. Crain filed the following affidavit : I have received a request from the Governor of New York in telegraphic form requesting me to send him at once a full report of the Ewald case , together with copies of available testimony and the record of the proceedings in my office . I have also received a letter from Charles H. Tuttle , United States Attorney , requesting that I transmit to him for use in an investigation now pending in his office , a transcript of the grand jury minutes . Certain witnesses examined by me claimed privilege when examined by the United States Attorney , I am informed , in connection with a matter pending before me , but claimed no such privilege when testifying before the New York County grand jury . I , therefore , ask , in the interests of justice that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States Attorney . Wherefore , it is respectfully asked that the annexed order be signed . The witnesses referred to in Mr. Crain 's affidavit , it was understood , were Mrs , Ewald , Tommaney and Healy , who when examined by Mr. Tuttle declined to testify regarding the alleged loan on the ground that to do so might " degrade and incriminate " them . They , together with nine or ten others , have been subpoenaed to appear tomorrow before the Federal grand jury , which will scrutinize transcripts of Healy 's bank account for 1927 . Ostensibly the Federal inquiry , paralleling the county investigation and following the one in which Ewald and several others were indicted for mail fraud in connection with the sale of stock in Cotter Butte Mines . Inc. , is to determine whether the income tax law has been violated , but It was hinted about the Federal Building that . contempt of court proceedings or perjury Indictments might follow . Tuttle Expected to Handle Case . The approaching end of the trial of Dr. William F. Doyle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States Attorney will take personal charge of the Ewald case . within a few days . Witnesses were questioned all day by his assistants , Alvin . Sylvester and Thomas J. Curran , and it was learned that process servers were out with subpoenas for all the principals in the case , with the exception of the former magistrate . Mr. Sylvester announced just before going home that he had received a copy of the minutes of the county grand jury from Mr. Crain . He had been informed also , he said , that a transcript of Healy 's account in the Harlem branch of the Corn Exchange Bank would be in his hands today . Meanwhile , in the Criminal Courts Building , the grand jurors , who had recessed at 1:15 for luncheon and returned to their labors at 2 o'clock for an afternoon session , which is in itself unusual , still were listening to the reading of testimony which last week they had found insufficient to warrant an indictment . At about 3 o'clock Judge Allen , to whom they would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Crain received word from the grand jury room that his presence would not be required until today and he too went home . The grand jurors , however , did not adjourn until after 4 P. M. , and when they left the reading of testimony had not been completed . Besides Mr. Barry , the foreman , who lives at 16 East Sixty-third Street , the members of the body investigating alleged corruption in the former magistrate 's appointment are : HARRY H. GOOD , assistant foreman , of 73 Warren Street . CHARLES R. Spence , secretary , of 15 Whitehall Street . WILLIAM J. ROGERS of 110 East Fortysecond Street . HERMAN J. CANTON of 315 Fifth Avenue . CLIFFORD AARON of 102 Maiden Lane . WILLIAM A. KEYS JR . of 60 East Fortysecond Street . BRINTON BUCHAULTER of 22 East Thirtyeighth Street . HARRY ARNOLD of 474 Greenwich Street . SAMUEL GOLDEN of 640 Broadway . LEWIS KEON of 175 West Ninety-third Street . GEORGE KERN of 254 West Thirty-first Street . ALBERT M. JOHNSON of 7 West Twentysecond Street . CHARLES F. W. GRAEF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Seventy-second Strcet . HARRY APPLETON of 325 Fifth Avenue . FRANK S. LEVI of 14 East Thirty-eighth Street . HARRY H. COHEN of 381 Fourth Avenue . HAROLD D. GREENWALD of 232 Madison Avenue . EDWARD L. LEEDS of 75 West Street . ANTHONY F. . MELITTO of 265 Canal Street . JAMES M. HARDING of 165 Broadway . HERMAN H. KIPP of 135 First Avenue . The mien of the Ewald grand jury as it recessed until today presented a striking contrast to that of another grand jury which had left earlier . The latter left the court building chatting and laughing , while the former walked silently through the all but deserted halls , their faces tense and serious .                     