@@697326

txt SMALL THINGS DECIDE BATTLES Had Stuart Been in Touch With Lee Before Gettysburg Result Might Have Been Different To the Editor of The New York Times : THE Times editorial , " A Beau Sabreur , " discussing General Lee and General J. E. B. Stuart brought to mind something I learned a number of years ago from one who at first hand had information about the incident in the relations of these two men . The fact is that when General Lee reached Chambersburg , Pa. , he did not know where General Jeb Stuart was . Captain James Powers Smith was on General Jackson 's staff and was with him when he was mortally wounded at the Battle of Chancellorsville . After the war ended Captain Smith entered the ministry of the Presbyterian Church , and became the pastor of the Big Lick Presbyterian Church , now the First Presbyterian Church in . Roanoke . Stuart 's Position Unknown to Lee . ' Captain Smith told me that after the death of his commander he was detailed to go with Mrs. Jackson to friends in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile the Confederate Army had moved on to Pennsylvania . He went by train to Staunton , and there he obtained a horse and overtook the army of General Lee in Chambersburg . After hearing his report , General Lee ' asked him : " Can you tell me where General Stuart is ? " He replied that he had passed some scouts on the Potomac who had told him that General Stuart was in Prince William County in Virginia , and below Washington . How did it happen that at this critical time General Lee was ignorant of the whereabouts of his great cavalry leader , and how could General Stuart make such a mistake , when his'place was that of the eyes of the Confederate Army , and between the two rival armies , giving his ' commander information about every movement of the enemy ? On what slender foundation the greatest ' of world movements depend ! ' The success or failure of the aims of the Confederate States was dependent upon the outcome of the Battle of Gettysburg . Two men in General Lee 's army were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of these was Stonewall Jackson , Lee 's right arm , and Jeb Stuart , Lee 's eyes . When the critical hour arrived , Jackson lay dying in Richmond . With Jackson 's wonderful judgment and his alertness and rapidity of movement , the mistakes made by the Confederates in the Battle of Gettysburg might not have been made , and with the great cavlalry leader , Stuart in touch with his commander , history , since Gettysburg , might have been written differently . As it was , General Lee was in almost absolute ignorance of the movements of the Federal Army . Strange things happen . At the close of July 3 , 1863 , the fate of the Confederacy was sealed . Such , however , was the vitality and hopes of the people of the South , that for two years longer that losing battle was fought . Stuart 's Banjo Player . You have something to say about " Sweeney , Stuart 's banjo player . " Just yesterday , I talked with members of the Ragland family who owned the house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrender papers . They spoke of " Bob Sweeney , ' who played the banjo and the fiddle and to whose music as little girls they had danced . He was the fiddler for the neighborhood parties . It was on his place that the famous apple tree stood , under which General Lee rested while awaiting General Grant 's reply . When he left the tree some one said , " I am going to take this , " breaking off a small branch of the tree , " as a memento of what has happened here today . " His act was the signal to every Confederate soldier to get a souvenir . The result was that the tree was literally dug up by the roots . Sweeney reI turned to ' his home after the war . W. C. CAMPBELL . I Roanoke , Va. , July 30 , 1930 . TELEPHONES IN EUROPE To the Editor of The New York Times : Since the publication in THE Truss of my comments on telephone service abroad , I have received a number of letters asking my opinion on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what part the International Telephone and Telegraph Company might ' play in the absolutely necessary development of a dependable service , especially international toll service . Until the war the nations of Europe were satisfied with the mail and the telegraph and made little progress with the development of telephone service . Discussing the matter at London a few weeks ago , they agreed with my statement that they still regarded telephone service as third in importance , mail coming first , telegraph second . Quite the reverse with us , as we regard telephone service as the most vital artery of our industrial life , to say nothing of our social activities . In this country the backbone of telephone service has been the rural development . In Europe , England as elsewhere , small attention has been given to rural development and were it not for the splendid work of the London Telephone Development Association , a private organization financed by contributions from business and professional men , the English telephone service would be even in worse shape than it is today . As for the part the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European telephone affairs , I have been saying in public addresses on many occasions for the past three years that the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , through its control of the International Telephone and Telegraph Company , would operate the telephone service of most of the European countries along the same lines as in the United.States , within a comparatively few years . As we have observed recently , they have added Rumania and France to the list of countries where they are to operate telephone service . In a comparatively short time , with the possible exception , of Holland , they will have everything on the Continent and England . The general industrial and financial depression in Europe outside of France , can not continue indefinitely , and as the industrial conditions improve they will be compelled in each country to substitute a dependable telephone service for the present deplorable conditions . ' I believe the greatest single influence in the Old World today in the development of a better and a more permanent understanding between the peoples of the various nations is international toll telephone service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter from what angle our so-called international relations are approached they develop into a bread-and-butter problem and there is nothing as vital in that respect as telephone service . WILLIAM H. O'BRIEN . Boston , Mass. , July 28 , 1930 . VALIDITY OF MEXICAN DIVORCES To the Editor of The New York Times ; The statement that the Supreme Court of Mexico held that the ratification by the State Legislature of a law decided by a Provisional Governor does not have a retroactive effect , may cause unrest to hundreds of Americans who had obtained divorces in Morelos recently . The validity of each of the decrees that has not been actually passed upon is wholly effective . This is so for two reasons  --  because in a majority of these cases the essential reauirements of judicial procedure had been fulfilled as . to notice , &e.,; and also because the law of Mexico is such that no decree of any court is nullified unless the very decree is brought up to the Supreme Court of Justice for actual determination . In ether word , each of the decrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be individualy passed upon before its validity was n any way affected . Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Mexico , Fraction 1 , provides that decisions rendered by die Supreme Court will affect only the individuals whose cases were before the court for decision , and that the decision in any one case shall not be deemed a general ruling affecting other cases . The result is that no matter how unconstitutional a law may actually he , the Supreme Court has no authority to so declare it . Accordingly , even though the Supreme Court in passing upon an individual case had declared the law to be unconstitutional , it would be so only in that case and the law would still be effective as to all other persons . In the event that a person is desirous of taking advantage of a decision in another case similar to his own , he does so by applying for a writ of amparo , somewhat akin to our writ of habeas corpus . To avail one 's self of the writ of amparo the person applying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s learned that a decree has been entered in his case , After the fifteen days have elapsed , he is presumed to have consented to the issuance of the decree . LUIS ROJAS DE LA TORRE . New York , July 31 , 1930.                     