@@697504

txt Recommendation by the Interstate Commerce Commission that the " recapture " provisions of the Transportation Act be repealed , while sound in itself . rests upon bad reasoning . The Commission believes that the theory of recapture is " logical " in itself and that the recapture provisions are a " wholly logical part of the plan for regulating the-general rate level adopted in Sectiori 15a " It quotes with approval the remark of the late Chief Justice Taft in rendering the decision which established the constitutionality of those provisions : " The control of the excess profit due to the level of the whole body of rates is the heart of the plan " But , notwithstanding this , it finds serious practical objections . In the first place , it is very difficult to put the recaptured funds to use . But " more important than this objection are the difficulties and dangers attendant upon the collection of the fund . " It will mean bitter and protracted litigation with consequent expenditure of urns and money by all parties . On this the Commission 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To state the matter baldly and frankly , litigation over questions of valuation , accounting and administration will arise in cases where the basic issue is whether or not or to what extent money shall be taken from carriers by the government and possibly in some instances under financially embarrassing conditions . The unconscious influence of the surrounding circumstances is not unlikely to be such that the result will be to establish in the course of this litigation certain principles relative to valuation and the like which will have an unfavorable reaction on many broader phases of public regulation " Giving to the foregoing its plain meaning , it would seem that the carriers may be expected to insist upon their full legal rights before paying any money under recapture . and that the courts in deciding the disputed points  --  mainly that of " value . " no doubt  --  will establish a rule of valuation . for rate-making purposes which will be unpalatable to those who kelleve in doctrines of " value " other than that declared by the Supreme Court . That this interpretation is correct is evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the words " that the result is likely to be " to its close , is taken vet ' . tsfotiw. , from the letter of Commissioner Eastman . as chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Corn , w1 .. iian , to the Chairman of the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee , dated May 17 ? commenting on the Howell bill to amend Section 15a . No attempt is made by this writer to interpret the phrase preceding , beginning with the words " The unconscious influence of the surrounding circumstances . " Logical  --  But Inconvenient Boiling the matter down to the bones , the Commission seemingly believes that the recapture provisions are logical  --  but extremely inconvenient because if brought to court they will result in establishing railroad " values " for rate making higher than it likes to see . With all possible deference to the Commission , it is suggested that the recapture provisions are not logical , on the contrary they are illogical , and that because they are illogical they should be repealed . And further , that it is hard to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an " unfavorable reaction " on any phase of public regulation , if that regulation be properly conceived and copducted with due respect to the rights of all , patties . The law is plainly illogical and is inconsistent with itself  --  as this writer has already pointed out in a previous article . All that is necessary to do to demonstrate this is to compare paragraph 2 of Section 15a , which lays down the rate-making rule , with paragraph 5 of the same section , which lays down the recapture rule . Paragraph 2 instructs the Commission to make rates for regional groups of carriers which shall furnish an aggregate fair return on the aggregate value of carrier property in the group . Rates which do this and which properly reflect the fair share of the total burden to be borne by each class of service and by each commodity transported are reasonable rates and they are reasonable because they do so . An aggregate return on total value of carrier property is the same thing as an average return on individual properties composing the group . But paragraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of uniform rates on competitive traffic which . will sustain adequately all the carriers which are engaged in such traffic and which are indispensable to the communities to which they render the service of transportation , which rates will necessarily enable some of such carriers to receive a net railway operating income substantially and unreasonably in excess of a fair return on the value of their property . Instead of the average fair return contemplated by paragraph 2 , paragraph 5 contemplates a minimum fair return for each carrier . Whole Idea Wrong No principle of recapture is " logical " under an average fair return ; recapture would be " logical " under a minimum fair return . But the law in paragraph 2 says that rates are to be made on the principle of an average return , and not , as paragraph 5 assumes , on the principle of a minimum return . There is a complete shift of base between the two paragraphs , and neither is consistent with the other . Moreover , rates made on the principle of paragraph 5 would be " unreasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such case morally belong to those who paid the unreasonable rates and not to the United States Government . There is neither logic nor equity in the law as it stands , and that is the real reason why it should be repealed . As for a " net railway operating income substantially and unreasonably in excess of a fair return " it is merely necessary to ask how an unreasonable return can result from reasonable rates . Paragraph 2 lays down the rule for making reasonable rates ; how under that rule can an individual carrier earn an unreasonable profit ? And by what principle of equity does the United States take title to the excess ? The whole idea was wrong at the start and is wrong now ; perhaps it may have to be abolished by wrong reasoning ! So be it  --  provided that it be abolished !                     