@@700855

txt Investigation of relief expenditures moved ahead on two fronts yesterday as Mayor LaGuardia planned the formation of his own inquiry board and Aldermanic President Bernard S. Deutsch presided at the first meeting of the aldermanic investigation committee . Though both officials said they were anxious to avoid duplication , neither showed the slightest disposition to withdraw . Mayor LaGuardia proceeded with his own plans without reference to the aldermanic investigation , and Mr. Deutsch , at the other end of City Hall , launched his committee 's work . Three months is the estimated time required for the Aldermen 's inquiry . Neither Mr. Deutsch nor any committee member would guess what the cost might be . " Politics are absolutely taboo ? in this inquiry , " Mr. Deutsch said . " We could start this investigation after election just as well as now , but it is a matter that should be ventilated as soon as possible . I can not emphasize too strongly the fact that politics will in no way be dragged into the aldermanic inquiry . " " Why Two Committees ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan to appoint his own survey committee , Mr. Deutsch said : " He can appoint any sort of committee he chooses . We will deal with that phase of the proposition if and when he does . But why should there be two committees working at cross-purposes ? " Do n't forget that those on relief rolls have sensibilities that must be respected . They m ' : st not be made the target of investigating committees working at cross-purposes , or those who have political motives in mind . It is bad enough for a person to be on a relief roll without having to expose him to the vagaries of every investigating committee . I can not put it too strongly that those rightfully on relief rolls will not be involved in any publicity . " Mr. Deutsch is chairman of the aldermanic committee , and Alderman Joseph E. Kinsley , Bronx Democrat , is vice chairman . Other members are Majority Leader Timothy J. Sullivan , Minority Leader Thomas J. Curran , Walter R. Hart and John J. Cashmore of Brooklyn and Edward Buhler , Queens Fusionist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one over the Fusionists . The committee decided yesterday to requisition relief payrolls and other data from Welfare Commissioner William Hodson . Deutsch Outlines Principles . The principles under which it will operate were announced by Mr. Deutsch as follows : " It is to be a constructive investigation for the purpose of inquiring whether or not the administrative systems now employed by the De- partment of Public Welfare and the Emergency Relief Administration can be materially improved , so that the distribution of relief will be more economical and more satisfactory to the recipients . " There shall be complete exclusion from this investigation of any and all traces of partisan politics and no effort will be made to use any discoveries for political purposes . " Cooperation will be offered to and sought from the present committee appointed by the Governor to survey the relief problem in the State and to any and all independent civic and social organizations in this city and to any expert in the field of social service or unemployment relief who may be willing to proffer aid to this committee . " The committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month , will check the working of the Home Relief Bureau and the Works Division of the Welfare Department . It will study the planning of both divisions ; their coordination with Federal and State relief agencies and the social problems involved . Mr. Deutsch received yesterday twenty additional complaints of waste in relief administration . Mayor Outlines Plans . After the Deutsch committee had finished its work for the day , Mayor LaGuardia made public his own plans , as disclosed in correspondence with Allen Wardwell , chairman of the relief survey committee appointed some time ago by Governor Lehman . The Mayor said he would appoint a committee to cooperate with the State body in a complete survey of relief work in this city . He sent the following letter to Mr. Wardwell : Oct. 18 , 1934 . Mr. Allen Wardwell , 15 Broad Street , New York , N. Y. My dear Mr. Wardwell : Thanks fo- your letter of Oct. 16 , 1924 , and for your aid and counsel in our conference today . The fact that you have already appointed a New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Miss Mary Gibbons , Mrs. Arthur Choate , Miss Margherita De Vecchi and Mr. Frank J. Taylor , seems to furnish a basis for a proper , complete and comprehensive survey of the relief work in this city . In accordance with our conversation today , I would appoint an additional or supplemental committee , consisting of members to be selected as follows : One by the State Board of Social Welfare . One by the Welfare Council . Two members of the Board of Aldermen . The Merchants Association , Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade to agree upon one representative . The Budget Commission , Citizens Union and League of Women Voters to agree upon one representative . The Commissioner of Accounts of the City of New York . President of the Board of Aldermen , and Two from your committee . It is highly desirable and I would urge that your New York committee proceed with its survey at the earliest possible moment . In order to avoid ' duplication of work , the Mayor 's committee would cooperate with your committee and have the benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in addition to following any leads or subject which would be agreed upon as necessary by the two committees . In other words , the two committees would work jointly on matters of mutual interest . The Mayor 's committee would cover such additional questions as would be agreed by the committee . In this way we would have proper correlation instead of duplication . Very truly yours , F. LAGUARDIA , Mayor . Pledges " Useful Survey . " In his letter to the Mayor three days ago Mr. Wardwell offered the cooperation of his committee with any group the Mayor might designate . In commenting on his own plans , the Mayor said : " I think this presents a serious , business-like and useful method of surveying relief here . It will avoid duplication entirely and make a useful survey , rather than touching on certain spots . It will cure such defects as may be found . " The Mayor feels that the Aldermanic inquiry will be largely a politically inspired " fishing expedition " designed to embarrass him . He has said that he did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to investigate relief .                     