@@703085

txt Award of $117,000 in strike damages against the Progressive Miners of America Union here raised again the question of whether a union membership can be made " responsible " for injuries when it has not been incorporated as a legal entity . The union will carry the case to the Supreme Court which in the famous Danbury Hatters case once before assessed damages against a union membership , which was not incorporated . By Fred W. Carr Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor CHICAGO , Jan. 15 ? Incorporation of a handful of labor unions is disclosed in a limited survey made by The Christian Science Monitor , a finding contrary to the common impression , in and out of the labor movement , that no trade unions are incorporated . Experience of these unions with incorporation is.particularly significant today because of the increasing pressure of business interests for incorporation as a measure of regulation of labor by the State . None of the unions officially reporting incorporation say - it has produced any handicaps . On the other hand , some unionists declare incorporation is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every instance it is voluntary incorporation that is spoken of , whereby a trade union may incorporate or not as it chooses . Compulsory incorporation , such as might be required by state or federal law , is quite a different thing . The labor movement seems unanimously opposed to incorporation enforced by statute on all labor unions . The majority of organized labor is undoubtedly against even voluntary incorporation . But that seems in good part a reaction against employer enthusiasm for incorporation . To the extent that organized employers haVe agitated for incorporation , organized labor has veered away-from-it , ? - So far as mere incorporation goes , both of these positions appear exaggerated . Checks which voluntary incorporation might put on labor unions have been overdrawn , - according to some legal authorities in the labor movement . With this appraisal , however , many labor leaders disagree . Most Useful Test Perhaps the most useful test in this debate is the word of officials of incorporated unions as to how incorporation actually has worked . How small is the knowledge , even in the labor world , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following letters from the presidents of several international unions In the railroad group : " So far as I know , none of the standard railroad labor organizations is incorporated . " " I do not know of any railway unions that are incorporated . " " As far as I know , none of the labor organizations is incorporated . " Yet the standard railroad labor organizations proved most productive of incorporation . This was the area of 21 unions chiefly surveyed by the Monitor , in following up a report from legal sources that some incorporations existed these . Incorporated Unions The unions found incorporated are : American Train Dispatchers Association . National Organization Masters , Mates and Pilots of America . Local No. 07 , located at San Francisco , of the Marine Engineers ' Beneficial Association . In addition to the foregoing unions affiliated in the Association of Railway Labor Executives is the Eastern and Gulf Sailors ' Union , this being the eastern division of the International Seamen 's Union . Besides these , the original organizing group in the Brotherhood of Railway Signalmen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present national organization does not consider itself incorporated . It never has thought the question of enough importance to pay the money for legal expense to find out . Incorporated 19 Years The first of this list , the American Train Dispatchers Association , has been incorporated 10 years , Its president , J. 0 , Luhrsen of Chicago , writes : " Application for the formation of a corporation under the laws of the State of Washington was made Jan. 0 , 1010 , and certificate issued by Secretary of State , Washington , Jan. 10 , 1010 . " The application specified that ' the objects and purposes of this association shall be to improve the conditions of train dispatchers generally ; to promote the welfare of the members of that profession ; to improve conditions under which they work , to the end that their efficiency may be increased ; to adjust differences between their employers and the employees ; to obtain fair wages , reasonable hours and one day off in seven , It is further agreed that said association shall have no capital stock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lubreen , " that this is what is generally called a ' fraternal-labor corporation ' and not a business corporation in the full sense of the word , " I do not know that being Incorporated has been of any advantage or disadvantage . " Generally speaking , I believe the incorporation of labor organizations to be unnecessary and that the movement in that dhection is not justified . " The matter of incorpmation is optional with busines concerns and certainly should be optional with labor organizations . " Of the National Organization Masters , Mates and Pilots of America , its secretary , John J. Scully of New York City , writes : " Our organization is incorporated and has been for a number of years under laws of the State of New York . " The incorporation has not worked out to our disadvantage at any time since we have been incorporated . " Definite benefit is attributed to incorporation by R. Meriwether , business manager of the Marine Engineers ' Beneficial Association , No. 97 , who writes from San Fran-cisco : " The individual member receives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that should our organization become involved in a lawsuit , each member is protected to the extent that he can not be held responsible financially in any inspect . Alembers Protected " In the event of litigation , the I organization 's treasury stands subject to attachment , while the financial status of each member is protected to the extent that it is impossible to attach his personal finances . " In the case of the Danbury Hatters , this firm sued each member of the union . Judgment was rendered in favor of the Hatters ' company , and it attached the property of each member . " This was due to the fact the union was not incorporated . Had it been incorporated , funds of the union would have been attachable and each member would have been protected as above stated . " Personal properties of the members of the hatters ' union were saved- from seizure to meet the judgment by the American Federation of Labor which took up a collection throughout its membership to raise the necessary money . As to the Brotherhood of Railroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chicago , bald : " I do n't think it makes any difference whether or not a union is incorporated , If the Incorporation is voluntary . At , any rate that is our experience . I sec no reason at all for compulsory incorporation . " Thirty years ago when a small group of railroad signalmen were trying to form an organization in Pennsylvania , they incorporated as a fraternal and educational group . Broadened Purposes " In later years a national labor organization developed with broad ened purposes . It changed its name , meantime , but was an outgrowth of the original Unit . " It is doubtful if the incorporation of 1908 is applicable to the present organization . We have never considered the question of any special importance , in fact did not think it worth while to spend any money to see what the legal situation was . " Whatever it is , the incorporation of 30 years ago has never embarrassed us . It has never been to any disadvantage , nor to any advantage , " We have operated just the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we may be regarded today as unincorporated . "                     