@@702791

txt A parole for Virgil Kirkland , Gary youth who was sent to prison six years ago in the rape death of his sweetheart , Arlene Draves , has been recommended by the trustees of the reformatory at Pendleton , where he is serving a one to ten year sentence . That was announced late today . The recommendation is now in Virgil Kirkland. the hands of the state welfare board here , which usually approves the findings of the reformatory trustees . If that board approves the suggestion , the only thing left in the way of Kirkland 's freedom is the selection of a sponsor for him . Depends on His Sponsor . The sponsor , who will be responsible for Kirkland 's actions during the time of his parole , must be acceptal le to both the reformatory board of the trustees and the welfare board . A. F. Miles , superintendent of the reformatory , said the trustees had acted favorably on Kirkland 's parole petition on Aug. 4 . Miles said it was the second time the prisoner had made such a request @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the entire time he has been in the reformatory , " Supt. Miles said . " He has been working in the hospital as a laboratory assistant . " Calls Prospects Very Good . The superintendent said he considered Kirkland 's prospects of obtain . ing a parole very good . However , Robert G. Estill , who as prosecuting attorney presented evidence against Kirkland , said he would oppose tile parole if he were asked for an official opinion . " Kirkland was n't given a long enough term to begin with , " Estill argued . The Gary youth entered the reformatory in March , 1931 , after a jury at his second trial had convicted him of assault and battery with intent to commit rape . At his first trial he was found guilty of murder and given ' a life term , but Judge Grant Crumpacker , whose son was a member of defense counsel at both trials , granted a new hearing on the ground the evidence had not justified the severe verdict . Both trials were filled with sensations and attracted wide and intense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where the hearings were held , was stormed every day the case was on . Feeling ran high at Gary and there were numerous threats " to get " Kirkland . Go to Drinking Party . The defendant , then 20 years old , was accused of taking Miss ' Draves , pretty girl of 18 , to a Gary liquor revel Nov. 29 , 1930 , where she was ravished by him and four others and then left dead at a physician 's office . Kirkland , a former football player at the Horace ' Mann High school in Gary , admitted he slapped Arlene in an attempt to revive her after she became intoxicated . Bruises on her face supported the state 's contention she had been struck with a fist . During an automobile ride lour companions of Kirkland raped or attempted to rape his unconscious sweetheart at his suggestion , it was charged . Murder charges against the four were dismissed after Kirkland 's second trial . Ten Jurors Are Puzzled . Ten of the jurors who returned the verdict at the second trial said afterward they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young man . They deplored what they termed a miscarriage of justice . More than 5,000 Lake county citizens subsequently signed a petition charging that sentence was too short to protect their women " from such morons as Kirkland . " They demanded that the case be reopened and an investigation made , but no such action ever was taken .                     