@@704257

txt At the conference of the three Scandinavian Kings , the President of Finland and the four nations ' Foreign Ministers , which opened here today , two main questions were presented  --  first , to decide in : agreement with Finland how far the spirit of conciliation must go in the negotiations with Soviet Russia , and , second , to what extent the Nordic States , eventually joined by the other members of the Oslo group , Belgium and the Netherlands , will agree to support Chancellor Hitler 's wish for peace with the western democracies . About the first point there was in Stockholm yesterday a tendency to believe that the assurances given by , President Mikhail Kalinin of Russia to President Roosevelt were a good augury , but today news from Estonia shows that Soviet occupation implies strong censorship and strict regulations governing foreigners and is not so liberal and discreet as it was promised a few days ago . When the Russians agreed not to enter Estonia last Sunday because municipal elections were taking place , it was expected that local liberty would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kallio of Finland and his Foreign Minister , Eljas Erkko , have a good argument against any Russian occupation other than that of some little islands near the Soviet base at Kronstadt . Crucial Decision Faced The three Kings  --  Gustaf of Sweden , Christian of Denmark and Haakon of Norway  --  with their will to advise their Finnish ally for moderation , must realize that even for themselves it is a serious matter to accept Russian control of Hangoe or the Aland Islands . Decision will be taken tomorrow in relation to the second important point , which concerns Germany . Sven Hedin , Swedish explorer , arriving in Stockholm tonight , refused to make political comment on the conversation he had with Chancellor Hitler in Berlin Monday , but he let it be understood that although it was private the subject was of great importance to Sweden , and it is easy to guess what message Herr Hitler may have given his old faithful friend . His aim is to make clear once more to the four heads of state that , if the war is going on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet expansion in the Baltic ; but , on the other hand , there is a discreet indication that , if the Oslo group 's mediation would help to bring peace on the Western Front , Germany would recover her full possibilities for protecting the Northern States against excessive Soviet claims . Reliance on Reich Shaken Tonight there is an impression that any confidence in German help has been deeply shaken by recent events and naval methods , and that the four government heads will not go farther than to express a platonic wish for peace . The entire reception of the distinguished visitors had a character of solidarity , both touching and moral , Crowds massed on bridges and walong the shores of the river , the singing of 800 chorists , a night procession of 150 representative groups , including trade unions ? these were ? among features of the spectacle that gave to the tragic day an atmosphere of great solemnity . But most important was the prayer service , at which the four Lutheran heads of States participated in the cathedral . It was like a symbol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Christianity . It would not be surprising if this conference opened the way for a great Christian move by both the Northern European and the Mediterranean powers . Finland Asks Assurances STOCKHOLM , Oct. 18 ( UP ) ? Foreign Minister Eljas Erkko of Finland was understood tonight to have asked the Kings of Sweden , Norway and Denmark in their emergency conference here what aid they were prepared to give Finland if she should go to war in resisting aggression . Finland 's troubles were taken up almost immediately when Mr. Erkko and President Kallio explained Finland 's position on the Russian demands , it was said . Mr. Erkko asked what assistance could be expected from Finland 's Scandinavian neighbors if the necessity arose for Finland to defend herself against aggression . A reply from Norway , Sweden and Denmark  --  already heavily mobilized for any emergency  --  was delayed until a further study of the situation could be made , it was said . The Finnish attitude was described here tonight as increasing in confidence because strong reasons exist to believe Russia at . present does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stubborn resistance would be made . It is felt that Russia , would not wish to risk adverse world opinion , especially that of the United States , if an independent and well-respected state such as Finland were invaded ruthlessly . The attitude of Scandinavians was demonstrated tonight when huge crowds gathered outside the Royal Palace and shouted for the Finnish President . He went out on a balcony and smilingly waved his appreciation of the spontaneous demonstration . However , the attitude prevailing here was expressed by Frederick Storm , member of the Stockholm City Council , when he greeted President Kallio and Mr. Erkko at the city airport with the encouraging words : " If anything wrong should happen to one Scandinavian country , it would be of the utmost importance to all of them . Any wound made on any nation in our group would always be an open wound for all . " King Gustaf met Mr. Kallio and Mr. Erkko at the airport , and an hour later , a historic meeting occurred at the central railroad station when King Christian of Denmark and King Haakon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King Gustaf . Strong speculation continued that the four Nordic nations might take action before tomorrow night on possible mediation efforts to end the European war . Newspapers indicated that the Nordic States might throw their weight into a move to " help build a bridge leading to central European peace , " but said the four nations had no intention of venturing out on thin ice . Any decision as to mediation probably will await a full report from the Swedish explorer , Dr. Sven Hedin , who returned from Germany tonight after conferring with Chancellor Hitler and Field Marshal Hermann Goering . King Gustaf , reviving the role he played in 1914 to solidify the neutrality of the Nordic States , gave a dinner tonight for the Danish and Norwegian Kings , President KaI1th , their Foreign Ministers and sixty-four other guests in the white ballroom of the palace . Attending the conference with the three Kings and President Kallio are Foreign Ministers Rickard J. Sandler of Sweden , P. R. Munch of Denmark , Halvdan Koht of Norway and Mr. Erkko . The Foreign Ministers met this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then joined the Kings and President aeluncheon . Wide Peace Move Urged STOCKHOLM , Sweden , Oct. 18 ( IP ) ? Stockholm newspapers carried an appeal to the Northern States today to make the conference here a starting point for a general European peace move . ? The appeal , signed by " representatives of Swedish industry and trade , " said the reaffirmation of the Northern States ' neutrality and earnest desire for peace was good , " but not enough . " " They must also watch for every opportunity to promote peaceful contacts between belligerent powers before it is too late , " the appeal added . " In this hour the influence of the Northern States is not small . " " We appeal to the heads of the four States and their Ministers to broaden the demonstration of the Northern countries ' desire for peace and to discuss all possibilities of bringing about negotiations which might result in averting world disaster , " the appeal said . It followed a petition couched in similar language addressed to King Gustaf yesterday by the Swedish National League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight as having produced a " rather more optimistic attitude " in high political quarters of the Northern European States . Finns Pin Hope on Neighbors Special Cable to TETE New YORK TIMES . HELSINGFORS , Finland , Oct. 18 ? In a Helsingfors beflagged today in honor of the Scandinavian conference in Stockholm hope grew that the deliberations would bring further consolidation of the Northern States ' unity and produce practical measures to strengthen Finland 's position . Finland realizes more than ever that her salvation is linked with the northern neutrality bloc , especially since the Helsingin Sanomat , Foreign Minister Eljas Erkko 's newspaper , admitted today that it is " evident that some of the ? Russian demands are hardly consistent with Finland 's integrity and neutrality . " With the whole nation 's good wishes ringing in his ears , Finland 's farmer President , Kyosti Kallio , left this morning by special airplane for Stockholm . A huge crowd had assembled before his palace , a former residence of the Russian Czars , singing patriotic songs . Throughout the country people hoisted thousands of Finnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cross that is their common symbol . Consultations of the inner Cabinet with Juho K. Paasikivi , Finland 's delegate to Moscow , on technical points of the Soviet demands continued today , but it is believed important progress will be made only after the Stockholm conference . This afternoon Mr. Paasikivi saw Henry Bell , director of Price &; Pierce , Ltd. , London timber and wood pulp agents , who is visiting Finland to discuss Finnish-British trade relations . Soviet President Mikhail Kalinin 's reply to President Roosevelt received much prominence in the press , though the newspapers have refrained from comment , just as the Soviet demands still are kept a close secret . Opposition to the acceptance of any terms conflicting with Finland 's liberty is expressed by the newspaper Ajan Suunta , which says , " If one concession is made it will be followed by new demands , and so a road would be opened , whence no return would be possible . " Norway Bolsters Defense OSLO , Norway , Oct. 18 ( .. T ) ? Defense Minister Christian F. Monsen announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strengthen the neutrality defenses of Northern Norway , " both naval and military . The Minister did not elaborate .                     