@@702018

txt Bishop Michael J. Gallagher of Detroit , who is the superior of Father Charles E. Coughlin , expressed disapproval here yesterday of the language used by the ; priest Thursday night at Cleveland in referring to President Roosevelt . He emphasized , however , that he had not rebuked his subordinate . The Bishop sailed for Rome on the Italian liner Rex . Referring to the address delivered by Father Coughlin before the Townsend convention in Cleveland , in which the priest coupled the President with the terms " liar " and " betrayer , " Bishop Gallagher said : " Father Coughlin is entitled to his own opinion , but I do not approve of the language he used in expressing himself on the President . " He should have had more respect for the Executive . Just because the President said he would do something and did not does not make him a liar . There are many things that could intervene between the time a man says something In public life and the time for action , and such matters should be taken into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not regard the President as a Communist , as some people say he is , or a Fascist . He was given wide powers at a desperate time . But , I might add , communism is a great menace to this country . " With regard to the term " liar " used by Father Coughlin , Bishop Gallagher said : " It is not diplomatic or wise to call a man a liar just because one may not agree with his statement . There are other ways of expressing one 's disbelief which are more tactful and express the same meaning . " The Bishop said he approved the general activities of Father Coughlin and his talks over the radio , which he declared were the teachings of Pope Pius XI and Pope Leo XIII and were against communism . He said it was the duty of a priest , a man educated at the expense of the community and therefore representing the community , to express himself openly on matters that involved the public well-being and protect the public from charlatans . " Father Coughlin has done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Asked if the Catholic Church would be critical if Father Coughlin created a political party , he replied ; " Unusual conditions call for extraordinary acts . Father Coughlin did not create the third party , but Lemke did . Lemke 's platform came closer to the sixteen principles which Father Coughlin laid down , and therefore he gives Lemke his support . " When President Roosevelt was running for office and his political ideals came closer to Father Coughlin 's concept of right government , he was among the first to campaign for him on the air . " Plans No Report on Coughlin The Bishop said he did not see anything unusual about a third party in American political life . " Lincoln started a third party , and so did Theodore Roosevelt , " he remarked . " Father Coughlin 's opinions are his own . As a priest in a democracy , he has as much right to speak out his mind as any citizen . " Bishop Gallagher said he did not expect to discuss Father Coughlin at the Vatican unless he was questioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Rome Father Coughlin was not mentioned , and the Apostolic Delegate did not say anything about him when Bishop Gallagher saw him in Washington six weeks ago , he said . The Detroit Bishop discussed the positions of Germany , France , Spain and Austria and added : " We know what communism las done in Russia . where ungodliness is the rule . In Germany and Spain there is no liberty . In Hungary and Russia there is no liberty . France is on the verge of destruction . " We know what would happen in this country . The Communists have a very definite program . At the appointed time they kill off the opposition leaders . All they ask is , When shall they seize the government ? " Supports Priest 's Policies Bishop Gallagher is accompanied on his journey to the Vatican by Bishop Joseph Schrembs of Cleveland . They are known as the " Twin Bishops , " because both are about ' 70 years old . They are making the visit to Rome required of all bishops within three to five years and also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Father Coughlin , Bishop Gallagher said : " There are a lot of folks who would like the Church to discipline Father Coughlin because they would like him out of the way , but so far as I am concerned , and he is directly under my authority , he is working along the right path and he has my support . " The Bishop 's name was not on the passenger list of the Rex . He was surprised when found by reporters in his suite .                     