@@703813

txt A farreaching program , under which the United States will station more military representatives in Latin American republics and give assistance to those countries , is about to en into effect . Within a few months , the United States will have twenty-nine officers of the army , including the air force , in Latin America , in addition to naval attaches and missions . Coming at a time when the Brazilian Foreign Minister , Oswaldo Aranha , is in this country discussing defense and other questions with American leaders , the program is described by officials as having much political significance . It means a determined attempt on the part of the Administration to offset the attempts by totalitarian States to penetrate Latin America through military representatives and missions . In many cases the United States Army officers accredited to Latin American States will be directing or assisting in the military colleges of the Republics . The full program , . which is disclosed today for the first time , is as follows : An officer will go to Tegucigalpa to cover Honduras , Salvador and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another is going to Lima to handle matters pertaining to Ecuador and Peru . The aviation mission now in Argentina , consisting of two majors , four captains and two first lieutenants , will be continued . The military mission in Brazil , now composed of four men , has been increased to five with the addition of an ordnance officer . There is also a military attach ? in Rio . The two army instructors in Haiti will be increased by one . They will virtually be in charge of the Haitian Military School . The navy is sending a naval attach ? to Cuba . He will have duties at other places in the Caribbean Sea . The army contemplates sending another officer to join the one in Mexico City . An army mission of one man is going to Colombia . An officer is being sent to Nicaragua to officiate at the Army School there . A military attach ? is ordered to Caracas , Venezuela , to handle matters concerned with Colombia and Venezuela . At present there are twenty-two United States Army officers in Latin-American nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five ; Central America , two ; Haiti , two ; Mexico , one ; Cuba , one ; Colombia , one ; Chile , one . Increases are scheduled as follows : Nicaragua , one ; Haiti , one ; Honduras , one ; Venezuela , one ; Peru , one ; Mexico , one ; Brazil , one . Further increases will be made when the need for them is seen . Fascist Progress Is Studied Staff officers here are keeping in close touch with the Latin-American situation , For several years they have been studying the progress being made by Germany and Italy in winning the friendship of Latin-American nations through their military missions . They have not lost sight , either , of the efforts of the democracies , Britain and France , to increase their military representation in this hemisphere . They have studied the efforts made by Germany and Italy to induce young officers of Latin American republics to study in the Military schools of the totalitarian States . They have kept check of the sales of military equipment by Germany and Italy to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a greater number of South and Central American students into United States military academies . The new program is in line with the declaration of Lima drawn up at the recent Pan American Conference . In that pronouncement the American republics expressed their determination to defend themselves against foreign aggression , whether military or political . The program is designed ' to enable the republics to defend themselves against military aggression . Foreign Minister Aranha is expected to return home with an agreement by United States officials to facilitate the sale of airplanes and probably anti-aircraft material to his country . Brazil is regarded by officers here as being the most vulnerable of the Latin American States because it is thenearest to Europe . Visits by S Cruisers Are Planned Special to Tus Naar YORK nuns . WASHINGTON , Feb. 14 . ? Three of the newest and finest cruisers of the United States fleet were designated by the Navy Department today to make courtesy visits to the principal ports of South America , the cruise to include ports on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts . No significance , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the visits - were ordered so soon after the recall by Premier Mussolini of Italian cruisers , which were making courtesy calls at South American ports . The decision to send the cruisers to South America , it was explained , has been under consideration for some time . The cruisers , all of the heavy type , are the San Francisco , flag-1 ship of Rear Admiral H. E. Kimmel ; the Quincy and the Tuscaloosa . They will sail from Guantanamo , Cuba , on April 8 . The first port of call will be La Guaira , Venezuela . The other ports to be visited , in the order named , are Rio de Janeiro , Montevideo , Buenos Aires , Valparaiso and Callao . The cruise will end officially at Balboa , Canal Zone , on June 4 . Another squadron , under Rear Admiral W. S. Anderson , will visit Cartagena , Colombia , March 25 to 30 . The cruisers to make this visit are the Northampton , Salt Lake City and Pensacola . Guayaquil , Ecuador , will be visited by Destroyer Division 4 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department also announced that the San Francisco , Quincy and Tuscaloosa , at the end of the South America cruise , would join the Atlantic Squadron . It is probable that three or four of the light cruisers now attached to the Atlantic Squadron will go to the Pacific .                     