@@702742

txt Night prowling army worms are destroying crops in the northern part of Illinois . During the last few days the pests suddenly have sprung up in pastures and meadows and in oats and other small grain fields in Cook , DuPage , , Boone , and Lake counties , according to reports reaching THE TRIBUNE and the state entomologist 's office at Urbana yesterday . Farmers in other counties in this end of the state are expected to find the army worm ( Cirphis unipunctal this week . W. P. Flint , state entomologist , said that the present outbreak is the second brood of worms and will be limited roughly to two tiers of counties in the northeast end of the state and a few counties in southern Wisconsin . Need of Check Told . The infestation will be light to moderate and the worms will be found only in spots . Some severe outbreaks , however , may occur on a few farms and cause serious damage unless checked , Flint said . The worms now found in northern Illinois are the second brood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brood was found in a widespread outbreak during May and June down . state as far north as the southern edge of the last two tiers of counties . This season the army worm plague started in Mississippi and the moths which lay the eggs from which the worms come worked their way north . The first brood of worms damaged Illinois ' timothy crop to the extent of 15 per cent in the infested areas , according to estimates made last night by Flint . In the worst spots corn was damaged to the extent of 10 per cent , but there was time left for replanting . Wheat Loss Slight . Infested oats were damaged on the average of about 5 per cent , and in some cases as much as 25 per cent . Pastures were cut 10 to 15 per cent in many cases . The loss in wheat was slight . Mr. Flint estimated that the dam age to corn by the first brood would have been from 35 to 40 per cent where the worms appeared if farmers had not been warned three weeks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army worm is one of the most destructive insect pests of the cereal started causing trouble among the first farmers in Illinois and have continued to appear at irregular intervals since . They sometimes cover only a few counties and at other times the whole state , as is the case this year . One of the worst outbreaks was in 1924 , when more than one-fourth of the counties in Illinois crops and forage grasses . The worms were invaded . Northern Illinois farmers were ) adly hit that year , par , ticularly in , Du Page . Kane , and Boone counties . $1,500 Crops Destroyed . In 1924 Richard D. Weisermann , near Burlington , Ill. , was one of the heaviest losers . Within a few days $1,500 worth of his crops was eaten by army worms . This worm war correspondent saw long trenches 18 inches deep and a foot wide filled to the top with the gorged pests that had been trapped in oil on the Weisermann. farm . Much of the first brood that appeared in southern and central nois was cleaned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poison molasses bait . The female moth is brownish gray in appearance with an almost perfect white spot near the center on each of the front wings . It is commonly seen around lights . These moths live for about one week and during that time each one lays approximately 700 eggs and then dies . The worms hatch from the eggs deposited in clumps of grass . Usually moths lay their eggs in the same place . When about half grown the young worms start moving in an army in search of food . They get their name from the characteristic army-like way they march . The worms usually are greenish in color with white or yellow stripes down each side and a dark , often nearly black , stripe down the center of their backs . Live for Three Weeks . The worms live for about three weeks and feed on grasses and such cereal crops as oats and wheat . The worm burrows its way into the ground and changes into the pupa . The reddish or chestnut brown pupa remains in the soil for about two weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and keeps up the life cycle . The worms are easily poisoned by scattering bait over the infested ground . Farmers now are successful where they- use this formula : Bran , 100 lbs. ; white arsenic , 4 lbs. ; water , 8 gallons , and molasses , 2 gallons . This will be enough to scatter over ten acres of ground . The bait is scattered after sundown , because the worms feed at night . DROWNING HELD TO BE ACCIDENT . A verdict of accidental death was returned yesterday at the inquest over the drowning Sunday of Adolph Lutmeek , iffl years old , : 1940 Argyle street . He drowned in a gravel pit near Ridge road and Central , treet , Evanston.                     