@@704246

txt Representatives of industry and labor attending the 24th National Recreation Congress here today were agreed upon at least one thing  --  that organized planning of leisure-time activities benefits both employers and employees . Personnel and recreation directors of large corporations joined with union leaders at one of several simultaneous seminars in the Hotel Statler , in declaring that recreation programs for America 's millions of factory workers " yield dividends . " The industrial seminar , although crowded , was but ohe of many arranged by the Congress , which opened last night under the sponsorship of the National Recreation Association . Other seminars today dealt with rural recreation , the recreational needs of girls and women , the training of recreation workers , use of Federal and state facilities , and other related topics . Workers ' Programs The effect of unionism on the cultural and recreational programs of workers was debated at the industrial group meeting . Experiences differed among those who spoke . Some told of employers who curtailed their club programs as a result of union organization . Others described corporationS that kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signing union cdntracts . On one point , however , there was agreement  --  that the eight-hour day , five-day week , and paid vacations have made the systematic use of leisure time not only desired by workers but necessary ; and this need , it was said , transcends the question of whether such programs should be spon- sored by the union , . by management , or by both in co-operation . The extent to which such pro-gloms have proved their worth was indicated by Miss S. S. Siegal , of the National Association of Manufacturers , who said : " Our organization advocates recreational programs for the leisure horns of American ' workers , and feels these benefit both employers and employees . We do not arrange such programs ourselves , but gather mlormation about successful plans of many corporations to give other firms which inquire of us . " For the Family E. S. Conner , Athletic Director of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. of Akron , Ohio , urged that programs be arranged not only for employees but for their families . He described " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can play games and talk , and " Grandmothers Clubs , " at which these women may knit and talk . The effects of union organization provoked the most controversy . Representatives of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company plant at Springfield , Mass. , and the General Electric plant at Lynn , Mass. , both of which have contracts with the United Electrical rod ** Workers Union , - ail'iiffihate of the Congress of industrial Organizations , said their recreational plans had continued unchanged after unionization . A different story came from the men 's clothing industry , as related by Ralph B. Tefferteller , who is in charge of cultural activities of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers , another C. I. 0 . Union in Pittsburgh , Pa . Mr. Tefferteller said employers had curtailed their recreational activities when the unions came , but that the needle trades unions had taken over and enlarged this activity . Other speakers differed as to whether athletic programs were designed to " keep the minds of workers away from agitators " or whether they should be aimed at such permanent goals as " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view was Lawrence J. Johnson , of Boston , of the National Athletic Union , while a speaker who attacked this view M. M. Olander , Personnel Director of the Owens-Illinois Glass Company , Toledo . Ohio . Testimony that the once-troublesome " blue Monday " had disappeared from industry was given by Guy L. Shipps , of the Dow Chemical Company , Midland , Mich . He said this might be due to the longer week end , or to the recreation programs , but was n't sure .                     