@@700382

txt The properties of the Compania Cubans . de Electricitad , an affiliate of the Electric Bond and Share Company , representing an original investment of about $200,000,000 , was seized by the Cuban Government this morning and will be operated by the Department of the Interior under a Presidential decree signed today . Following a strike of all employes of the power company at 6 A. M. , cutting off electric , gas and water services throughout the island , President Grau San Martin , on recommendation of Interior Secretary Guiteras , signed the seizure order and operation was resumed at noon . The walkout this morning surprised the company and the public because it was understopd last night that the strike had been set for 11 A. M. tomorrow . Apparently in an attempt to force the electric company to meet the terms of the striking workers the decree provides that operation by the government will continue until a satisfactory settlement is reached between the company and the union . The preamble of the decree explains that the thirty days ' truce between the company and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pending demands of the workers , so the government was forced by the strike to operate the plants in the interest of public order . Street cars were abandoned by their crews when the electric power was cut off , elevators were halted , and water stored in roof tanks was quickly exhausted . At 11:30 a fleet of electric company service trucks filled with cheering employes sped through downtown streets announcing the seizure of the properties by the government . A few minutes later street lights went on and the public breathed a sigh of relief . So far there has been no indication here of the attitude which the United States Government will assume in view of the seizure of the largest single unit of Americanowned properties on the island . Colonel Fulgencio Batista , chief of staff , was notified last night of the concern of the United States Embassy over the strike . Jefferson Caffery , personal representative of President Roosevelt , conferred with Colonel Batista late last night . The government is believed to face serious difficulties in operating the plants . Receipts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ island-wide consumers ' strike , and the company has been losing money . More consumers are expected to ' refuse to pay their bills because of the opposition of the wealthy and the middle class to the present administration . The seizures are viewed here as establishing a precedent which will endanger not only $1,500,000,000 of American capital in Cuba but all other foreign investments . The intensely nationalistic policy of the Grau Government has tended toward the elimination of foreign capital from the island . Secretary of the Interior Guiteras , the most radical of the Cabinet members , favors taking over all public utilities and any other industries which can be operated for the benefit of the working class . The government in the latter part of December seized the $10,000,000 Chapara and Delicias sugar mills of the Cuban-American Sugar Company with the intention of operating them during the coming season . Thwarted by a lack of finances and with no market for sugar , the government was forced to abandon these plans and decrees were drafted for their return to the owners . The decree has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government . Railways Face Strike Wednesday . The British-owned United Railways Company has until Wednesday to accept demands of the workers and it is expected that in case of a strike the government will seize the railway properties . Much speculation has already arisen as to the attitude of the United States State Department in such an event in view of the obligations assumed by the United States . ' The employes of the Cuban Telephone Company , an affiliate of the International Telephone and Telegraph Company , are expected to present new demands soon . A recent strike of these employes was settled when the company accepted the terms of the workers under pressure from the Cuban military authorities . A decree greatly reducing telephone rates is expected shortly . Important sugar Interests here viewed the seizure of the electric company 's properties with alarm because of dispatches from Washington stating the Roosevelt administration might assign a sugar quota to Cuba . It was generally believed the seizures would cause Washington to withhold the quota . A warehouse and ten freight cars of the United Railways at Rodas in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an armed group which rode into the small town from the surrounding hills . The marauders then departed . The police searched all hospitals of the Spanish benefit associations today for arms and ammunition . Thousands of Spaniards were angered yesterday by the seizure of the association 's hospitals . Havana University was formally opened this afternoon for the first time since 1930 when President Machado closed the institution because of the anti-administration activities of the students . The attempt of students to oust all professors who supported the Machado regime has provoked a serious conflict in the university . The clash held up the opening date which had been set for last October .                     