@@701949

txt Henry G. Singer , former Chief Assistant United States Attorney and hitherto one of the most silent of the five defendants in the Drukman conspiracy trial , rose unexpectedly in court yesterday to defend his name against the accusations of a man he convicted of bail-bond frauds four years ago . The youthful defendant took over from his attorney , I. Gainsburg , the cross-examinations-of Charles Nittoly , former Assistant United States Marshal , and Michael J. Hogan , a former United States Representative , who gave testimony linking , directly or indirectly , the former prosecutor to the alleged bribery plot . When Singer finished with them he had drawn admissions as to unsavory details in their past and had got on the record for the first time the defense version of the Drukman conspiracy . He flatly accused the former Representative , who was convicted in 1935 of naturalization fraud charges , of having thought up and executed , alone , the scheme to " contact " Theodore Cohn , member of the April ( 1935 ) grand jurir  --  that exonerated Meyer and Harry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Drukman . He gained from Nittoly admissions that he had perjured himself in other courts and had pleaded guilty to bail bond charges involving an extensive graft . A Relentless Questioner Not only did the former prosecutor gain a number of admissions tending to impugn the credibility of the testimony of his accusers , but he conducted his cross-examination with an aggressiveness and relentlessness , hitherto absent in the trial , which is in its second week before Supreme Court Justice Erskine C. Rogers in Brooklyn . Weaving back and forth across the courtroom , thrashing his arms and hurling rapid-fire questions at both witnesses , Singer field the jury in rapt attention . Hogan and Nittoly were only two of a parade of witnesses in the trial yesterday . Cohn , the grand juror who turned down a $100 bribe offer to vote against an indictment of the Drukman murderers , gave corroboratory testimony as to that phase of the alleged plot . He engaged in a give-and-take tilt with Mr. Gainsburg on cross-examination that provided a bit of humor for the spectators , but he yielded no points to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Braff , daughter of Max Silverman , a fugitive named in the conspiracy indictment , who bristled with hostility for the State . Both sides questioned her concerning her father 's relations with Assistant District Attorney William W. Kleinman . Wife of Juror Testifies Mrs. Cohn , the wife of the grand juror , testified concerning her knowledge of the attempt to " reach " her husband , and a Negro servant in the Silverman household gave testimony to substantiate the State 's contention that Silverman and Kleinman were sufficiently acquainted to dine together . The State , however , by the end of yesterday 's session had got well started on its theory of why the April grand jury did not indict the three men who were found in the locked and darkened Luckman ga- rage , after the police broke through a transom and discovered Sam Drukman 's strangled body tied in a canvas bag . It has shown how large sums of money were transferred from Luckman bank accounts immediately after the murder , and has obtained an admission from one of the defendants , who pleaded guilty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he earn $50 by bribing a grand juror . This witness was Carmine Anzalone , once a clerk in the Assembly at Albany . For legal purposes , Anzalone 's testimony required some corroboration , but Cohn was unable to supply it because , according to the State 's version of the case , Cohn was not informed as to the original source of the bribe offer . A. Corroboratory Witness Nittoly entered the scene at this point as the corroboratory witness . Anzalone previously testified that i Singer , an old friend of his , left a telephone message at his office asking him to get in touch with Singer . The message was written down , according to Anzalone , by his office associate , Nittoly. : The two were in the private detective business at the time . So , because he scribbled a supposedly casual telephone message on a piece of paper and left it for Anzalone , Nittoly was put on the witness stand by the State to corroborate Anzalone 's story that Singer was one of the Drukman plotters . Hogan , the picturesque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the court , was called to tell how he had been asked by Joseph A. Solovei to get in touch with Cohn . Solovei is named as a co-conspirator , but is not indicted . He is a Brooklyn lawyer who shares office quarters with Singer . He was one of the first lawyers to represent the Luckmans , who were finally convicted of the murder after Governor Lehman had reopened the case . The defense indicated that it proposes to use the State 's own witnesses , which are concededly hostile in many instances , to prove that the conspiracy plot was something entirely different from Special Prosecutor Hiram C. Todd 's contention . " My purpose is to prove , " Singer shouted yesterday , " that this witness , Hogan went to Cohn for the Luckmans , and that the Luckmans directed and he procured Anzalone to go to Cohn . He and no one else schemed the whole thing . " Hogan , who was an Alderman for six years and a , member of the House of Representatives for one term during 1922 and 1923 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curly hair . He strode briskly to the witness stand , raised his hand to be sworn with the gesture of a gladiator entering the arena , and then settled down comfortably in the chair . The ensuing examination was I more than severe . Under direct examination , - which lasted only a few minutes , . he testified that he met Solovei on the street one day in April , 1935 , and that Solovei asked him , in the event he should see " Ted Cohn , " to " say a good word . for the Luckmans . " Went to Juror 's Home Hogan testified that he went to Cohn 's home but the grand juror was not there . Later , he said , he met him near the Borough Hall section of Brooklyn and mentioned lithe Luckman case to him . " What the hell do you know about the Luckman case ? " demanded Cohn , according to Hogan . " They are guilty as hell . " " I told Cohn I had been asked to put in a good word for them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross - examination , brought out that Hogan was in the trucking business for many years . He hammered away at the witness in an attempt to obtain an admission that Hogan was friendly with the Luckmans , but the most he got was Hogan 's characterization that he regarded them " as honest competitors . " He would not admit knowing any of them personally . The former Representative , who said at one point that " I always done things in terms of politics , " testified freely as to his past . He spoke rapidly and constantly interjected fragments of his philosophy of life into the testimony . " I have been through the acid test concerning friends , " he said with emotion , in admitting that he was convicted in 1935 of a naturalization offense . He also admitted having been involved , but not convicted , in an alleged attempt to take money in return for using political influence in obtaining plumbers ' - licenses for two persons . " It 's a damnable lie ! " " I 'm an innocent man ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I have helped many people in my life ! " were examples of the exclamations which interrupted his testimony . Nittoly , at present employed as a relief worker on the City Planning Commission , admitted that he and his brother and a number of associates were successfully prosecuted by Singer in 1932 for bail bond abuses . Mr. Singer , shouting that " This man committed a thousand perjuries , " devoted most of his examination to obtaining from the witness an admission that his conviction centered about a perjury and " forged " bail bond paper . " It was only a routine of all the bondsmen , " protested the witness . His cross-examination was not finished yesterday , and he will take the stand today . The former juror , Cohn , corroborated Anzalone 's story of how the defendant had approached him with the bribe offer . His wife gave further corroboration . Mrs. Braff , wearing a pert white visor hat , a rose-and-gray dress and a rose-colored sport coat , admitted having met the Kleinman family on the beach at Sea Gate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced the Assistant District Attorney to her father , Max Silverman , the fugitive . He is accused of having interceded in the conspiracy plot . But she would not admit more than that . She denied that Mr. Kleinman ever became friendly with her father , and protested that she had no knowledge of where he is now . An order designed to enable Mr. Todd to take broader action against recalcitrant witnesses who change their testimony in connection with the Drukman inquiry was signed yesterday by Lieut . Gov . M. William Bray , as Acting Governor .                     