@@701680

txt Again after seven years the people of the British Empire are anxiously awaiting news from the sick room of their King . That news from Sandringham yesterday was increasingly grave . The strain of constant coughing caused by bronchitis has begun to tell on the King 's heart and that fact was particularly referred to in the doctors ' bulletin yesterday afternoon , in a manner that brought gloom to the country . The bulletin , issued at 3:30 P. M. 10:30 A. M. Saturday , Eastern standard time , said : " His Majesty the King had some hours of restful sleep . The cardiac weakness and embarrassment of circulation have slightly increased and give cause for anxiety . " The bulletin was signed by the four doctors attending the King , Sir Frederick Winans , Sir Stanley Hewett , Sir Maurice Cassidy and Lord Dawson of Penn . No Change Seven Hours Later . Seven hours later , at 10:30 P. M. , the doctors issued the following : " There is no change to report since the last bulletin . " Although there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sick room , the fact that the King was holding his own at night , when the danger is greatest , was received with gratitude . The physicians announced that there would be no further bulletins during the night , which was also taken as a hopeful sign . All but Sir Maurice Cassidy , who is a heart specialist , remained at Sandringham throughout the night . It was learned unofficially without confirmation by the doctors that the King was sleeping quietly at midnight . Shortly after 5 A. M. , in response to reports that the King had died , it was stated at Sandringham that there was nothing abnormal about his condition . An early morning bulletin was expected in several hours . It was stated in court circles that no undue significance should be attached to the fact that Sir Maurice left Sandringham and returned to London after the afternoon bulletin had been issued . The staff of the hospital nearest to Sandringham , at King 's Lynn , has been asked to have special supplies of oxygen available should they be required in an emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cylinders Ready . " The cylinders are here in readiness and will be available at any time of the day or night should they be required , " said a member of the hospital staff . The bulletin issued at 3:30 P. M. was the first that had been signed by Sir Maurice , who had been called to Sandringham late Friday night when signs of heart weakness began to show . There was a similar situation seven years ago this month when the King 's life was almost despaired of after his prolonged illness at Buckingham Palace . Medical men in London also recall that it was weakening of the heart after a short siege of bronchitis that caused the death of King Edward VII , King George 's father , in May , 1930 . In the King 's present case of bronchial catarrh there has been a preliminary cold with symptoms of influenza germs . A constant succession of cold fogs and heavy rains with snow in the last few days have all been against the King 's recovery from an illness that seemed slight until Friday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope , that the King will again outlive the peril that was almost fatal in 1928-1929 . The fact that only four doctors have thus far been called Into attendance whereas there were thirteen in consultation seven years ago is cited as an ' indication that the death of the King is not yet supposed to be a matter only of hours . Queen Mary was in constant attendance at the bedside of the King all day and the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York were both more frequent visitors to their father 's chamber . The King 's daughter , the Princess Royal , accompanied by her husband , the Earl of Harewood , arrived at Sandringham yesterday afternoon . Lord Wigram , the King 's private secretary , was also hurriedly summoned to Sandringham in the afternoon . The Duke of Kent and the Duke of Gloucester , who has been ill with a cold at Buckingham Palace , are expected at Sandringham late this afternoon . Meanwhile the train line between London , Cambridge and King 's Lynn , on which service is normally suspended between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kept permanently open in preparation for any emergency necessitating an immediate supply of medicine or the transportation of members of the royal family who are not yet at Sandringham . Even more significant than the various arrivals to the anxious group of farm folk and villagers at the gateway to the royal grounds was the departure of the King 's two small granddaughters , the Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret Rose . Play in Snow Interrupted . Soon after breakfast the two children emerged from the house to resume the fun they had been having the day before as a result of the unusual fall of snow . They were happily engaged in making a snow man when a nurse called them in and soon afterward they were motoring to the station to take a train to London , with little realization of the gravity of their grandfather 's illness . Their mother , the Duchess of York , is herself ill with influenza at Windsor . Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin , instead of taking his usual weekend at Chequers , is remaining in Downing Street , where he is in constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Home Affairs , whose duty it is to be present whenever there is a birth or death in the royal family , is on call . In the event that the King 's illness is prolonged , as it was seven years ago , resort probably will be made , as then , to the appointment of a Council of State to deal with matters that are normally within his personal jurisdiction . The council in 1928 consisted of the Queen , the Prince of Wales , the Duke of York , the Lord High Chancellor , the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Prime Minister . The grave anxiety regarding the King is reflected in all London 's Sunday newspapers , which stress the great difference between his present illness and that early last Summer , when bronchial trouble did not prevent his participation in various jubilee functions . Doctors ' " Guarded Language . " The Sunday Observer declares in an editorial : " It would be futile to disguise the deep concern and anxiety that have overtaken all His Majesty 's subjects at the sudden news of his illness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ever since his prolonged ordeal of seven Winters ago it has been common knowledge that the King 's strength was precarious , and his manful perseverance in public duty has had to be balanced by scrupulous precautions against weather and other contingencies . " ' One who has been in close touch with the King at Sandringham traced his illness to Christmas Day , saying : " After the King addressed his people on the radio he was unable to participate in the royal family 's Christmas festivities and kept to his room throughout the holiday . Not a word about the indisposition he then felt was allowed to mar the enjoyment of his family , particularly the Princesses Elizabeth and F Margaret Rose . The Queen carried on the party so successfully that the young people knew nothing of the King 's indisposition . Looked Ill in Church Sunday . " The health of the King did not cause further uneasiness until last Sunday . The King went to the morning service at church and the members of the royal family in the same pew had occasion to glance at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the King waved aside all protests I that he should rest and insisted upon inspecting the horses at his Sandringham stud farm , being particularly anxious to visit his famous Istallion Limelight that afternoon . He was exhausted afterward and had to be helped into his car . " The Archbishop of Canterbury , speaking in the cathedral yesterday , said : " Let me say a brief word about the news of the King 's illness , which has so unexpectedly come to us . It would be foolish to deny that there are grounds for anxiety , but there are also good grounds for hope in the King 's proved powers of recovery and in the knowledge , experience and skill of his doctors and nurses . " I am sure that the love and loyalty which was so wonderfully manifested last year in the King 's Jubilee will be expressed now by the prayers of all his people that the Holy Spirit , the Lord and the Giver of ' Me , may bring to him full strength and recovery , may give trust and confidence to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to care for him . " Let us all pray that the life which means so much to this realm may be restored to full health and strength . " Although the people of this country have been anxiously sensitive to all news of the King 's occasional ailments since his almost fatal illness seven years ago , there was an unusual shock yesterday because of the suddenness with which the danger line had been reached in his condition . Throughout most of the week just ending the King had been out for Princess Elizabeth leaving Sandringham House . She was told that her grandfather was " very ill. " a daily stroll on his estate . It was only a few days ago that he was able to accompany a gunning party at Sandringham mounted on a pony , although he did no shooting himself . Last Sunday he followed his usual custom of walking a quarter of a mile to church and he has had much outdoor fun with his two granddaughters and their dogs . When most people went to bed Friday night they knew from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " They awakened yesterday morning to their weekend holiday saddened by fear and foreboding , which culminated in the afternoon when they received a bulletin from the King 's doctors over the radio .                     