@@700164

txt France , which becomes easily excited over little matters , learned this morning with astonishing calm of Germany 's decision to quit the League of Nations and the disarmament conference . The news came near the end of a Cabinet meeting where financial measures for balancing the budget were discussed . The Cabinet cornpleted its order of the day and then , only informally , talked over this ' new situation in Europe . " When an explosion like that oc-1 curs , " one Cabinet member said , " one must wait until the dust set- 1 ties down before one can measure the damage and decide what is to be done . " While there is a disposition to take the event calmly , now that it has happened , its extreme gravity is admitted and it is agreed its final consequences can not be foreseen . It is felt here that Germany has , by her action , challenged the whole Wilsonian principle of international cooperation for insuring peace . Whatever its faults and failures , the League which Germany has rejected was consecrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Certainly those who , here as elsewhere , have argued that the League was as powerless to prevent war as laws without police or punishment are to prevent crime , are now going to have their hour of triumph . Those , too , who have , especially during the past few months , been daily urging in the French press that Hitlerism must be destroyed before it gets too strong , are now assured the road has been opened to them , even if they can not see exactly where it will lead . For the French people today 's decision by the German Government has been indeed grave . The semi-official newspaper Le Temps pleads that the situation " be examined with all calmness , " in view of " the questions of paramount importance " it raises for Europe . " It is the end of all attempts at cooperation In organizing peace , " declares Le Temps . In official quarters the German Cabinet 's decision is regarded as " grave , extremely important and unexpected at this moment . " But it was not an eventuality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision had been made . Only one conclusion is advanced : " While France has shown herself willing to accept very great sacrifices in order to obtain international control of national armaments , Germany has shown by this action that she is unwilling to accept any control or any limitation whatever . " What is to be done ? There are many popular answers to that question , but none is official . At Geneva the disarmament conference continues . There is a good deal of consultations of texts and documents , for the French never move without first establishing very clearly their legal position . But the new course which must be laid following this sudden change in the situation has still to be considered . There are those who advocate an immediate return to the terms of the Treaty of Versailles with all that will imply . There are those who prefer to remain in the company of the guarantor powers of the Locarno Treaty . Whether these two treaties are compatible has not yet been determined . At least it seems to those in authority at present that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guarantors of the Rhineland and to work with them if possible . Germany 's act has littered Europe with torn " scraps of paper . " The most recently signed international agreement , that Four-Power Pact which Premier Mussolini of Italy built up with such care , reads in Article 3 : " The high contracting parties engage to make the utmost effort to assure the success of the disarmament conferenece . " It will scarcely be possible now to utilize the Four-Power Pact as a substitute for the League of Nations . Germany has preferred to abandon the effort for disarmament presumably on the ground that it was biased and sought rather to perpetuate the conditions of the Treaty of Versailles than to create a real spirit of common weal among the nations . Even so , the French argue that the fact that Germany has now preferred isolation to continuous effort proves that she entered the League only for what she could get out of it and is leaving it to suit herself . Le Temps Counsels Calm . " It is a serious event , " says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all coolness , because ? questions of paramount importance are now going to be placed before Europe . " The situation is extremely clear : Germany has broken with the conference and with the League of Nations because she desires to rearm and because she desires at all costs to avoid the control which would reveal that she has been already re-arming for several months in violation of the Treaty of Versailles . While all other nations are seeking to prepare for reductions in arms , Germany is firmly determined to reconstitute her military forces and has been seeking to put the responsibility for the rupture at the conference upon others . But , caught in her own trap , she has now been obliged to take a decisive step and throw down the mask and reveal her true face . It is the logical outcome of the National Socialist revolution , and now that it has happened , it is apparent that it could not have been otherwise . " Having attained power by exciting hatreds and nationalistic mysticism , Hitler was obliged either to renounce claims through which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige and popularity , or else to resort , as he has done , to provoking the moral and political isolation of Germany . " He has chosen isolation and dissolved the Reichstag and called new elections to cover himself by popular vote , though what guarantee of sincerity can there be in such elections under the National Socialist regime ? " In all events , it is a serious crisis that has come in Europe . It is also the end of all attempts at cooperation in organizing peace . - " Terrible Blow at the League . " Germany has struck a terrible blow at the League of Nations , which received her and gave her a Council seat , even though Germany had not then fulfilled her international obligations . Germany has forgotten that it was thanks to the League and the spirit of Geneva that she obtained prized advantages , including successive reductions in reparations and advanced evacuation of the Rhineland , and that she regained her place as a great European power . " What can Germany expect to obtain by her present policy ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world responsibility for the brutal destruction of all that has been painfully accomplished in fourteen years ' efforts to establish a durable peace among peoples. - The breakdown of the disarmament conference by Germany 's action threatens to bring a resumption of the armaments race . More than ever the world will be living dangerously . It will be difficult for the peoples of the world to pardon the leaders of the Third Reich for this . " The Journal des Debate takes a more bitter attitude , saying : " It is a monstrous result of postwar policy which shows the deep demoralization of European politics . Through this Germany has escaped her obligations , and , worse , has been allowed to think she can do whatever she pleases . " Europe has allowed Germany long years in which to recover her strength , and now Germany has decided to break away completely from her treaty obligations . This is the happy record of an absurd policy , beginning with Chequers and continuing at Thoiry and Locarno and which has now died at Geneva . " Will Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to understand and act ? " In a leading article entitled " Thunderclap at Geneva , " ' Intransigeant says : " Germany wants to break off all relations with Europe . Doubtless we should rejoice , for in so doing she shows her true nature , and the world can , now open its eyes to the evidence . " A similar note is struck in the Left newspaper , the Paris Soir , which says : " Germany by ' her act ' runs a terrific risk before history . She deliberately chooses isolation from the rest of the world . It is lamentable , but after all it is frank . Germany has disclosed her true position . ' Commenting on the references to Premier Edouard Daladier and his attitude toward Germany In Chancellor Hitler 's radio address , Le Matin. says : " We will not fall into this trap . We are not deceived by Chancellor Hitler 's appeals for peace in Europe nor by his protestations of moderation . Paper Cites French Warnings . " For several months the French delegates in Geneva have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's secret desires . We did our best to warn them , and now Chancellor ; Hitler himself confirms how well I founded our charges were . But it is our duty to remain calm and await the reactions of the British and American governments . " Pertinax , writing in the Echo de Paris , says ? Germany is withdrawing just at the moment when she might have had everything her own way in the disarmament conference . " The British and Americans seemed ready to substitute what they describe as a time-table for period armaments control , " it says . " Under this substitute plan Germany would have been able in eight years , if not sooner , to achieve complete military superiority . " The German Chancellor 's abrupt decision , however , relieves us completely of the dangerous results of our recent follies . Its repercussions on Britain and the United States will make much easier henceforth France 's part in the maintenance of European peace . " Chancellor RitIer 's overtures to Premier Daladier in his radio speech suggesting a Franco-German military accord would mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Little ' Entente . It would open the gates to Pan-Germanism . " Pertinax concluded by declaring the proponents of disarmament at Geneva " have been unconsciously preparing for another war during the last ten years . " They are enslaved by absurd Illusions , " he said , " and are incapable of seeing realities . Peace will be saved only by a miracle . Geneva 's ideology does not agree with events and will bring only catastrophe . We can not make any more mistakes . "                     