@@703794

txt International Police Force Planned Advocates of Peace Have Ready a Scheme Based on the Proposal Advanced Years Ago by William Penn The writer of the following letter was formerly technical adviser and deputy member of the Saar Plebiscite Commission appointed by the League of Nations . Nineteen years ago last month the civilized world started on its effort to make real the dream of centuries  --  the prevention of aggression through mutual assistance . In this way the world was to be made safe for democracy . And so it might have been had not we ourselves , the greatest economic power in the world and , potentially , the greatest military power , refused to join in world organization to enforce order , or in any pledge of consultation to distinguish the aggressor , Maintaining , as we- did , our right to sell our products - to - both sides as we pleased regardless of the effort of the international society to stop the conflict , all hope for the safety of democracy was at an end . In this post-war world our short-sighted neutrality has meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization to prevent war , for the League blockade which would be necessary to stop our supplies from reaching the aggressor would in itself have been a cause of war . By making the system of economic sanctions unworkable , we too have a responsibility for the fate of Ethiopia and Czecho-Slovakia . Blow to Movement The partition of Czecho-Slovakia under the threat of war gave to the effort of the past nineteen years to substitute law for violence a cruel blow . Perhaps ' never again in our time shall we have so fair an opportunity to blind an ordered world . The League of Nations will not die , however , nor will the hope of giving it , some day , the power to stop aggression . We who have worked for the League through these years of its infancy must now take our place with those earlier devotees of a league of nations , like William Penn , whose careful plan made the present League possible . Hopeless as any progress may seem today , we are in duty bound to contribute what wisdom we can from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again the opportunity arises our children may be ready to grasp the prize of peace which we have let slip through our fingers . It is clear that the peace movement in this country in its devoted work for disarmament has been greatly hampered by the fallacy of non-resistance . William Penn fell into no such error . Although already a Friend , and a nonresistant in his personal relations , he was- practical enough to see that in international relations force would be necessary to compel a recalcitrant nation to keep the peace , and so he provided in his plan for " The Present and Future Peace of Europe " - that-  should any State refuse to submit its dispute to his league -- or " Diet " as he called it ? then " united as one strength " the members " shall compel the submission and performance of ' nip sentence . " Our experience during these years has proved that Penn was wise indeed . The League covenant , so like his plan in basis , has shown itself excellent in concept and far better than we have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agreement in determining the aggressor has not been difficult . The weakness has lain in organizing action to oppose aggression . Additions to Covenant Experience shows that to meet the chief problems of the League two additions should be made to it . The one , to facilitate peaceful change , is a permanent commission of equity to investigate dangerous situations and to make recommendations before conflict has broken out ; the other is an international police force to prevent aggression and to insure peaceful settlement . For the last five years an international organization called The New Commonwealth has been at work on these two proposals , calling together experts in international law and in military matters from many European countries to cooperate on the problems involved in an international police force for Europe , on the basis of the covenant and the Kellogg-Briand pact . Their conclusions are still tentative , but they are encouraging . The military experts  --  retired admirals and generals  --  report that the technical difficulties of an international police force are not fatal  --  the thing can be had when the nations want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an international air force at least one and one-third the size of the most powerful individual air force existing at any moment . This international force would be a strategic reserve to serve as an auxiliary force for the assistance of the ' victim of aggression and , by placing such odds against the aggressor , to induce him to refrain from attack . Under League Orders The force , of course , would not judge the dispute . It would be used only to prevent either side from . resorting to violence while the dispute is settled by peaceful means . Nor would it act of its own volition , but under the direction of the League of Nations . Some of the technical details are of great present interest . As the main base , they recommended , in 1937 , Tunisia , because of its great strategic importance and , because . being a protectorate , it would easily be mandated to the League . Regarding the make-up of the force they have decided definitely against national quotas and prefer to have recruiting individual and voluntary , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The recruits must be chosen with the greatest care , given a course in the force training schools , and encouraged to regard the service as an honorable life career . They must take an oath of loyalty to the League of Nations , renouncing national allegiance while the service lasts , with the reservation open to every recruit that if his own country of origin is declared the aggressor he will not be ordered to serve against it actively in person . There must be one language for commands , . and the British experts recommend Spanish . The staff at the beginning should be drawn from the military staffs of the member countries , no post being held more than two years , and eventually all posts to be filled by regular internal promotion . The expense , capital and annual , has been calculated and the method of allocation has been worked out . These are the solutions proposed for some of the many problems arising from an international force . Similarly they are working on plans for an army and navy . A Last Resort Such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only after all other means of settling the dispute  --  conciliation , arbitration or judicial procedure ? have failed . Next in sequence after such failure , and before the use of the force , would be economic sanctions , and experience in the Ethiopian affair indicates that these might be enough in themselves if they were applied immediately and comprehensively and if no League blockade were necessary , as it would have been in that case , to stop our American oil and coal and scrap iron from going to the aggressor . But behind all of ? these measures there must be in the background the certainty that if they fail mutual assistance against an aggressor will be applied with military force . In this way a reasonable degree of confidence in collective security would be established , and in consequence there would at last be a hope of reduction of armaments . Force without law is violence , and the greatest of all evils . Force in itself is not an evil . Its character is determined by the purpose for which it is employed . Is there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Behind the law of the land are the sanctions of the law for its enforcement when necessary . As Pascal says , " We must therefore bring together justice and force and so dispose things that whatsoever is just is mighty or whatsoever is mighty is just . " SARAH WAMBAUGH . Cambridge , Mass. , Feb. 2 , 1939 . Protecting Our Oil Supply To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In connection with the national defense program sponsored by President Roosevelt I would direct attention to the urgent need for underground tanks for the storage of fuel oil and gasoline at the defense bases . As now constructed , our reserve fuel storage tanks for our navy and air force are most vulnerable objects for hostile air raids or for sabotage at the hands of enemies within our own boundaries in time of war . They are tremendous fire hazards . Any surface fire on adjacent property is likely to ignite the contents of these tanks and the resultant explosion likely to demolish not only the tanks themselves but everything within a considerable radius . Surface tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with heat-resistant paint . In addition the rays of the sun beating upon them cause evaporation of gasoline at an excessive rate . In contrast , sub-surface tanks are permanent fixtures . They require a minimum of maintenance : ' They are immune to fire hazard , to hazard from the air , and to sabotage . , Buried deep in the ground or beneath the waters of the harbor , they reduce evaporation and deterioration to a minimum . Such tanks could , within ten years , pay their entire cost of construction out of the resultant saving in gasoline . Goo J. ATWELL . New York , Feb. 3 , 1939 . Germany 's Aryanism ' To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : That the " Aryanism " of ' Germany would be a topic of ' discussion at the meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science was a foregone conclusion and the accuracy of the facts presented can not be questioned . There is little racial purity in all Europe ; practically none in the western part . During the periods of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans , Gauls and Celt-Iberians . Long before their time , however , Celtic hordes wandered across various parts of Europe , stopped only by the Atlantic Ocean . That at least one Iot of invaders passed through Germany is shown by place-names that are distinctly Celtic . That fact indicates that Celts  --  and probably thousands of them  --  remained in Germany and merged with Teutonic blood . But a more significant matter is found in the intrusion of North Africans , The Berbers , a Semitic people , found that Southern Europe offered facilities for living better than those existing in their homelands . As a result there was a constant flow to the Mediterranean coast of Europe . Europeans along this coast are extremely dark of skin  --  growing gradually lighter in complexion northward . Berber emigrants found homes far into Germany . Their color may not tell the story , but their household words still survive , and no one knows all this better than Herr Hitler . J. W. REDWAY . Mount Vernon , N. Y. , Feb. 3 , 1939 . Social Security Needs Considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tax New YORK Timm : While Congress is deliberating the need of expanding the Social Security Act and the desirability of having it embrace the cost of adequate medical care and other things it would seem prudent to analyze the cost and likewise the provisions of the present act . The eventual cost of the present So , cial Seourity Act , including unemployment insurance , Will be by 1949 9 per cent of the payroll . Should we add the cost of adequate medical care , oven in a modest way , this would tack on approximately another 3 per cent . Should we make provision for dependents , either for premature death of the ern. ploye or for a dependent- left after the employe starts drawing his pension , this would represent at least another 5 per cent , making a total payroll tax of approximately 17 per cent . In order to obtain a modest income of $85 a month , an employe would have to work continuously for forty-five years , earning at least $3,000 each year . However , the indigent , who have unfortunately not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will prove to be more fortunate through the various pension panaceas offered them when their retirement age arrives . We should , therefore , try to create the incentive to labor and reward for it , instead of making those who do labor pay for the non-productive forces and maintain them in a way similar to or better than they are able to provide for themselves . Dangers to Be Feared - Let us now survey the danger in our present Social Security Act . Must we fear the anticipated accumulation of our reserve , which , it is estimated , will amount to forty-seven billion dollars ? Must we fear a revolving fund , enabling the government to levy payroll taxes other than those needed.to meet pension payments ? Must we fear that the security of the government bonds for the social security fund is less secure than any other government obligation ? Must we fear that the government can not borrow further funds at our present interest financing when it is paying double the interest rate , or 3 per cent , on the social security funds ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the employe for a specific purpose and the applying of that tax to the general fund . The social security reserve is set up to the specific credit of the government , and not to the credit of the employe . When Congress has the power to tax the wage-earner , regardless of the amount it represents at present , this sets a precedent for the eventual increasing of such tax and adjusting the pension payments as may be seen fit . Congress can use the reserve for any purpose it desires . It can and does use the pension cry for political purposes . The promises mitde by certain candidates at the last election and the various pension panaceas being sponsored in the halls of Congress well prove the folly of permitting the pension funds to be ruled as a political football . Court 's Opinion Quoted May I refer to the Supreme Court opinion on May 6 , 1935 , in voiding the railroad pension bill : " Assurance of security it truly gives , but , quite as truly , if ' morale ' is intended to connote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to destroy it in any privately owned business is to substitute legislative largess for private bounty and thus transfer the drive for pensions to the halls of Congress and transmute loyalty to employer into gratitude to the Legislature . " What , then , is the solution to our pension problem ? First , we must have but one pension plan , based on the same principle for all employes , whether in the employ of the government , railroad or any other line of endeavor , public or private ; provisions to be made to embrace all selfemployed . Second , the entire pension tax ? i. e. , from employe and employer  --  must be set up to the credit of the individual employe . The board which is to administer any such act should be empowered to invest such funds in public enterprises such as slum clearance and housing , or in other safe projects providing a reasonable interest return . Third , group life insurance , equaling from two to three years ' income not exceeding $3,500 a year , must be provided to care for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A clearing bureau should be provided by the administrative board to care for group insurance during the course of change of employment . The board can , through such a bureau , maintain constant statistics whereby employment may be provided and whereby shift of employment may be advisable . Insuring Medical Care Fourth , cost of adequate medical care should be included in any social security act , as it can not be insured through either voluntary health insurance or any specific , limited coverage , because some people enjoy better health than others . Only through a national insurance can we distribute the expense more adequately and in a reasonable way . Free choice of a physician and the physician 's right to make additional charges wherever the family income warrants it should form the basis of the plan . The ability of the individual to pay without decreasing his purchasing power must be considered , as well as an incentive provided for security in employment , in any social security act . If we should use the present cost in a different set-up , we could achieve the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside to the credit of the individual for his retirement at 65 ; 2% per cent to provide group life insurance to equal from two to three years ' income not exceeding $3,500 a year ; 2't per cent for insuring the cost of adequate medical care . Insurance funds for group life insurance and adequate medical care would create immediate purchasing power , thereby creating employment , the tax to be shared equally by both employer and employe . HARRY KAPLAN . New York , Feb. 1 , 1939.                     