@@698084

txt Roman Catholics are preparing a hasty campaign to oppose the religious reforms InCorporated in the draft constitution of the new republic . Meetings are being called in provincial towns under auspices of the Catholic Action party , in which the doctrines advanced by the church in the recent pastoral letter , sharply criticizing the previous draft constitution , will be propagated . El Debate , leading Roman Catholic newspaper in Spain , yesterday contended that if passed in its present form the constitution would be the most radical and sectarian in character in Europe outside of Russia . Spanish Roman Catholics , the paper said , will be in the position of their coreligionists in Mexico if the articles 1 which approve of the dissolution of religious orders and the nationalization of their property , and also those implying the establishment of a complete lay state , are approved by the Cortes . It now remains to be seen whether a new campaign will arouse the Roman Catholics from the indifferent attitude which they have shown to date . Nothing has been more remarkable than the slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various decrees by the Government depriving the Roman Catholic Church of many of its previous ' privileges have aroused in a country which has always been looked upon as the most strongly Roman Catholic nation in ' Europe . The Basques in their northern mountain strongholds alone have shown signs of rebellion against measures unfavorable to the Roman Catholic Church . But even they do not appear to pin much faith on the fervor of their fellow religionists and demand in their autonomy ' statute that they be allowed to have a separate concordat with Rome . Now the promise of a lay state , easy facilities for divorce , lay education and similar proposals , which mean a veritable revolution in the customs of conservative Spain , are beginning to arouse some opposition , but even so the proposals are received with an equanimity impossible to conceive of in any . othet European country . ' ' The situation Is interpreted here as shoWing the- weak position ' into which religion may decline when for centuries it is systematically protected by the state from the rivalry of other religions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ministry of Justice in which return to the state is demanded of all property conceded ' by any Span , ish King to one of his subjects in return for the loans of money .                     