@@698501

txt Peace proposals were submitted concurrently to the Japanese and Chinese Governmeats today by the United States , Great Britain , France and Italy in an effort to terminate hostilities at Shanghai . and elsewhere in China . The full weight of the powers to this end was brought to bear upon the two contending countries in the exercise of friendly offices at the request of both China and Japan . No " demand " for peace was involved . On the contrary , the four govern1 ments acted in the hope that they might assist the two countries in composing their differences , at the same time recognizing that it was to their own interest , because their nationals were in danger so long as disturbed conditions existed at Shanghai and 1 along the Yangtse River . Five Proposals for Peace . The proposals were enumerated in a suggested formula of five parts , the first four devoted to the situation in Shanghai and along the Yangtse , following lines already attempted by the foreign consular corps in Shanghai , and the fifth having reference to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably , the Manchurian question . No report has been received concerning the reaction of Nanking and Tokyo to the proposals , but State Department officials were hopeful tonight of their acceptance . In American military and naval circles and in certain informed Japanese quarters confidence was openly expressed that Japan and China would agree to the suggestions , perhaps after some negotiating over the details of the formula . The optimism in these American circles was based upon a report from Japan that Admiral Shiozawa had been recalled from command at Shanghai and replaced by Admiral Nomura , and that Admiral Tameguchi had been replaced as chief of the naval staff by Admiral Prince Higashi Fushimi , a member of the royal family . These changes , it was emphasized , meant that Japan admitted a mistake had been committed at Shanghai and along the Yangtse and that she was prepared to liquidate that venture . Admiral Nomura is well known here , where he served as Naval Attache from 1915 to 1918 and was aide to Admiral Baron Kato , who was chief of the Japanese delgation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nomura was praised highly today by Admiral Pratt , Chief of Naval Operations , who said no better choice could have been made . The assignment of Admiral Nomura to command at Shanghai and the designation of the new chief of the Japanese naval staff were reported here today in army and navy advices . Japanese Embassy officials confirmed these reports and intimated that Admiral Shiozawa would be transferred to duty on a naval board in Tokyo . Admiral Nomura is a close friend of Admiral Taylor , commander of the Asiatic fleet , who is due on his flagship , the cruiser Houston , tomorrow at Shanghai , where he will be i senior naval commander of the international naval forces at that port . Meanwhile , as word was received of these changes , reports from American officials at Shanghai and along the Yangtse described conditions as improved . Peace Proposals Presented . The peace proposals were submitted simultaneously today in Tokyo and Nanking at 6 A. M. Washington time , on behalf of the United States by Ambassador W. Cameron Forbes and Consul General Willys N. Peck . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Ambassador to Japan accompanying Mr. Forbes to the Foreign Office . Before they had concluded , the French Ambassador appeared , and later the Italian Ambassador arrived . The suggestions were transmitted after they had been speedily formulated yesterday after transatlantic telephone conversations between Secretary Stimson and Prime Minister of Great Britain . They were based upon suggestions for the good offices of the powers first communicated by the Chinese Foreign Minister on Friday and then by the Japanese Foreign Minister on Sunday . When they had been agreed upon , the United States and Great Britain invited France and Italy to take similar steps . Officials tonight welcomed Germany 's independent action in supporting the other powers with representations at Tokyo and Nanking for peace . Officials also were interested in unofficial reports from Geneva that the Japanese delegate to the Council of the League had approved the peace plan as set forth by Mr. Thomas of Great Britain but declined to comment on them , explaining that they would await an official reply from Tokyo before expressing views . Two points concerning the proposals were stressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not constitute a " demand " that hostilities cease . The other was that the United States had no spokesman at Geneva so far as the Sino-Japanese controversy was concerned . This had reference to reports from Geneva that J. H. Thomas , the BritLeague of Nations , had asserted that the great powers had decided on diplomatic cooperation to restore peace and his intimation that it was in the form of a demand for peace , in which the United States cooperated . Mr. Thomas was in no position to speak for the United States , it was said , and it was emphasized that the American proposals were solely for peace and American forces were in China only to protect Americans . The United States , it was added at the White House , has not even an observer at the League Council 's session and no statement could be made before that organization on behalf of this country . H. R. Wilson 's Status Explained . Hugh R , Wilson , American Minister to Switzerland , who is in Geneva for the sessions of the disarmament conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Council and the United States , the State Department announced , but it was stressed that this was merely for purposes of information . It was the sort of service , it was explained , that Mr. Wilson performed during the sessions of the Council last September when the Manchurian crisis arose , and did not imply the character of an observer in the Council sessions or direct American participation in the deliberations . Importance is attached to the Council 's deliberations bearing on the Sino-Japanese controversy because high hopes are held for the success of the conciliation machinery of the League covenant , set in operation in December under the resolution providing for an international commission to inquire into conditions in Manchuria and perhaps China proper . The League commission is proceeding to the Far East by way of the United States and will be joined here by Major Gen. Frank R. McCoy , the American member : The League resolution was referred to in the formal statement by the State Department today announcing the submission of the peace proposals , as was the desirability of the outstanding controversies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit of the BriandKellogg anti-war treaty . The League resolution , the NinePower treaty and the Paris pact were emphasized In Secretary Stimson 's ' notes ? to Japan and China on Jan. 7 , invoking American rights in Manchuria . There was no inclination today , however , to inject that declaration into the present proceedings . The impression prevailed that the powers intended to concentrate their efforts on a solution of the critical situation at Shanghai and along the Yangtse and then perhaps some progress might be made with reference to Manchuria . Conditions are still dangerous at Shanghai , in the view here , particularly as large numbers of undisciplined volunteer elements on both sides have arms and some are using them indiscriminately . So long as this conditions exists , there will be danger for foreigners . Denies Japan Sends Troops . Katsuji Debuchi , the Japanese Ambassador , called upon William R. Castle Jr. , Under-Secretary of State , at the State Department this afternoon and afterward denied that Japan was sending two regiments or any other army forces to Shanghai or even naval reinforcements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : : changed information with Mr. Castle and had received no word from the Tokyo Government as to its reaction toward the peace proposals . Told of an unofficial report that Japan would not reply to the proposals until Thursday , he said : " Why the delay ? I do n't believe that report . " Ambassador Debuchi said he was very happy to hear of the appointment of Admiral Nomura to command the forces at Shanghai and added that it was " very reassuring . "                     