@@700434

txt The Interstate Commerce Commission is preparing to require railroads to create sinking funds for the retirement of bonds as a condition to future bond-issue permits . The commission 's policy , as it appears at this time , apparently will be to make such payments contingent upon net income , not a fixed requirement ; that is , if the carrier has the earnings . the sinking fund payments would come after bond interest , taxes and other fixed charges , but before dividends . Imposition of such a requirement will culminate a policy which has been shaping up at the commission for some time and which found definite expression in the commission 's annual report to Congress in January . Emphatic endorsement of the commission 's rail bond amortization idea and of itsextension to include all utilities was announced by President Roosevelt early last month .. Made Inquiries Recently The commission 's intention is indicated by inquiries made of applicant carriers over the past three months . Both m conferences and correspondence with railroad officials , the commission has asked " what consideration has been given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed bonds ? " Such an inquiry was made in pending applications of the Western Maryland and the Chicago &; North Western . The question also was asked the Chicago , Burlington &; Quincy in a recent application , although no condition was attached to the order subsequently issued in this case . The Western Maryland told the commission there was no occasion for the creation of a sinking fund for a. proposed $1,776,000 first and refunding mortgage bonds , and that its financial condition has not been such as would permit it to maintain such a fund . The North Western 's attitude is as yet unknown . The correspondence with the carriers indicates that sinking funds would be established for the benefit of bonds now outstanding as well as those subsequently issued . Arrangements for such funds , the commission suggests , might be made under pg. - ovisloitsfor a ailliplemental indenture where the terms of the mortgage permit . Railway managers , it is understood , are not absolutely opposed to the idea . Most of the objections are based upon practical considerations rather than the theory itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposed . Strong Support Seen The commission intends to suggest the creation of sinking funds in all bond issue proposals except where there is some obvious reason why it coult not be done . Reaction from the railroad managements will be taken into account in considering the matter . Opposition to the sinking fund policy is anticipated here in banking quarters . Strong administration and congressional support is seen for the new policy . Commissioner Claude R. Porter , who has just been put on the ICC finance division , is a strong advocate of sinking funds and controlled bondstock ratios . Chairman Dill of the Senate interstate commerce committee likewise favors sinking funds . The Senate committee chairman also has announced intention of requiring sinking funds in the financing of communication companies under legislation he will draft . This also would be true also as to any ultimate federal legislation on electric utilities . No Refacing on Rates Au seen in this quarter , the sinking fund idea has no bearing on the rate lnyel . The payments , it was pointed out would come out of net earnings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be increased by reason of the sinking fund Otherwise , it was explained , a situation would rise where the public would contribute the sinking funds and thereby increase the equity of stockholders as the bonds are retired , while the stockholders already are receiving an adequate return . Broadening of the stockholders ' equity in railroad properties through the retirement of bonds would enable the roads to resort to stock financing of their capital requirements , advocates believe .                     