@@700877

txt The outlook for the farm equipment industry is brighter today than it has been at any time in the past four years . This does not mean that the industry as a whole is presently making money It does mean , however . that sufficient betterment has taken place to give high officials an optimistic view regarding 1935 . This is the first instance in a long time that pastures for the approaching year look greener than the current one . Demand these past months has cleaned out a great quantity of inventories  --  materials purchased and manufactured in a more expensive era  --  and production , now beginning . Will be conducted on a profitable basis . General feeling in the trade is that output next year will be about 50f. : better than it was in 1934 . If so . it will mean that many of the firms will rnalce money , provided , of course . that sales keep step with operations . If enumeration is made of all the favorable factors in the farm equipment outlook , it will be found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show improvements of varying degrees of importance and permanence , over a broad front Many tineertainties Involved However , it is the experience of thole who try to prognosticate farm buying that there are so many uncertainties involved  --  both economic and psychological in nature  --  that the only sure way of knowing how the farmer feels in the matter is to wait until the sales are actually made Nevertheless , there have recently come into the picture factor , ' which are considerably more convincing than the usual massing of facts which are regarded as sales stimulants . Prominent in this respect are the following . ( 1 ) The improved debt structure of the farmer . as a result of federal assistance . which has eliminated a large amount of old debts , reduced the outstanding amount of others , and cut interest rates on the refinanced debt which the farmer owes the Government . 82.1 The good 1934 sales showing made in those sections of the country where crops were adequate , namely , the Red River Valley between Minnesota and North Dakota . northern Montana in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wichita and a section in Illinois neat Decatur which harvested a good soy bean crop 13 ) Fall precipitation has been above recent par and sub-soil Londitions , while still needing considerable moisture are better than they have been In addition there are a number of factors which appear pertinent today but which have appeared to be equally pertinent  --  without results - in the past years Some day they will be reasons for good farm equipment buying . They may and may not , be in 1935 Chief among them are the following . ( 1 ) Enormous potential demand as a result of subnormal replacement in the past years ( 2 ) New and improved machinery i including Diesel motors ) perfected since the depression .. et in iii Mac hiner y for a hitherto untouched mar ket in farms of 100 acres or less . All these . and other less important reasons would seem to indicate tnat many previous obstacles in the path of farm equipment buying Stave been cleared away . But the solution is not so simple as that . Many farmers , relieved of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? may want to see a clearer picture of profits ahead of them before making any commitments . Others will want to make further inroads into their debts , including those to the equipment makers . before taking on additional obligations Some may enter into the crop reduction plan so wholeheartedly next year they may feel either they will not need machinery at all , or will make the old merchandise do the trick for another year There is also a tendency toward Joint ownership of power-farming units which , if it becomes widlespi cad , might he consequential , particularly in times like these when sales are not plentiful .                     