@@699235

txt Prominent Republicans joined yesterday in an attack on Governor Roosevelt for an interpolation in his Baltimore speech , in which he referred to the United States Supreme Court as controlled by the Republican party . James M. Beck , Representative from Pennsylvania and former Solicitor General of the United States , applied the term " demagogue " to the Democratic nominee in a caustic statement . Others who criticized the Governor 's remark were Silas H. Strawn , a leader of the bar , whose statement was telegraphed from Chicago to the Eastern headquarters of the Republican National Committee , United States Senator David A. Reed of Pennsylvania , two former Governors and other lawyers here . Classmate Wires Coolidge . Robert H. Mainzer , a lawyer of 44 Pine Street and a classmate of former President Coolidge at Amherst , taking the role of an " indignant citizen , " sent a telegram to the latter declaring that the reference to the Supreme Court had " aroused the most intense feeling against Roosevelt " and asking , on behalf of " various prominent citizens , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A copy of this telegram was sent to President Hoover . Leaders at Republican headquarters at the Waldorf-Astoria believed that the Roosevelt statement , which was referred to as a " slur " on the nation 's highest court , would bring echoes all through what remains of the Presidential campaign . The reference to the court did not occur In the prepared text of Mr. Roosevelt 's Baltimore address , ' hut was interpolated and heard over the Iradio by a country-wide audience in addition to the thousands that attended the meeting at which he spoke . What Mr. Roosevelt said was : " After March 4 , 1929 , the Republican party was in complete control of all branches of the government  --  the Legislature , with the Senate and Congress , and the executive departments , and I may add , for full measure , to make it complete , the United States Supreme Court as well . " The part following " all branches of the government " was added by Mr. Roosevelt to the text of his address prepared in advance . Representative Beck 's Attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man since William J. Bryan , who attacked the Supreme Court and was ignominiously defeated , that is more prejudicial to the integrity of the government in a very critical period of its existence than that of Governor Roosevelt asserting that the Supreme Court of Ithe United States is in control of a political party , " said Representative Beck . " The court never has been controlled by any political party and it saps the foundation of our government to impute to the highest court of the land a statement that inispirit or actions It is partisan . " As a former Solicitor General of the United States I can testify that the court is so far removed by its great traditions and by the life tenure of its members from any suspicion of partisanship that it has Ihappened again and 4. again that ; where public controversy had a po ' Iitical character the judges who were former Democrats supported the Rei publican side of the controversy , and Ivice versa . " While there is a difference of opinion as to whether the Supreme ; Court should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1 ino one since Mr. Bryan and his associates in 1896 has ever questioned the impartiality and judicial I integrity of the Supreme Court of the United States . To weaken respect for that court is to destroy the foundations of law and order . " Governor Roosevelt 's speeches have for some time led me to believe that he is a demagogue and now I am certain . " Says Lawyers Are Shocked . " I think that all lawyers will be shocked by the reference made by GOVERNOR ACCUSED tack on the dignity of the highest tribunal in our country . There is not and there never has been anything in the deliberations or decisions of the United States Supreme Court to leave it open to any suspicion of partisan politics . This amazing statement of Franklin D. Roosevelt 's would be condemnable enough coming from the lips of any reputable member of the bar . When it is uttered by a man who would be the Chief Executive of his country , it becomes absolutely damning to his character and his judgment . " Frederic R. Coudert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for any American to cast a reflection on the integrity of the United States Supreme Court . Particularly is that true at a time when respect for its reputation for impartiality is more than ever in need . Nothing is more essential to the stability of our government than respect for this great tribunal . Any candidate should be condemned for dragging the Supreme Court into partisan politics in this way . ' ' James R. Sheffield said : " This is the first time within my knowledge that any candidate for the Presidency has dared to suggest that the United States Supreme Court is a political body . It is an astounding statement and will be resented by all who desire to keep the Supreme Court out of politics , and who know that it is out of politics now . The merest suggestion of this statement , which is a slur on the highest legal tribunal of the country , is an indication of the sheer unfitness of Franklin D. Roosevelt for the high office of President . " Paul D. Cravath said : " Every lawyer will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's that Republicans control the United States Supreme Court . The Supreme Court is above and beyond politics . " Former Governor Nathan L. Miller declared : " Governor Roosevelt 's statement that the Republican party is ' in complete control of the Supreme Court ' was his own , since it I was not the prepared speech given out to the press . Demagogic and partisan campaigns heretofore have sooner or later involved an attack onl the Supreme Court . A lawyer capable of saying , even on the spur of the moment , that the Supreme Court is in control of any party should never be entrusted with the power to appoint to the great court upon which we must depend for preservation of our institutions and liberties . " Criticisms of Court Recalled . It was recalled yesterday that the late Theodore Roosevelt was bitterly attacked by old-guard Republicans for his remarks about the Supreme Court before the Colorado Legislature at Denver on Aug. 29 , 1910 , when , discussing two decisions of current interest , he said : " If such decisions as these two indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grave cause for alarm ; for such decisions , if consistently followed up , would upset the whole system of popular government . " More recently Senators Dili and Norris have criticized the Supreme Court 's attitude in utility valuation cases . In a debate on Feb. 14 , 1930 , Senator Dill said : " If the system of judicial law that Is being written in defiance of State legislation and Congressional legislation is continued by their decisions , there is no human power in America that can keep the Supreme Court From becoming a political issue , nation-wide , in the not far distant future . " No recent instance of a charge by a reputable public man that the court was under partisan political control , was recalled , however . At the time of their appointment to the bench , five of the nine present members of the Supreme Court were Republicans , and four were Democrats . The Republicans were Chief . Tu  --  tice Hughes and Justices Van De ' , ranter , Sutherland , Stone and Robarts . The Democrats were Justices 11cReynolds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court/ ' said Senator Reed . " A certain amount of falsehood is expected in every political campaign , but when a member of the bar makes a statement that the Supreme Court is subject to partisan control and is swayed by party politics he is telling a falsehood that might be dangerous . There is not the shadow of doubt , of course , that this is not the fact , and it stamps the man who made it as lacking in legal knowledge and the decent ethics of his profession . " Silas H. Strewn , former president of the American Bar Association , said : " I am amazed that any reputable member of the bar who , in order to obtain his license to practice , swears that he will uphold the Constitution and laws of the land , should make that statement , which strikes at the very foundation of our government . All lawyers and every layman who has even a superficial knowledge of the facts knows that there never has been and never can be any politics in our Supreme Court , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the court . I submit that such a charge will be resented by every one who believes that the stability of our government depends upon maintaining the respect and regard of our people for the dignity of our Supreme Court . " In his telegram to former President Coolidge Mr. Mainzer said : " His Mr. Roosevelt 's statement about the United States Supreme Court , which is omitted from all the newspaper accounts this morning , . is arousing the most intense feeling against Roosevelt , and I have been asked by various prominent citizens to wire you at once to bespeak your , aid not only in calling the matter to the President 's attention forthwith but also to demand by what right Roosevelt puts the members of the United States Supreme Court into the political arena , inferentially causing their decisions to be swayed by political motives . " Other Lawyers Protest . Senator Reed and Representative Beck made their statements when interviewed at Republican headquarters . Other statements came from prominent lawyers in the city . Chase Mellen said . " Governor Roosevelt 's statement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of truth in it . The Supreme Court is far above partisan politics of any kind . " Former Governor Charles S. Whitman was another who attacked Mr. Roosevelt . " In the first place , the statement is obviously untrue , " he said . " In the second place , it is an outrageous at                     