@@702778

txt Japanese fighters blasted tonight under a bright moon against overwhelming numbers of China 's strongest troops on both sides of the Whangpoo River . A. Japanese bombing squadron , making the first night air raid in the six days that Shanghai has been a battleground , opened the heaviest plane and artillery attack so far . Japanese warships in the Whangpoo joined the fire below where daring Chinese soldiers earlier had scuttled six Japanese ships to barricade the upper stream . Guns from the men-of-war shelled Pootung , the rich industrial district on the east bank , opposite the Bund in the heart of the city . Chinese artillery roared back across the river to silence the warships and Chinese anti-aircraft batteries swept the sky to beat off the bombers . Fires Dot Pootung Area Pootung , covered with explosives during the-forty-minute cannonade , was sprinkled with new fires when the firing suddenly ceased . Billows of dense smoke showed where the Japanese massed bombardment had struck . Despite an almost full moon and a starry sky , the pall was so heavy that it enveloped the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States cruiser Augusta , at the head of an international protective fleet . The Japanese aircraft wheeled west high above the foreign quarters to attack objectives across the city . Thousands of foreign residents crowded to rooftops to watch the spectacle . The planes dived steeply , loosing their explosives from low altitudes . Each time a bomb struck flashes of flame shot skyward and the west side of Shanghai rocked with the detonation. - Bombers Vanish to East In the darkness it was impossible to tell just where the attack was centered . It was believed , however , that the Japanese were aiming at a railroad junction and , possibly , at the Ilungjao Airdrome . When the swiftly finished job was done a squadron of eight bombers disappeared eastward over the French Concession . They passed back over Pootung , apparently toward bases aboard aircraft carriers in Chinese waters or ashore in Formosa or Japan . The bombardment broke a brief respite after day-long firing from Japanese warships and Japanese aerial bombings had caused terrific damage , especially along the waterfront , and had rained explosives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kiangwan . Japanese land forces , largely . marines and bluejackets , were reported yielding ground steadily to Chinese forces that outnumbered them about four to one . Chinese Report Gains Chinese commanders asserted that their main line had been pushed forward to within a mile of the Whangpoo riverfront and that the Japanese were losing ground in the Ilongkew and Yangtsepoo areas in Northeastern Shanghai , as well as in Chapel , to the north . The Chinese lines stretched from the northwestern edge of the International Settlement along the railroad , through the North Station and then curved around the Japanese Hongkew positions toward the Whangpoo . The Japanese fought with their backs to the river and the international areas . Rumors that the Chinese intended to push the Japanese back through the " French town " in order to strike with another force from the rear were denied by Chinese officers . Shanghai 's Mayor , 0 . K. Yui , promised that the Chinese would not pursue a retreat through the Settlement . He said he had British assurances that such a retreat would not be permitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encircled . He admitted that a small Japanese force had succeeded in landing on the Pootung side of the Whangpoo , but he declared this would be of little value to the Japanese . More Japanese Land An undetermined number of Japanese marines landed at the Japanese-owned wayside wharves about two miles below the Japanese Consulate . Unconfirmed reports said the reinforcements numbered several thousand men , brought from Japan on commercial transports under naval convoy . Casualties on both sides mounted rapidly in the incessant fighting . Chinese losses were believed to be far heavier because China 's forces have been on the offensive . Chinese troops ventured almost under the muzzles of Japan 's war fleet to seize six abandoned Japanese steamers off the French Concession and scuttle them above the elbow of the Whangpoo River where it and Soochow Creek converge . Picked companies rushed the vessels and sailed them into position despite Japanese salvos . Protective Chinese artillery shells screamed over their heads . The barricade was submerged south of where United States refugees were being evacuated northward to the Dollar liner . President by tender @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wharf near the plants of the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company and Texas Company in Pootung . The British Consul ordered the wharf , representing an investment of millions of dollars , evacuated . Directly in the line of fire , employee of the two American companies remained on duty to guard millions of gallons of gasoline , which , if , hit , would start a devastating fire . They narrowly escaped today when a Chinese bomb dropped near by , shattering window panes , unhinging doors and severing their telephone lines . The Chinese troops were advancing slowly toward the river , where the American properties extend for more than a mile along the wharves . One Japanese bomber was shot down near the Socony compound . The Japanese fliers blew up their plane to prevent its capture and then appealed to the staff men on duty at the depot to spirit them across the river . The Socony staff , adhering to their strict neutrality , refused . Japanese planes and warships shuttled back and forth throughout the day , attacking outlying sections of Shanghai proper along a fifteenmile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Suffers Heavily The heaviest damage was done to Pootung , the Lunghwa Airdrome , south of the city , and the North Station . About forty Japanese bombers , escorted by fleets of pursuit ships , appeared to be making the attacks in recurring waves . The Chenju radio station , one of China 's principal means of communication , was wrecked , but foreign technicians set up emergency transmitters in the International district to maintain communications with America and Europe . Japanese shells splintered windows in the American RCA-Victor factory . The American-owned Shanghai Telephone Company evacuated all its American employes north of Soochow Creek , maintaining an emergency service on nine exchanges with a Chinese staff . Officials of Pan American Airways , a heavy stockholder in the Chinese National Aviation Corporation , denied Japanese charges that the Lunghwa commercial hangars had been used for military purposes . Chinese authorities declared e , North China offensive against the Japanese , now in control in that area , might be inspired by successful resistance here . Fires Cause Heavy Damage Special Cable to TES NSW YORK TIMES . SHANGHAI , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immense damage in the fighting last night . The first was caused by an incendiary bomb dropped from a mysterious plane at the junction of Haining and Kiangse Roads and the I second by- the bombardment of the Pootung side of the river by Japanese warships . Both Chinese and Japanese deny responsibility for the plane , which was heard circling over the International Settlement , but it was noticeable the Japanese did not fire on the flier although he swooped low over their barracks , nor did the Chinese attempt to bring the plane down . Today dawned clear , and artillery actions downriver were resumed with unlessened intensity . A whole division of Japanese reinforcements is expected to arrive later today , and other contingents , bringing the total to 60,000 men , are due by next week . The Japanese need of land forces as reinforcements here is becoming acute . Generalissimo Chiang Kaishek has massed Chinese troops in such large numbers that on every border of Shanghai the Japanese have been compelled to rush all available men to front-line positions , which on Japan 's side remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in the Whangpoo River have been unmanned and their sailors sent to the front . Settling down to business , Chinese leaders have withdrawn their most advanced lines around Woosung and on the opposite side of the river , which were extremely vulnerable both to warships and planes . Advance in Yangtsepoo In the Yangtsepoo section Chinese have advanced slightly , despite a day-long bombardment yesterday from Japanese warships . The Japanese there were slowly retreating toward the Whangpoo . Chinese troops now virtually surround the great Kungdah cotton mills . , The Chinese evidently feel certain of their ability to defeat the Japanese here , for Mayor 0 . K. Yui notified International Settlement authorities yesterday that the Chinese armies would not attack the main part of the Settlement as long as the Japanese were not permitted to retreat to the south side of Soochow Creek . Although Japanese planes were aloft throughout yesterday , no Chinese planes were visible . Japanese artillery fire , except in Yangtsepoo , was desultory . In the morning three Japanese destroyers shelled Shanghai 's fine civic center  --  a group of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take great pride. , At another bend in the Whangpoo five destroyers shelled buildings of Shanghai College , which is support-1 ed by the American Baptist Mission .                     