@@698116

txt Experiments proving conclusively for the first time that the human brain , liver and blood contain as one of their normal constituents small quantities of pure 100-per cent alcohol , were reported here today before the eighty-second meeting of the American Chemical Society by Dr. Alexander 0 . Gettler , chief New York toxicologist of Bellevue Hospital , and Drs . Joseph B. Niederl and A. A. Benedetti-Pichler of the chemical department , Washington Square College , New York University . The three scientists presented a detailed paper describing the successful isolation of pure anhydrous ethyl alcohol from non-alcoholic human and animal tissues . The division of medicinal chemistry were told of a recent discovery in the cancer research laboratories of the University of Pennsylvania that cancer cells thrive on sugar as a fuel , leading to the conclusion that cancer patients should be put on a low carbohydrate diet which should contain little or no sugar . The discovery was reported by two women scientists , Drs . Gladys E. Woodward and Edith G. Fry , working under the direction of Dr. Ellice , director @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production of synthetic textile fibres from sugar , by means of the vinegar plant , was reported before the Divisi- . on Cellulose Chemistry by Harold Hibbert and J. Barsha of University , Montreal , the results leading the experimenters to express a hope for the ultimate production of synthetic textiles from carbon dioxide and water . Professor James R. Bailey of the University of Texas told of the progress of " some research of unusual interest " now being conducted at the Austin institution by Miss Ivy Parker , a New Mexico cowgirl , " who is at ease on the wildest broncos and with the rifle . " Miss Parker is engaged in experiments on the constituent bases of cottonseed , ? with the object of ascertaining whether it may be possible to produce lynthetic gasoline from it . During the evening Dr. Linus Pauling , 30-year-old savant of the California Institute of Technology , Pasadena , who has been described as " one who some day may win the Nobel Prize , " received at the hands of Professor Moses Gomberg of the University of Michigan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gold medal for achievement in pure chemistry . The award , given for the first time this year , is the gift of Dr. A. C. Langmuir of Hastings-on-Hudson in recognition of the debt owed by industry to pure science . Dr. Pauling responded with a highly technical paper on " the structure of crystal and the nature of the chemical bond , " expounding his theories on " finite molecules and molecules or complexes infinite in one dimension , two dimensions and three dimensions . " Frank J. Tone , president of the Carborundum Company of Niagara Falls , received the first Jacob , F. Schoellkopf Medal . President Gomberg delivered the presidential address on " some reflections concerning valence variations and atomic structure , " in which he traced the development of the theory of valences , or chemical affinities , and the contributions made to it by the modern electron theory . Alcohol Like That of Beverage . The alcohol isolated from the tissues of the human brain , liver and blood , Dr. Gettler and his colleagues stated , is exactly the same substance as used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during life . " The facts which prove this , " Dr. Gettler stated , " are that many of the tissues used were analyzed within fifteen minutes after death . The human blood samples were taken from living individuals and analysis started right after the taking of the blood . " Analysis of the same sample or tissue of blood after standing twentyfour hours in the refrigerator , gave the same alcohol content . " The average alcohol found in the human brain was .0004 per cent ; liver , .00256 per cent , and blood , .004 per cent . The content in dogs was : Brain , .0003 per cent ; liver , .0007 per cent ; blood , .0013 per cent . The pig brain contained .00007 per cent , showing that the higher the animal the greater the alcohol content . Before the tests were made , Dr. Gettler stated , it was made certain that no alcohol of any kind had been taken by the subjects whose blood and brain were tested . Dr. Gettler also reported the finding of a small amount of acetone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making paints and varnish and has been found previously in bodies of diabetic patients , its presence illaretofore being considered a sign of ill-health . Sugar Aids Growth of Cancer . In their paper on cancer Drs . Woodward and Fry said that " the essential difference between cancer tissue and normal tissue is the ability of the cancer to digest the animal sugar in a different and more expeditious way from normal . A study of the blood of 223 cancer patients showed that they had , in general , 20 per cent more sugar in their blood than normal people . It was coneluded that even a slight increase in the amount of blood sugar was of great importance in the treatment of cancer . " The greater the amount of sugar there is in the blood of cancer patients the shorter is the expectation of their lives . " There is a greater growth of the cancer when there is a large amount of sugar in the blood , the tumor grows faster and there are a greater number of dividing or growing cells in the cancerous tumor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well to treatment and have a better chance of survival , with slow growth of the tumor . " The amount of the sugar in the Mood of cancer patients , according to Dr. , should be periodically measured , particularly before and after any treatment , for , if the blood sugar increases after any treatment of the tumor , this should be corrected before any further treatment is instituted , and any new treatment should be based upon the results of the tests . Attention was drawn to the necessity of care and exactitude in the chemical tests made for the blood sugar and to the choice of proper chemical methods . The general conclusion drawn by these scientists was that cancer patients , particularly those with a high level of blood sugar , should be put upon a low carbohydrate diet which should contain little or no sugar . The amount of sugar in the blood should be estimated and the diet arranged accordingly . Those with high blood sugar should eat no sugar at all . It was stated that in the cancer research laboratories there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem la cancer and this was considered the moat-Important phase of cancer research .                     