@@701976

txt With two prolonged demonstrations for Governor Herbert H. Lehman and another for President Roosevelt , the Democratic National Convention , at its session which ended nearly an hour after midnight this morning , attempted by a frank show of its enthusiasm to tie together the personalities of these two leaders for the campaign . When the convention adjourned at 12:55 this morning until 10 A. M. today , it was in the midst of an ovation to President Roosevelt . It was the second given him during the day 's two sessions , the other , lasting an hour and four minutes , being when he was placed in nomination in the afternoon . The first outburst for Governor 1 Lehman rivaled anything seen at this convention .. It came when Chairman Robinson announced at about 10 P. M. that the New York Governor would take the rostrum to second the nomination of President Roosevelt . Culmination of " Draft " Move It was , the culmination of the " draft Lehman " movement which started even before the convention began and which last night saw every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerted movement to add what they all considered a " dynamo of strength " to the Democratic ticket next Fall . The demonstration was started by the New York delegation , led by James J. Dooling , leader of Tammany ; Frank V. Kelly , Brooklyn leader ; Senator Robert F. Wagner , and Borough President James J. Lyons of the Bronx . Just behind came George Gordon Battle . The New Yorkers were smiling and shouting as they were joined by delegates from other States . The instant Governor Lehman 's name was mentioned by Senator Robinson , permanent chairman of the convention , the delegates , alternates and spectators literally exploded with enthusiasm . They had been waiting impatiently for nearly an hour while representatives of other States paid their respects to the candidacy of Mr. Roosevelt . The demonstration bade fair to go on and on , but Senator Robinson pleaded for quiet so that Governor Lehman could begin his speech . When he began the aisles I 1 were jammed with marching delegates and alternates , each delegation headed by a banner advocating ! the drafting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lehman raised his voice , however , the demonstration quickly ! subsided . The demonstration lasted eleven minutes and might have gone on for an hour had it not been halted . The New York delegation started a new demonstration for Governor - Lehman after he had completed his speech . The Buffalo women 's drum and bugle corps started playing again and the " Lehman Must Run " banners began moving in all sections of the hall . Chairman Robinson rapped for order and tried to stop it . He wanted to proceed with the seconding speeches and was ready to.present Mrs. Emma Guffey Miller to speak for Pennsylvania , but the New Yorkers kept parading , Alabama joined in , then followed Pennsylvania , Minnesota , Texas , Kansas ? headed by a banner making light of Governor Landon 's claims of balancing his budget  --  a delegate bearing the standard of the National Colored Democratic Association , North . Dakota , Michigan , the Virgin Islands and others . Other delegations waved their standards . The second Lehman demonstration continued for ten minutes be- fore Senator Robinson was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next speaker ' Governor Lehman was deeply moved by the demonstrations , but he declined to say anything that would indicate his answer to the convention 's uproarious demand that he run again . " I am deeply moved by the reception given me here this evening , " he said . " It surpassed anything I ever saw at a national convention . It was swell . " As he took his seat between Mrs. Miller and Governor Theodore F. Green of Rhode Island , Postmaster General Farley rushed over and grabbed his hand . " Great speech , Herb , " he shouted above the noise . It was exactly 9 P. M. when Senator Robinson called the convention to order for the night session . He had little trouble in bringing order . He introduced the Rev. Dr. Nathan R. Melhorn to pronounce the invocation . At the day session the roll-call for seconding speeches had reached Nevada . Before resuming , the seconding process , the convention heard an announcement by Mayor Wilson , offering $1,000 In cash to the delegate or alternate who would submit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . William L. Boyle spoke for Nevada in seconding Mr. Roosevelt 's nomination . " We of the Far West turn to our President as the flowers turn to the sun , " he said in beginning a brief speech praising the Roosevelt administration . J. J. Powers seconded the nomination for New Hampshire . " This year it will be the Democratic State of New Hampshire , " he declared . " This is the State which with California in 1916 insured the re-election of Woodrow Wilson . " Speaking as the representative of New Jersey , Mrs. Mary T. Norton , member of the House of Representatives , said that the women of America " look upon the New Deal as a square deal . " " They have gained a new freedom because a just President , in appointing them to high offices and ' places of distinction , has given them a new courage and faith in themselves , a desire to go forward with the men of the country to a more secure and greater happiness and prosperity , " she said . " New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to march forward with the New Deal and to elect another Senator to uphold the New Deal . " Mrs. Norton digressed to express her respect and affection for Mrs. Roosevelt . The seconding speech for New Mexico was made by Governor Tingley . On reaching the name of New York on the roll , Chairman Robinson announced that this State would be passed over for the time being . There was a roar of disapproval , for this meant that the appearance of Governor Lehman would be de-layed Senator Robinson recognized Senator Joseph Bailey to second Mr. Roosevelt 's nomination for North Carolina . Senator Bailey listed reasons North Carolina loved the President , saying one reason was because " of the enemies he has made . " Harry Lashkowitz of North Dakota declared that the farmers of the nation were grateful to the administration and predicted that President Roosevelt would carry his State by a large majority . Governor Martin L. Davey of Ohio , who has not always seen eye to eye with supporters of the New Deal , seconded the President 's nomination as the band played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slogan " Three and Half Years Ago " to match the catchwords of " Three Long Years " of Senator Frederick Steiwer , the " keynote " orator at the Republican National Convention . " Three Glorious Years " He asked his hearers to recall March 4 , 1933 , when Roosevelt was inaugurated President and contrasted conditions then with present conditions , after " three glorious years " of the Roosevelt administration . Scott Ferris of Oklahoma asserted that Roosevelt had done more for the farmer and the everyday man than any other President and that they would support him . Mrs. Nanny Honeyman of Oregon declared that Oregon , which went Democratic in 1932 , would go Democratic by an even larger majority in 1936 . She asserted that Mr. Roosevelt was opposed by the American Liberty League and William Randolph Hearst . A chorus ' of groans and " boos " arose . " Remember , " she continued , " that whatever name appears on the ballot , the real Republican nominee for President is the overlord of San Simeon . " At one minute after 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced Governor Lehman as one who had the confidence of the people of his State . Long before the night session began members of the New York delegation had been arranging for the demonstration . They had had prepared and delivered to the hall nearly a hundred special banners with such legends as : " Lehman Must Run , " " Lehman Never Failed , " " A Great Gov. governor , " " Lehman Again , " and " New York by a Million . " They had delivered to all other State delegations supplemental posters bearing the demand " New York , Draft Lehman " to be placed on their State standards . Heading the demonstration was the red-coated , brass-helmeted women 's drum and bugle corps of New York . The audience became very noisy while Mrs. Miller was speaking . Governor Theodore Francis Green of Rhode Island was introduced by the chairman . The Rhode Island delegation released balloons , which fluttered upward and clung to the ceiling . " As Governor of the State of religious and political freedom , I second the nomination , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Carolina . " I represent a State that always has voted with the Democratic party and always will , " Governor Johnston said . " There are children in my State who have never seen a Republican . " South Dakota Governor Speaks Governor Tom Berry spoke for South Dakota . A. roar went up from the Tennessee section when Senator took the rostrum to second Mr. Roosevelt 's nomination . Tennessee seconded the nomination , the Senator said , not solely because of the manifold New Deal benefits to its people  --  he mentioned particularly the Tennessee Valley Authority ? but more because the President " has been among us and won our hearts . " Senator Tom Connally seconded the nomination for Texas . The Texas delegation gave one loud " Yippie . " " I rise to second a nomination that has already been made in the hearts and minds of this nation , " Senator Connally said . " The President has already been selected by the American people to lead them for four more glorious years . " Senator Connally continued for several minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring the audience back to order . He was listened to more intently than perhaps any other speaker of the evening . The Northern delegates were amused at some of his pronunciations , particularly his use of " boojet " for budget . Three Years Called Happy The spokesman for Utah was Dr. J. M. Shaffer . " My delegation has traveled 2,100 miles to say that these three long years they are talking about have been happy years , " he said . " President Roosevelt has given Utah much in his program and in November we are going to give him everything we 've got . It is impossible to find a Young Republican In the State of Utah . " At a minute before midnight , Senator Robinson said that he would suggest that the remaining speakers condense their remarks . Cleo J. Perkins , president of the Young Democrats of Vermont , made the seconding speech for that State . " We in Vermont , the State of . his birth , were proud of Coolidge , who carried the office of President with dignity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that Governor Landon is no Coolidge . He is a counterfeit Coolidge . I take great pleasure in seconding the nomination of Franklin D. Roosevelt . " The convention clock showed the hour of midnight while Mr. Perwins was speaking . More than half of the spectators in the galleries had found the long flow of oratory wearisome and had left the hall . Every seat was occupied when the session began . Virginia 's spokesman was Ashton Dovell of Williamsburg , Speaker of the House of Delegates of the Legislature . He said there was but one alternative to the continuation of the regime of President Roosevelt , and that was " to accept the proposal of our adversaries to turn back . " " We 'll Never Turn Back " " I say , Mr. Chairman , that we 'll never turn back . That Virginia is going forward with Roosevelt in November and it gives me pleasure to carry out Virginia 's mandate and second the nomination of that great gentleman from New York . " As he finished , the band and organ joined in " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Misener of Washington declared that the Roosevelt administration had brought better times for business , workers and farmers . " We are here to pledge undivided support to our leader and carry our State for Franklin D. Roosevelt , " he asserted . Senator Matthew M. Neely of West Virginia coupled the name of Mrs. Roosevelt with that of the President and paid a tribute to both . The people would never forget what Roosevelt had done for them , he declared , and would reelect him in November . The Senator declared that President Hoover promised the people prosperity and gave them adversity . " Who can tell , " he added , " whether Governor Landon 's promises will be any better . " Despite the chairman 's request that speakers be as brief as possible , Senator Neely insisted on reading his prepared speech . The galleries applauded ironically , but the Senator continued , seemingly undisturbed by the fact that few , if any , were listening to him . Asks Acclamation Senator . Neely moved that President Roosevelt be nominated by acclamation . Charles E. Broughton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " a great American . " L. G. Flannery spoke for Wyoming . " Out on the grass covered and wind-swept plains , " he said , they had found the policies of Roosevelt just as refreshing and invigorating as the night breezes that cool the prairies at night . " He has been a friend and good neighbor to us and we love good neighbors in Wyoming , " he added . Frank Murphy , Governor General of the Philippines , had a most appropriate seconding speech . " The Philippine Islands gratefully seconds the nomination of Franklin D. Roosevelt . " What was left of the audience applauded his brevity . John Walsh of the District of Columbia , Anthony J. Dimond of Alaska , William H. Heen of Hawaii , Frederico Van Spinoza of Puerto Rico , Mrs. L. 0 . Keen of the Canal Zone and Joseph Alexander of the Virgin Islands seconded the nomination . Hundreds of reproductions of a crayon drawing of President Roosevelt were being brought into the hall and distributed among the delegates . The roll-call was completed at 12:40 after fifty-seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt be nominated by acclamation . Senator Robinson put the motion and at 12:42 President Roosevelt was declared the unanimous nom-1 inee of the convention . As Senator Robinson declared Mr. Roosevelt the nominee , the band and organ burst into " Happy Days Are Here Again . " The delegates , in effect , took themselves by surprise by suspending the rules and voting so quickly . Enough of the new picture posters had been brought in and distributed , however , and in an instant the whole hall was on the march . The galleries had emptied to a great extent . Chief White Elk , resident of a North Dakota Indian reservation , was shoved forward to the rostrum . Down in the thick of the marchers , mopping his face with an already wet handkerchief , was Governor Lehman , Close behind him came Senatorelect Ellender of Louisiana , former Huey Long ally , carrying high one of the portraits of Mr. Roosevelt . In the parade were many of the " Draft Lehman " banners . Governor Lehman , as he was making the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and James Roosevelt , son of the President . Senator Robinson prompted Clarence Cannon , parliamentarian and delegate from Missouri , to move adjournment until 10 o'clock today . He put the motion without the delegates knowing what was happening and at 12:55 the convention was declared adjourned .                     