@@698299

txt The business which brought Foreign Minister Grandi tot Washington was practically completed in a conversation , lasting 21/2 hours this forenoon , with President I-Toov. , r and Secretary Stimson . All accomplished , apparently , was that the President and his Secretary of State were made acquainted with Italy 's point of view on most questions of mutual interest. , while Signor Grandi learned the American attitude concerning these questions . The conversation was entirely informal . No agenda or program was presented by either side . No written memoranda were exchanged . No agreements or understandings were reached and no attempt was made to reach any . With the exception of an exchange of views on next year 's disarmament conference at Geneva , the conversation was confined to economic matters . One curious omission from the discur ; sion was the American tariff . If there was any accomplishment at all , the most that can be said was that ' hereafter Italy and the United States will be found working with the common purpose of marshaling world opinion in favor of disarmament . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today 's conversation brought a common understanding of each other 's position . What took place at the White House confirmed previous impressions as to what the outcome of the exchanges would be . Laval Exchanges Contrasted. , President Hoover , Secretary Stimson and Signor Grandi all share the belief that these personal contacts between leading public men of the great powers establish good relationships which go far toward making it easier to solve international problems whenever acute necessity of doing so arises . Today 's conversation was in contrast to the recent oral exchanges between PrAident Hoover and Premier Laval of France . The Hoover-Laval exchang-es  --  resulted in a concrete understanding that the President would not make a proposal for extending the year 's holiday in the payment of intergovernment debts. , thus leaving a re-examination of German reparations to be made within the structure of the Young plan . France feared that it the Hoover moratorium was extended the Young Plan would collapse . For its part , the United States received assurance from Premier Laval that heavy withdrawals of gold from this country to France would cease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Foreign Minister Grandi tomorrow , the latter 's last day in Washington . Tonight President and Mrs. Hoover gave a state dinner in honor of Signor and Signora Grandi , and it was said that an opportunity might be afforded after the dinner for some addl. ' tional brief exchanges of views . No formal ' statement was issued after this forenoon 's conversation and officials said that the matter of issuing one had not been discussed . Meet in the Lincoln Study . Signor Grandi reached the White House at 20 minutes past 9 o'clock this morning and remained with the President and Secretary Stimson until 11:45 o'clock . The three men had their talk in the historic Lincoln study , the broad windows of which overlook the stretches of the Potomac . As Signor Grandi speaks excellent English , no interpreter was necessary . One of the participants said that two and a half hours of talk without an interpreter amounted to five hours of conversation where translation was required . Although President Hoover and Secretary Stimson were fairly well acquainted with Italy 's depressed economic situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe found a part in the discussion and It is supposed that this phase of the conversation gave opportunity for reviewing intergovernmental debts , including German . reparations . But no understanding was reached concerning a revision of Europe 's debts to the United States . The position of the Hoover Administration concerning debts and reparations was made known when Premier Laval was here last month , and there has been no change in it . Its position is that after a re-examination has been , made of Germany 's capacity to pay reparations , President Hoover probably will ask Congress to revive the World War Debt Commission , which will re-examine the debt funding arrangements with a view to determining whether they shall be revised in accorda , nce with the ability to pay on the part of the debtor governments . No re-examingtion of Italy 's indebtedness to the United States will be made until this procedure has been provided for . In Sympathy on Arms Parley . The President and the Italian Foreign Minister found themselves in agreement on many of the subjects discussed in the Lincoln Study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are strikingly in sympathy with reference to next year 's disarmament conference . Both the Mussolini Government and the Hoover Administration are extremely anxious to have the Geneva conference accomplish something noteworthy in the line of armament reduction and limitation . While publicly the spokesmen of both governments are seeking to give the impression that they are hopeful that the conference will be successful in determining to curtail heavy armaments , it is an open secret that they are very pessimistic in regard to it . However , they will spare no effort to save the conference from complete futility , but how such an outcome could be accomplished is a matter for the future to determine . Just now their faintest of hopes is based on the contention that with the present year 's truce in armament building still existing while the Geneva conference is in session , nations will be reluctant to return to the old order that existed prior to the truce . The Italian Government is credited with the belief that a chance of doing something practical in the way of disarmament may be afforded through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought that the United States would be a party to a security pact has been abandoned by Europe . France has made it clear that she will not consent to any adequate armament curtailment unless she has pledges from other great powers that they will come to her assistance if she is the object of armed aggression . The supposition : s that she would require that the United States should be a signatory of any security agreement , but it is said that the Italian Government is hopeful that French reluctance to cut down her heavy armaments might be overcome by European nations furnishing the stipulated guarantees ..                     