@@703384

txt The Senate has completed approval of an investigation into no less a subject than why there is poverty in the midst of plenty ; why Mete is hunger in a land of farm sin pluses This is the so-called monopoly investigation . Half a million dollars was appropriated for it yesterday , and with Senate apploval the matter now goes to the House . A subject so broad in its scope , so far-reaching in its implications has tately been tackled by a GOVCI'llment agency . The Senate action mitvides for a Commission of Investigation as unusual as the subject matter itself ; and the debate yrsteiday revealed that sponsors ate going far back to find precedents for the program now being sketched Objectives of Study Hinting at the proposed omit oach to the subject , Senator Joseph C. ? Mahoney ID ) of Wyoming , S1 sponsored the joint resolution in the Senate , in a radio address yesterday explained : " The anomalous fact , that stales us all in the face is that the mi. ( produces more than enough to enable everybody to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own , are in want and misery . " The whole economic system has broken down because we have permitted it to be privately controlled for the advantage of those exetdoing control instead of seeing to it that it is publicly controlled for the benefit of all , " To achieve that public control for the benefit of all is the object of this study . " So vast is the scope of this project and so easily might it be tanned to political ends that already critics of the Administration are attacking it and the fear is widespread among factions Unsympathetic to the New Deal that the whole affair will be turned into a " Roman Circus . " in his original message urging the In-gutty Mr. Roosevelt disclaimed mum objectives , and said , " No man of good faith will misinterpret these proposals . " However it may turn out in the end , the present controversy underlines the Interest manifested in all quarters to the extram dinat y new inquiry . Restrictions Defeated The Senate yesterday , In accepting the O'Mahoney resolution , clhively threw out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of these had reserved to the proposed Camnisston control over the balance of the $900,000 after the Inn $100,000 was spent . This was eliminated , leaving Mr. Roosevelt authority to utilize as much of the money as he destics in the proposed co-ordinated monopoly studies by administratne agencies . The Senate rejected another amendment which would ha , , e eliminated a representative horn the Department of Labor from the pin-posed commission . By restoring him the Senate raised the Commission from 11 to 12 men . Make-up of the proposed Commission to in every way est/aced , - naiy . It has been criticized both by friends and foes . First , of all it is large , and the question is raised whether it can function efficiently . Secondly , It contains both Senate and House members , numbering three each , Critics charge that the " class cleavage " between Senators and House members makes their cooperation difficult . It will be recalled that the inclusion of the House members in the joint TVA Committee was the avowed reason for Senator Borah 's refusal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really distinguishing feature is that along with the six members of Congress , six representatives of as many different executive ? agencies are to he included . This is so rate that Senators Burton K. Wheeler ( D ) of Montana , and George Norris ( Ind . RI of Nebraska , termed it " unprecedented . " Actually it develops that it has been done in rare instances , and Senator O'Mahoney was able to cite " the Monetary Commission and ' the Industrial Commission . " These citations in themselves revealed the scope of the proposed inquiry , for the two historic Commissions took volumes of evidence , and have been storehouses for economic study since . Doubtful Senators demanded whether the executive officials could work in harness with Congressmen . Asked why other Departments were not also given representation , it was explained that their files , experts and materials would be available in any case for the Commission . The retort promptly followed : why include any executive officials at all , in that event , since all government resources are available for the in-quiry ? Precedent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precedent in having the different Departments Included at all , " said Senator Wheeler . " I think it was a mistake to provide for this kind of a committee , " echoed Senator Norris . The executive agencies were included , explained Mr. O'Malioney , " with the thought of obtaining the co-mdmating work of both the legislative and executive blanches the Goveinment . " Senator William H. King ( D ) of Utah promptly attacked " the silogance of executive agencies , of bureaus , and petty representatives of executive departments . " Senator Carl A. Batch ( D ) of New Mexico replied that " the doctrine of separability of power does not include the doctrine of antagonism . " Senator O'Mahoney 's reference to the " Monetary Commission and the Industrial Commission " brought research in Government archives to see if the alleged precedent had actually been set . Previous Commissions The Monetary Commission of 1876 investigated silver , and Congress authorized its membership to include three Senators , three Representatives , and outside experts , " not exceeding three in number , to be appointed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1898 , which amassed over a dozen volumes of reports and traveled over the nation , was authorized to include five Senators , five Representatives , and nine others who " fairly represent the different other industries and employments . " The latter were named by the President . The National Monetary Commission of 1908 contained nine senators and nine representatives , and no outsiders . From this evidence it is indicated that while representatives of legislative departments may have sat on the first two commissions , there was no clear-cut places made for them , contrary to Mr. O'Mahoney 's impression : much less an equality in number of members . The House Judicial y Committee reported a resolution for the monopoly investigation today , revising its resolution to conform with the Senate formula passed yesterday . House leaders said the resolution would probably be approved tomorLOW.                     