@@697594

txt Edward I. Edwards , former United States Senator and Governor of New Jersey , was found dead in bed in his apartment at 131 Kensington . Avenue , Jersey City , yesterday with a buret wound through his head and a ievolver near his right hand . A farewell note to his daughter , Elizabeth , made it clear that he had taken his life . Waning political influence , business reverses , failing health and recent deaths of those near to him were believed responsible for the melancholy depression which the former Senator 's son , Colonel Edward I. Edwards Jr. , said , undoubtedly caused his father to commit suicide . Within a few hours after . Mr. Edwards 's death telegrams of sympathy from all parts ' of the country  --  were received . Governor Morgan F. Larson ordered the flags on all State buildings to be flown at half staff for thirty days out of respect to the former Governor 's memory and announced that at ; the hour of the funeral the 112th Field Artillery would fire a nineteen-gun salute on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The former Senator , who had captured thousands of normally Republican-votes with his promise to make New Jersey " as wet as the Atlantic Ocean " and once considered as a possible candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination , was in his sixty-eighth year . Since 1928 , when he was called home from the national convention of his party at Houston by his wife 's fatal illness , misfortune had dogged him . All the while he was suffering from a cancerous condition : of his left eye and a painful sinus infection . Lost Senatorial Races That year he lost his campaign for re-election against Hamilton F. Kean , his Republican opponent . Next , a legislative investigation of the New Jersey Bankers ' Security Corporation , of which he was chairman , resulted in heavy financial losses . ' Finally a break with Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City virtually ended his political career , although efforts were being made by independent Democrats to induce him to oppose the organization candidate in the coming Gubernatorial race . In his farewell note , the text of which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be simple . According to tentative plans made by the family yesterday , services will be held tomorrow night at 8 o'clock in St. Paul 's Episcopal . Church , Jersey City . He will be buried the following morning in New York Bay Cemetery , Jersey City . Mr. Edwards had been dead eight or nine hours when his body was discovered about 11 A. M. , according to Dr. Arthur P. Hasking , Assistant County Physician , who said that the case was so patently one of suicide that an autopsy was unnecessary . The bullet which ended the former Senator 's life entered at the right temple above , . nd in f:ont of the upper part of the right ear , Dr. Hasking said . Powder burns were visible about the wound . The bullet emerged in the left frontal region slightly higher up and was found on the ' floor . Mr. Edwards had lived for some time after firing the shot , although he probably was unconscious , according to Dr. Hasking . ? The suicide was discovered after Mr. Edwards , always meticulous in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment to meet Charles J. Baumgarten , his friend , and business associate , at 9 A. M. in his office at 1 Montgomery Street . Mr. Baumgarten telephoned to the Kensington Avenue apartment and was informed by Ossie Bullock , the former Senator 's Negro maid , that he was sleeping . Mr. Baumgarten telephoned three times , but the maid asserted she had been unable to awaken the Senator . Worried . Mr. Baumgarten hurried to the apartment . In the meanwhile the maid , suspecting that something was amiss , had asked the advice of Mrs. Harriet Westphal , wife of W. W. Westphal , an old friend of Mr. Edwards . Mrs. Westphal went to the Edwards apartment and pounded on the bedroom door , which was locked . Receiving no response , she telephoned her husband , who hurried from his office with Dr .. John M. B. Wainwright , his physician . Mrs. Westphal meanwhile telephoned Dr. Henry Spence . Mrs. Westphal also telephoned to the police and Patrolman Daniel Sullivan was sent over . He arrived about the same time that Mr. Baumgarten , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ door was opened with a pass key . Enterin the room , the men saw the for Senator dead in his bed . Near h ight hand lay a revolver . It contained two shells . Only one had been fired . The windows of the room were closed and locked . Note to Daughter Signed " Dad . " The former Senator customarily kept the weapon in a drawer in his office , according to Mr. Baumgarten . It was believed that he took it home Saturday . The note which he had left for his daughter was found later in a sealed envelope on . a dresser . It was signed " Dad . " The note contained information of a personal nature regarding insurance policies and money that was owed to him . It asked that the funeral services be simple and according to those who saw it gave no explanation for the suicide . Edward Schwartz , a lawyer , probably the last person to see Mr. Edwards alive recalled yesterday that the former Senator was . moody and depressed on Saturday when . Schwartz went home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke often of his lonesomeness . The recent death of his youngest brother , David F. Edwards , at Spring Lake , was a severe blow to him , they said . Mr. Edwards spent the week-end alone in his apartment . Employes of the apartment house said they did not recall that he had gone out or received any callers . His daughter , who lived with him , was visiting friends on Long Island over Sunday . The maid had ' Sunday off . Knowing that his father was going to be alone , Colonel Edwards said he invited him last Friday to have Sunday dinner with him and his family at his home in Caldwell , N. J. Mr. Edwards told him , the Colonel said , that he did not feel well and suggested that his son call him Sun-day " in the forenoon . About 11 AJIM . Sunday , Colonel Edwards said , ' he telephoned the Kensington Avenue apartment and offered to send his car to Jersey City for his father . The former Senator , however , said he did not feel well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , returning from her visit to Long Island , received her first intimation of the tragedy from a police officer in the elevator of the apartment house . She collapsed but soon recovered and aided her brother , who had been summoned from his office , in arranging for the funeral . It was she who noticed that her father , intent upon death , before retiring had provided fresh water and food for his pet parrot . THREE-SIDED PUBLIC LIFE . Hague Alliance , Banking and Wet Fight Marked Edwards 's Career . The spotlight of publicity that played on Edward Edwards for the last ten years of his life was attributable to his political relations with Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City , his constant and bitter attacks on prohibition and all prohibitionists and his tangled relations with New Jersey banks . Mr. Edwards was nominated and elected Governor of New Jersey in 1919 , serving one three-year term . A protege of Hague , his nomination and election made Hague for the first time a State-wide , instead of a local , political boss . The prestige of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already had adopted " out-and-out wetness " as a political platform , defeated Joseph S. Freylinghuysen in a race for the United States Senate . As Governor of New Jersey , Mr. Edwards succeeded in getting through the Legislature a bill legalizing 3.50 per cent beer . In the Senate , almost from rthe outset , he became a national figure by his outspoken attacks on prohibition , although he was reputed to be " dry " in his personal habits . He denounced time and again Wayne B. Wheeler of the Anti-Saloon League , Secretary Mellon , Seymour Lowman , Mabel Walker Willebrandt and others who occupied similar positions . He was vigorous in his attempts to end the poisoning of alcohol by the government to prevent its conversion by bootleggers into liquor . In 1928 , opposed by ? Hamilton F. Kean for re-election to the Senate , Senator Edwards declared he had made New Jersey as " wet as the Atlantic Ocean " and expected reelection to the Senate because of popular approval of this by the people of New Jersey . He lost to Kean , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He had used the phrase describing his stand en prohibition as early as his Gubernatorial campaign in 1919 , however . He was active in the pre-convention movement for the nomination of Alfred E. Smith for the Presidency . Out of the 1928 election , however , came the break between Edwards and Mayor . Hague . He charged that Hague had " knifed " both Smith and himself in that election . Declaring ? that the members of the Democratic organization in New Jersey were under a system of " political peonage " as a result of Hague 's leadership , he announced his intention to take the control of the organization away from Hague . He was the candidate of the antiHague forces in 1929 for the nomination for United States Senator , against Alexander Simpson , but Simpson , the Hague candidate , made the race against Dwight W. Morrow and was defeated . He was mentioned recently again as a. possible candidate for Governor on ' an anti-Hague platform . His prestige began to wane , however , even before the split with Hague , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a result of his ? connection with the New Jersey Bankers Securities Corporation . Senator Edwards withdrew from the First National Bank of Jersey City to accept the post of chairman of the board of the Securities ' Corporation . The company was formed as a holding company for the Hobart Trust Company of Passaic , the Merchants-Bank and the Service Trust Company . Harry H. Weinberger , leading light in the company , was indicted later for mismanagement of the company 's affairs , after the company went into receivership , and , all of the banks it controlled were closed by order of the State Banking Department . - When the company attempted to purchase the Journal Square National Bank of Jersey City , court litigation ensued and . the result of this was an inquiry into the company 's affairs by the Case Legislative Investigating Committee . Mr. Edward , drawing a salary of $25,000 a year , relinquished this salary , resigned his post as chairman of the board , only to become president of the company after a reorganization . A plan sponsored by Mr. Edwards to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York was stopped by the courts . He was one of ten officials of the company sued for more than $2,800 , - 000 by the company as a result of the charge that the company 's funds were used without authority . The litigation later was dropped after Weinberger agreed to a settlement with the company and Edwards and the others pledged $50,000 each as security that Weinberger 's agreement would be carried out . Senator Edwards was born in Jersey City , Dec. 1 , 1863 , the son of William W. Edwards and Emma Nation Edwards . He studied law at New York University and was one of the members of the class of 1884 of that school . He married Jule Blanche Smith of Jersey City in 1888 . Mrs. Edwards died Aug. 4 , 1928 . The two children , Colonel - Edward I. Edwards Jr . and Elizabeth Jule Edwards , survive him . Other ' MN ! relatives are James N. Edwards Of . New Orleans and John T. Edwards of . Newark , brothers , and Mrs. William Price of Boonton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Bank of Jersey City in 1882 , to become president of the bank in 1916 and chairman of the board in 1925 . ? He was State Controller of New Jersey from 1911 to 1917 and a member of the State Senate from Hudson County in 1919 ; He resigned to become Governor in 1920 . He was a member of ' the Zeta Psi fraternity , the . Masons , . Elksr Moose and Eagles , the Bankers Club and National Democratic Club of New York , the Carteret Club of Jersey City and the Church Club of Newark .                     