@@702236

txt Major George L. Berry , Federal Coordinator for Industrial Cooperation , told the annual convention of the American Federation of Labor today that unless the Supreme Court changed " its present philosophy " and henceforward favored " liberal legislation " a way " would be found " to meet the situation . Although Major Berry denied speaking for the administration , he declared that he felt certain that the Industrial Council , formed under his auspices last year , would " generously contribute to finding a way " to keep liberal labor and social welfare statutes on the books . Major Berry declined to amplify his remarks later in a talk with reporters , but indicated that among the methods that might be sought to " find a way " to " make liberal legislation stick " were the following : A constitutional amendment . A constitutional convention . Congressional action to curb the powers of the Supreme Court . Green Peace Move Opposed Although the delegates heard several speakers today , including Secretary Perkins , the chief subject of discussion was the internal controversy . Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were absolutely opposed to President William Green 's suggestion that the suspension of the C. I. 0 . unions be continued while a committee remained ready to confer with the John L. Lewis bloc . Others favored the suggestion . Seventeen additional resolutions bearing on the craft-industrial union controversy were submitted today and all but one favored reinstatement of the C. I. 0 . unions , cooperation with the C. I. 0 . in the steel organization campaign , and for continuation of peace efforts . The single opposition resolution , offered by the Structural Iron Workers Union , criticized the C. I. 0 . and asserted that it had helped organize workers in steel fabricating shops when jurisdiction over these workers was vested in the Iron Workers Union . Max Zaritsky of New York , president of the United Hatters , Cap Makers and Millinery Workers Union , who started a peace move several weeks ago , arrived here today but said that while he was still much interested in a harmonious settlement of the internal controversy he was not prepared to say what his next moves would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leaders of the fight to have the convention move in the direction of supporting organization activities in the mass industries under the industrial form of unionism . Says Election Changed Public Major Berry , in his address today , recalled the circumstances under which a Council for Industrial Progress was formed last year , comprising industrial leaders and labor representatives . He said that all the industries were not represented at the meetings he called last year , but " since Nov. 3 there seems to have been a decided change in sentiment " " The number of applications for seats and credentials for the next conference in December has been amazing , coming from men of importance who were not anxious to participate prior to Nov. 3 , " he deeared . " Of course , the great question is the attitude of the Supreme Court . We have been seeking a formula to meet the test as determined in the decision of the Supreme Court . I feel that we will find that formula . " I believe the Supreme Court of the United States will recognize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . I feel the Supreme Court will adjust itself to that determination . " If , of course , there are further reverses , I feel we will find a way to meet them and the Industrial Council of employers and labor will contribute generously to finding such a way . " Stone Rulings Praised In conclusion he praised the liberal minority decisions of Justice Harlan Stone and especially his opinion in the New York Minimum Wage case and said he hoped the court would " adjust itself to the mandate of the people . " The resolutions committee , it was reported today . has closed its hearings on the C. I. 0. -A . F. of L. controversy . At its session yesterday delegates from central labor unions and from State labor federations warned that any action that wctild split the labor movement into two parts would throw the central organizations into chaos , weaken their legislative activity and discourage the unorganized and the rank and file of trade unionists . Peace and unity , combined with the need for organization in the mass production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resolutions committee , of which Matthew Woll is chairman and John P. Frey secretary . One or two witnesses , representing national and international unions , favored drastic action against the unions led by John L. Lewis . Among the delegates today the principal topic of conversation was the peace proposal put forth yesterday in an interview by President Green . Opinion varied . Many delegates declined to be quoted . In the main these emphasized the need for some " middle-of-the-road " policy . Efforts to arrange for an address before the convention by the Spanish Ambassador , Fernando de los I Rios , failed today when President Green said that no invitation had been extended to the newly appointed Ambassador . Green Halts Talk on Spain George B. Jackson of an Orlando ( Fla. ) federal labor union , at the close of today 's session arose and said that Mr. de los Rios would be here tomorrow and he would like to see him address the convention . " We will attend to that , " said Mr. Green as he banged his gavel . Later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the situation in Spain was " mudduled " and that it was thought " inadvisable " that the civil war be " injected " into the convention proceedings . " There has been no invitation issued to the Spanish Ambassador . " said Mr. Green . " We issue invitations to distinguished speakers and none has been issued to him . " Mr. Green declined to comment on the action of the executive board of the United Mine Workers of America which , it was reported , today asked him to " cease and desist from anti-union activities . " No indication of the specific nature of the board 's grievances was received here . It was regarded as significant that Frank Farrington , former head of the Illinois miners and foe of John L. Lewis , atetnded today 's convention session as a visitor and renewed his associations with old friends . Mr. Farrington , ousted from the miners union after he had made a compact to work for the Peabody Coal Company five years ago , led a movement at that time to form an opposition union to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America . It is known that dissident miners ' groups have made overtures to the A. F. of L. in the hope that if Mr. Lewis 's union is expelled they may be accorded a charter for the miners ' union to be officially recognized by the federation . I In her address today Secretary Perkins dwelt on the recommendations made by organized labor at a conference called by her in 1933 and summarized the large number of such recommendations that have since been enacted into law . Emphasizing the potential good for labor in the Walsh-Healy law which the A. F. of L. sponsored at the last session of Congress , Secretary Perkins said that while the law should be amended its objective was excellent in so far as it aimed to make the government a model employer . Already , she said , fifty-eight contracts totaling $2,000,000 have been awarded under the law by the government , and she added that the first wage hearings in accordance with the statute would be held in Washington on Friday . The hearings would be preliminary to the fixing of minimum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the votes at the recent election Showed that American democracy had reached a turning point and that this nation was committed to a forward step in civilization , a civilization which she maintained would be " inclusive , " which would " include all and not a few . " Pointing to evidences of economic betterment , Secretary Perkins said that more than 6,000,000 who were jobless in 1933 were again ' enga  --  ed in private industry , while factory payrolls alone were $70,000,000 greater weekly in the first quarter of this year than they were in the same period in 1933. 31,683,000 Now Have Jobs Estimating the total number of persons employed throughout the country as 31,683,000 , exclusive of agriculture , WPA and the Civilian Conservation Corps , Miss Perkins said there had been a gain of 1,400 , - 000 employed in twelve months . Employment in the durable-goods industries was 13.7 per cent higher than a year ago , with weekly earnings in manufacturing industries as a whole 4.8 per cent- above a year ago . She cited as " particularly striking " an increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since last May . Although the durable-goods industries still were substantially below the 1929 level , she pointed out that employment in these industries had declined 59 per cent during the de- I pression , but had shown the highest relative gain in employment during the last year with an in-crease of 14 per cent . Declaring that " a strong union movement is essential to the devel- ! opment of labor standards , " Miss ! Perkins said she had learned as ! Labor Commissioner for New York State that " union organization gives strength and practical wis- I dom to the formation and enforce- ' ment of legislative programs . " " Vigorous leadership " was expected from labor . she said , in the drive for ratification of the Child ; Labor Amendment . Reports over ! an extensive area , she said , showed ! that two and a half times as many chidlren 14 and 15 years of age left school to go to work in the first five months of 1936 than in the corresponding period of 1935 , when the NRA codes were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance of economic and social progress which can be attained by embodying in the American system the principles of a national living wage , continuity of income , stability of employment , reasonable profits and guidance for the conservation and maximum utilization of natural resources , " she said . Declaring that the national income " will soon be double what it was at the low point of the depression , " . she urged the nation 's wageearners , employers and other groups to cooperate so that there would be further gains in employment and pay envelopes , with increased profits to industry and higher dividends to investors . " Then we and the nation will have the continuing satisfaction , " she said , " of building upon a solid foundation for our prosperity and well-being and that of generations to come : "                     