@@700454

txt The first strike of employers , supported by their workers , to compel enforcement of an industrial code will go into effect this morning , when about 20,000 proprietors of cleaning and dyeing establishments are expected to close their shops in Manhattan , Brooklyn , the Bronx and Queens in response to a call by the Retail Cleaners and Tailors Association . Supporting the move will be the Inside Cleaning and Dyeing Workers Union , Local 18,232 , consisting of workers in the shops , and the Cleaning and Dye House Drivers Union , both affiliated with the American Federation of Labor . Although no clear estimate was available last night as to how many workers would be affected , - it was believed that about 35,000 inside templeyes and 15,000-drivers wohlOre involved if the strike , or , as ' it ' is characterized by some , the combination lockout and strike , is completely successful . It is also expected that about 100 large cleaning and dyeing plants will be drawn into the stoppage . Approval of Move Voted . Approval of the lockout-strike was expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In various boroughs . The unions likewise reaffirmed the genera , ' stoppage program . The inside workers met at Stuyvesant Casino , Ninth Street and Second Avenue , where strike action was voted . In the evening representatives of the inside workers met with the drivers at 151 Clinton Street , where final strike plans were worked out . It was announced by the drivers that they would picket all avenues of traffic through which work for the industry is sent to New York City in bundles from Connecticut , New Jersey and other adjacent localities , and would not permit such work to reach any wholesale plants or plants operated by chain firms against which the lockout-strike is directed . The joint movement is directed primarily against a number of large chain establishments accused of violating the cleaning and dyeing code by turning out work at prices much below those set in the code . While the code , for example , sets a price of 75 cents for cleaning and pressing a suit , the chain stores , it is charged , have been performing the work for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's code authority and various parties to the code to bring the chain-stores in line have thus far proved unavailing . Nor has court action remedied the situation . Some of the chain firms have frankly challenged the constitutionality of the code 's price-fixing provisions and are seeking to make a test case of the conflict . Efforts by the National Recovery Administration , it was said yesterday , also have proved futile in compelling obedience to the code by the chain stores . The retailers now contend that the code must either be enforced all around or voided . The general stoppage by employers and employes today Is expected to force this issue . Labor Board Acts . In a last-minute effort to avert the stoppage , the regional labor board announced yesterday that it had summoned the Kent , Spotless and Dale dry cleaning companies to a hearing today . Investigation by the board , it was said at its office , 45 Broadway , indicated that these three companies held the key to the situation . " The unions involved in the dispute have lodged complaints with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are cutting prices below the schedule set in the code of fair competition for the cleaning and dyeing industry , thereby precipitating the strike and lockout , " the labor board 's announcement declared . The Consumers League of New York also took a hand in the situation yesterday when it sent a telegram to Mayor LaGuardia , requesting the city 's intervention through its judicial machinery in the enforcement of the cleaning and dyeing code . Telegrams announcing the stoppage , together with a statement setting forth the issues and requesting cooperation in bringing about a satisfactory adjustment , were addressed by the retailers last night to General Hugh S. Johnson , National Recovery Administrator ; Governor Lehman , Mayor LaGuardia , Nathan Straus Jr. , New York State Chairman of the National EmergencyCouncil , and Mrs. Elinore M. Herrick , chairman of the regional labor board . The telegrams , signed by Nathan Frankel , counsel for the Retail Cleaners and Dyers Association , said : " At four mass-meetings of retail cleaners and dyers held today in New York City , decision was voted for complete stoppage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area affecting 100,000 people . This is the only recourse open to us in the effort to avert complete ruin through wholesale violation by chain cleaners of cleaning and dyeing code through vicious price cutting . The immediate enforcement of the code by Federal and State authorities is sought as only possible remedy . Would welcome your intercession . " Signs to Be Displayed . It was decided at the meetings that all retail establishments would exhibit today in their windows the following notice to the public : " Due to the intoleiuble conditions created by the cut-throat price chiselers , who openly defy the provisions of the code of the cleaning and dyeing industry signed by President Roosevelt , we are compelled to close our stores and appeal to the government and the public for support . " Speakers at all the meetings asserted that the " cheap , cut-throat competition and open , criminal violations of the code by chiselers are driving legitimate workers to starvation . " Reginald Berkowitz , general manager of the Cleaners and Tailors Guide and a member of the committee that drafted the code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure . " Our action is not intended to embarrass government officials in the face of their difficult economic problems , but we can not control starving families and must have help , " he declared . He suggested that the licensing of cleaning and dyeing establishments would be of material aid in enforcing the code . It was announced at all the meetings that a large delegation of the retailers , supported by the inside workers and drivers , would appear at City Hall tomorrow to ask Mayor LaGuardia 's support . A telegram from Jacob Cohen , Manager of the drivers ' union , was read at all the meetings . It announced that " all trucks will stop on Monday and no insiders will work . " " This is a fight to a finish and Fe will stop every truck that attempts to enter New York City , " the telegram declared . It was announced that a mass meeting of retailers and employes might be held in Madison Square Garden this week to explain the issues involved to the public . General Johnson will be invited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor LaGuardia by the Consumers League was signed by Lynn Smith , executive secretary of the league . It said : " YOU can aid materially in removing the cause of the combined strike and lock-out in the cleaning , dyeing and tailoring establishments of New York if you will cause the prosecuting machinery at the city 's disposal to be brought to bear In full force against firms which are engaged in persistent and wholesale violation of the cleaning and dyeing code . It is this conduct on the part of these chain establishments which has now brought about a situation resulting in the closing of thousands of retail ' establishments employing some 35,000 people because of inability to stand up against the illegal cut-throat competition of the chain firma . In one case one of the offending chains has been fined $500 by the courts for violation of the code . This is not even tantamount to a small license fee and is no deterrent to continued chiseling by these firms . We believe that the law should be enforced to the fullest extent and that all violators be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is $500 for each offense , which means that the fine should be $500 per store per day on each garment . " We suggest that as Mayor and chief magistrate of the city , empowered with judicial authority , you issue a statement to this effect against the violating firms , who are largely , if not wholly , responsible for the present situation . " The Consummers League has studied fines imposed in labor cases and finds that municipal term court judges give suspended sentences in an average of 25 per cent to 40 per cent of cases before them . Each suspended sentence or minimum fine imposed further weakens enforcement of existing laws , industrial codes and the entire National Recovery Act . " A copy of the telegram was sent to Mr. Straus , calling the situation to the attention of the compliance board .                     