@@703634

txt Mayor La Guardia has definitely decided to support Governor Herbert H. Lehman in preference to District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey in the Governorship campaign . From highly authoritative sources close to the Mayor it was learned last night that Mr. La Guardia had . finally made the decision which , with the contest shaping up as a closely fought battle , political observers here and in Washington . believed would prove a strong factor in Governor Lehman 's campaign for re-election . From the beginning of the campaign the Mayor has kept his preference a guarded secret . Even his closest intimates could do no better than guess at which candidate he would support . So closely did the Mayor keep his secret that not even Governor Lehman 's headquarters knew last night that Mr. La Guardia had swung to the Democratic candidate . Showdown on Monday Failed Last Monday night it appeared that the stage was set for a showdown when the Mayor was invited to the Madison Square Garden meeting sponsored by the American Labor party . Had the Mayor/ appeared , his presence would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lehman and Charles Poletti , candidate for Lieutenant Governor . But he refrained from attending the meeting , sending word that he was busy writing a speech in support of Senator Robert F. Wagner , Democratic candidate for re-election . Since the campaign opened , both sides have made strenuous efforts to enlist the Mayor 's support , but in each instance he refrained from committing himself . It is known that he pleaded with Mr. Dewey several months ago not to make the race if Mr. Lehman were to be his opponent . He told the District Attorney then that his political career would suffer a severe setback if he lost to Mr. Lehman . However , Mr. Dewey decided to go ahead and run against the Governor . One factor in the Mayor 's decision , it was learned , was a report that the directors of Mr. Dewey 's campaign had instructed the candidate never to mention Mayor La Guardia by name in any of his speeches . Mr. Dewey has referred occasionally to the high standard of municipal government in New York City , but he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stand InvolvedFrom a broader standpoint , Mayor La Guardia has consistently supported President Roosevelt and the New Deal , and his decision to support Governor Lehman follows that pattern . After a recent conference with the President at Hyde Park , the Mayor was asked whether he would support Mr. Lehman for the Governorship . His reply was a demand that Mr. Lehman state his position on the New Deal , and the answer was coupled with the observation that the Mayor , as a candidate , had never left the voters in the dark on any important issue . Shortly thereafter Mr. Lehman , who had previously opposed the President 's Supreme Court Bill , affirmed his faith ? in the " humane policies " of President Roosevelt . Close observers of the Mayor 's routine noticed that he invited Governor Lehman to ride with rhim in his car to the funeral services for Councilman B. Charney Vladeck yesterday morning . The fact that the Mayor called for Governor Lehman at the latter 's home , and posed there for photographers with . him , was unusual . Though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it had been arranged in connection with the funeral . After the Lehman headquarters had announced that Mayor La Guardia had invited the Governor to ride with him , reporters asked the Mayor if he had any comment on the political situation . The question was put to him at the When the reporters tried to ask if his invitation to the Governor could be construed as an endorsement of his candidacy , the Mayor broke in and said : " Is n't that an impertinent question to ask , under the circumstances ? " A third query had no more pro- I ductive results . As the Mayor I emerged from the Governor 's home with Mr. Lehman , a reporter asked : " Is this an endorsement , Major ? " " We 're going to a funeral , " the Mayor answered shortly . While Mayor La Guardia may not make a public declaration for Lehman and Poletti , his intimates said there was no question of his refusal to support Mr. Dewey . Develop ments in the campaign will determine whether the Mayor will take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor party tickets . With President Roosevelt scheduled to speak tomorrow night for the entire Democratic ticket , a possibility exists that the Mayor may follow up his speech with an open endorsement of the Governor and Mr. Poletti . The Mayor already has expressed his support for Senator Wagner and James M. Mead of Buffalo , Democratic candidate for the short Senate term . Consistently Behind Roosevelt Much of the accomplishment Mayor La Guardia was able to show to the voters last year as arguments for his own re-election was directly due to Federal financial ' aid , a circumstance which bound him closely to President Roosevelt q , nd the New Deal . He has consistently praised Mr. Roosevelt as a humanitarian and progressive President , and the forward-looking leadership of the New Deal has coincided with the Mayor 's ideas on ' government . By contrast Mr. Dewey 's platform is essentially an anti-New Deal document . The Old Guard Republicans advising . the candidate are bitterly hostile to Mr. Roosevelt and virtually everything he stands for . Furthermore . the Republican candidate and the Mayor have expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the voters next Tuesday . Mr. Dewey has expressed his approval of Amendment 1 , the socalled " catch-all " amendment , and Amendment 2 , on reapportionment , whereas the Mayor has asked the voters to defeat both these propositions . From a more personal standpoint the Mayor has often expressed his opinion of a holder of one public office who has his eye on another . " He 's like a fellow trying to drive a cat with one arm around a pretty girl ? he ca n't keep his mind on his work , " is a favorite LaGuardia saying . The Mayor has used this ex-                     