@@702328

txt While Governor Murphy attempted yesterday in an all-day conference with representatives of General Motors and the United Automobile Workers union to break the deadlock that has disrupted that corporation 's production and closed more than half of its plants , sales and production of other automobile companies pounded along at a fast rare . Production of automobile manufacturers other than General . Motors is running roughly 20% ahead of this time a year ago , and it is believed that retail sales are continuing at about the same gain over last year . Up to now General Motors deliveries have more than equaled the pace of the industry as a whole , but with its deliveries being sharply reduced by car shortages possibly others will show sharper gains as they absorb a portion of the market the big corporation temporarily is unable to fill Glass manufacturing sources in this country , Canada and abroad , which have been successful thus far in filling the void caused by most of Pittsburgh Plate and ' Abbey-Owens-Ford Glass companies being down in strike . although these new sources probably can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobile companies call for . Nevertheless , sufficient glass has been made available to move ahead at least by two weeks the probability of any automobile companies being forced to curtail on this account . Not Working for Strike Spread The strikes at other automobile suppliers ' plants have not assumed such magnitude as to be as yet a serious threat to production , inasmuch as second sources are believed to be able in all instances to make up the shortages of closed plants . Inasmuch as the CIO and UAW are anxious to confine their present strike activity to General Motors , no agitation of importance is being carried on by union forces for a spreading of the strike . If the General Motors strike were settled within the near future , the effect of the strike curtailment on the corporation 's first quarter operations would be of relatively minor proportions . In the first two weeks of the current month , strike tie-ups held General Motors ' output about 60.000 cars under its schedule of 100,000 cars and still greater curtailment is in store for next week . Would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however . this deficiency could in large part be made up by the end of the quarter , even though some time would be required to restore capacity operations . With stocks of cars now much smaller than a year ago and with demand greater , capacity operations would be justified as soon as plant conditions permitted whereas a year ago output was curtailed during January and February . In the first quarter of 1936 . General Motors produced about 000.000 cars and trucks . Governor Murphy sought to evolve a formula for collective bargaining conferences , but little developed to indicate real progress . One of the federal conciliators , James F. Dewey , relayed the information to Secretary of Labor Perkins that a number of points were discussed and that " excellent progress " had been made . Nothing was given out or said at Lansing . however , that was in any way illuminating . Observers were none too optimistic as to prospects for immediate settlement , pointing out that the principles involved are regarded by each aide to be too important to be modified and compromised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should Governor Murphy break the jam that prevented negotiations from getting started progress through the various union demands would be slow end susceptible of being upset all the while . Holds Future of CIO Movement The stakes involved are so big that much jockeying is anticipated before a solution is found . The most important is. of course , the future of the CIO movement , and its future depends upon the outcome of the current strikes and the degree of satisfaction it is able to exact from the corporation . General Motors , on the other hand , is representing the industry in a controversy with organized labor to determine whether the United Auto Workers union shall have more of a voice in the automobile industry . While the General Motors-UAW-CIO campaign goes on , other automobile companies are operating at near capacity . Ford Motor is turning out close to 6,000 cars a day , which approximates its best production at any time during 1936. while Chrysler , with daily output also running not much under 6.000 units , is establishing all-time production records . Others in the industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record rate for many weeks , its recently introduced six cylinder boosting this company 's production far ahead of this time a year ago . Hudson is turning out between 650 and 700 cars a day , or slightly more than 20% over a year ago . Nash , Studebaker Gain Nash production is being sustained at the highest rate in several years . and this company 's fortunes seem once again to be faring as well as its competition Studebaker. whose production climbed sharply through 1936. is again bettering its year-ago rate substantially . General Motors , had it not been cut down , would have turned out 224.000 units this month . according to William S. Knudsen. executive vice president . This would have compared with 158,572 cars and trucks turned out last January and would have been exceeded by only two months in all of ** and December . the latter its record month . More General Motors plants were forced to close because of shortages . At Tarrytown . Fisher Body and Chevrolet plants are closing for lack of supplies , with shutdowns complete by Monday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , will close Saturday . United Brass &; Aluminum Cc , . , at Port Huron , Mich .. employing 300 , making hinges and small parts for Chrysler and other automobile companies , closed when 75 en.ployes staged a sit-down strike claiming wage and working hour grievances .                     