@@700467

txt The ? University of Chicago and Northwestern university merger proposal is. to " be laid aside " and the committees from the two institutions that have been working on merger plans are to be discharged . This was announced yesterday in a joint statement of the two merger committees following a meeting at the Chicago club . The signers of the statement were Walter , Dill Scott , : president of Northwestern university ; Robert M .. Hutchins , president of the University of Chicago ; John H. Hardin , president of the Northwestern trustees , and Harold H. Swift , president of the University of Chicago trustees . Seek Closer Cooperation . In place of the proposed consolidation of the two universities , the statement explained that the committees recommend that authority be extended to President Scott and President Hutchins by their respective trustees to " continue to consider the possibilities of such closer cooperation as will produce the best results for higher education . " These recommendations will be presented to the two boards of trustees for their approval . Both Mr. Swift and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations of the merger committees , Such trustee action will close a phase of negotiations between the two . universities which has been marked by stormy discussion and widespread controversy . When the joint statement was made public , President Hutchins admitted that efforts toward merger had thus ' ' far been precipitous and that the ' universities should have explored the field of cooperation before attempting consolidation . Begin at Wrong End . We have been considering consolldation since last August , " President . Hfitchins explained . " Possibly we . began at the wrong end and should , have studied the field of coOperation drat . Consolidation of two universities is an intricate matter , in which neither university would wish to take the first step . As long as the proposal of merger was being agitated , it ' agitated everybody and we could not get a calm , dispassionate study of its possibilities . " . If the merger committees ' recom-. mendations are adopted by the two boards of trustees , the two presidents will be in sole charge of negotiations toward cooperation . Neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although each pointed out general possibilities . involving , cotirdination of the work of certain ' schools and departments or ' the Centering of work of certain types on one campus 9r the other . Asks for Suggestions. : ' Presidents Scott said ' he had asked departmental faculties to suggest Points of possible cooperation between those departments and similar departments on the Midway . He added that " a number of interesting suggestions as to possible cooperation have been made , " adding , " Nothing that can be known as codperatIon will be beyond discussion . " Active opponents of the merger last night expressed satisfaction over the day 's developments . They added that no one has ever found fault with proposals for the development of forms of cooperation between the two universities . They asserted that right kinds of coöperation will bring about every possible advantage to higher education that merger could offer , without any educational losses accruing from administrative consolidation . Warning that . " duplication of effort must not be confused with division of labor , " ' , however , was made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as being related to fundamental differences of emphasis on the two campuses . At the Midway pure science and pure research are emphasized . At Northwestern . practical training receives first ' consideration . Therefore , it was added , a certain school at North , western would not . be duplicating the efforts of its related department at the Midway , because of the completely different character of socially needed work each contributes . It was stated that in the main " a splendid division of labor between the two universities now exists. , This should not be changed . First disclosures of plans of the merger were made early last November after president Scott 's announcement ' of merger plans before a Northwestern-alumni ' conference . President Scott spoke . at that . time of John D. Rockefeller 's approval of the merger proposed . It was generally reported that the merger would be completed during 1934 . The late ' Melvin A. Traylor , president of the First . National , bank , was the chairman of the Northwestern merger committee . Mr. Swift is chairman . of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   