@@698915

txt John Hughes Curtis , ' the Norfolk boat builder and self-styled " intermediary " for the return of the Lindbergh baby . was found guilty here today of deliberately giving false information for the purpose of preventing the arrest of the kidnappers . The tall , rugged Norfolk manufacturer , who for many years had been a man of high repute in his own community , now stands convicted , under the indictment and the charge , as Judge Robbins gave it to the jury , not only of lying but of having actually known who the kidnappers were . Curtis had " confessed " that his entire story was a hoax . Sentence was deferred until July 11 . The maximum penalty is three years in prison and a fine of $1,000 . The jury was out four hours and five minutes . As is the Hunterdon County custom , the court house bell was tolled when it was ready to return . From store and hotel porch spectators came on the run . Curtis , who had been in the jail , entered the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  vifiehave been watching him throughout the five days of the trial . Until today he has been smiling , confident and affable . When he entered the room this afternoon the smile was gone , his normally ruddy face was white and the blue eyes stared straight ahead . He took his seat behind his counsel table . The jury filed in , and Judge Adam 0 . Robbins , dressed in a linen suit and without his robe , ascended the bench . Woman Announces Verdict . " Have you reached a verdict ? " asked C. Leon Fells , clerk of the court . " We have , " the five women and seven men answered in chorus . " What is your verdict ? " demanded Mr. Fells . Miss Leila Alpaugh , forewoman , then read from a slip of paper : " We , the jurors in the State of New Jersey , in the County of Hunterdon , find the defendant guilty with recommendation of mercy by the court . " Instantly the defendant 's brothers , Sandusky and George , jumped to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself erect , staring straight ahead . Lloyd Fisher for the defense asked that the jury be polled and each of the twelve pronounced the word " guilty . " There was a moment of silence and Mr. Fisher bent over Curtis , with his brothers . Suddenly the defendant jumped to his feet , hurled his great bulk through the little group of brothers and friends and ran to the door leading to the jail . Photographers snapped him as he went out and bailiffs hurried after him . In the home of Warden George Anderson , which is in the jail building , his 11-year-old daughter , Constance , who has been at his side all through the trial , was awaiting him . The little girl remained with him until evening . The twenty-four-hour guard which has watched Curtis since his arrest on March 18 resumed its duties tonight to avoid any risk of suicide . Immediate Appeal Planned . The convicted man 's counsel went to work preparing their appeal to be presented Tuesday . Lloyd Fisher , who has led the defense forces , declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State , the Court of Errors and Appeals , if he could not get a reversal in the State Supreme Court . Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh , who has sat through all the sessions of the trial itself at the State counsel 's table , did not appear today , nor did Colonel Schwarzkopf , Colonel Lindbergh learned of the verdict by telephone at his home . He had no cornmeat ' to make . Staying with him through the trial has been Edwin Bruce , the Elmira business man who accompanied Colonel Lindbergh and Curtis on many cif-their boat trips . He will stay at the-Hopewell home over the week-end . Colonel Lindbergh , it is understood , feels that Mr. Bruce has been most self- sacrificing in his efforts to help in the kidnap hunt . Six Ballots Are Taken . The jury took six ballots . On the first the vote stood 10 to 2 for con ; viction and on the second it went I to 11 to 1 , where it stayed until i the fourth ballot , when the plea for I mercy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conviction and 4 for conviction with the recommendation for mercy , and on the sixth the vote I was made unanimous for the recomj mendation . , Juror 6 , William P. Harrison , a ! middle-aged bookkeeper , employed I in a local garage , stood out for ac ' quittal for nearly four hours . " Yes , I was the one who stood out , " he said when back at his desk later in the afternoon . " There was jone more with me at the start , but he I got back in the fold . I could n't see how under the indictment and I charge we could call him guilty . " I do n't believe . " he continued with obvious indignation , " they I proved Curtis ever had been in contact with the kidnappers , but even if he was , as I saw it , he might have been in their power . I finally agreed to come over if they would recommend mercy . " The indictment charged that Curtis , " for the purpose of preventing and hindering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said kidnapping , did knowingly and willfully give false and untrue reports of such person or persons to Charles A. Lindbergh , H. Norman Schwarzkopf , John J. Lamb , Harry A. Walsh and Arthur Keaton . " In his charge to the jury Judge Robbins outlined with great detail the limits of evidence in the case , the proof required and the inference the Jurors might draw from the fact that Curtis failed to take the stand in his own defense . The court announced that defense counsel had presented him with twenty statements , several of which he agreed to incorporate in his charge . The more important of these dealt with the question of whether Curtis actually had contact with the kidnappers . " In order to convict you must find that John Hughes Curtis acted knowingly , " said the court . " that is , that he had contact with the actual kidnappers , or knew their whereabouts . " I so charge . " In order to convict you must find that John Hughes Curtis gave false and untrue reports for the definite and specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I so charge . " If you find that the State did not prove that John Hughes Curtis knew who the kidnappers were , then John Hughes Curtis could not have willfully and knowingly aided them and your verdict must in that event be not guilty . I so charge . " Further emphasizing the same points , Judge Robbins said : " If you find that the State did not prove that John Hughes Curtis knew who were the kidnappers , then the defendant could not have given false and untrue reports of them and you must bring in a verdict of not guilty . " I so charge . " This charge , taken in connection with the fact that on the opening day of the trial Colonel Lindbergh testified that he did not believe Curtis had ever been in contact with the kidnappers , had led some lawyers listening at the trial to expect the jury to acquit , especially since Captain J. J. Lamb of the State police said much the same thing in his testimony . In connection with the failure of Curtis to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the evidence produced by the State indicated the guilt of the defendant then it was proper to draw the inference from his failure to testify in his own defense of guilt . 13 Defense Motions Lost . This question was argued before Judge Robbins in chambers this morning before court opened . Defense counsel presented thirteen motions , seven for a directed verdict of acquittal and six for a mistrial . They told the judge that the reason ' for not putting Curtis on the stand was the fact that Mr. Stout , who appeared for the State , had interviewed Curtis in the jail on several occasions before he joined the prosecution . ' The principal motion for mistrial was based op the presence of Colonel Lindbergh at the State 's table . Counsel argued that this had certainly prejudiced the jury to such an extent that it could not be overcome by any argument . They pointed out that he was not the complainant who signed the indictment , that he was not a oliceman , that he was not a member of counsel for the , State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grand jury . Judge Robbins dismissed all motions . The connection of Curtis with the Lindbergh kidnapping case began about the middle of March according to the Colonel 's testimony . He was unable to reach Colonel Lindbergh himself and enlisted the aid of the Rev. H. Dobson Peacock of Norfolk who had been in Mexico City when the late Senator Morrow was Ambassador , and Rear Admiral Burrage , who commanded the Memphis when Colonel Lindbergh came back on the cruiser from France . Curtis impressed these two with his story and they came to Hopewell with him to see the Colonel . Lindbergh was not impressed at the time with the Curtis story , but he merely asked for more proof , and continued his negotiations through Dr. John F. Condon of the Bronx . The boat builder went back to Norfolk but made two more trips to Hopewell . He obtained the use of the yacht Alarcon and through Admiral Burrage the cooperation of the navy , Lieutenant George Richard , naval flier , was assigned to take Curtis wherever his quest led him . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although still skeptical , decided to go with Curtis himself and see what he could do . He thought that time would be saved should there be a foundation for the optimism expressed by Curtis , and that , being on the ground , he could either prove or disprove his story . He was on one of these expeditions which had led him to sea day after day for nearly a month when , on the evening of May 12 , he was informed of the finding of the baby " s body . Curtis went to Hopewell with State troopers , gave statements totaling more than 36,000 words and made personal expeditions with policemen to Cape May , Wildwood and Newark to point out places mentioned in his story . These started the morning of May 13 . On the evening of May 16 he admitted to Inspector Harry A. Walsh that he had lied about having seen part of the ransom money paid by Dr. Condon . The next morning about 4:30 he declared that the whole strange story of his hunt , including the names of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was false . The next day he was arrested and brought to Hunterdon County jail . The , foreman of the jury , Miss Leila Alpaugh of Tewksbury , it was revealed in the Hall of Records , was a member of the jury which several years ago convicted two State troopers of manslaughter for the shooting , to death of Mrs. Beatrice Bteaney at ' Jutland ' , ? Hunterdon County . The other members of the jury were : MARIE ROGERS , Frenchtown . MARGARET A. STONE of Readington . HOWARD PECILHOWER of Califon . LUELLA HERDER of Readington . WILLIAM P. HARRISON of Flemington . ELMER A , BIGGS , Clinton Township . CRAIG SKILLMAN of Tewksbury . SAMUEL SEARCH of Frenchtown . GRACE A.PGAR of Califon . CHESTER BOWLBY of Lebanon Township . HENRY BILES of Lebanon Township . They were instructed by Judge Robbins to return to court on July 20.                     