@@700704

txt With a tremendous amount of Canadian financing to be taken care of in the next few years , the Dominion government is feeling out the New " York market , to ascertain if any important financing is at all possible under the new Securities Act . Overtures are now under way in connection with the 560,000,000 4% Dominion note maturity , which was extended last summer for 15 months , to the fall of this year . It may be that the maturity will be taken care of before the due date . Canada probably will pay off part of the maturity with proceeds of the recent London loan , but if possible , would like to refund the balance . Unless the attitude of the Federal Trade Commission Is too restrictive , refunding will be done , which would represent the first financing by a foreign country in the United States under the Securities Act . Canada , during the period from the war to the depression , did most of its financing in the United States . This market then was shut off , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fluctuating exchange and other difficulties . Through domestic financing and borrowings in London , Canada has taken care of its pressing financial requirements . But over the next decade there must be met a large amount of United States maturities . Some billion dollars of guaranteed and direct bonds of Dominion government and government-owned railways ( maturing in U. S. ) may have to be refunded eventually : the province must pay back or arrange for refunding , of 6800,000.000 borrowed in the United States : Canadian municipalities have outstanding $300,000,000 bonds , payable in U. S. funds , while corporations owe over a billion to American investors . Canada has been outstanding in its excellent record among foreign borrowers in the United States . The country does not come under the recent Congressional embargo againet foreign borrowers : Refinancing this year probably could be achieved at less than a 4% rate . for a short-term issue . Should financing in the United States market prove impracticable under present United States legislation , ( which is doubted , however ) , repercussions would be tremendous , on trade relations as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada has been drawn closer in monetary and trade relations with Britain . The British government is a shrewd bargainer , and has benefitted from Canada 's need . A few years ago , Canada was the best customer of the United States among world nations , and now stands second ; future trade relationships are bound to be affected by financial relationships , as in the past .                     