@@701905

txt That business men opposed to New Deal policies have been sandbagged by threats of reprisals into contributing an estimated quarter million dollars to help start the 1936 Democratic national campaign was disclosed last night on the eve of the publication of the " Book of the Democratic National Convention-1936 . " Today at noon advance copies of this elaborate publication Nv i 1 be " sold " to Democratic governors and mayors of large cities throughout the country with appropriate pomp and ceremony . In Chicago Mrs. John S. Clark , wife of County Assessor Claris , has been selected by the Democratic national committee to sell Mayor Kelly his copy . Claims to Be Instructive . In this 300 page volume , described by New Deal press agents as the " most beautiful thing of its kind ever presented by a political party " will be a large number , of portraits of present New Deal leaders and Democrats of earlier days . " Interesting and instructive " articles have been prepared on President Roosevelt , Vice President Garner , and others . More " interesting. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been bombarded with demands for cash during the last few weeks will be the list of " advertisers " appearing Iii the book . Publication of the volume represents the culmination of what the victims declare has been one of the greatest high pressure sales campaigns in the history of electioneering . Hammer and Tongs Solicitations . In this campaign , which blanketed I the nation , salesmen are reported : 0 have used every known form of " beat " from outright threats to cajolery , in their efforts to pry funds from reluctant corporations , contractors , and other forms of business exPosed in any way to the possibility of New Deal " crackdowns . " The method employed by the agents lot the Democratic national committee , as reported by a number of executives of leading corporations in Chicago , has been as follows : A telegram has arrived from Wash . ington signed by W. Forbes Morgan , secretary of the national committee , I informing the prospective " advertiser " that an advertising man would call shortly upon him . The Situation Gets Hotter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wire , somewhat more urgent , I has been received from Secretary Morgan informing the victim that the solicitor is about to arrive . The officially predicted visitation then has occurred , during the course of which the solicitor has spoken with great candor , pointing out that he has come at the " personal suggestion of Mr. Farley " and that the discreet thing to do would be not to displease Mr. Farley . Chicago corporation heads approached in this manner report that the price quoted to them was $3,000 per page . According to a bulletin put out last week by the Cleveland Better Business bureau the advertising rate was 52,000 . Chicagoans were unable to discover whether advertising comes cheaper for Ohioans or whether the policy has been to take whatever can be had . Forty Per Cent to Agents . Presidents of at least two of Chicago 's big industrial concerns are known to have refused indignantly to be blackjacked into making political contributions under the guise of " advertising . " Another leading business man  --  cautious but anxious to get his money 's worth  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee in3tead of taking space in the book . E-Ie had learned , he said , that the advertising agents were to get a 40 per - , . ent cut on the proceeds . When the national committee 's " advertising " solicitation was at its leight early this month business men , vere officially warned by Secretary of Commerce Roper not to line up too solidly against the New Deal . Chicago corporation heads said they nterpreted this statement as part of Ale " pressure " intended to frighten hem into support of the New Deal lespite their lack of sympathy with is policies . Funds raised through the " adverising " contributions to the national : ommittee 's book will help launch . he New Deal campaign for reilec , ion .                     