@@697687

txt Pouring water upon the ground to save it is a procedure which is apparently paradoxical . Yet California farmers have found this to be one of the best means of storing water in order to insure permanent supplies for irrigation and for domestic use . It happens that most of the rainfall in this locality comes during the winter and runs off the mountain sides in floods that , normally , soon escape to the Pacific Ocean . The summer , however , is the growing season , and since water is needed for the cultivation of crops , the problem of providing it is a vital one for the community . Storage of winter rainfall and conservation of floods is the answer to the situation . When such storage measures have been attempted , they have been usually realized in the form , of surface basins . These have serious disadvantages ; in that they are expensive and have a limited . capacity . Considerable waste from evaporation also accompanies such storage . Farmers in this district have discovered , however , that flood waters may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when they can be withdrawn mechanically by means of pumps . Apparently , there is a vast area of the underground structure which is available for such storage . Enough water can be sunk during periods of heavy rainfall to provide for extended dry cycles . Sinking of the water is accomplished by spreading flood excesses upon certain extensive areas of coarse gravel and rock detritus at the mouths of canyons where it has been deposited after having been torn from the mountain sides by alluvial action . Diversion dams and elaborate systems of basins and channels have been built upon these gravel beds . When the water is turned aside upon the gravel it percolates through the coarse material rapidly and makes its way into the subsoil , from which it is eventually pumped to irrigate orchards and fields . Water is cheaply placed underground by this method in most instances , often costing as little as 22 cents to cover an acre foot . A considerable profit is indicated in this operation , as such a quantity of water is reported to be worth S5 under present conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fields . Water spreading of this sort is by no means a new experiment . It has been practiced in a small way for more than 35 years , but has only recently assumed major importance in the water conservation program of the West . Private individuals built the first spreading works , but recently public construction has been started , especially in Los Angeles County , by the Flood Control District .                     