@@701919

txt The struggle between the craft unions , which have thus far controlled the American Federation of Labor , and the industrial union group headed by John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , moved toward a climax today with a revelation that an ultimatum has been sent to the Lewis group . William Green , president of the A. F. of L. , said a committee appointed by the federation 's executive council in January had written to officials of unions in the industrial group , giving them two weeks in which to state whether they would dissolve the Committee for Industrial Organization . The latter group insists on establishment of a policy by which all new unions taken into the federation shall be industrial , or vertical , organizations . embracing all persons in a given industry , as opposed . to various craft unions employed in a single industry . Ultimatum Expires June 3 The letters , which Mr. Green said had been signed by George Harrison , president of the Brotherhood of Railway Clerks and chairman of the special committee appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary of the Electrical Workers , and Joseph M. Weber , president of the Federation of Musicians , were dated May 20 , and the ultimatum consequently will expire June 3 . Mr. Green said the replies would be taken up by the federation 's executive council at its next meeting in July . If the industrial committee does not accede to the request to dissolve , the federation will face the problem either of expelling the rebellious unions or with backing down on , present demands , according to the view of most union of- I ficials here . " We are not seeking publicity , " was Mr. Green 's only comment to- I day . " This serious situation within the American Federation of Labor can best be solved with as little publicity as possible . " He sought to minimize the situation created by this ultimatum and refused to forecast what steps the executive council might take in July , insisting that he had no part in the drafting of the letter which reiterated , according to Mr , Green , the view that the activities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on by the American Federation of Labor . Firm Stand Is Indicated Mr. Lewis refused to comment on the situation created but it was learned that the United Mine Workers planned to discuss the ulti- matum and perhaps draft ' a reply at a meeting of their own executive committee beginning here tomorrow . As far as could be learned they will stand firmly in favor of industrial organization in each industry instead of developing further craft unions embracing specialized workers in certain fields all over the country . The nine major unions represented on the Committee for Industrial Organization are listed as follows : United Mine Workers , Mine , Mill and Smelter Workers ; International Ladies Garment Workers , Amalgamated Clothing Workers , United Textile Workers , Flat Glass Workers , Hat , Cap and Millinery Workers ; Oil Well and Refinery Workers and the International Typographical Union . The open struggle between industrial and craft unionists within the Federation began Nov. 23 when Mr. Lewis resigned as vice president of the federation and as a member of its executive council in protest against the federation 's policy with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong fight had been carried on at the federation 's convention at Atlantic City in which the craft unionists won , outvoting the industrial unionists . Mr. Green frequently warned of the danger of a split within the federation as a , result of the activities of the Lewis group and at one point addressed a letter to the heads of each of the unions in this group , warning them to end their activities . He attached no time limit to this warning , however , and the industrial unionists refused to accede to his request . A committee was appointed by the federation 's executive council in January to discuss the situation with the Lewis group . It met May 18 in the offices of the United Mine Workers . Mr. Green 's letter ordering dissolution of the committee for industrial organization was read and was replied to by the reading of Mr. Lewis 's previous letter of refusal . The sending of the ultimatum followed .                     