@@701416

txt The pending controversy over the Mayor 's favorite project for a $45 , - 000,000 municipal power plant involves three distinct issues : whether such a plant should be erected , whether the question of erecting it should be left to the voters to decide , and whether the local law which has been drafted for submission to a popular referendum meets the requirements of the situation . The last two questions the Tammany Board of Aldermen has now answered heartily in the affirmative , though with a substantial minority recorded as not voting . This action ought not to cause any surprise . It has been the habit of Tammany chiefs to dodge awkward issues by submitting them to popular vote . A body which could not make up its mind whether to increase the salary of firemen and policemen to $3,000 a year without consulting the electorate could easily find ample ground for referring to it so important and controversial a question as public ownership and operation of a " yardstick " electric light plant . The pressure on the Fusionists , if not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let the people decide , " must also have been strong . It will be felt in the Board of Estimate , even though that body contains men of both political faiths who see clearly the folly of substituting competition for effective regulation . Already President LYONS of the Bronx has suggested that the maximum expenditure authorized under the bill be increased from $49,500,000 to $495,000,000  --  the reductio ad absurdum. of clauses in the present draft expanding the authority 's field to the city limits , and requiring it to serve consumers generally , just like a private utility , direct to the factory and the home . In considering the proposed referendum the board has in one respect a greater responsibility than it would have had in years gone by . Until the passage of the Lehman public ownership measure in 1934 the Public Service Commission had to be consulted in. such matters . Now the Municipal Assembly has the next to last word . On the merits of the proposal itself the case is as clear as ever , however fearfully city politicians may regard the reactions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill in its present form makes a brave effort to put up a self-sustaining front . The rates charged are to be sufficient to cover , without any direct subsidy , not only operating expenses but interest , sinking fund and taxes . It is doubtful if an authority s6 burdened could successfully compete with private enterprise  --  or even sell , to any buyer other than the Federal Government , the bonds required for construction of the proposed plant . Even so it would not be a true yardstick unless it were in fact required to serve all comers at all times , as any private plant must do . The city is already adequately supplied with electric generating facilities ? oversupplied , in the opinion of Mr. FRANK P. WALSH of the State Power Authority . It has troubles enough now , and burdens enough , without embark ing on another dubious venture ,                     