@@701202

txt Administration leaders of the Senate , already hard pressed but apparently making headway in gaining support for a Presidential veto of the Patman Bonus Bill , were thrown into confusion late today by reports of a speech by Jesse H. Jones , chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , at Pinehurst , N. C. , which was interpreted as virtually favoring cashing the veterans adjusted service certificates . In his remarks , made before the North Carolina State Bankers Association , Mr. Jones practically predicted enactment of a bonus bill over President Roosevelt 's veto . " The few billions that the government has expended in relief measures , " he said , " including the new $4,000,000,000 public works and relief authorization , will not be an unbearable burden , nor even the $2,000,000,000 additional that it seems likely that Congress may add in payment of the adjusted service certificates to the veterans . " It appears entirely possible that Congress may override a Presidential veto of this measure . But , after all , we voluntarily assumed the debt ten years ago , and paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must at all events be paid . " True , if the full amount of the bill is authorized it will be anticipating a payment without reduction of unearned interest . I am not sure but that it will be worth this extra cost to get this issue settled and out of politics . New Taxes Are Urged . " Of course , we can not go on indefinitely authorizing expenditures in large amounts without levying taxes to pay them . And like it or not , this is exactly what Congress should do . The bills must be paid and taxes levied to pay them . " Reached by telephone at Pinehurst later , Mr. Jones said he had not intended to favor the bonus or to take a stand on it in any way . While verifying the remarks attributed to him , he said it was just an informal speech and that his main point was there was no occasion for alarm about " a few billions of additional debt . " Senate leaders were no less irritated than confused by the speech , corning from so close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The expectation for upholding a bonus veto had been predicated upon their holding in line certain wavering Senators who , it was feared tonight , might be influenced unduly by the remarks of the RFC chairman . The irritation quickly spread to the White House , which had already been deluged with about 15,000 telegrams , urging signing of the Patman bill by a ratio of about eight or ten to one . There it was stated that Mr. Jones had not consulted the President about the bonus and that the speech was made on his own responsibility . Tydings Threatens Long . Meanwhile , as bonus debate continued in the Senate the session was enlivened when physical punishment of Senator Long was threatened by Senator Tydings as Mr. Long made a denunciatory speech in the Senate against President Roosevelt and various Senators . During this time also an agreement was reached to discuss next Monday the Long resolution to investigate the official conduct of Postmaster General Farley . Consternation caused among the stop-bonus forces by Mr. Jones 's speech was enhanced by publicity given remarks earlier in the day by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , appearing before a Senate subcommittee , to the effect that the inflationary effect of the Patman bill would be negligible . Confining his statement strictly to the economics of the measure , Mr. Eccles , under questioning of Senator Couzens , said that the Patman bill would not actually increase money in circulation despite the fact it provided for new currency , but would replace money already in circulation . In reply to further questions from Senator Couzens , Mr. Eccles said the chief danger of the bill was the fear of inflation which it would create throughout the country and the precedent it might set in encouraging the government to meet its needs with printing-press money . The Long-Tydings clash took place when Mr. Tydings , who rose from enlisted man to lieutenant colonel in the World War , challenged Senator Long to give the details of his own war record . Mr. Long was not in the war . Demanding passage of the Patma.n bill , Mr. Long had referred sarcastically to " $10,000 a year Congressmen who voted to send young men to war but who did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , " and also to President Roosevelt . " I hope the Senator will refer to his own service in the World War so that we may have a comparison , " said the Marylander . " I have covered that to the satisfaction of my people many , many times and to the satisfaction of myself , " answered Senator Long , his face reddening . " Let me cover it a little , " Mr. T2 , - dings insisted . " The Senator can do it in his own time ; if he has anything to say about my World War record he can rise and do so , " Mr. Long retorted . " You bet I can and nobody can stop me . " Mr. Tydings persisted . " I will not try to stop the Senator from Maryland . " " You better not try . " Mr. Tydings warned . Mr. Long said he proposed to discuss Mr. Tydings 's record on banking , but Mr. Tydings angrily countered ; " I am talking about the Senator 's record in the war . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , challenged the Louisianan thus : " You may have to make an argu-A ment and it wo n't be vocal , either . " Roaming about the chamber , Mr. Long had progressed to within two seats of Mr. Tydings , but during the exchange he turned his back on the Marylander and began to discuss Mr. Tydings 's votes on banking legislation . Criticizing President Roosevelt , the Louisianan said Vincent Astor 's yacht should be named the " Normal-Haul , " or in other words a " subsidy contract . " " The main man in that little business is Vincent Astor and his little clique , " he yelled . " They 've set up a kind of royal family rule . If you keep the Teddy and Kermit . Roosevelts satisfied no one can criticize the Franklin Roosevelts . " What does the President do when he goes on the Nourmahal ? He goes down into British waters , and the last time he was down there they had a dinner with the Duke and Duchess of Kent . The Duke is the son of King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He goes down there fishing and to learn something about the cotton patches where a poor devil with a soup cup in his hand is trying to get something to eat . " Senator Long also predicted political " slaughter " for the President if Mr. Roosevelt vetoed the Bonus Bill . He saw a like fate for Senators who might help sustain the veto . " If he wants to send himself to slaughter he can do so , but that ai n't going to do me any good , " Ate Senator said . " If he commits suicide , he 'll be an ex-President . Even an ex-President is something , but an ex-Senator ai n't nothing . " The agreement to have the Senate consider Senator Long 's resolution concerning Mr. Farley was obtained by Senator with the shouted " 0 . K. " of Mr. Long . Mr. obtained his unanimous consent agreement after Senator Long charged that the only time an effort had been made to consider the resolution was when he was absent from the Capitol . Mr. denounced this as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That 's 0 . K. with me , " Senator Long responded . The resolution has been unfavorably reported from the Postoffice Committee , beaded by Mr. . Another angle developed in the bonus situation when certain Republican Senators who desire to put the President in a " hole " on the question but have been unwilling to go along for the Patraan " greenback " bill pleaded with the veterans ' advocates to take advantage of the parliamentary groundwork already laid and go back to the Vinson-American Legion plan for an outright appropriation . The Patmanites took the plea under advisement . Only yesterday they had rejected all suggestions of compromise .                     