@@698369

txt Rather widespread opposition to further extension of the Hoover moratorium on If:tt ? one 's war debts , as well as to downward revision , developed in the Senate this afternoon immediately after the reading of a special message from President Hoover , dealing with our foreign relations , in which , among other things , he reiterated his desire for American adherence to the World Court and justified as " both wise and appropriate " the ? ooperation of the United . States with the League of Nations In the Manchurian crisis . The President said frankly that . " It is useless to blind ourselves " to " the obvious fact " that " a number of governments indebted to us will he unable to meet further payments to Us in full pending recovery in their economic life . " Therefore , he said , " it will he necessary in some cases to make still further temporary adjustments . ' ' His recommendation for a revival of the World War Foreign Debt Commission , which suggested a cutting down , met with fairly general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created the , impression that the reconunendations will not receive the Senate 's sanction . France Links Reparations . The prospect of difficulty in revising the wartime debts owed to th ? United States developed twenty-four hours after the French Government , through Ambassador Claude ( had notified the State Department that reductions in German reparations must be accompanied by reductions in intergovernmental debts arising from the war . This attitude , which has been long proclaimed by France , was set forth in an aide memoirs which M. Claude ! gave to Secretary Stimson yesterday noon upon instructions from his Foreign Office . This was done , it was explained , as a matter of courtesy to the United States , inasmuch as the French position was being formally stated to the governments signatory to the Young Plan in view of the meeting of the Young advisory committee at Basle . With respect to short-term credits to Germany , in which American bankers are interested to the extent of $600,000,000 , the French Government refuses to see any practical value in the two problems of reparations and private debts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay and respect for contract . Borah Against Debt Adjustment . Senator Borah , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , while explaining that he had favored the moratorium for one year , came out flatly against readjusting the war debts upon the basis of the capacity of the debtor nations to pay , as proposed by President Hoover . Senator Watson , Republican floor leader , cautiously admitted that there would be opposition to extending the moratorium . While expressing himself as favor , ing a revival of the Debt Commission , such a good friend of the administration as Senator Smoot said that , before committing himself on ' extending the moratorium or scaling down the debts , he would have to have all the facts . Senator Robinson , the Democratle floor leader , declined to commit himself on the President 's recommendations . The attitude of the Democratic party in Congress as to this and other Presidential proposals , he said , would be determined by the joint advisory committee of Democratic Senators and Representatives , which will meet next Tuesday . Of Democratic Senators who consented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Walsh of Massachusetts , Connally of Texas , King of Utah , of Tennessee and Thomas of Oklahoma came out against extending the moratorium or curtailing the debt . It may be of significance that the leaders of the Democratic majority in the House did not join publicly in the opposition which came quickly from the Senatorial ranks of both parties . Their attitude was to reserve judgment as to Mr. Hoover 's proposals , following the conservative course they adopted when they took control of the House last Monday . At the same time it became apparent from private observations on the House side of the Capitol that the seemingly prevailing Senate view is shared largely by Democratic as well as Republican Representatives . Some Defaults Indicated . In these circumstances the prospect of Congressional assent to a revision of the war debts on the basis of the capacity of the debtor nations to pay under depressed economic and financial conditions in Europe is not encouraging . But even if Congress disappoints the President 's desire along that line , it is clear that some at least of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the moratorium expires on June 30 , 1932 . That was indicated by the President in his message . That Congress will approve the President 's course in permitting the one-year suspension of European Governmental debt payments to the United States seems to be assured . A resolution providing- for approval was offered in the Senate today by Senator Smoot , chairman of the Finance Committee , while - Representative James William Collier of Mississippi , ? the new Democratic chairman of - the House Committee on Ways and Means , after a visit to President Hoover this afternoon , said that he would offer a similar resolution . But when Representative Collier was asked , on leaving the White House , what his attitude was toward the President 's proposal to revise the debt commission and re-examine the funding agreements , he remarked : " I can not say that I am at present so strong for it . " Attacked in the House . In the House , which had another free discussion of any and all matters , some references were made to the President 's moratorium proposals , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any illuminating idea of the general reaction of the House . Representative Rankin , who is to be chairman of the World War Veterans ' Committee , made a spirited attack on the President 's suggestion of a revision of the war debts , and said that he would organize opposition to it , but most of the day 's discussion , while it embodied much Democratic " sharp-shooting " at President Hoover , was devoted to matters other than those affecting the war debts . Approval By Dec. 15 Unlikely . Although the almost unanimous disposition of both Renate and House appears to be to approve the President 's course in proposing the oneyear moratorium , there is no likelihood that this approval will be given by Dec. 15 , the date on which the next instalments of principal and interest are due from our chief European debtors . The President , in his message , called attention to the fact that the payments are due then , five days hence , and said it was " highly desirable that a law should be enacted before that date " authorizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moratorium year , a period of nearly seven months . Commenting on this , Speaker Garner said the House would not-be precipitate in the matter . He minimized any suggestion that an emergency existed which would require approval of the moratorium by Dec. 15. in presenting to the Senate the joint . resolution approving the Moratorium , Senator Smoot said : ? " Most of our debtors have payments falling due Dec. 15 , next , and it is essential that legislation be enacted before that date authorizing the postponement of such amounts , or the governments in question will be in. default . " A short time previously , and without discussion , the ? Senate adopted the resolution of Senator Johnson of California , authorizing its finance committee to make an exhaustive investigation of the floating of foreign securties in this country , Senator Johnson said that his resolution was designed to elicit facts , to guide the Senate in its vote on the legislation ? approving the Hoover moratorium . He is one of very few I Senators and Representatives who I voiced opposition to sanctioning President Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Measure . ' the text of Senator Smoot 's resolution was as follows : JOINT RESOLUTION . To authorize the postponement of amounts payable to the United States from foreign governments during the fiscal year 1932 , and their repayment over a ten-year year period beginning July 1 , 1933 . Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of United States of American in Congress assembled . That in the case of each of the following countries : Austria , Belgium , Czechoslovakia , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Great Britain , Greece , Huneary , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Poland , Rumania and Yugoslavia , the Secretary of the Treasury , with the approval of the President , is authorized to make , on behalf . of the United States , an agreement with the government of such country to postpone the payment of any amount payable during the fiscal year beginning July 1 , 1931 , by such country to the United States in respect- of its bonded indebtedness to the ' . United States , except that in the case of Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by . Germany to the United States during ' such fiscal year in respect of the costs of the army of occupation . Section 2 . Each such agreement on behalf of the United States shall provide for the payment of the postponed amounts , with interest at the rate of 4 per centum per annum beginning July 1 , 1933 , in ten equal annuities , the first to be paid during the fiscal year beginning July 1 , 1933 , and one during each of- the nine fiscal years following , each annuity to be payable in one or more instalments . Section ** such agreement shall be made with the government of any'country unless it appears to the satisfaction ? of the President that such government has made , ' or has given satisfactory assurances of willingness and readiness to make , with the . government of each of the other countries indebted to such country in respect of war , . relief , or reparation debts an agreement in respect . of such debt substantially similar to the agreement ' authorized by- this joint resolution to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United states , Section ** agreement authorized by this joint resolution shall be made so that payments of annuities under such agreement shall , unless otherwise provided in the agreement , ( 1 ) be in accordance with the provisions contained in the agreement made with the government of such country under which the payment to be postponed is payable , and ( 2 ) be subject to the same terms and conditions as payments under such original agreement . Senators State Their Views . The resolution was referred to the Finance Committee . " I favored the one-year moratorium , " said Senator Borah , " because I thought it necessary to give Europe an opportunity to adjust matters and establish a sound , economic program , but I am not in favor of any further extension of the moratorium and I am not in favor of readjusting these debts upon a basis of capacity to pay . Europe has not up to this time availed herself of the moratorium to adjust those matters which it is necessary to adjust before there can be any economic recovery in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World War foreign debt commission . There is no business for it to transact . I do not see any evidence that Europe proposes to reduce armaments , or that she proposes to adjust reparations upon any proper basis . We adjusted the debts on the basis of capacity to pay and canceled about $7,000,000,000 of obligations . Under the present policies pursued in Europe , another readjustment on a basis of capacity to pay would about wipe out the debts . ' Senator Watson said it would be difficult to obtain Congressional approval of further extending the moratorium period . " I think , " he said , " that approval of the one-year moratorium can be disposed of quickly and apart from such matters as reviving the World War debt funding commission . The President feels it necessary to , put these matters together . I do not see any serious opposition to the oneyear program , but opposition may arise to any program devised to extend the moratorium after next June . " Fess for Adjusting British Debt . Others commented as follows : Senator Fess , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some readjustment of the cial reference to Great Britain . The British were the first to fund their debt . They did it without a struggle on a reasonable basis of about 70 per cent . I do not know how the war debts , which I believe has speSenate would feel with respect to adjusting the British debt , but I would be in favor of it . " Senator King , Democrat ? " I am opposed to a revival of the debt commission and to scaling down the debts . " senator Thomas . Democrat , of Oklahoma ? " I am opposed to the oneyear plan or any further extension of the debt payments . First , because it means saddling on the American taxpayer a huge burden while favoring a special class who hold foreign bonds and investments ; second , it is the beginning of visible cancellation of debts . The President in this message intimates cancellation . " Senator , Democrat , said he was opposed to further extension of the moratorium . Senator Copeland , Democrat , gave the impression that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation . Opposes Debt Commission . Senator Dill , Democrat ? " I am utterly opposed to extending the moratorium beyond the one-year period . I want to see no more debt refunding committees ; they mean cancellation , as we have found In the past . I shall vote for the one-year moratorium , but shall probably insist on an amendment providing that agreement to it does not mean extension or cancellation . " Senator Swanson , Democrat " Rather than that the moratorium should lead to cancellation , I should much prefer extending the time to certain nations . We have already settled with them liberally , and if revision is necessary it should be made , in justice not only to our debtors , but to ourselves as well . " Senator Moses , Republican ? " Our first job is to deal with the moratorium situation , then take up the other grave subjects recommended by the President in his several messages . I am opposed to cancellation . " Senator Walsh , Democrat , of Massachusetts ? " Congress would be loath to delegate its authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This question is so intimately connected with increased taxation , that in my opinion Congress would want definite proposals from the Executive and reserve its freedom of action . " Senator Reed , Republican ? " I am not willing to extend the moratorium in full . I expect each of the countries to meet their obligations as far as possible . Most of them are more able to pay than we are to cancel . " Senator Connally , Democrat ? " I am opposed to revival of the War Debt Commission , especially in view of the fact that we have not been asked to do anything by the debtors . We are proposing to rush in before requested to act by the debtor countries . At the present time , I am opposed to redaction and further extension unless the debtors show their inability to make their payments in the next year . " Crisp Sees No Need of Revival . Representative Crisp , Democrat of Georgia , who was a member of the original World War Debt Commission , said : " Personally I see no need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into negotiations for new adjustments of the de " ft e. ' r ' his speech in the House attacking the President 's proposal , Representative Rankin made this observation : " It represents , " he said , " an attempt concocted by a group of international bankers to cancel all foreign debts and saddle them on the backs of the people . " Senator Smoot told inquirers he would call a meeting of the Finance Committee for Monday to arrange for hearings on the moratorium and general foreign-debt question . He said he saw no reason why his resolution to sanction the moratorium could not be reported by the committee unless strenuous objection was offered . He was anxious , he added , to have the resolution considered by the Senate as soon as possible . Senator Johnson has a list of bankers whom he desires the Finance Committee to summon when it begins the inquiry into the flotation of foreign securities . The names of J. P. Morgan , Albert H. Wiggin of the Chase National Bank , and Charles E. Mitchell of the National City Bank are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspension of European debt payments for a year is expected to be adopted by considerable majorities in both chambers . Senator Moses said he believed that there would not be more than a dozen votes against it in the Senate . The administration is reported to have been assured that it would receive 300 or more votes In the House . A House majority is 218 . Interest of Senators was so centred today in the war debt recommendations of the President that little comment was obtainable concerning other features of his message on foreign relations . Senator Watson said with reference to the recommendation that the World Court protocol he ratified , that the Senate maintains an even treater opposition to the World Court than ever before , "                     