@@698018

txt Sir Otto E. Niemeyer. who was invited early this year by the Brazilian government to make a study of that country 's finances and to advise on such financial reforms as were necessary , has submitted his findings and recommendations to the Brazilian government . In his report . which deals in detail with these proposed reforms , in eluding the creation of a new Central Bank of Brazil " to have the sole right of note issue , custody of government balances , banking reserves and other functions normally exercised by a central bank . " no mention is made directly or indirectly of a moratorium on external funded debt . There is no indication that Sir Otto feels Brazil may not be able to continue to fulfill its external engagements . Following is a summary of recommendations on budget and public finance : ( 13 The attainment and maintenance of budget equilibrium by the Federal Government and the larger states is essential . ( 2 ) The issue of bonds in payment of garernment debts should so far as possible be avoided . ( 3.1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegraph services with a view to securing that these services pay their way . Would Reorganize Roll System ( 4 ) The railways administration should be reorganized with the same object , and for this purpose placed under the control of an autonomous body , with full powers and free from political control . ( 5 ) Increased use should be made of direct taxation and so soon as the budgetary comhoon permits . reduction made in the customs duties . ( 6 ) Internal export taxes and any similar internal changes should be abolished : and no further external export duties imposed . ( 7 ) The unity of the budget should be strictly observed . The budget should include all foreseeable expenditure of the year and no expenditure should be incurred outside of it . Additional credits should not be opened , except in quite special circumstances , and then by supplementary estimate authorized in the same way as the original budget . Special funds which contravene budget unity should not be kept : and deductions for special purposes should not be made from the revenue . ( 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cash basis , and all federal receipts and payments centralized in the Central Bank . ( 9 ) Estimates and budget statements should clearly compare receipts with expenditure and figures for one year with similar figures for the previous year . Accounts should be kept In currency only and not in both gold and paper . Monthly statements of revenue and expenditure should be issued to enable the progress of the year in comparison with the budget estimates to be seen 001 An independent audit of all expenditure incurred by government departments and of revenue collections should be carried out . and the present system of partial audit before payment modified Itr  --  ernmendations on Reser. e Bank Sir Otto 's recommendations with regard to creation of the Central F.eserve Bank are summarized as follows ( 11r That immediate steps be taken to form a Central Reserve Bank in accordance with the statutes annexed ? to which bank would he entrusted the Pole right of note issue in Brazil . the custody of government balances , banking reserves and other functions normally exercised by a central bank . ( 12 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half by the banks and half by the public in Brazil , to be entirely removed from state control or participation ; and to be assisted temporarily by an expert counsellor . ( 13i An external loan to be raised by the federal government sufficient to provide the bank with the necessary foreign exchange cover for its notes and sight liabilities . ( 14 ) As soon as the proceeds of the loan are available , the new rate for the milreis to be established by a monetary law and the covertibility of the note issue to come into force . 15 ) The federal government 's assent to be acquired to all future external borrowing by the states , municipalities or similar public bodies ( 16 ) Consideration to he given to the consolidation of the outstanding debt of the states in default . Government Loan Discussed In discussing the formation of the Central Reserve Bank which contemplates that a Federal Government loan be raised , obviously when it is feasible for Brazil to enter foreign markets for long-term funds , and also prOposes adoption of a gold exchange standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hardly necessary to point out that this is a matter of the greatest importance for the economic life of Brazil and for the reinforcement of budgetary equilibrium . Confidence in the future of Brazil will depend very largely in belief , both in Brazil and outside of it , in the stability and efficiency of the monetary system . It Is to create and foster such confidence that practically all the most important countries in the world have adopted a ... Central Reserve Bank system . " Experience of many countries has contributed to make clear the general principles to which a bank must conform . It is not enough for a country to possess a bank . It must be a. genuine Central Bank conducted exclusively on central banking lines , e. g. , as regards the nature of its business , liquidity , etc. , and not in the main a bank conducting commercial business and merely fulfilling a few ' central banking functions . " This latter type of institution is more often than not a very real danger to the financial and monetary system , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the strengthening of reserves it Is only too likely to be in the same difficulties as the commercial banks . On the other hand a central institution conducted on orthodox lines should not be involved in the difficulties which from time to time cause commercial banks to seek assistance : and will accordingly be able to bring the whole weight of its resources to bear where help is needed . " It is the business of a central bank to maintain monetary stability . It is not its business to take wider commercial risks or to provide capital for long-term investments ; indeed , if it attempts to perform either of these functions/sit will inevitably cease to be able to perform its primary duty . Bank Alnernati ? es Considered " In any proposal for establishing a central bank in Brazil two alternatives have immediately to be considered ( 11 the conversion of the present Bank of Brazil into an orthodox central bank ( 21 the establishment of an entirely new institution which will assume the sole right of note issue and perform the other functions of a reserve bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d'affaires , conducting commercial business which is no part of the functions of a central bank . " This business plays so prominent , a part in the economy of Brazil that it obviously can not be abolished . It is obviously so much a part of the banking business of the country that it is difficult to see how it could be transferred to any other existing commercial bank . Moreover , the Bank of Brazil has internally a position and a name of commercial value . It will be more practicable therefore to remove from the Bank of Brazil those central banking functions which it has undertaken in the last few years and give themto a new institution specially established by law for the purpose . " Sir Otto concludes his report as follows : " I should not like to close this report without emphasizing that I have of necessity been mainly concerned in it with those matters which seem to require reform or reconstruction in Brazil . It is inevitable that a frank discussion of such points which alone can be useful , tends to create an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to any such reference . Brazil is not alone in facing financial difficulties at the present moment : in many respects her difficulties are less than those of other countries , and she may justly challenge comparison . It is impossible to travel even for a few days in the central provinces of Rio , Sao Paulo and Minas without being impressed by he great natural fertility and her undeveloped resources . No country would better repay financial administration or is more worth every attempt to keep even in difficult times to high financial tradition ; and no country is likely to profit more by the effort , if successfully made . " The report was issued here through Dillon , Read &; Co. and simultaneously in London through N. M. Rothschild &; Sons . Substantial buying of Brazilian dollar bonds for English account has taken place within the past few weeks according to dealers , presumably in anticipation of the absence of a moratorium proposal from Sir Otto Niemeyer 's report . Such buying is reported to have followed the bonds clown to their recent low levels . Three of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Day 's range on these issues follows :                     