@@704079

txt Mr. Birchall 's reports suggest that the military preparations being made by the Nazis in Danzig , while abnormal , are not on a scale to justify fears of an imminent coup in the Free City . The Poles are not yet sufficiently alarmed over the infiltration of Germans or the widely advertised " secret " manoeuvres to make an official protest , and the Danzigers themselves , calm at the heart of the storm , refer to Southeastern Europe as a more likely danger zone than the point on the Vistula where the spotlight focuses . Certain signs in the uneasy region south of Germany , notably the offers being made to Bulgaria during the visit of the Prime Minister to Berlin and the pressure of the Axis on Rumania and Yugoslavia to weaken the Balkan Entente , indicate clearly enough that tests of strength , or weakness , are being made elsewhere . In answer , the British Government sponsors a bill to provide a new war chest of ? 50,000,000 to arm Poland , Rumania , Turkey and Greece , the nations already guaranteed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force the Air Ministry has decided to send British squadrons to join the French in Paris on Bastille Day . Pending the lagging adherence of the Soviet Union to a three-Power pact , the British are evidently endeavoring to counteract the bad effects of the delay by an exhibit of the impressive line-up already on their side . Whether they are trying to prod the Russians or to discount their possible exclusion from the peace front , they are intensifying their efforts to strengthen the existing anti-aggression bloc . To this demonstration is now added a specific declaration in respect to Danzig , understood to be already in the hands of the Polish Government , for use as Warsaw sees fit . It will be recalled that Danzig was not mentioned in the original guarantee given to Poland . In the historic session of the House of Commons of March 31 , the day that marked the reversal of British policy toward Germany , Mr. Chamberlain declared - that " in the event of any action which clearly threatened Polish independence and which the Polish Government accordingly , considered it vital , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government would feel themselves bound at once to lend the Polish Government all support in their power . " This pledge was later clarified to include aid against any threat to Poland 's territorial integrity ; but heretofore , despite increasing pressure , the question whether it applies to Danzig and the Corridor has not been definitely answered . With or without this specification , however , the situation is now pretty clear . In Danzig as well as in Polish territory proper , the initiative belongs to Poland . Any change in the status of the Free City without Polish consent , any change which Poland decides to resist , will call for immediate action on the part of the guarantor Powers . Except for a negotiated settlement , which is naturally not precluded , a move in Danzig therefore entails risks Hitler may not be prepared to take for a prize worth its cost only in prestige . Is this why the moving finger seems to move elsewhere ?                     