@@702297

txt All efforts to arrange some settlement of the Gran Chaco conflict ** Bolivia and Paraguay under the auspices of the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace have failed . Today was the deadline , as the leading Ministers of Foreign Affairs , who have been trying to arrange a settlement , were due to leave Buenos Aires for their homes . Two long , last-minute conferences during the day failed to make any progress and the Foreign Ministers departed , leaving the Chaco dispute in the same apparently unsolvable deadlock in which it has been since August . Secretary of State Hull and the other members of the United States delegation sailed at 3 P. M. for New York on the Munson liner Southern Cross . Ten minutes before the steamer sailed the entire Chaco Peace Conference membership , including Foreign Minister Enrique Finot of Bolivia and Juan Stefanici , Paraguayan Foreign Minister , went aboard to say good-bye to Mr. Hull . Immediately after the liner sailed the Chaco conferees met again at Government House . Mr. Finot and Mr. Stefanici later gave out a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other and at having had an opportunity to discuss the details of each other 's viewpoints . Both Grateful for Efforts The statement expressed sincere thanks for their efforts in behalf of the Chaco Peace Conference to Foreign Minister Carlos Saavedra Lamas of Argentina , president of the Inter-American Conference . and to Snruille Braden of the United States , Miguel Cruchaga Tocornal of Chile and Jose Carlos de Macedo Soares of Brazil , members of the inter-American committee of three which tried unsuccessfully for a week to persuade the Bolivian and Paraguayan delegations to agree on something concrete that could be reported as progress toward a definite settlement of the Chaco quarrel . But the statement made no mention of anything which might indicate progress had been made , despite the ten hours of conference on Christmas Day , lasting until after 2 o'clock this morning , and another four hours of effort today . Neither did a communiqu ? issued by the Chaco conference itself . Mr. Finot departed for ' Bolivia at 7 P. M. , despite all efforts to persuade him to remain a few days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Chile by plane tomorrow morning . All meetings between Mr. Finot and Mr. Stefanici have been described as of a most cordial nature . One man who was present at some of their sessions said they were most amiable and that both were emphatic in their statements that their respective countries wanted to settle the issue as soon as possible . But according to this man 's description , each always terminated their conversations with the remark , " But Chaco belongs to us . " Utmost efforts have been made by all concerned to keep a close secrecy about details of the conversations between Mr. Finot and Mr. Stefanici and also between them and the delegates of the six mediating countries which have been conducting the Chace peace negotiations ever since hostilities terminated in June of last year . These mediating countries are Argentina , Brazil , Chile , Peru , the United States and Uruguay . Mr , Braden , as ambassador-atlarge , represents the United States in these deliberations . In addition he also represented Secretary Hull on the Inter-American Conference 's committee of three , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the successful Inter-American Conference would have some influence on the Chaco negotiations . Despite the secrecy , it is learned from reliable sources that the committee of three drew up a formula for settlement of the territorial quarrel between Bolivia and Paraguay and presented it to Foreign Ministers Finot and Stefanici . This formula is said to have provided first for the cession of a port on the Upper Paraguay River to Bolivia by Paraguay ; secondly for a cash payment to Paraguay by Bolivia and thirdly for fixation of a boundary line through Bolivia . Dr. Finot is reported to have agreed in principle to this arrangement , but Mr. Stefanici was said to be unwilling to begin negotiations looking toward a definite settlement of the frontier question until diplomatic relations had been resumed . It is understood the Paraguayan Foreign Minister also asked for certain guarantees against renewal of the Chaco hostilities . He is report- ; ed to have insisted that his meeting I with Dr. Finot could be considered a. success if they merely arranged for a renewal of diplomatic relations . In the peace protocol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated they agreed to renew diplomatic relations as soon as possible . Several months ago the Chaco peace conference announced that these relations would be resumed immediately ? but nothing has ever been done about it . There was nothing tonight to indicate that any progress had been made toward renewal of diplomatic relations . Some members of the Chaco Peace Conference , however , feel that the personal acquaintance of Dr. Finot and Mr. Stefanici and their several long discussions together will tend to expedite the work of the conference , which will now go on with the negotiations where they were left open to consider proposals made by the committee of three : Among the passengers of the Southern Cross were members of the Mexican , Colombian . Venezuelan and Dominican delegations , and also Miss Doris Stevens , chairman of the Inter-American Commission of Women .                     