@@703846

txt Frank Ashton-Gwatkin , head of the economic department of the Foreign Office , has returned to London from Berlin . Preliminary conversations before the negotiations start between representatives of the respective industrial associations now may be considered terminated . Those exploratory contacts revealed a most interesting fact ; namely , that the Germans hesitate to raise the colonial issue . Considering the noise of agitation they have raised around the question , it is remarkable that they now hang back as if they were afraid to embark on its immediate discussion . This circumstance would be puzzling were it not for the deep anxiety prevailing in Berlin for the success of the coming economic talks , from which alleviation of the present deeply depressed state of German economy is confidently expected . The Germans , apparently , are reluctant to raise any disputable issue capable of compromising the outcome of the all-important negotiations with the British industrialists . The volume of evidence concerning the economic depression in Germany is already considerable and generally unfavorable . It has the disadvantage of coming from sources which , however good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazi Reich . However , Lor 3n possesses unimpeachable information regarding . the German situation from sources friendly to Chancellor Hitler , namely , Italian . Allies Investigating Each Other An element of comedy is introduced in the situation through the fact that each partner of the famous axis seems to have had at the same time a similar desire to find exactly the position of its friend and ally . In other words it appears that the Germans and Italians simultaneously have been investigating each other 's condition with the probable object of discovering how far it is possible to rely on the staying power of the partner in any possible trouble in Europe . It is said here that the findings of inquirers are identical to such an extent that their reports are interchangeable . For example , both sides established beyond the possibility of a doubt that ' Ile German people , like the Italians , were tired of adventures , preferring peace to glory . The Italians were said to have found that the German people were painfully surprised that the Austrian annexation and the conquest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , those victories only served to increase the burden of privations imposed on the longsuffering Germans . German investigators reported that Italians were fed up with the Spanish enterprise because , apart from glory , it had not produced material benefits . The people of Italy see as a consequence of the Spanish adventure taxation shooting up tremendously in the coming year . Thus both reports establish the fact of the war weariness of the population . The Italians , it is said , found the Germans a suspicious partner of Rome and reluctant to sacrifice themselves in Italy 's interest . The Germans made the identical discovery , being obliged to report a deep hatred for the German connection existing in Northern Italy especially . The findings of the Italian investigators tend to accuse the Germans of readiness to forget the interests of the partner of the axis if a favorable agreement with Britain can be concluded , while the Germans hold that the Italians are capable of repeating the betrayal of 1914 if by doing so British favor can be curried . Economic Conditions Bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partners of the axis are not so happy as advertised and on the other that the internal economic conditions of both countries are desperately bad . It is now clear why Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain , who is in possession of all the facts , is so confident that 1939 will be a year of complicated economic negotiations leading up possibly even to the tentative discussion of conditions for general disarmament . The Prime Minister considers that Herr Hitler told the truth when he exclaimed in his speech to the Reichstag that Germany must export or die . That sentence sounds like the deathknell of the cherished plan for autarchy in Germany . Anyhow something has happened in Europe . The general feeling is less gloomy . Confidence is still hesitating but the inclination has disappeared to expect the end of the world tomorrow . Frankly the change seems due to the fact that Europe has ceased to tremble at the German menace . Rightly or wrongly , governments and peoples no longer are afraid of being crushed by the Germans . Possibly that is the effect of the loss of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight . Mr. Chamberlain , Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , and other Ministers have declared the binding obligation of Britain to fight alongside France in such precise terms that they went beyond anything found in the public declarations of Premier Mussolini and Herr Hitler in regard to the solidarity of the axis . Anti-German demonstrations like those in Poland last week would have been unthinkable a year ago . Now breezy independence becomes the watchword for even the smallest States in Central and Eastern Europe . Of course a word of warning is needed . The Germans are still able to unleash upon the Continent the misery of a general conflagration . The Germans are still running full tilt in the armaments race . Yet , as said , something has happened in Europe . People breathe more freely . Perhaps this is because Britain is only beginning to develop her effort . The British people are arming with a facility that proves that the immensity of their resources has only been touched and with a speed that shows the industrial power of the United Kingdom while the Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   