@@701225

txt In his first critical analysis of pending legislation since the Chamber 's broad anti-New Deal ( resolutions last month , Harper Sibley , newly elected president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , strongly urges business men and their organizations to press for rejection of Title II of the proposed Banking Act of 1935 . In a letter to the - Chamber 's 1,500 member organizations , Mr. Sibley attacks proposed changes in the Federal Reserve system as an ' experiment with a most dangerous form of so-called central planning " and an obstacle to recovery . He holds that such changes would injure business credit , destroy the autonomy of the Reserve banks , facilitiate inflation , undermine the currency and lower banking standards generally . Political Banking Called Curse " Political banking is a curse to any country . " Mr. Sibley wrote . " Even the most careful bank official or the most prudent depositor or investor can not escape the injuries it visits . The measure would allow such political interference with ordinary banking and such arbitrary exercise of power over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Title II should be urged in the public interest by business men and their associations . " It is important in the interest of all business , " he continued . " that Congress does not enact provisions of Title II . " Pointing out that the Chanaber 's recent arinnak , : neCtrrig ' , urged retention of the main features of the Reserve System as now established and rejection of changes the proposed legislation , he asked all members of the Chamber to give the subject their immediate attention . Mr. Sibley 's statement claimed that more extensive power would be permitted a few men in Washington than is granted to the board of any foreign central bank . " This concentration of control of the principal functions of the Reserve banks would mean the virtual creation of a central bank in this country . with the present regional banks relegated to the status of mere branches , - he said . Regional Banks ' Autonomy " This would be in violation of the established principle that the Federal Reserve System should consist of locally directed , regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conditions in their own districts , ? " Mr Sibley 's statement continued . " The Reserve System would be changed to incorporate some of the worst features of foreign central banking which brought disasters in various countries and which the people and governments abroad either have eliminated or are striving to eliminate . " The real credit needs of commerce , agriculture and industry could be subordinated to the spending plans of the government and its dictation concerning the volume and kind of credit to be made available from time to time . Central Planning Experiments " Disturbing , even misguiding , efforts coula be made to control the level of production , prices and employment , through adjustments of the mere volume of money and credit , by a Washington bureau which thus would be permitted to experiment with a most dangerous form of so-called central planning . " The power that would be granted to the Federal Reserve Board would be broad enough to permit , if not encourage , the conversion of the resources of the Reserve banks into slow and illiquid assets . Combined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government , and to involve the deposits of individuals in the process , detrimental effects to business credit could result . " Through power to convert our principal banking assets into debts of the government , inflation would be made easy . The very existence of this authority combined with the lack of independence of the centralized management of the Reserve System would be unsettling to business and would delay real recovery . Effect on Currency " There would be a set-back to the nation 's efforts to evolve an elastic currency that would expand and contract in accordance with the flow and ebb of business . There would be given a general power to place an indefinite volume of slow and even doubtful assets back of the currency . There would be insufficient safeguards against arbitrary decisions by the Federal Reserve Board as to the quality or volume of most of the country s currency , with no real assurance that its debasement must be avoided . " There would be great danger that our whole banking structure would be weakened rather than strengthened and that banking standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   