@@700015

txt A wide variety of weapons for use in a nation-wide war on organized crime was proposed yesterday to United States Senator Royal S. Copeland 's subcommittee investigating racketeering . Edward P. Mulrooney , chairman of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and former Police Commissioner , advocated public application of the lash and exile to a criminal colony like the French " Devil 's Island " for habitual offenders . Warden Lewis E. Lawes of Sing Sing favored modified martial law by Presidential proclamation pending adoption of a constitutional amendment and legislation eliminating State lines so far as the war on criminals is concerned . He said he could stamp out racketeering in sixty days if he were a Mussolini . Others for Milder Measure . Most of those who appeared at the committee 's first hearing , which was held in the auditorium of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York , favored measures less extreme , such as tightening up existing statutes and broadening the police power of the Federal government , especially in kidnapping cases . A central Federal bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Scotland Yard seemed to be favored by Senator Copeland . Many of the police officials welcomed the idea of a Federal agency to " cooperate " with them , but expressed no great enthusiasm at the prospect of being superseded by Federal agents in the investigation of local crimes . One proposal that was advanced by the local Federal Bar Association , which was represented by Robert Daru , chairman of its committee on racketeering , already has been submitted to General Hugh S. Johnson ; Administrator of the National Recovery Act , it was learned . Would Use NRA as Curb . This plan is to have a clause inserted in codes of fair competition granting the Federal Government the right , upon complaint from any responsible source , to require business men to explain extraordinary expenditures for " entertainment " and similar otherwise unexplained items . By this means , according to sponsors of the idea , the reluctance of business men to testify against racketeers in the face of threatened reprisals might be overcome . District Attorney Crain , who urged that prosecuting officials be given the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Grover A. Whalen , head of the New York City NRA campaign and former Police Commissioner , both said the reluctance of business men to help themselves was one of the most serious obstacles to effective prosecution of racketeering . Two men prominently identified with President Roosevelt 's admin- istration attended the hearing as observers . They were Joseph B. Keenan , special assistant to Attorney General Homer S. Cummings , and Professor Raymond C. Moley , Assistant Secretary of State , who had been assigned by the President to study the whole problem of organized crime and racketeering . Besides Mr. Whalen , Mr. LaVes , Mr. Mulrooney and District Attorney Crain , the committee heard the views of six other men who are prominently identified with law enforcement in New York , New Jersey and Connecticut . They were Police Commissioner James S. Bolan , Magistrate Jonah B. Goldstein , Jerome Brady , Police Commissioner of Bayonne , N. J. ; Anthony A. Sunderland , Superintendent of Connecticut State Police ; Colonel H. Norman Schwarzkopf , Superintendent of New Jersey State Police ; Hugh , Chief of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Peter J. Cicardi , Bergen County Chief of Police ; Captain A. B. Moore of the New York State Police , and Deputy Chief Inspector Vincent Sweeney of the New York City Police Department . Mr. Whalen had a twelve-point program for combating racketeers . He favored closer cooperation among Federal , State and local officials , a provision for ten to two verdicts to reduce the number of hung juries , uniform laws for the control of firearms and investigation by the State Department of Labor prior to issuance of papers of incorporation to labor unions by the Secretary of State . Commissioner Bolan said the manufacture of submachine guns could be prohibited entirely , if the law were strictly enforced , without working any hardship on the police .                     