@@701803

txt Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler today dispatched  --  a note to London rejecting the Rhineland settlement plan devised by the four remaining Locarno treaty powers and then delivered one of the stormiest speeches of his current reichstag " election " campaign on the same subject . Twenty thousand Germans in Deutschland hall and hundreds of thousands listening in all over the nation roared approval a their Fuehrer 's thundering denunciation of the " inequalities " of the proposals made by the four powers  --  Britain , France , Italy , and Belgium . More than a million people lined the streets of Berlin to pay homage to Hitler as he passed along a " triumphal road " from the chancellery to the great hall . Counter Proposals March 31 . Hitler , in his refusal to accept the 4 power plan , promised that the German government would " on March 31 place at the disposal of the royal British government a comprehensive statement of its position together with its positive proposals " to build a more enduring peace for Europe . These counter proposals would be submitted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , voting Sunday , when Hitler hopes to prove that all Germany is behind him in ilia " no surrender " stand on the crisis resulting from the remilitarization of the Rhineland . The two provisions of the four power plan , which German officials have indicated Hitler opposed most vigorously , were those calling for stationing of foreign troops in the Rhineland and for submission of the RussoPrenth mutual aid pact to the world court to determine its compatibility with the Locarno treaty . " I want to show the world , " Hit- . ler cried tonight , " that peace in Europe can be established as firmly as I informed the powers in London toclay that the German people will never accept the impossible terms of proposals which violate their honor and freedom . Chides Foreign Statesmen . " When foreign statesmen address demands to Germany which they themselves would reject with the utmost indignation they must not be surprised if the German government rejects them . " You , my countrymen , by casting your votes for me next Sunday must show the world that not I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole nation , are the one who spurns their suggestions , and that I am only carrying out your wishes . " The foreign illusion must be destroyed that only my will prevails . They must learn it is anchored in the hearts of 68 million countrymen of mine . " Hitler expounded at length on the equal rights to which he said all men are entitled just as " every nation is entitled to the same rights as a neighboring nation . " New Idea for Nazis . Manj , interpreters of the Nazi creed have asserted repeatedly that the theory of the full equality of citizens is a democratic fallacy . It was therefore of interest to hear Hitler extol the glories of equality in private lives . " I have written , fought , and struggled for equal rights for my nation ever since I started , " the Fuehrer continued . " I will not surrender now . I will not surrender in the future . We have dropped the old slavish mentality of the previous regime . Others must drop their mentality of the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a treaty . Those who do not believe in the sincerity of our peace wishes only want to protract political unrest and to profiteer . " Hitler replied to those who had urged him to wait in pressing the German claims . " We are fighting for our tights now because we live now , " he said . " It is up to the present generation to restore what it destroyed . I would be ashamed to say that our children will do the jobs we should do now . Children will not act differently from the adults they watch . If they are brought up without honor they will not know honor themselves . " I thank the Almighty for choosing me to fight Germany 's battles . It is the most beautiful thing in the world to be able to fight for a people who were wronged and tortured , and to drive them into action . " Truculently Hitler addressed other nations , claiming he is not mixing into their affairs and demanding that they keep out of Germany 's business , " because we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day Berlin turned out to pay tribute to the late President von Hindenburg on his 80th birthday has such a crowd turned out to honor a German leader . Hitler passed through the same streets today en route to Deutschland halle that the aged field marshal drove through on his birthday . But it was a totally different crowd on this occasion . Almost every man was in a uniform of some kind ? storm troopers , motorized storm troopers with padded Miter helmets , echutzstaffel men , field police , town police , state police , Hitler youths , end a party of dignitaries , all out to boss the huge crowds . Factories Close . Early in the afternoon all factories and big businesses , heeding Nazi instructions , sent workers out of the shops . They marched in close formations to the corners assigned to them along the " triumphal road . " Garlands of evergreens a foot thick stretched along- the five miles from the chancellery to the hall where the audience waited patiently from 4 o'clock in the afternoon until S:30 o'clock when Hitler began speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazi " block wardens " instructed the owners of flats f ; : cing the streets that they must decorate them with flags and candles . ' fluise too poor to afford candles reocived them from welfare organizations , making it impossible for persons not sympathizing with the Nazi movement to hide behind an alibi of Poverty . The demonstration was directed by Paul Joseph Goebbels , propaganda minister . Hitler Early . Hitler emerged front the palace earlier than was expected and his , ar was driven much more quickly - than usual , though he had ample time to reach Deutschland hall . Several mysterious personages were noticed in Hitler 's cortege . Well informed circles asserted they were members and relatives of the British peerage who are here now as personal guests of Hitler . Two of them are connected with the British navy and will take part in the German naval conference in Kiel Friday . The high pressure election campaign will reach a climax in the reoccupied Rhineland when Hitler sreaks in Essen and Cologne Friday rid Saturday . The Nazi chief speaks : Ludwigshaven in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all German workers and soldiers as the first worker and soldjor of Germany . " He will speak at the Krupp works , Germany 's rearmament center . On Saturday Hitler 's final address , at Cologne , will be rung in by the " tells of peace " in Cologne catheera . After the speech all the church 1-ells throughout the country will ring while the German people , assembled in massmeetings. will sing the hymn , " Lord Make lis Free . "                     