@@697975

txt Operations of Continental Can Co Inc , showed a material improvement during the past month , June shipments exceeding the corresponding month last year . The improvement reflects largely the demand for cans for the pea crop . which is now in the harvesting season . The company reports earnings only once a year . No indication of results for the six months ended June 30 , last , is available as yet . It is probable that earnings thus far are slightly behind 1930 because the canning business started slowly this year . However , June , July . August and September are the big revenue producing months and results for the year are influenced to a great extent by returns during that period . It is significant that the first of the company 's big months has started well If weather favors the crops during the remainder of the summer , Continental Can should have a highly satisfactory year . It is probable the total pack of canned goods this year will not equal the record established in 1930 , because some canners have curtailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but on the whole the canning business has not suffered to ary portant extent by-the business depression . Some of Continental Can 's plants in the Middle West are running day and night shifts . In addition to the large demand for " packers ' cans " ( as foodstuff cans are classified ) , orders for general line cans , for paint , varnish , tobacco and other uses , have held up particularly well . No reliable estimate of Continental Can 's earnings for the current year can be made at this time . Much depends upon the amount of corn and tomatoes packed , and weather conditions during the coming two or three months will play the principal part in determining this . - In 1930 there were about 55.000,000 cases of corn , peas and tomatoes packed . This year a somewhat smaller acreage was planted . However , the 1930 crops were reduced by the drought , and good growing weather this year could easily make up for much of the reduction in acreage . In any event , it is now apparent that Continental Can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividend requirements of 82.50 annually and speculation now centers upon how close they can come to the net profit of 58,738,094 reported for 1930 , after depreciation , federal taxes , and other charges , or the equivalent of 55.04 a share for the 1.732,545 common shares outstanding which are now the sole capital liability . The preferred issue was retired about a year ago . There are no bonds outstanding .                     