@@699595

txt Final action on the Cullen beer bill is expected to follow quickly upon the reconvening of Congress Monday . The measure was ordered to conference yesterday by the House after disagreement on the Senate amendments . While the Senate had . not appointed conferees , not having been in session since Thursday , opinion was fairly well agreed that the following developments will come in conference : ' ' 1 . ? The House will recede on its disagreement as to alcoholic content , accepting the Senate 's provision for 3.05 per cent brew instead of its own 3.2. 2 . ? The Senate will not insist on the wine provisions written in by its Finance Committee , allowing this section to be stricken out . 3 . ? The Senate will recede upon the House 's demand to eliminate the Borah amendment , prohibiting the sale of the 3.05 brew to minors less than 16 years of age . . Those handling the measure hope to get it to President Roosevelt for his signature by Monday night , or Tuesday at the latest . Speaker Rainey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upper chamber , the latter predicting the sale of beer by April 4 or 5 . To Draft Licensing Model . Final Congressional action on the beer bill is to be followed by an attempt to enact a licensing system for the District of Columbia , which , according to its framers , will be offered as a model to the rest of the country . The proposal for the capital includes a system of " on sale " and " off sale " licenses , providing for sale on and off the premises . It is the general intent to allow sale on draft at bona fide restaurants , hotels and clubs and to permit the general sale by groceries , confectionaries and like places in bottles for delivery to homes . One of the principal purposes of the ' plan is to prohibit chain taverns and the ownership and control of these establishments by the brewers . To that end the measure will provide that only one retail license shall be issued to a single individual , partnership or corporation and that no permit shall be issued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the principal arguments against the old system of beer distribution was that the retail dispensaries were owned and controlled by the brewers . Leaders in the fight for prohibition reform are determined that this condemnation shall not be made in the new order . House Leaders Conciliatory . House leaders appeared today entirely willing to recede on the Senate 's proposal for 3.05 beer inatead of 3.2 as originally passed in the lower body . They pointed out that there was only one-sixth of 1 per cent difference and that so slight a change should not be permitted to hold up the bill . They were also cognizant of the slight margin by which the bill passed the Senate and so were not disposed to pick a quarrel where no more of a principle was involved . Another mitigating consideration was that the brewers were willing to compromise on 3.05 per cent , expecting thereby to insure themselves further against any possible adverse action of the courts . As to the wine provisions , spokesmen for the grape industry in both houses conceded today that 3.05 per cent wine would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be better to leave wine out entirely , in hope of more favorable action later , than to compromise their purpose to legalize real wines by this measure . House leaders were particularly insistent that the Borah anti-minor amendment should go out of the bill . The whole theory of their support . of 3.2 or 3.05 per cent beer was that it was- a non-intoxicating beverage , and they said that the inclusion of amendment barring sale to minors would be a prima facie admission that something was wrong with the beverage .                     