@@699925

txt President Roosevelt today signed an order authorizing a processing tax of 4.2 cents a pound on cotton , effective Aug. 1 , giving the signal for the start of one of the most ambitious plans of farm relief ever undertaken in this country . Secretary Wallace had previously announced that pledges had been received from growers to destroy about 3,500,000 bales of cotton now growing on about 9,000,000 acres throughout the South . Thus more than a fourth of the crop now in the ground will be plowed under or " prevented from maturing in a practical way , " in return for rental payments and other benefits , aggregating about $120,000,000 . Action of the administration today coincided with a report from the Census Bureau that cotton consumption in June set a record never exceeded since the bureau began compiling ' monthly data in 1912 . The AgricCitural Adjustment Administration , which will administer the cotton reduction program , has already taken steps to distribute about $150,000,000 to wheat farmers and a smaller amount to tobacco growers . Plans are under discussion for bringing similar relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prices . " But in none of the latter is there involved , anything like the widespread destruction of a growing crop which was decided upon for cotton as the only alternative to ruinous prices and continued hardship for a considerable portion of the population . Simultaneously with the application of the cotton processing tax on Aug. 1 there will become automatically effective a compensating tax on all imports of cotton goods and on certain , competing products , such as silk and rayon . Import duties on such commodities will be increased by amounts equaling the psfocessing tax applied against domestic manufacture of the same products . Wholesale and retail stocks of already processed cotton products will be taxed to the extent of 105.2 per cent of the per pound tax of 4.2 cents on future processing . No tax will be applied , however , against present stocks in the bands of retailers in the event that they are disposed of within thirty days after the processing tax goes into effect . Announcement by Secretary Wallace of the success of the campaign to win the South over to planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outcome , during which time it was necessary to issue repeated warnings against overestimating of acreage yield , on which rental payments are based . Secretary Wallace 's Statement . The Secretary 's statement read : " The complete reports from the sixteen cotton producing States that have been received by Mr. Cully A. Cobb , chief of the cotton production section , indicate that the response of growers to the program has been sufficient for me to announce today that offers will be accepted . " We estimate that , on the basis of the reports from the extension directors , approximately 3,500,000 bales have been offered to Ifs under the terms of the proposals submitted to the growers . This amount of cotton represents in excess of 9,000,000 acres . Our reports further indicate that the estimates placed on their yields by growers have been conservative and fair . " Considering the elimination of land that produces under 100 pounds of cotton to the acre , the estimates that have been made on produc- base price difference , and the tax would become automatically inoperative if there was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level . But Mr. Peek said in that connection that the law authorized the Secretary to alter the tax if he finds it an undue burden on cotton consumption . Beyond that , it is the administration 's position that the tax should not be altered on account of market fluctuations from time to time and that only a sustained price should be considered . The law , moreover , does not say for how long a period cotton prices should be sustained at the pre-war level so as to require a change . On the basis of a processing tax of $21 on a bale of cotton and an estimated domestic consumption of 5,500,000 bales during the coming year , it is expected that a fund of about $120,000,000 will be available for payments to farmers for land leased out of cultivation . These payments will vary according to the past average yield of the land leased , and according to whether the contracting grower desires to take options on the 2,000,000 bales of government-owned cotton at 6 cents a pound for subsequent resale at higher prices . Growers desiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which also vary according to yield per acre . On the basis of returns so far received it is estimated that about 60 per cent of the contracting growers will take options in amounts equaling their acreage reduction , and that the remaining 40 per cent will contract for a higher cash rental payment without the option privilege . Tax Seeks Pre-War Price Ratio . ' The pre-war farm price of cotton , or during the base period from 1909 to 1914 , was 12.4 cents a pound , according to the Department of Agriculture , whereas the farm price for June , 1933 , was 8.7 cents . Meanwhile , the average price of things the farmer buys was 103 per cent of the pre-war average on the latter date . Adding this disparity to the pre-war Carta price of cotton , as required by ' the law , increases the average pre-war farm price to 12.77 cents a pound . This difference between the latter pre-war figure and the June , 1933 , average farm price would be 4.07 cents on a gross weight basis . Adjusting this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents the maximum processing tax that may be applied under the Adjustment Act . Mr. Peek said the administration would be constantly on the lookout for cases of pyramiding of the processing tax through the various stages of cotton manufacture , ? eginning with the spinner . It was pointed out that the present cost of cotton goods is now 30 per cent above " the normal relation " of processed cotton prices to that of the raw material . Text of the Tax Order . The text of the Executive order the application of a cotton processing tax follows : UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE , Office of the Secretary . By virtue of the authority vested in the Secretary of " ' Agriculture by the Agricultural Adjustment Act , approved May 12 , 1933 , as amended , I , Henry A. Wallace , Secretary of Agriculture , do make , prescribe , publish and give public notice of these regulations with the force and effect of law , to be in force and effect until amended or superseded by regulations hereafter made by the Secretary of Agriculture with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do hereby ascertain and prescribe that for the purposes of said act the first marketing year for cotton shall begin Aug. 1 , 1933 . I do hereby determine as of Aug. 1 , 1933 , that the processing tax on the first domestic processing of cotton shall be at the rate of 4.2 cents per pound of lint cotton , net weight , which rate equals the difference between the current average farm price for cotton and the fair exchange value of cotton , which price and value , both as defined in said act , have been ascertained by me from available statistics of the ? Department of Agriculture . I do hereby establish that the conversion factor for articles ( other than non-spinnable waste , hereby defined as including only opener , breaker and finisher picker waste , card motes and fly , sweepings and clearer waste , and the products thereof ) , processed from cotton , to determine the amount of tax imposed or refunds to be made with respect thereto , is , per pound of cotton content , 105.2 per centum of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles shall be deemed to include the weight of cotton in the form of yarn , fabric , thread , twines , roving , sliver , laps and all other forms . No deduction shall be made from the weight of such articles for normal moisture content , but reasonable deductions shall be made for sizing , buttons and such other noncotton materials . In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the official seal of the Department of Agriculture to be affixed in the City of Washington this 14th day of July , 1933 . ( Signed ) HENRY A. WALLACE , Secretary of Agriculture . Approved : ( Signed ) FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT , The President of the United States , July 14 , 1933. tion appear , on the whole , entirely consistent with previously recorded averages . " A processing tax will , under the law , be in effect on Aug. 1 . The rate of this tax is fixed by law and is being computed now . Contracts to Be Examined . " I wish to emphasize that cotton producers should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under the regulations , individual acceptances are required . " These individual acceptances are being prepared just as rapidly as the individual contracts can be examined and reviewed . They will be sent to the county agents as quickly as possible . The first of such acceptances will be mailed out promptly . " No producer should take steps to eliminate the acreage he has offered from cotton production until he has been instructed to do so and his individual acceptance received . It should remember that under the terms of the offer we have ' the right to scale down the amount of acreage offered . Also it is probable that there will be %Mrs which may be legally defective or for other reasons must be rejected or the defects remedied . Upon sufficient evidence of compliance with the terms of accepted offers  --  which do not become a contract until the individual acceptances have been received  --  the checks for the rental payments and the options on government-held cotton will be immediately forthcoming . " A Fallacy Exploded , Says Peek . The successful outcome of the campaign was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustment program , as " the greatest achievement in the history of American agriculture , " and as demonstrating the fallacy of the contention that " the farmer does not know how to cooperate . " " It has been said many times that the government could do nothing to help the farmer , " Mr. Peek declared . " He wo n't cooperate , critics said . " Tonight we have the answer to that criticism . I hope that those who Ihave accused the farmer of lacking the cooperative impulses to join in a common cause for the welfare of himself and of his fellowman will take particular note . " Because of the prospect of a rising market as a result of the announcement today and the resulting narrowing of the difference between the current and pre-war prices for cotton on farms , the question arose as to the length of time that the maximum processing tax might remain in. effect .                     