@@698969

txt " If I can not climb Mount Ararat , then I must wash my hands in the River Arax , " I pleaded with the vice-president of the Council of People 's Commissars . It was my great desire to visit the river , which flows at the foot of Mount Ararat , for " Mother Ares " is the beloved symbol of the Armenian ? nation . It marks the present boundary between Turkey and Armenia , and at the moment guerrilla warfare was in progress near the boundary , between Kurd rebels and the Turkish soldiers . " It is difficult to - arrange , " the vice-president said , , gloomily . " Visiting is forbidden on the boundary . You had better give that idea up , " he said , However , a few days later a telephone call came : " Comrade A ? , the Commissar of Water Works . is going on an inspection tour to the new dam . He has learned that you wishzd to go . He will take you and the correspondent from Paris . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you in 20 minutes if you wish to go . " " A five-passenger automobile was at the door in 20 minutes and found me waiting . " Is that the American way , " asked Comrade A ? . " We did not expect you to be ready at such short notice.9 I felt very flattered , for in America I am considered to be a foreigner most of the time . Comrade A ? is 36 years old , a serious , unassuming and fiery revolutionist He has one of the most responsible positions in the Armenian Government . since , next to electricity , water is the very life of the reconstruction plan From a soldier and a revolutionist he ha turned Into an able administrator All day we drove through the deserts of Armenian land . Here and there we saw patches of cotton fields and newly planted vineyards . These are the " Sol-khoz " property , explained the commissar  --  that is , reclaimed or abandoned lands which the /Government of the Armenian Republic cultivated . The others are the " Kol-khoz , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on it on a cooperative basis for their ow , n profit under government supervision . The boundary soldiers/with green caps stopped us . The commissar showed his pass and we went through . The engineer M ? came forward to meet us and explained the project of ' irrigation . It will turn into arable land 250,000 square kilometers of desert-The plan has been drawn by a woman engineer . When the land is ready for cultivation , Armenian refugees from Greece and Syria will be invited to settle there . On the other side of the river we saw the Turkish cavalry guarding their side of the boundary . We had fish from the river for lunch . I dipped my hands in the waters of the Arax . It is now stripped of its romance and boetry . It is no more the old demure " Mother Arax . " It is put into modern practical use . It will wind its way through the heart of the desert to refresh the burning face of the Armenian land . Comrade told how , on the day of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wrinkled peasant , who had labored hard for years on the dry , unyielding land , sat on the edge of the ditch through which the water was to flow . When the water was finally released amid cheers , they called to him : " Uncle , pick your feet up , the water is coming . your , feet are wet . " He said : " Let them be wet , I have waited for that all my life . " Irrigation , hydroelectricity and education are the new powers before which the young sons and daughters of the ancient Armenians bow . The cabman. the shoeshiner , will ask you : " Have you been ' to the new Hydroshen ( hydroelectric station ) Yet ? " Miniature soviet Republics I had thought of going to the Soviet Republic of Armenia because , though the child of Armenian parents , I had never stepped on the soil of the land known as Armenia , and because I wanted to learn about the fate of small nations under Soviet rule . The sbviet policy of complete cultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought atiout many changes . Like everything else in the Soviet Union , there is a formula for the solution of the problem of the small republics . Stalin is the chief authority and spokesman on this nationality question . ? Under his famous nationality plan , initiated in 1930 , each nationality group has become a miniature Soviet republic having the broadest possible system of cultural freedom for the minorities within its own national confines . The Turks and Kurds in the Armenian republic are learning Turkish and Kurdish in special schools manned by Turkish and Kurdish teachers . The Armenian ernment In the republic are all manned by Armenians and the business is carried on in the Armenian language . The army , the post office , the currency are all-Union enterprises . The republics have their own divisions of the Red Army , but each republican boundary is guarded by all-Union Soldiers , The soldiers on the Armenian-Turkish frontier are Russians . One of the most stirring sights I witnessed in Armenia was the early morning march through the streets of Erivan of young men who were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memories took me back to Turkey , when in 1912 and afterward in the great war , Armenian youth were called to serve in the Turkish army  --  how family jewels were sold to pay the ransom tax for military exemption . and how scores of young men who could not buy off exemption languished in attics and cellars to escape service in the " enemy army . " Here the eagerness to serve is so great that as part of the campaign against illiteracy Soviet officials ruled that those who were not proficient in reading and writing could not be drafted . Service ' In the army gives the young men two years ' good time . They come back fitted to some specific vocation after their training . They are usually helped to get some leading position on the village soviet . A Vacation Atmosphere For the present , this state of affairs has given to the republics of I the Caucasus ' a gayety , a vacation air , a relief atmosphere which is entirely lacking in the north  --  especially in Leningrad and Moscow . One explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the south . I believe , however , that the real reason lies in the fact that while the cities of the north are recovering from the fall of their standard of living , the loss of their carefree bourgeois and aristocratic security , the passing of their very individualistic cultural freedom  --  these southern republics are coming upward from lower to a higher standard of living . The Caucasus had " nothing to lose but its chains . " It is this complete autonomy in cultural self-determination , I believe , coupled with ' new economic opportunities which gives old ? Transcaucasia a double gain through the revolution . The happiness and contentment it has brought can be seen on the face of the man on the street .                     