@@698712

txt With testimony that an investigation of the Bureau of Weights and Measures during two months of 1930 showed 1,384 indications of laxity in the 1,374 cases the bureau handled , more than one to a case , Samuel Seabury , counsel to the Hofstadter legislative committee , made his first direct attack upon Mayor ' Walker yesterday . After bringing out that the Mayor has power of removal over Joseph P. , the head of the bureau , Mr. Seabury introduced testimony showing that Mr. Walker had been apprised of the results of the 1930 investigation soon after it was made by James A. Higgins , Commissioner of Accounts . The Mayor then lectured ' the erring employes responsible for conditions in the bureau , which Commissioner Higgins yesterday characterized as " amazing , " but did nothing more to bring about reform , according to testimony before the committee . " I never heard of the report of Commissioner Higgins , " said Commissioner on the witness stand , " until today at this hearing . " Links Conditions to Mayor . Prefacing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go into a matter affecting " hundreds of thousands of the poorer people of this city . " Mr. Seabury called employes of the Commissioner of Accounts ' office , and Mr. Higgins himse:f in an attempt to show that the bureau had been negligent in preventing short-weight and shortmeasure sales . Throughout his questioning of witnesses the committee 's counsel referred to the " Mayor 's Bureau of Weights and Measures , " explaining that this was the official title of the department . In addition to the general statement of irregularities shown by the Higgins investigation , matters brought out by Mr. Seabury in-cluded : That inspectors , known officially as sealers of weights and measures , turned in false reports of their work , showing that they had checked scales measuring instruments in premises shown subsequently to have been razed before the reported inspection , and in one case in premises occupied by a gospel mission . That coal scales were inspected by two men , John F. Carroll and John F. Ward , whose salaries were paid . not by the city , but by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coal Exchange , both dealers ' organizations . Worker Absent Five Years . That Mrs. Catherine Haenline , former confidential inspector of the bureau , took a five-year leave of absence with pay , the period ending with her death last year , and received three salary increases during the five-year period . That two men employes took similar leaves of about three years and that each received salary increases while absent . That the investigation of Commissioner Higgins showed more than 300 short-weight scales in push-cart ! markets over which the bureau exercised supervision . 1 That seals , badges and record Iblanks of the bureau were " care1 lessly " kept , in such fashion that , in ' Commissioner Higgins 's opinion , they might have fallen into the hands of persons who would use them for extortion . 1 That the charges against the seven ! teen sealers employed by the bureau included two reports of intoxication on duty and one report that a sealer had asked a storekeeper for money . That no disciplinary action was taken against the sealers named in Commissioner Higgins 's report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testimony , did not hesitate to declare that he had found conditions in the bureau highly unsatisfactory . Repeat ! ing the language of the document he had sent to the Mayor in September , 1930 , after an investigation covering June and July of that year , he said that the work of the field and office force had been " markedly careless and indifferent . " This had been caused , he said in his report , " through lack of intelligent direction and lack of supervision on the part of the chief of the bureau . " The investigation had been undertaken originally , Mr. Higgins said , along with inquiries into several other departments at the order of the Mayor . That part of the report which dealt with the supervision of coal weights by two men in the pay of coal dealer organizations aroused the particular interest of Assemblyman Cuvillier , one of the Democratic members of the committee . After establishing that the men had been appointed by the city , one of them by Mayor Gaynor and the other by Mayor Hylan , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served , Mr. Cuvillier moved that the widest publicity should be given to this fact , and obtained permission to have Mr. Higgins 's full report printed as part of the record . In his report Mr. Higgins had said on this subject : " This examination has also served to show that the Bureau of Weights and Measures has been negligent in living up to its responsibility in the enforcement of the ordinances for the sale and delivery of coal in the city . This is of tremendous importance to the public , and it is my firm opinion that the public has suffered materially- because of such neglect on the part of the Bureau of Weights and Measures . " Never Reported to Bureau . Inquiring then into the work of Carroll and Ward , Mr. Seabury asked : " Their reports to the Bureau of Weights and Measures were scarce , and they never reported to the commissioner , did they ? " " No , " said Commissioner Higgins . " I found that these men , although they had full authority to act as sealers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without being required to account to the bureau . They merely called at the office of the bureau to get whatever forms or books they deemed necessary , and then followed up the prosecution of penal violations and short-weight cases . " " In other words , they were paid by private companies , and such functions as they performed related to the coal deliveries of those companies ? " Mr. Seabury inquired . " Yes , " replied Commissioner Higgins . At a later point Mr. Cuvillier asked whether , in a check of the work of Ward and Carroll for 1929 , Mr. Higgins had found that they prosecuted any of the members of the dealers ' organizations . " No , " the Commissioner of Accounts answered . " I found that in 1929 the record showed they had not served any penal violations against the company members of their respective associations . " Bureau Head Denies Laxity . Mr. , called to the stand as the last witness at the hearing , denied that he had understood Commissioner Higgins 's statements on the stand to mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been raised from $7,000 , the figure when he took office in 1926 , to woo at present . He went on to declare that he has made improvements in the bureau since the Higgins report , explaining that he meant that his men were now " working better . " Continuing with an explanation that he had attempted to check up on the activities of his sealers even before the Higgins inquiry , Commissioner stated : " I had the cards of every one of the sealers placed on my desk every morning . When I left that day , I would put a few of them in my pocket . " " Home work ? " inquired Mr. Seabury . " No . The next day I would go where those cards showed the dealers had been , to those addresses . I checked the store numbers . I would get out of the car , enter a butcher shop and ask if they had a certain article and what they wanted for it . I would have a look at the seal on the scale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much money , ' and then get in the taxicab and go on . " His purpose of following this procedure , he explained , was to learn whether the sealer had really been at the butcher shop . As far as testimony revealed , the commissioner never found any case where the sealer had turned in a false report , although Commissioner Higgins 's report indicated that there might have been several hundred such instances . Cross-examined on Mrs. Haenlien 's five-year leave of absence , Mr. explained that she had been ill , but that she was " a strong-willed woman " and had actually worked during part of her illness , although his records did not show it . Her successor was appointed , he admitted , upon the recommendation of Joseph McCormick , Tammany district leader and deputy city clerk , recently indicted by the Federal Government as an income tax evader . Hearings Off Until Tuesday . Yesterday 's testimony ended the public consideration of the Bureau of Weights and Measures , and at its conclusion the committee announced a recess until Tuesday . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up then , probably on the Examining Board of Plumbers or the Dock Department , and after that it is believed that the committee will swing into an even more direct consideration on the affairs of the Mayor at hearings to commence about April 25 . In connection with these hearings , State Senator John A. Hastings is to appear at the inquiry headquarters today in answer to a subpoena calling upon him to testify at a private examination . It was understood yesterday , however , that this examination would not be held , Senator Hastings having refused to testify in private , but that he would receive another subpoena . Two persons who had figured in earlier investigations by the committee became objects of attention of the Board of Estimate and- Apportionment yesterday . In the case of Amos T. Smith , board engineer , whose application for retirement on a pension had been opposed by Mr. Seabury on the grounds of alleged misconduct in office , an opinion from the Corporation Counsel held that the pension application must be granted , - unless the board should prefer charges against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this matter was deferred until next week . In the other instance Edward P. Sherry , attache of the City Court , applied for retirement , and action on his application was also deferred , although he has not , as far as was learned , been made the subject of any communication from Mr. Seabury . Sherry figured in the scrutiny of the bank accounts of Harry C. Perry , chief clerk of the City Court , as a person who frequently had lent Perry sums of money .                     