@@704011

txt The deadlock on " business aid " tax revision apparently has been broken in the interest of an early adjournment of Congress , with interested congressional parties in seeming accord . Plans were being drawn last night by House and Senate leaders to call a meeting of the House ways and means committee before the end of the current week , with prospects of public tax hearings early next week at which Secretary of Treasury Morgenthau would present his suggestions . While it could not be ascertained definitely whether President Roosevelt had withdrawn his opposition to changes in the tax structure applicable to corporations , congressional leaders were of the opinion that an understanding had been reached at an important White House conference yesterday , the net effect of which would give Congress a measure of freedom of action on taxes . The speedy developments on tax legislation began last week-end when Senator Byrnes Dem. , ( S. C. ) . acting as a mediator between the White House and Capitol Hill . sailed Chesapeake Bay with President Roosevelt . Results of that excursion were the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and others on Monday and Tuesday . climaxing in a White House tax session yesterday between President Roosevelt , Chairman Harrison of the Senate finance committee and Senator Byrnes . There was some discussion of the possibility of calling a special meeting of all Democratic senators in an effort to reach an accord on a specific program . and avoid a clash over the offering of amendments which could cause a major controversy and delay final enactment of reasonable business aid tax revision legislation . Friends of the- " four-point program , " sponsored by Senator Harrison , which calls for an 18% flat corporate tax , a two or three-year capital loss carryover provision , an annual revaluation'ot capital : stock and elimination of the limit on capital loss deductions for corporations . contend this same program stands out as the possible plan most likely to be adopted . Under the present law the corporation tax ranges from 16/=-% to 19%. depending on the proportion of income paid out in dividends , with lower rates on incomes of less than $25,000 . No loss carryover is permitted by the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital stock to three-year intervals . There is a $2,000 limit on deductions now allowed to corporations for capital losses in excess of capital gains . Senator Harrison told friends , particularly members of the Senate finance committee with whom he discussed tax prospects late yesterday , that he felt better over the outlook than he had at any other time in the controversy He flatly refused , however , to confirm reports that a complete accord had been reached , although close friends of both the Senator and the White House insisted that while the White House may not publicly announce its approval of what Congress may do on taxes there is unlikely to be any attempt to build opposition to the congressional revisionists ' program . Senator Byrnes flatly refused to discuss what took place at the White House yesterday but appeared so cheerful that friends in the Senate were convinced that he had succeeded in accomplishing what he had set out to accomplish over the weekend . Chairman Doughton ( Dem. , N. C. ) . of the House ways and means committee . another leader in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlook for a program was " very promising " and forecast , - Mit- the tax subcommittee , headed by Representative Cooper ( Dem. , Tenn. ) would meet before the end of the week to make plans to hear Secretary Morgenthau . Some on Capitol Hill said that what appeared to be major obstacles to tax revision , after a complete discussion , turned out to be more of a misunderstanding between the White House and the CapitoL Senate and House leadera were said to join in the views expressed by President Roosevelt that any tax revision should avoid loopholes or loss of revenue . So far as could be ascertained yesterday 's White House meeting will have the effect of shortening the current session of Congress by ten days or two weeks : it is now being forecast that an adjournment can be had before July 15.                     