@@700390

txt President Roosevelt pressed Senatorial leaders today for action on the St. Lawrence waterway treaty during a White House conference which preceded the larger meeting with Con ' gressional committees tonight . Attending the treaty conference were Senator Pittman , Byrnes and Harrison , Democrats , and Senators 1Borah and Norris . The President made it clear to them that he had not sent the treaty to the Senate as a gesture , as has been rumored in Congressional circles . Faced with the opposition of Senators within his own party , the President reviewed to the group of leaders who met with him the advantages to commerce and to users of electricity which he believes would come from the development of the St. Lawrence . He also asserted that Republican support should be given to ratification , in accordance with the Republican platform of 1932 . The President asked the three Democrats to do what they could to win over their recalcitrant colleagues . All of the Senators came away convinced that the President was in a fighting mood and that he would demand loyalty from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lawrence Treaty was not adopted it was doubtful if there would be a river and harbor bill in this session . To Proceed With RFC Bill . The President has been represented as desirous of conferring with the treaty foes within his own party from time to time to show them the advantages of completing the seaway . Those who saw him last week after Senator Pittman had opened the debate , and the threat had been made by Senator Clark to offer amendments to destroy the treaty by indirection , reported that the President would exert his influence to the limit to force ratification . The group opposing it , representing generally the Missouri and Mis sissippi Valley Senators , the Eastern seaboard and spokesmen for the railroads and utilities , say that if the President is really determined to put the proposal through he probably can capture the twothirds vote necessary for ratification . In compliance with the President 's request to keep the treaty Before the Senate only when it will not hold up imperative legislation , Senator Robinson of Arkansas , the Democratic leader , tomorrow will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finance Corporation for one year from next month . There is very little opposition to this measure , or to the Liquor Tax Bill conference report to be considered later . It is possible that the treaty may come before the Senate late in the day . Senator La Follette is prepared to discuss the waterway and Senator Clark is ready to offer his amendments and make known his points of opposition . Representative B. H. Snell , mi- nority leader of the House , who has favored the treaty for many years , today expressed the hope that the Senate would heed the request of the President . He urged the Republicans to uphold the party plank of 1932 . The Democratic Senators , Copeland and Wagner of New York , are opposed to ratification . " I believe the Senate will listen to the wishes of the President and ratify the St. Lawrence seaway treaty by a comfortable margin , " Mr. Snell said . " Opposition to the treaty , resulting from a coalition of public utility , railroad and seaboard port interests , is much more vocal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the substance of a survey I have just completed of sentiment to ascertain the truth behind the current whispering campaign of defeatism . Strength from quarters that had been definitely placed in the opposition column is not so strong as expected . As the facts are placed before them , it will change the situation . Also the exceptionally strong message of the President setting forth the national importance for this seaway treaty can not but help to appeal to thinking men . " Republican Senators , I hope , are sticking to the pledge contained in the Republican platform of 1932 and feel a party obligation to support a treaty negotiated and consummated under the last Republican regime and supported by the last three Republican Presidents . The party whip has been cracked on the Democratic side of the Sen. ate , and I believe few Democratic Senators will oppose their President on an issue as important as this ; put local interest above national . " It is not for me to interpret the policies of the present administration , and I take it that Senator Wagner is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Apparently Senator Wagner has information not available to all of us when he asserts that the St. Lawrence seaway is not in consonance with the New Deal agricultural policy . " The constantly reiterated plea of the Secretary of Agriculture for I a downward revision of the tariffs , solely for the purpose of creating I foreign agricultural markets , taken together with the creation of an agricultural export bureau under George Peek , late administrator of the AAA , all would indicate that the present administration is definitely committed to an increase of agricultural exportation . Mr. Wagner would have us believe that the I New Deal is committed to an agricultural retreat as a permanent American policy . " The Senator 's eloquent opposition to the treaty is without doubt the heaviest artillery to be had against the seaway . I predict a diminishing fire against it henceforth . I hope the treaty will be ratified by votes of both parties in obedience to party pledges in answer to a broad national demand . " The executive committee of the National Grange , L. J. Taber of Ohio , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gill of Oregon , and Fred 3 . Freestone of New York , sent to the President an indorsement of the treaty . The statement read : " The National Grange has for years advocated a canal from the Great Lakes to the sea to open up the heart of the continent to the benefits of ocean navigation . The Grange believes that this provision of cheap transportation , linking a great economic area with the markets of the world , will either directly or indirectly benefit not only those engaged in agriculture , but also the nation as a whole . " The area directly tributary to the seaway produces more of the cereal crops of the nation than all other.sections of the country combined , and many other important agricultural interests are centred there . Both leading dairy areas are located on the seaway . " The opportunity to further rural electrification through public development of St. Lawrence power , as a part of the project , is also of vital interest to many of our local and State organizations . " The fact that at least 90 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oceangoing cargo-carrying vessels is a cogent argument for removing the few remaining barriers which still bottle up this important agricultural area . " Every Chief Executive since President Wilson , regardless of party , has advocated this improvement and contributed to the negotiation of den agreement essential to any joint undertaking affecting two neighboring nations . President Roosevelt is to be congratulated upon his ? decisive action to make the project a reality as a part of his recovery program . "                     