@@698881

txt Four major struggles , the results of all of which are in the balance , will be fought out behind closed doors and on the floor of the Democratic National Convention which will assemble here one week from tomorrow . They are : The Presidential nomination . The Vice Presidential nomination . The permanent chairmanship . The issue of Federal control versus complete State sovereignty in the liquor plank of the platform . Because the Democratic pre-convention and the convention will be struggles from beginning to end , the Republican gathering is already almost forgotten in the very city where it was held . There was one contested issue before it , over the prohibition plank , but the outcome of that was foreshadowed when the hand of the administration was revealed to all the delegates . The plain distaste of the Republican convention for the renomination of Vice President Charles Curtis expressed itself in one or two halfhearted moves to produce other candidates . But that spirit of independence also was scotched by the President when it began to show signs of real life . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover required the election of Everett Sanders - of Indiana as chairman of the National Committee and buttressed him with a committee of fifteen under the complete control of the White House . Preliminary Conferences . To all this the national assembly of the Democrats will provide the contrast of scarlet to dull gray . The leaders and delegates will not await the opening of the convention to begin firing their manifestoes . Al Smith will arrive Wednesday , by which time his candidate for permanent chairman , Jouett Shouse , will have been on the scene for almost . a week . Not many delegates will appear before the week-end . But the State leaders will be here and there will be meetings of the national committee and a controlling group of the committee on resolutions . In the Democratic party , on the eve of a bitterly contested national convention , this means musket fire on the picket line long before the main bodies are joined in battle . The recent accession of North Carolina to the Roosevelt forces increases almost to a certainty the probability that the managers for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the convention and adds to his impressive delegate total for the vital test of the first ballot . Should the Presidential nomination come to Governor Roosevelt in two or three ballots at the most , his forces will probably hold together for the selection of the Vice Presidential candidate whom he primarily prefers . If he wins the nomination only after a protracted struggle it will involve trades and compromises on the Vice Presidency . On the permanent chairmanship the fight promises to be more interesting than uncertain . The Roosevelt forces will not poll their nomination strength on . that issue . Many of their delegates are pledged to Mr. Shone , and in the " favorite son " state groups a natural disposition win be revealed to help build the anti-Roosevelt barrier in order to retain some hope of holding off his nomination . In this sharp battle , from the time the conferences begin to the end of the roll-call , former Governor Smith will be the Shouse leader . Upon the extent of his participation in the contest will depend not only the number of votes which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention is to be turned into a Smith-Roosevelt contest . It may be that Mr. Smith 's activity , if it includes oratorical personalities , will work as much against Mr. Shouse as for him . That will be evident only when the temper of the assembled delegates can be observed . The Prohibition Situation . On prohibition the combat of ideas and policies is certain to break into all the delegates ' ranks . The wording and the proposals of the Republican plank have added-a-new and interesting phase to the problem of the Democrats . Already the repealists have seized the opportunity provided by the administration plank to attack the plan of Federal control . The cry for the return of States ' rights in every particular can already be faintly heard in Chicago . Within a day or two it will have swelled to thunder . Under the Republican convention plank , the Federal Government , if any new amendment of Republican origin is adopted , will have such supervision of the liquor traffic in wet States as to prevent the establishment of liquor shops , and , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and transportation for dealers and private citizens . The drive of the repealists will be to keep such a provision out of the Democratic platform . " The Federal Government must be divested of all powers over the States that are provided by the Webb-Kenyon act and the Reed amendment , " will be the cry of the super-wets . The dispute Is expected to split the Roosevelt forces . Their Southern elements will find it difficult to oppose the Republican proposal , despite the fact that it was in the South that the States ' rights theory come to full flower . Their Northern and Eastern groups will be embarrassed by the issue . To stand with the States ' rights extremists will be to align themselves with the Smith-Raskob faction . At least that is the prospect today . The tangle will turn many secret conferences into acrimonious debates . It will protract the sessions of the resolutions committee , and it should make the floor debate intense and interesting . This IS what the Republicans hoped and believed when they drew up their crafty document  --  a far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . As for the Southern leaders , they have no hope of inducing the Democrats to repair in any degree the fatal wound dealt to national prohibition by the Republicans . But they intend to try to frighten the Eastern delegations into opposing a declaration offering a vote on repeal without increased Federal safeguards . They will insist that this will mean the failure of at least thirteen States to ratify , which would mean that national prohibition will remain in force . At the bottom of this scrimmage will be Franklin D. Roosevelt , a tough spot for the leading candioate before the convention .                     