@@701137

txt Friction between the works division of the Emergency Relief Bureau and the State TERA figured yesterday in the testimony of Colonel William J. Wilgus , head of the works division , who took the lead in defending the relief administration before the aldermanic investigating committee at City Hall . Under questioning by Lloyd Paul Stryker , committee counsel , Colonel Wilgus admitted that the employment of a supervisory staff of 750 in the Park Department had caused friction between the TERA and his division . He also testified that Park Commissioner Robert Moses was a very aggressive official who occasionally " got out of hand . " He cited one instance where Mr. Moses exceeded his monthly allotment of money by 25 per cent , thus leaving himself open to lay-offs at the end of the month which Colonel Wilgus was anxious to avoid . Oswald W. Knauth , new chairman of the Emergency Relief Bureau , gave the committee a jolt yesterday by asking for advance information on the subject-matter of its hearings . In a letter to Chairman Bernard S. Deutsch , the new relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disrupt the morale of the relief agencies . He taxed Mr. Stryker with responsibility for interrupting the work of his occupational classification department , by insisting that its director and assistant director appear together as witnesses . Cites Falconer Case . , " In similar fashion , on April 5 , the day after Commissioner Hodson was taken to the hospital , seriously ill , and when Mr. Falconer was taking over the important administrative responsibilities which required immediate attention and decision , a member of Mr. Stryker 's staff insisted that Mr. Falconer should leave his post for a period of two hours in order to answer questions which could well have been postponed for several days , " he said . " The representative of the aldermanic committee refused either to postpone the examination or to send a stenographer to Mr. Falconer 's office so that the examination would interfere less with the pressing business he had before him . " It is my purpose to cooperate with your committee in every way consistent with orderly procedure and with the proper performance of the administrative responsibilities which my office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to protect my staff from unreasonable demands upon their time , and from the type of investigation which has in the past severely shaken the morale of this entire office . In order to achieve these objectives it will be helpful from now on if your committee will notify me directly as to the subjectmatter of proposed hearings , and as to what witnesses and what material you wish to have present , with sufficient notice to meet your requests without disrupting the work of this office . " Gets Opinion on His Rights . Mr. Knauth told the Aldermen that he had consulted Corporation Counsel Paul Windels on the scope of the committee 's legal powers . In this connection he wrote : " I am advised that these laws do not contemplate unreasonable and peremptory orders over the telephone , or the indiscriminate issuance of subpoenas , or the arbitrary interruption of orderly public business . I can not believe that it is the intent of these laws , or the intent of your committee , to apply a procedure designed for recalcitrant witnesses to employes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your com- mittee . I do not , however , wish to stand on any technical rights in regard either to the appearance of witnesses or to the submission of papers . " Therefore , where your counsel wishes to examine matters pertaining to the work of the Emergency Relief Bureau at the office of any of the subdivisions , I request a letter from your committee advising me of the matters which they wish to examine so that I may arrange to have them ready for examination at a time consistent with the carrying on of the necessary work of this office . Wherever questions can be answered by letter or memoranda this procedure should be used so as to save the time both of your committee and of the Relief Administration staff . I can assure you that where it is employed the bureau will attempt to furnish you with the requested data with a min imum of delay and it will give you all the facts . " Commissioner Moses has just shown me a letter in which your counsel promised the type of cooperation here requested and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has not been given . This additional fact leads me to urge you to use your good offices to secure the reasonable cooperation of your committee with this bureau . " Mr. Knauth 's letter was delivered to the committee as its session opened , and was marked " rush . " After Mr. Deutsch had read it , Mr. Stryker said he would like to know who had really written it . Moses Disputes Testimony . Mr. Moses issued another long statement last night contradicting testimony on park jobs before the committee last Tuesday . The 750 positions figured largely in the testimony of Colonel Wilgus . He admitted authorship of the following memorandum to his staff , dated March 16 : " Hereafter no one shall be put on the payrolls of Works Division in connection with which the approval of TERA is required until such final approval has been obtained . I mention this because we are in trouble over the 750-men case in the parks . In other words , the actual approval of TERA must be obtained of project applications and supplemental project applications , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , before people involved are engaged and placed on the payrolls . If , for any reason , special instances arise where the good of the service calls for prompt action , please let us know , with a view to my taking the matter up directly with Mr. Boyd or Mr. Schoellkopf for the purpose of getting a suspension of the rules and regulations that apply in such instances . " He testified that employes had been put to work without the approval of the TERA , , which had I failed to enforce its own ruling requiring approval . He said the practice violated the rule , but was done with the knowledge of the TERA . He denied that the memorandum was inspired by an investi-1 gation into the practice made on March 14 , two days before the memorandum was written . Asks Division 's Policy . Reverting to the previous day 's testimony that many park jobs had been filled from non-relief sources , Mr. Stryker asked what the policy I of the Works Division was on this type of employment . Colonel Wilgus testified that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their disagreements . On March 5 he wrote the following memorandum to Assistant Director J. W. F. Bennett of the Works Division : " I note that so far this month the Parks Department is exceeding its monthly allocation for personnel some 25 per cent . I assume that you will follow this closely so that our friend the parks will not get out of hand . " Recalling that many of those placed in jobs had been referred by the Professional Engineers Committee on Unemployment , counsel asked if Colonel Wilgus was a member of that committee and received a negative answer . Shown a letterhead of the committee with his name on it , the witness said he was " astounded " to find it there . The name of J. P. H. Perry , his deputy , was also on the letterhead , as well as that of Ole Singstad , a member of the Emergency Relief Bureau . Reads Prepared Statement . Colonel Wilgus insisted upon reading ' a prepared statement before he would testify . Mr. Stryker objected , but Mr. Deutsch said he was inclined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he understood Colonel Wilgus was " somewhat ag grieved " over the inquiry . Mr. Stryker withdrew his objection , and Colonel Wilgus said : " I appear before the committee , at my own request and at your invitation , suspected of or charged with responsibility for offenses against the public interest . Much of the public mind , as a result of these hearings , has become imbued with the belief that the Works Division under my direction is honeycombed with incompetency , dishonesty , untruthfulness , favoritism and self-seeking . I am prepared under oath to prove that this belief is unwarranted and that Works Division is worthy of the confidence of the public . I am without counsel and without the right to call and examine witnesses . Therefore , as a matter of common justice , I ask that I be permitted to reply to your questions in my own way ; and that before or after your direct examination of me I shall be permitted to present the Works Division side of the case , subject . of course , to your cross-examination as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Works Division , roused Mr. Stryker 's ire when he smiled broadly upon taking the stand . He lives in New Canaan , Conn . He was questioned about a letter he wrote to Colonel Wilgus and other relief heads , calling a conference between home relief and work relief agencies so that their figures would agree for the Aldermanic inquiry . " Yes , I wrote that , " he said with a broad smile . " You 're laughing at it , are n't you ? " Mr. Stryker said . " I am not , and you do not think I am going to make a laughing matter of it , do you ? " " I expect you to , later , " the witness said . Holds Witness Is Hostile . Mr. Stryker protested that the witness was antagonistic and insulting , and Chairman Deutsch cautioned Mr. Perry against any characterizations of counsel . In opening yesterday 's session Mr. Stryker challenged critics of the Aldermanic investigation and arranged to have transcripts of the testimony sent to Professor Raymond Moley , the faculty of Teachers College @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The charge of sniping from those who are called to account is understandable , " he said , " but it comes with ill grace . It is also understandable that those who are called to account might Rd jittery and disturbed . Such a state , I think , is rather a sad commentary on the relief administration . " Charging that reprisals had been undertaken against witnesses before the committee , Mr. Stryker called Michael Weintraub , enumerator on a chicken and egg census , ' who was one of the first to testify before the Aldermen . Then assigned to lower Manhattan and Brooklyn , Weintraub said that he was banished to the remote sections of Queens two days after he had appeared . After tramping through woods near the Jamaica race track the witness said he saw a few chickens , but no people . Cemeteries , vacant lots and dumps now figured in his daily rounds , Weintraub said . Mr. Deutsch said yesterday that Park Commissioner Moses himself had admitted that relief regulations had been violated in hiring the park employes from non-relief sources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but insisted that no proper check had been made an the qualifications of men rejected for the jobs . In most cases , he said , relief applicants could have filled the jobs , with the possible exception of executives with specially high qualifications . Commissioner Moses said Mr. Deutsch was not aware of the facts . He again said that his plans for forming the staff of 750 had been approved by Federal , State and city agencies and declared that no regulations had been violated . The Park Department has spent $40,000,000 since Mr. Moses became its head , and he said it was preposterous to assume that such a sum could be well expended unless It was carefully planned out . He said 277 men were sent to the Park Department from Home Re-1 lief through the works division , and that 210 were employed and sixty-seven rejected . Every effort was made to find work for these men , and twenty were transferred from other relief projects to the parks , he said . After employing the 230 , he said his department still needed 517 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent by the Professional Engineers Committee on Reemployment , the Architects Emergency Committee and the National Reemployment Service . Of the 861 , he said 505 were employed and 356 were rejected because they did not meet the specifications . He denied that no effort had been made to find other work for those rejected . He acknowledged that job-seekers were " kicked around , " but said it was not done by the Park Department . " Juggling facts and rigging testimony in an investigation will not untangle anything , " he said . " The Park Department 's examining officials accepted 76 per cent of men referred by Home Relief through the works division and 59 per cent of the men from all other sources . " The committee resumes its sessions in City Hall at 10:30 this morning , with Colonel Wilgus scheduled as the first witness . For the first time yesterday the audience was noisy , indulging in loud handclapping which frequently interrupted the hearing . Mr. Deutsch threatened to clear the chamber if the noise was not stopped .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     