@@700867

txt The Japanese naval delegates finally awakened the British Government today to some realization of what their new naval policy means . At two long conferences with the British  --  the first a general talk with Prime Minister Ramsay and other Ministers and the second a technical discussion with admiralty experts  --  the Japanese revealed enough to show that they are determined to have absolute equality in naval tonnage with Britain and the United States . At the end of the day a high British official admitted gloomily that these negotiations were going to be " slow and difficult " and were going to require more than Oriental patience on the part of his government . The Japanese again refrained from submitting a written plan , although the British tried repeatedly to draw them out . They did , how ' ever , give a fairly clear outline of their demands , beginning with separate limitation of what they called " offensive " ships , including cruisers with guns of more than 6.1-inch calibre . According to the Japanese thesis there must be a limited and equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be drastic . Category of Defenses At the same time the Japanese demanded an equal total tonnage in so-called defensive vessels  --  small cruisers , destroyers and submarines . The total tonnage would be the same for each country , but the United States , Britain and Japan would be free to distribute it as desired among the three types of ships . The British were particularly disturbed today to hear submarines called defensive weapons , for in the light of their own wartime experiences they regard submarines as the most dangerous of all offensive armaments . The Japanese coated their large and bitter pill with plenty of sugar . They indicated , for example , that , while claiming theoretical equality in all respects with Britain and the United States , they would by no means necessarily build to the max , imum . They hinted , in fact , that the maximum would be reached only in an emergency . Nevertheless , the day 's revelations were highly disagreeable to the British , and if the Japanese had put them in writing the British might have found them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned tonight that Rear Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto intended to give the written program to the British immediately , but was dissuaded by the ever-tactful Ambassador Tsuneo Matsudaira , who felt it would only exasperate the British when British good-will was needed . In other words , the instructions given to Admiral Yamamoto by Tokyo were more severe than today 's polite talk indicated , and the Japanese may administer their medicine in gradual doses . Official British quarters made great efforts today to offset stories that Mr. and a section of the Cabinet were willing to concede to Japan equality in principle . The suggestion was ridiculed by government spokesmen . Similarly , all talk of revival of the Anglo-Japanese alliance was branded as " completely without foundation . " It was also stated that there had been no conversations whatever regarding a British loan to Japan . ' Whatever Mr. 's attitude toward the Japanese may be , his connection with the Anglo- Japanese naval talks ceased temporarily at the end of this morning 's meeting . What may be called the politicians ' talks with the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned , and the British contact with Tokyo 's spokesmen will be confined to admirals . Yamamoto Will Stay . It is expected that Admiral Yamamoto will stay in London , and there is always a possibility that Mr. and Sir John Simon , the Foreign Secretary , will rush into the breach again if the admirals fail to get anywhere . The Americans are not sure whether Mr. 's disappearance from the scene will be a blessing or the reverse . For all they know the British admirals may be even friendlier to Japanese equality than Mr. and his Foreign Secretary are rumored to be . In any case , the outlook could hardly have been less promising for Norman H. Davis and his colleagues today , as they were not sure of Britain and were perturbed at the uncompromising Japanese attitude . They had no contact with either side today , but they hope to meet the Japanese tomorrow or on Monday morning , before the next Anglo-American meeting on Monday afternoon . Naturally , the Americans are anxious to learn what the Japanese told the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Japan means not only to discard the ratio system , but to walk out of the treaty system altogether as it affects her defenses . They now believe that Japan is following the same course as she followed in Manchuria in 1931 and at Shanghai in 1932 in asserting her overlordship of Eastern Asia and the Western Pacific . Mr. Davis was annoyed today at reports that he was about to quit London and abandon the negotiations , for that , he realizes , would be the worst possible strategy to follow . But the Americans are deeply concerned over Japan 's tactics and the unwillingness of her delegates to recede an inch from their extreme demands . The Americans are displeased , too , at what they regard as Japanese attempts to drive a wedge between Britain and the United States in these negotiations , They complain that the Japanese spokesmen ' here are out to challenge the Americans and conciliate the British . Consequently , there is a feeling that the Anglo-American meeting on Monday may prove the crucial point of these negotiations , for it may show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to acquiesce in them .                     