@@701152

txt The Puerto Rican Legislature went on strike today against what the coalition majority termed " colonial dictatorship " from Washington . After twenty-four hours of continuous debate , the session ended without passing the budget or several other pressing pieces of legislation . The " dictatorship " complained of was an order or advice ( opinions differ ) from Oscar Chapman , Assistant Secretary of the Interior , to qp.v.ernort Blanton Winship to veto e.  - -  13111 providing for a public corporation to carry out rehabilitation plans in the islands . Shortly after noon the legislative commission notified Governor Winship at La Fortaleza that the session , due to close Monday at midnight , had come to an end . The Senate stopped at 7 A. M. , but the lower house continued for almost five hours . Coercion Charged . Whether Mr. Chapman instructed Governor Winship or merely suggested a veto of the pending legislation was the subject of long conferences yesterday between the Governor and coalition leaders . Regardless of the phrasing of the cabled message from Washington , the majority chiefs remained convinced Mr. Chapman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rican affairs passed from the War to the Interior Department several months ago . Mr. Chapman 's action was taken as the last of a long series of events leading to increasing discord between Washington and the insular majority , particularly over means for carrying out the island relief program . Coalition criticism was directed chiefly against Relief Administrator James Bourne for alleged relief favoritism to members of the lib- eral minority . He has denied such favoritism . Governor Winship , trying to maintain peace , was finally caught in the cross-fire . Bill Amended . Just before the time expired last midnight for the Governor 's action on the Public Corporation Bill , the Legislature requested the bill 's return for reconsideration . Slightly amended , the bill was repassed just before adjournment , thus giving another thirty days before the bill 's fate must be determined . If it becomes law it will terminate the Federally sponsored corporation . Before thirty days elapse , however , the Governor and the coalition delegation at Washington expect to reach an amicable understanding with the Federal authorities . Liberals opposed today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last minute passage of a bill limiting land ownership to 500 acres . This was unanimously passed by the Senate but not acted on by the House . He characterized the coalition action as pseudo-patriotic camouflage to protect sugar interests in large land holdings . The coalition viewpoint , voiced by Rafael Martinez Nadal , president of the Senate , however , was that the legislative action was not the cry of a people whose dignity was injured but the cry of rebellion against Washington 's dictatorial policy . The Liberal Senator Barcelo , an independence advocate , urged the Senate President , who favors Statehood , to proclaim the republic of Puerto Rico . Long political enemies , the two embraced . Observers here find much similarity between the present situation in Puerto Rico and that of a year ago , when Governor Paul M. Pearson of the Virgin Islands failed to get from the St. Croix Colonial Council a charter for the Washingtondrafted Virgin Island Company . Coalition leaders assert Washington seeks to impose through relief rehabilitation a super-government on Puerto Rico , ignoring the existing government . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a Legislature walked out be . ' fore the session 's end . More than twenty years ago a Legislature refused to approve the budget , but Congress quickly provided that the old budget be renewed , which is still law . Rafael Torres Mesorana , long a resident of New York and now a relief executive , was arrested late yesterday on a charge of slandering the Legislature , a charge similar to that recently made against Mr. Bourne . Administrator Bourne revealed that further arrests are anticipated and that sixteen blank bonds have been prepared , .                     