@@700058

txt Plato 's ideal of an intellectual aristocracy , in which the wisest will rule , is now approaching realization through recent advances in the science of nutrition , Professor H. C. Sherman of Columbia University stated here tonight on the eve of the opening of the Century of Progress meeting of the American Chemical Society . In the modern science of nutrition , Professor Sherman said in substance , man has found Ponce de Leon 's legendary fountain of youth . Its location is not : at a mythical land of eternal Spring , but in every man 's kitchen . The " waters " of this fountain are provided by the chicken , the cow , the orchard and the vegetable garden . Recent experiments at the Columbia laboratories , Professor Sherman said , establish that a properly balanced diet would not only prolong the average life by fully 10 per cent above the Biblical threescore and ten , but , what is even more important , it also would postpone the coming of old age so that a man at 65 and more still would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he remarked , highly significant social implications , for it promises to retain in the service of civilization the ripe wisdom , gained in a lifetime of experience , of men at an age when they hitherto have usually been too feeble physically to take an active part in the world 's affairs . Wisdom May Rule Long . Many of the ills of civilization have been attributed by many to the fact that the rulers of the world are men in the period of life in which emotional considerations still play a large part in determining their course of action . When a man reaches the age of disinterested and dispassionate wisdom , he generally no longer possesses the physical vigor requisite in the tempo of modern existence . To the pessimist who sees the doom of modern civilization through armaments and poisoned gas , science points to spinach as the preserver of wisdom and the savior of civilization . In the ideal republic , said Plato , " kings will be philosophers and philosophers will be kings . " A similar ideal was formulated more than 2,300 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision of Plato and Eliot , Professor Sherman said , is now possible of realization by scientific nutrition . Age will yield less readily to youth , Professor Sherman stated , and older men and women will to a great extent rule in human affairs , thus approaching the ideal of wisdom visualized by Eliot ; and suggesting the return , some generations hence , of the patriarchal influence which existed in the earlier periods of civilization . " We are learning , " Professor Sherman added , " what things and in what relations to feed into the body in order that it may be helped to maintain a more constantly optimal chemical environment within . lAre have reason to anticipate that such chemical improvement of the internal environment may be favorable to those developments of mind and spirit which are in some way linked with the higher health of the body . " From now on nutrition can furnish to food economies a more certain and serviceable guidance than has ever before been available . And with the means of education which now exist we may feel confident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of enlightened consumer demand , or both , this newer knowledge of nutrition will continue to become more and more effective . " Added Qualities Promised . Milk , eggs , fruits and vegetables , Professor Sherman said , have been advanced in their status from that of " protective foods " to aie.3 in raising the health normal . It has been found , he said , that starting with conditions already normal , the quality of the 11:s procd the the average length of life may be significantly estimated by so adjusting the relative proportions of every-day foods as to enrich the dietary in certain of its chemical features . Not only Is life made longer , but it is made richer and more efficient throughout . An individual 's span of life , barring accident and contagious disease , is largely determined by heredity , it is believed . To this normal span allotted the individual before he is born , science can now promise an increase of 10 per cent . Thus , if the allotted span is seventy years , it may be extended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he may extend it to an even century . Of the thirty-odd elements of compounds that must be given to the body from without , he explained , fifteen of the chemical elements may be supplied by the " protective foods . " These elements are oxygen , carbon , hydrogen , nitrogen , calcium , phosphorus , potassium , sulphur , sodium , chlorine , magnesium , iron , iodine , copper and manganese . In addition , he noted , proteins in milk , eggs , fruits and vegetables provide from four to fourteen of the amino acids , some of which are indispensable to , and ? ach of which has its own unique function or functions in , iutrition . They also provide five of the six known vitamins and probably at least a little of some unsaturated fatty acid . Specific Food Values Cited . Only half the required food calories a day need be taken in the form of protective roods , it was added . The remaining half may be obtained from any foods the individual likes or can afford . The need for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stressed by Professor Sherman . The adult needs half a gram per day and the child double that amount . The easiest way to assure getting the right amount , he said , is for the adult to drink , a pint and the child a quart of milk a day . Obtaining the necessary vitamins and mineral elements will be assured , he added , if , in addition to eating half the daily calory requirements in " protective foods , " the individual consumes half the bread-stuffs and cereals he eats in the whole-grain forms . The number of calories required per day , Professor Sherman stated , varies with the size and activity of the individual . Three thousand calories a day will fill the needs of the man of average activity , while a man holding a sedentary position needs but 2,400 calories . Milk , he said , is especially rich in vitamins A and G , with a liberal amount of vitamin B and smaller but significant amounts of vitamins C , D and E. Fruits and vegetables , while varying greatly among themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitamin ' V and furnish at the same time libe 1 amounts of vitamin B , while se eral of them also make appreciable contributions of vitamins A , B , D and G. Corrective of Deficiencies . " The great objective against which the protective foods diet is aimed , " he said , " is the bread-meatpotato-sugar type of diet . " Outstanding deficiences. in such a diet , he said , are its calcium content and vitamin A values . " Another important aspect of the recent progress in the chemistry of nutrition is found in the inter-relationships between the different nutritional factors . Thus , it has been found tha the energy metabolism depends upon catalysts containing or derived from the proteins of their amino acids . " Or , again , in hemoglobin ( the ' red coloring matter of the blood ) , the body makes itself a substance which is outstanding both as a body protein and as an iron compound and which plays a leading role both in transporting oxygen for the energy metabolism and in maintaining the acid-base balance . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indirectly essential to the energy met-1 abolism appear to be derivatives of amino acids such as result from the digestion of food proteins . " These include the glutathione , which appears directly to catalyze the oxidation process ; thyroxine and adrenaline , which in some way expedite the process ; insulin , which facilitates some intermediate reaction , and the typical hydrolytic enzymes . which bring the organic food stuffs into forms upon which these other catalysts can act . "                     