@@701034

txt Chicago 's police force seems to be living up to its ancient reputation as " the finest , " as witness the downward curve of crime . Official federal figures show a 22 per cent decrease last year in larcenies , burglaries , robberies , and other crimes of violence in the city as compared with 1933 . Back in the gangster era under Volsteadism , Chicago had a reputation as crime ridden and whenever a Chicagoan traveled lie ran into a stereotyped wisecrack the world over , " : Where 's your bullet proof vest ? " Today Chicago stands in 34th place in aggregate crime rate among 87 of the larger American cities reporting to the bureau of investigation of the department of justice at Washington . This ranking takes account of robberies in which Chicago 's rate is highest because , according to experts , all cases are made public instead of being concealed on the police blotter . The Chicago crime commission rates Chicago as one of the safest cities . All Law Agencies Help . The change has come through concerted action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . The old dictum was that although it was easy enough for the police to apprehend a criminal it was difficult to keep him out of circulation after arrest . It was nothing unusual for an officer , marching an offender into a station , to be met at the desk by a lawyer with a writ of habeas corpus . Through loopholes of the law convicted criminals walked out upon the streets while millions in bootleg money placed crime on a highly financed basis unprecedented in history . The new cooperation of all tile law enforcement agencies gives the police a r u1 chance . Courts Work at Top Speed . Courts have been working at top speed , criminals have been swiftly prosecuted , while the police have constantly increased the speed of their teamwork . It has been a constant campaign , nothing like the old " crime wave " activities which used to come in with the blizzards . " it has not been spasmodic . This continuity of close cooperation of the various officials has brought the great reduction in the crime rate , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grow a few years back the criminals got the advantages given by fast automobiles in the new speed era , and of fast shooting guns . The police were a lap behind , appropriations were hard to get . Now , however , the police have all the modern speed at their command . And still more speed has been given by a reorganization of the force . Radio Blow at Crime . Chicago was one of the first cities to put in police radio . It aids in the arrest of criminals at the seat of the crime . During 1934 18,663 persons were arrested as the result of 162,892 emergency broadcasts . To indicate the speed , the average time last year was two minutes between the telephone call at headquarters and the arrival of a squad car at the scene . Calls are p it on the radio fast . Recently a citizen was still at the telephone when three squads came in the door bringing the robber . Some 54 suburbs now have their emergency calls broadcast to their squad cars over the Chicago police radio . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line of Defense . Thus the city has a second line of defense covering all gateways . In a zone of forty miles radius from the city hall the police force is organized for fast action . Repeal broke the old criminal gangs financially , now they are pushed around . There are 140 squad cars and 12 accident prevention cars In Chicago , and about the same number in the suburbs , giving about ZOO squad cars moving by radio call . Relatively Chicago 's is a small force . It ranks eleventh in size among the larger cities . IC has 6,512 members , or one policeman to every 518 inhabitants , while New York with 19,611 has a policeman for every 355 people . Boston has a policeman for every 324 inhabitants , St. Louis one for every 320 . The department here has 392 fewer men than it had five years ago .                     