@@703824

txt Preliminary steps toward a compromise between the Jewish and Arab representatives have been take in the Conference here which is seeking a solution to the Government and control of Palestine over which both groups have been vigorously contending . Concessions from both sides have been tentatively achieved , under the stimulation of current unrest in the Near East . This situation , including riots in French Syria , emphasized to the British Government that further delay could not be brooked in a solution for Palestine . Basis of Compromise It is reliably reported that the compromise arrangement involves : 1 . Establishment of a limit to the extent of Jewish immigration in Palestine , The Jews have desired unrestricted immigration as fulfillment of the British pledge to aid a " national home " for the Jews in Palestine . The Arabs have demanded stoppage of Immigration . The compromise would also limit Jewish purchases of land in Palestine . 2 . British authority would be retained to prevent the restriction of Jewish immigration from resulting in a situation in which the Arabs would gain predominance . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limiting clf immigration would ultimately result in giving the Arabs a numerical position of great super iority . The exact framework In which British authority would be exercised to prevent this situation has not yet been completed . Legitimate Complaints The Arabs , it is generally conceded , have been able to show that their complaint against the mandate over Palestine , as hitherto administered by Great Britain , has solid foundation , both concerning the Arabs ' own legitimate national aspirations and Britain 's imperial inte ests throughout the Moslem world . The Jews . by the economic developments they have brought about in Palestine , have themselves , it is claimed at the Conference , in some measure confirmed the Arab aPprehension that the Moslems would be reduced to a secondary status , at the same time it is agreed that the Jews have also shown that if they were reduced to minority status in a Palestine wheie Arab predominance was unrestricted , It might well mean a repetition of the experiences their race is enduring elsewhere . The compromise which the British Government is now endeavoring to hammer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these sets of facts . But the plan which Jews are being asked to accept , it is reported , is not designed to close the door to further large admissions of Jews to Palestine , especially In the early future for those of their fellow religionists who are in such desperate need of shelter . Delegates of Arab States today submitted a joint memorandum outlining proposals which include both the termination of the mandate and the creation of an Arab State . Although these plans are unacceptable to the Jews , nevertheless the tension on both sides has been ' educed so much as to leave hope that objections may yet be so whittled down so as to enable the eventual settlement to emerge . Syrian Government Resigns DAMASCUS , Syria 01 ? Riotous demonstrations in Syria Feb. 20 followed a Cabinet crisis precipitated by the resignation Feb. 18 of Jamil Mardam Bey 's Government . Several persons were wounded in clashes as demonstrators demanded return to power of the former Government . It resigned In dispute with France , holder of the League of Nations mandate , because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence . Strikes closed native shops in Damascus . No successor to the former Premier was in prospect . Guiana : Refugee Home ? GEORGETOWN , British Guiana , Feb. 20 ( CP ) ? Members of a commission investigating possibilities for settlement of Jewish refugees from Germany and Central Europe have returned after an airplane survey of an area 50 miles up the Demerara River , south of Georgetown . The commission includes Emile C. Batailee , a colonization expert with Canadian experience , and Dr. Anthony Donova , a sanitary expert . Desmond Holdridge , author-explorer , is commission secretary . La Rochelle , France , Feb. 20 ( R ' ) ? The British liner Orduna sailed Feb. 19 for South America with 285 German Jewish refugees .                     