@@702169

txt Carrying his election drive into Ohio , Governor Landon declared today that the present political campaign cut across party lines and . Ithat Abraham Lincoln Republicans and Thomas Jefferson Democrats were united to oppose the New Deal in a fight for the welfare of the American people . He also charged that the Roosevelt administration had built vp a gigantic propaganda machine with the taxpayers ' money in an attempt to win the election by " vicious misrepresentation . " This evening , in a speech at a dinner given by local Republicans at the Deshler-Wallick Hotel here , the Kansas Governor urged a return to the conservation policies of Theodore Roosevelt through consolidation of bureaus at Washington and cooperation of the Federal Government with the States . He cited the recent excess of rain in Kansas . stricken by drought ear-1 Tier in the Autumn , as showing the necessity of a definite program of r soil conservation , water storage and flood prevention , and advocated conservation of the nation 's mineral resources and wild life . On his way to Columbus , where he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his reception last night at Chicago , spoke in Cincinnati at a party organization breakfast and over the radio at a railroad station , and made short rear-platform talks at five other Ohio cities . At Columbus Mr. Landon and his party were among 70,000 persons who saw the Ohio State-Pittsburgh football game , which Pittsburgh won by 6 to 0 . The Governor was an interested spectator . " I enjoyed every minute- of the game between two great teams , " he said . Afterward he visited the chapter house of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity , of which he was an active member when a student at the University of Kansas . He then returned to the hotel where , in his speech at the dinner , he said that , as one of millions of Americans who loved hunting and fishing , he had a personal interest in that aspect of conservation . " A recent experience in my own State is a fresh reminder of another sort of conservation , " he said . I " Three weeks ago the greater portion of Kansas was still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever known . Today , even in the portions of it where the rainfall normally is the lightest , byroads are impassable , streams are overflowing and farmers are unable to complete their Fall wheat planting . " Since we can not arrange our rainfall to order , we must find ways of conserving the moisture we receive during periods of overabundance . This Kansas experience , of course , is only one phase of a very large program . " A conservation program is particularly necessary for the dust bowl States , the Governor declared , adding that it had been proved that a large part of the irreplaceable soil could be blown away , that the American forests could be cut down half in a few decades , that unwise handling of water resources brought heavy penalties of flood and drought , that the mineral resources of oil , coal and ore could be wasted and that the wild life of a continent could be jeopardized , and some of it even destroyed , by neglect of the spirit of sportsmanship . Would Clear Up " Confusion " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part , Mr. Landon said . " The present mess and muddle in Washington extends to conservation as much as it does to other matters under the New Deal , " he continned . " It is my purpose to straighten out this confusion . " Those conservation questions which have to do with the soil should be brought together in that department which deals with the soil . " I intend to see that the bureaus concerned with game and fish have a real chance , uphampered by conflicting jurisdiction . Folks are tired of promises of consolidations of divisions and coordination of efforts on behalf of conservation " I mean to support and advance the work of the National Park Service in protecting the beauty of the great outdoors for the pleasure and the profit of our people . I propose to advance our great mineral industries by sympathetic attention to their needs . " I will insist upon the fullest and most helpful cooperation with the States . I do not mean to allow overlapping and conflicting duties of many agencies to hamper the vastly important conservation work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the great outdoors is gaining . There is a vast army of tourists to whom the woods and fields and streams are sources of deep enjoyment . There are millions of spoitsmen to whom hunting and fishing are almost the breath of life . " Tens of millions of farm families are in need of a national landuse program . But above all , to the thousands of millions of Americans who are yet to come ? we of today owe a debt which we can not discharge except by firm adherence to Theodore Roosevelt 's policy of the conservation of natural resources . " About 400 party workers and candidates attended the dinner , and 200 more heard the speech through loud-speakers in a reception room . There was hearty applause . Governor Landon will carry Ohio by 200,000 , Edward Schorr , Republican State chairman , predicted . At Cincinnati he was met by Attorney General John W. Bricker , candidate for Governor against Martin L. Davey , Democratic in-I cumbent , who introduced him to the crowd at the station . " He 's rolling up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Place station in a factory section of Cincinnati . " He 's here to take Ohio with him . Will he ? " " Yes , " shouted the crowd . Before going to the Hotel Gibson for the breakfast with local party leaders , Governor Landon was met by Mayor Russell Wilson , Willis D. Gradison , Hamilton County chairman , and Mr. and Mrs. Charles P. Taft and their several children . The Governor stopped to talk with the youngsters , grandchildren of President Taft . In his radio speech at the station Mr. Landon paid tribute to Mr. Taft and Cincinnati 's charter form of government . as the commission rule is known there , although he had been warned not to do so because of the bitterness of the struggle to put it into effect and because of Republican organization opposition . " I want to congratulate you on your charter form of government , " he said . " This is one of the greatest achievements in municipal government today . You have gotten away from the city political machines , which constitute one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In his breakfast talk Governor Landon said : " I have paid tribute to your I municipal form of government , but 11 have more respect far the ma ' chine politician than I have for the lily-handed citizen who boasts that he takes no part in politics . " Speech Criticized by Some Governor Landon 's praise of the charter form of government , which was put through by a combination of charter supporters and Democrats against organization Republicans , brought criticism from some of the party leaders . The general opinion , however , was that Mr. Landon may get the support of some of the charter supporters by it and that he will lose few organization Republicans , because they have no alternative to supporting the regular nominee . In his breakfast speech Governor Landon declared that circumstances had made the Republican party the only possible rallying I point for those fighting New Deal threats to the American system of government and life . " Millions of independent voters and members of the real Democratic party subscribe to our cause , " he said . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been an inspiration to me . The present administration at Washington is in no sense a Democratic administration . Its whole procedure has violated the fundamental principles of the Democratic party . " The Democrats of Minnesota could tell you what I mean . The other day they were given a New Deal , all right . They found overnight that they bad been sold down the river . Their candidates deserted them . Sees " Challenge to the People " " A last desperate effort had been made to auction their votes to stave off defeat for the national machine . There is a new deal for you . And Minnesota is not the only State in which this same sort of sordid bartering has taken place . " Do n't think that those of us who support the American system of government and demand an efficient and economical administration of its affairs have an easy job . We are opposed by the most powerful propaganda machine ever assembled on American soil . Voluntary contributions do not pay for its operation . It is financed in a large part out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying for it . " This machine is manned in large part by Federal office holders . It is allocating public funds up and down the country on the eve of the election for the obvious purpose of attempting to sway the electorate . " It is endeavoring to coerce thousands of voters by threatening those on relief with destitution unless they vote right . It is trying to poison the mind of the public with a campaign of vicious misrepresentation . " The organization arrayed against us is fighting for the preservation of the special benefits it has given its members at our expense . This makes our job a hard , but by no means an impossible one . It presents a challenge , not to the Republican party , but to the American people . ? The New Deal has left us a few shreds of democracy . The people of this country still have the right to express themselves at the , polls . " In his speech at Winton Place , Governor Landon again stated his position on prohibition , saying that those opposed to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dodge this and other issues . His Prohibition Stand Restated " Is n't it , if I may use the word I employed recently in describing the administration 's new tax bill , the most cockeyed campaign you ever saw ? " The frequency with which members of the administration have used the phrase leads me to sus , pect that this will go down in hisItory as the ' red herring ' campaign . 1To me the way the present administration has called attention to ' red herrings ' is only a not-too-successful effort to draw attention away from the herrings of their own spawning . " In saying that the administration supporters were putting forth a ' red herring ' by trying to make it appear that he favored prohibition , the Governor repeated his statement made in a radio talk last May , that it was " up to each State to determine its own policy in liquor subject to Section 2 of the Twentyfirst Amendment , under which shipment into dry States is properly forbidden . " Greeted by large crowds at Hamilton , West Middletown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he passed his boyhood in Marietta . He praised Mr. Bricker , who accompanied him , as one of the outstanding Attorneys General of the country , and expressed confidence that he would be elected Governor .                     