@@697396

txt Steps to end the " objectionable " short selling of grain in the United States by Russian Government agencies were taken today by the Chicago Board of Trade , the world 's largest grain market , after a session of wild trading in the wheat nit In which prices for all futures dropped 2 to 2 , a bushel . The September option reached the lowest in twenty-five years . The directors of the board , after hearing a report from a committee which had just returned from a conference in Washington on the Russian activities , passed a resolution in which it was stated : " The board wishes to show every effort of cooperation in the protection of the American farmer in the free grain markets . It is the conclusion of the board that the selling of futures upon our exchanges by any foreign government is a new development of commerce of seriously objectionable character , and it must be brought to an end . " Directed at the Soviet . As the Soviet Government is the only one which , through recognized agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the resolution at present applies to it only . It is broad enough , however , to be invoked against any other nation attempting such operations . " The board through its business conduct committee , " the resolution added , " has always discountenanced bear raids and manipulation of prices , and it again instructs that committee to take particularly vigorous measures to prevent such activities . In formulating their judgment as to such activities , unduly large short selling as distinguished from hedging may be considered as evidence . " Traders said the resolution made it plain that henceforth no brokerage house could ethically accept a short sale order from the Soviet Government or its agents . In fact , it was added , this was sufficient in itself to guarantee that no more such transactions would occur . A telegram announcing the action was forwarded to Secretary Hyde by John A. Bunnell , president of the Board of Trade . Mr. Bunnell again assured the Secretary of a complete desire to cooperate " in protecting the interests of our people or our country , and in furthering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presses Inquiry . The business conduct committee of the Board of Trade , headed by Joseph W. Badenoch , is carrying on its investigation of the Russian short selling . It was understood that all but one firm which sold had turned over full information . The report of the committee may not be ready before Tuesday . The general impression was that nothing would be found either illegal or unethical In the conduct of the brokers who did not knowingly aid in an effort to depress the market . The directorate 's action in arbitrarily classifying the Russians as undesirable selling customers , it was pointed out , changes the situation . Nothing was given out concerning the report of the committee which conferred in Washington yesterday with Secretary Hyde , Secretary Lamont and Chairman Legge of the Federal Farm Board . It is under- stood , however , that the members represented to the officials the serious possibilities of lowering confidence in established marketing facilities . Trading in the wheat pit while the board of directors was considering its resolution was marked by lack of confidence on the part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of any other day since the downward movement started this month . September closed , at 76 ; ; cents ; December at to 80'A and 80Ni ; March at 841 ; , and May at 86 : " 1 to 867 ; 4 . Foreign markets were depressed In about the same degree as Chicago . At Winnipeg , the decline in futures was from 21 ? to 2i cents . Bear traders were reported active . A report from Genoa that the Soviet Government had canceled sailings of ships that were to take grain to European ports apparently had no effect in stimulating the markets . Hyde Is Told of Action Taken . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Sept. 26 . ? Action by the Chicago Board of Trade to block " unduly short selling as distinguished from hedging " was confirmed today in a telegram to Secretary Hyde from John A. Bunnell , president of the board . " The directors of the Chicago Board of Trade , " the telegram said , in part , " have instructed the board 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raids and manipulations , and advised the committee that unduly short selling , as distinguished from hedging , may be regarded as evidence of improper selling . " The Secretary also was informed of the resolution adopted by the committee that short selling by foreign governments was objectionable and must and immediately . " I am glad to see that the Chicago Board of Trade is making an effort to protect the market of the American farmer , " Secretary Hyde said . Mr. Bunnell 's telegram was regarded with some surprise by those who have been following the repercussions from the charges made by Secretary Hyde . Silas H. Strewn , counsel for the Board of Trade , and Mr. Hyde disagreed as to the effect the short selling in the Chicago market by a Soviet agency could have had on wheat prices . Mr. Strawn declared that 7,500,000 bushels , the amount mentioned by Mr. Hyde , could not figure in the depression . The Secretary , however , stated that it was not so much the amount actually sold short that counted as the fact that a government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such knowledge . While Mr. Hyde has held that there is such a thing as a legitimate hedge , he pointed out yesterday that he had read in a London dispatch to THE NEW YORK : TIMES that a deal such as Russia had made on the Chicago Exchange would have been impossible on the Liverpool market . In this connection Dr. J. W. T. Duvel. chief of the Grain Futures Administration , stated today that such a transaction would be impossible , due to the lesser volume of trade carried on at Liverpool . While at Chicago a sale of 7,000,000 bushels of wheat might not be felt until near the close of the market , at Liverpool its influence would be felt almost immediately . The situation at Chicago , Dr. Duvel said , was due to the rapid turnover of offerings and the great amount of speculation . In Liverpool , on the other hand , the turnover is not so great nor so rapid and there is not nearly so much speculation . A short sale in the Liverpool market , he added , would force prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to realize a profit , would find prices rising in proportion to his purchase just as fast as they declined . This condition of rapid adjustment to supply , Dr. Duvel said , would prevent a speculator from realizing any profit on such a deal , whereas in Chicago when the market declines it does not return so quickly , and the speculator can buy back his short sale at the low level and get out with his profit . The fact that all contracts must be registered at Liverpool , Dr. Duvel said , likewise was a potent influence in discouraging speculation . Another factor , he added , was the fact that Liverpool is primarily interested in a merchandising profit and not in a speculative one .                     