@@700809

txt BOSTON , Sept. ** question of slum clearance is up fn Boston.1 To be sure , Mayor Mansfield went on record a few days ago , when a group of housing experts . Americsn and foreign , toured the City , to the effect that the city has no slums . He insists on the substitution of milder terms . Instead of the quickfire " slum clearance " he prefers what is essentially a circumlocution , " the rehabilitation of substandard areas . " , Whether they may be rightly denominated " slums " or not , all paLrties agree that the city contains Several such " areas . " Of reeking ' slums , - perhaps , Boston has none . these is abundant roo , -n for im- , provement in housing conditions ini . - three of the " Ends . " North.1 West and South , in both East Boston and South Boston , and in some of the more suburban districts . Nevertheless , the distinguished company of visiting observers were favorably impressed by many things they saw . The president of the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headed the group , which included , among ! others , Sir Raymond Unwin and ; Miss A. Mellor Samuel , from Eng-1 land , and Dr. Ernest Kahn from Germany . They were shown the worst of Boston first , as was the case perhaps in their visits to other American cities . At long last , reversing the usual order , they will see and report to President Roosevelt . Federal Funds Blocked . Public attention of late also has been directed to the " rehabilitation " problem by the difficulties ; which hamper the city , and for that matter all the other cities of the ; Commonwealth , in obtaining access to the Fed feral funds designed for such use . The popular mind is somewhat confused respecting the matter . Of the work of reconditioning private houses and the ' building of new family houses , contemplated under the National Housing Act approved last June , there : has been a good deal of discussion . ' But these clearance projects are authorized under a section of the National Recovery Act of 1933 . Boston 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that cities in other States are " getting theirs " and this city is not . and on the other hand from the probable fact that the fault may belong with the General Court of Massachusetts and not with the Federal authorities . The public works title of NIRA authorizes the administrator under direction of the President to plan for " the construction . reconstruction , alteration or repair , under public regulation or control , of lowcost housing and slum-clearance projects . " Another section empowers the President to finance or aid in financing such works . with reasonable security for any loans made , the grants not to exceed 30 per cent of the cost of the labor and materials , the remaining 70 per cent to be loaned at 4 per cent interest . The General Court in last year 's session provided what was intended to he the machinery for the operation of this Federal plan . By an act signed by Governor Ely in July , 1933 , a State Board of Housing was created , to which would be submitted for approval all projects prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forming of limited-dividend corporations , to he controlled by the board , which should execute the projects approved thereby . Somehow this setup did not work satisfactorily and the administrator decided not to consider any projects which came to Washington by this route . Court Failed to Pass Bill . The board then applied to the Legislature of 1934 for a system the ; administrator had approved for New York . Illinois and other States . This contemplates a local authority in any city or town , essentially a municipal corporation , , to bring projects to the attention of the board and to manage projects approved by the board and accepted by t he administrator . I From the outset the board has i originated no projects nor was it intended to . For some reason the General Court failed to pass this bill . In consequence . Massachusetts is cut off from hhis conduit for Federal funds . Meantime . the board has ap- ; proved projects to the amount of ' $2,0,000.000 . The present dilemma is how to obtain access to building funds pending the probable passage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either to the PWA or the RFC. and the matter is being pushed both as a clearance plan and in behalf of unemployment . . There is one other difficulty . very different in nature . Nobody is supposed to make any profit in these projects nor to sustain any loss . They are to be self-liquidating . The Massachusetts law provides for " approved " rentals . There can be no certainty in advance . Somebody must take a chance . Much must depend on sound judgment by the board . to the office governors of the separate Reserve Banks have not resulted entirely well . In shaping the system 's general attitude and policies , the key position has always heretofore been the New York Reserve Bank . Governor STRONG and Governor HARRISON have fulfilled that responsibility , and it will rest upon the same office hereafter . On the other hand , it is not to be assumed that naming for the Reserve Board governorship a mere politician would be proper , or a man with eccentric ideas on finance , or , indeed , a person who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own attitude to any conceivable ideas of President or Congress . The necessity for intelligent independence , fully recognized in the Bank of England and the Bank of France , equally exists in our Federal Reserve . We believe that Mr. ROOSEVELT recognizes these aspects of the situation . His reappointment this week to the Reserve Board membership of A. C. MILLER , whose conservative instincts have been clearly demonstrated and who has occupied the place ever since the Reserve System was established in 1914 , points in that direction . The Federal Reserve has had a more or less chequered history , but public remembrance of the period since it came into being , twenty years ago , is still distinct enough for the people as a whole to acclaim its creation in its present form as one of the country 's greatest legislative and administrative triumphs . The enactment of the law creating it still has its place as perhaps the most memorable and lasting achievement of a Democratic Administration . Its occasional shortcomings , in the period since the war , have been attributable , not to defects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body to use the powers conferred on it by law for the purpose of restraining reckless speculative use of credit . The time will surely come when circumstances will call again for the exercise of those powers ; and when it does , the task will be simplified by the authority over speculative " margins " committed to the Federal Reserve by the Stock Exchange Regulation Law . But it will be imperative for the old and new powers to be exercised by an enlightened and intelligent central management . What the intrusion of politics into selection of the managers might mean was abundantly foreshadowed by the unfortunate results of President HARDING 'S choice of an incompetent Reserve Board governor , for reasons of personal favoritism.                     