@@697114

txt Josephus Daniels , secretary of the navy in the Wilson cabinet and an active dry leader , told the house ju ? dietary committee today that be favored a 300 million dollar annual apprepriation , if necessary , to enforce the Volstead law , and that he would not consider changing It for at least 190 years . Encouraged by the cheers of an enthusiastic dry audience , composed largely of women , the wartime navy chief , now a newspaper editor in Ra leigh , N. C. , delivered the most impas ? stoned dry plea yet heard at the committee 's prohibition hearings . If Mr. Daniels had his way , he said , he would use unlimited men and funds to make citizens obey the law , extend It to the Philippines , the Panama . Canal Zone and other territories and possessions , and ban liquor from foreign embassies . He urged congress to turn a deaf ear to the " propaganda of wet nullifleationists " for modinca ? lion or repeal and stand firm on the proposition that " this law shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today . The drys produced former Secretary Daniels as one of the four spokesmen heralded as star witnesses fur the TleXt to last day of their testimony , which , unless extended by the committee . will end tomorrow or Friday noon . Others taking the stand today were Prof. Horace D. Taft , head master of the Taft , Sebool for Boys at Water ? town , Conn .. and ' brother of the late William Howard Taft ; Attorney W11. liam  --  S. Bennet of Chicago , former representative from New ' York and now counsel for the Edward Hines interests . and Col. Walter F. Jenkins of the Salvation Army , New York City , who presented a statement in behalf of Commander Evangeline Booth . ? Former Secretary Daniels , because of lVs prominence , was saved as the last witness on today 's program , but did not escape without cross-ex:unina ? tion . He was subjected to a grilling that several times forced him to demur . " You were a member of President Wilson 's cabinet ? " asked Representa ? Live F. H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . eading his prepared statement . The witness replied that he was . " And you are aware , of course , that President Wilson vetoed the Volstead act ? " Wilson 's Veto Offered . Evidently prepared for the question . Mr. Daniels sought to read the . Witson veto message , but was overruled by Chairman George S. Graham Rep. , Pa . ) , This precipitated a stormy discussion , the drys insisting that the message be put into the record . This finally was consented to . " You say the eighteenth amend . ment is ' fairly well enforced ' In North Carolina ? ' La Guardia inquired when the squabble was over , " Yes , it 1s , " Daniels replied . " And , " the interrogator continued . " would you say the other amendMents to the constitution  --  the fourteenth and fifteenth , for instance  --  are ' fairly well enforced ' In North Caro-lina ? " The witness hesitated at this , finally saying . " Yes , they are  --  fairly well enforced , " at which La Guardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ' You say the wets lire not together on a plan . " said Representative Emanuel Celler Dem. , N. Y.I. " Do you think the colonists were together on a plan of government in 1776 ? " DANIELS  --  No , perhaps they were not . CELLER  --  And do you know how long it took to agree on a solution to the slavery problem and farm relief ? DANIELS  --  It took patience . That 's what we ask  --  patience until we give this law a fair trial . CELLER7 ? Is n't ten years long enough ? DANIELS. ? We have not had a fair trial . I would not limit it by Years . This law is so important , I 'd take I00 years if necessary . CELLER  --  At whatever cost in lives and money ? DANIELS  --  I think the cost Is getGag lower and lower all the time . CELLER  --  Would you be in favor of an expenditure of 300 ' million dollars a year ? DANIELS  --  Yes , if necessary . Why , twe : would save 300 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone . Would Dry Up Embassies . In answer to other questions Mr. Daniels condemned the use of liquor In Washington embassies and - in the territories , declaring that he would get rid of it " wherever the Stara and Stripes float " This brought prolonged applause . He also commended Attorney General . Mitchell'a edict that department of justice employes must be dry law sympathizers and ab . stainers . In his prepared statement Mr , Dan iels justified the use of force in carrying out the dry laws by comparing it to , the laws doing away with slavery and dueling . " I call attention to the long and often blocdy trail that has followed ellery attempt of mankind , to end the shay of evils , particularly those that Malt be said to have become domesticated , " he te , 43erted . " Laws against vice and : greed are resisted , sometimes unto death , " Though the nations have agreed to make submarine warfare more humane , who believes it will be at once universally respected when nations fro to war ? And yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored it , what is Involved in the proposals before this committee ? Boiled down they all say : Return to the saloon . Means Return to Saloon . " The man who opposes prohibition and says In the next breath that he never . could tolerate the return of the saloon either is practicing deception or he does not know that just as sure as night follows day the fall of prohibition is the reenthronement of the saloon . There has never been any alternative . There can not be any other alternative . The whole question must be considered with that absolute premise and certainty . " Immediately after making this statement , however , Mr. Daniels launched Into a long discussion of the government dispensary system , admitting that " the dispensary was better than the saloons and in every way prohibition Is better than either . " Taft Asked Brother 's Views . Prof. Taft at the outset as a witness involved himself in a dispute over the views of his brother , William Howard Taft , on prohibition . He emphatically denied that his brother was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prohibition , " he said . " The reasons he gave in one or two articles and speeches are much the same as those used by other men . When , however , the amendment was adopted and the law passed , he became convinced that both of them were beyond repeal and that all good citizens must observe the law and do all in their power to help hi its enforcement . " This statement was immediately challenged by the wet committeemen . Representative Celler quoted the late Mr. Taft 's letter to Allen Lincoln of Sept , 7 , 1917 , stating that he thought prohibition would fail because it was " sumptuary legislation , " an unwise extension of federal power , and would Inject a troublesome issue into politics . Prof .. Taft did not dispute the authenticity of this letter . But he argued that in the last ten years of his life his brother " changed his mind . " In his general statement , Prof. Taft stressed the dry majorities in congress , declaring that the wets have entirely failed to explain away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people do not want prohibition . Prof. Taft explained that his school for boys , a prep school for Yale , sends two-thirds of its graduates to that not . versity . His attention was called to the recent Yale student straw vote which went live to one wet , " This is no revolt of youth , " he declared with a smile , " I object to taking the evidence of these youngsters as serious . I have a lot of the young wets in my classes . Some of them are ferocious . They say drinking before prohibition was not nearly so bad as now and most of them were then in kindergarten . " Tells of New York Conditions . Mr. Bennet , although his offices are In Chicago , confined his remarks almost entirely to the situation in New ' York City , his former home . He explained that he lived in Evanston , twenty miles away , and really knew nothing about prohibition in Chicago . The burden of his testimony was that Prohibition has been of great benefit to the workmen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , drunken workmen can not be tolerated . Col. Jenkins of the Salvation Army , appearing for Commander Booth , who sent word her health would not permit her to appear , read a twenty-five Page statement written by her in which she lauded the prohibition law as a boon to the element of humanity with which her organization deals . Miss Booth 's Views . In her written statement , Commander Booth emphasized the fact that the lower ' strata of social life " is most decidedly improved " under prohibition . She quoted at length from reports from various cities . " A few weeks ago in Chicago the health authorities were confronted with a smallpox scare that made it advisable to come to one of our places , where we had over 500 men sleeping , " she stated . " The efficiency of prohibition underwent a most impartial test These 500 men were vaccinated and not one of them was found to he untie ) the influence of drink . It would have been quite impossible to make a statement like this under the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another of our places in Chicago , caring jointly for 760 men , assure me that before prohibition from 25 to 33 per cent of the men would be more or less under the influence of liquor every night . " Explaining that the average age of girls under the army 's care has changed since 1914 from 23 to 19 , Commander Booth said that it was due to other things than prohibition . " Formerly , " she said , " drink and the social evil were interlocking in a most pronounced way , and recovery for the wronged woman was the work of much longer and patient care than the cases that we now handle . A second or third lapse would naturally make the subject much older than when the first mistaken course was followed . This alone explains for the difference in the average age of the inmates in our retreat . "                     