@@697043

txt The proposed Weehawken Tunnel which would form a connecting link between the midtown tunnel already authorized by New York City and New Jersey was one of the leading topics of . discussion between Governor Morgan F. Larson of New Jersey today and " substantial progress " was reported by both Executives after their talk . The conference , held at the Executive Mansion , where Governor Larson is an overnight guest , was preliminary to a formal conference between the two Chief Executives and committees of the Legislatures of both States to be held at the Hotel Roosevelt in New York City Friday . There are many outstanding questions of mutual concern to this ; State and New Jersey , such as diversion of water from the Delaware River , disposal of New York City 's garbage , which , it is alleged , has cluttered New Jersey bathing beaches with refuse , and the proposal to merge the Port Authority and the New YorkNew Jersey Tunnel Commission which built and is operating the Holland tube . These problems were merely " touched upon , " according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were conferring , a report was received showing that traffic last January in the Holland tube had been 24 per cent greater than the traffic during January , 1929. " tinder the circumstances . " Governor Larson told newspaper correspondents , " our conference today was most opportune . This report shows that a new tunnel must be built without delay . " " Yes , " said Governor Roosevelt , " It shows that the Holland Tunnel will be crowded to capacity with traffic by 1932 . We can not have an additional tunnel ready for operation by that time , but we can and should make- an early start nn the project . " " We discussed the building of a new tunnel and also the method of financing to be adopted , " Governor Roosevelt said after he had taken Governor Larson with him to the Executive chamber , preliminary to the latter 's being received by and invited to address a joint session of the Legislature . Discussed Tolls Question . " We also discussed the question of tolls , " Governor Roosevelt added . Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tunnels through appropriations from the general fund on proximately a pay-as-you-go plan , New Jersey had issued bonds to meet its share of the cost , these bonds being secured by tolls , not only from the Holland tubes but from the new Camden Bridge across the Delaware at the other end of the State . Both Governors admitted that under the circumstances there remained quite a financial jumble to untangle . " There are a good many legal and financial questions to consider , " Governor Roosevelt said , " but I hope we will be able to straighten them out . There is this , for instance : The law under which the Holland tubes was built provides that when it has been fully paid for from tolls , it shall be free to traffic . If we build this new tunnel we will have have to charge tolls until it is paid for . The result would be one free tunnel and one toll tunnel , within a very short distance of one another , in ruinous competition . " " Well , the cost also was discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey Executive . " We have one estimate of $100,000 , - 000 and another for $62,000,000 . " Governor Roosevelt said that Governor Larson and he were in accord that New Jersey should not be asked to bear the entire cost of the New Jersey approaches , including a costly tunnel under the Palisades . This cut , the Governor said , would be regarded as part of the tunnel , the cost to be borne jointly by the two States . Larson Guest of Roosevelt . Governor Larson was the guest of honor at a dinner given by the Governor and Mrs. Roosevelt at the Executive Mansion . Others present were Senator Knight , Speaker and the Republican and Democratic floor leaders of the Legislature . After the dinner the two Governors went to the Capitol and remained together in the executive chamber until word came that the Senate and Assembly were in joint session waiting to receive the New Jersey executive . The Assembly Chamber , where the joint session was held , was crowded to the doors and the west gallery was jammed with spectators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rgoYstPJ nor Lehman , who introduced him , and Speaker who surrendered the gavel for the time being to the latter . Governor Larson was warmly received by the legislators . " I arrived here this afternoon in response to an invitation from Governor Roosevelt , " he said in addressing them . " I did not then expect to have the honor , distinction and pleasure of addressing the Legislature . I came here chiefly to demonstrate to the people of this great State that I am always willing to discuss in a spirit of cooperation questions of common interest to our two States . I have only been in the State of New York a few hours , but I feel that already much has been accomplished in bringing us closer together in considering our problems . " Win Confer Here Friday . Governor Larson was asked if he favored merging the Port Authority and the Interstate Tunnel Commission . " My mind is not closed against it , " he said . " If it were I could see no use in attending the conference next Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself . Governor Roosevelt has a speaking engagement at Cornell and Lieut . Gov . Lehman will represent him . Senator Knight , Spea er , Senators Hofstadter and Downing , and Assemblymen Dunmore and Irwin Steingut will speak for the Legislature at the conference . Arthur M. Pierson of Union City , president of the New Jersey Senate ; Joseph G. Wolburg of Essex , majority leader ; Senator Roy T. Yates of Passaic County ; William B. Knight , Republican leader of the Assembly , and Assembly Russell S. Wise of Passaic and Walter Weber of Bergen gill nwgsmat New 4ergeyA                     