@@703359

txt The British Government proposes to send an observer to the Sudeten German area if the Czech Government will agree , The Christian Science Monitor learns . The French and Get man Governments are already understood to have considered a similar step . News of this effort to settle the German-Czech tension over the German minorities in Czechoslovakia is regarded as all the more significant in diplomatic circles as the idea originated with the Germans themselves . It started with an article in the VOlkischer Beobachter over the week end which advocated that British officers should go to the Czech-German frontier in much the same role as they fulfilled for some time on the Portuguese and Spanish frontier to report any illegal transport of arms to Spanish Insurgents . The idea appealed to Viscount Halifax , British Foreign Secretary , who immediately put forward the plan for an international commis-sion , Czechs Want Guarantees When Lord Halifax discussed it yesterday With Herbert von Dircksen , the German Ambassador , it transpired that the German Government would insist on being represented on the international commission , so Lord Halifax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission . The French have agreed , so have the Germans . The Czechs are anxious to know what the Commission 's duties would be before accepting . In particular , they do not want the commission as a substitute for the partial precautionary Mobilization decreed last week end . if they are to be told to demobilize , they want specific guarantees from Prance and Britain as an alternative . Guard Until After Election It is understood here that though this question does not arise in connection with the proposal for an ? boner . Konrad Henlein is demanding the withdrawal of Czech troops as a preliminary condition before he will agree to negotiate . The Czechs , however , say that this is imposdble until after Sunday 's elections are over as their presence is the fitly guarantee that order will be kept . The observer 's duties are understood to include keeping watch on the situation and reporting any circumstance calculated . to lead to increase of tension . It is apparently Intended that it should operate only on the Czech side of the frontier . Diplomatic circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this new role not only further proof of determination to do Its utmost to maintain peace , but clear evidence that in the event of trouble supervening , Britain could use armed forces to restrain the aggressor . The Ceczh demand for specific assurance on this point is therefore regarded as superfluous , though comprehensible in cirdumstances . An Important Contribution Germany 's acceptance ? indeed , sponsorship  --  of such a commission is generally regarded as an important contribution toward a solution . But a German offer to extend the sphere of operations to the German Side of the frontier would be still more appreciated . Meanwhile it is hoped here that renewed negotiations between Premier Hodza and Herr Henlein will be able to proceed . Jan Masaryk , Czechoslovakia 's London Ambassador , who was the first Czech official to contact Herr *Henlein , is going to Prague tomorrow to help in the talks . He has advantage of knowing the private views of Viscount Halifax , Sir Alexander Cadogan and Sir Robert C. Vannsittart on the I subject . He also is informed of what concessions Britain would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which observers here see facing the negotiators arises from fundamental difference of outlook between the National Socialist and democratic systems . Premier Hodza , it is pointed out , can not lightly abandon political any more than racial minorities in the Sudeten Germany 's civic areas . The National Socialist totalitarian theory , on the other hand , necessitates complete disappearance of other political groups and subordtnation of minorities such as Jews , not to mention Czechs . The basic problem is the resolving of the conflict of these two philosophies , for which a compromise solution is not easy . Poland , Hungary Aid Peace LONDON , May 23 VP ) ? Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain told the House of Commons today that the Polish and Hungarian Governments had joined in the search for a peaceful solution of Czechoslovakia 's Sudeten German problem and the attendant friction with Germany . Answering a question , Mr. Chamberlain said : " His Majesty 's representatives in Warsaw and Budapest have already made clear to the Polish and Hungarian Governments the importance which His Majesty 's Government attach to securing an immediate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from both sides . " The Cabinet again considered the German-Czech crisis and faced renewed charges of lagging air rearmament by the opposition in the House . Today 's Cabinet session was the regular weekly meeting , the first since Sunday 's emergency gathering because of the difficulties between Prague and Berlin over rights of self-government by the 3,500,000 German minority in Czechoslovakia . Theie were before the Ministers two Important reports , one by Viscount Halifax , Foreign Secretary , on a talk yesterday with the German , Ambassador , Herbert von Dircksen ; 11 the other by Prima Minister Chani-1 berlain , who outlined the situation in an audience with King George late yesterday ,                     