@@699930

txt Governor Herbert H. Lehman demanded last night that Mayor O'Brien furnish him with a " statement of facts " in connection with the city 's request for an extraordinary session of the Legislature to authorize new taxes . The Governor 's demand , made by telegram from Albany , according to The Associated Press , came after Deputy Controller Frank J. Prial had given assurances that salary payments amounting to $1,500,000 to 37,500 workers on the city 's relief payrolls would be made on Monday . Governor Lehman promised to consider calling the special session of the Legislature if the New York situation seemed to warrant it . The Governor received yesterday a copy of the Board of Estimate resolution requesting the special session , but he said that it was not accom.panied by the detailed financial report he had asked for , showing the need for the session . Facts Necessary , Re Says . The Governor was quoted by The Associated Press as saying : " I have ... rent a wire to Mayor O'Brien , advising him of the omission of the statement . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me . I advised him that the statement of facts would be necessary . " The State Executive planned to leave Albany for New York late last night to keep a speaking engagement and to return to the capital today or early tomorrow . He said he planned to remain in Albany over the week-end instead of going to his Summer home at ' Lake George . Although he said he had no week-end appointments , it was believed that some of the legislative leaders might make a surprise visit to talk over the question of the special session . Mr. Lehman had been assured that the special financial report would be in his hands last night.1 This report was presented by the Controller to the Board of Estimate last Thursday and was adopted by that body to go with its request . Relief Pay on Monday . Controller Berry 's report on relief financing showed that the city had a remainder of $2,706,667 in relief funds on July 10 . Mr. Prial announced yesterday that the payments this Monday would be drawn from that balance . He declared these funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city by the State Emergency Relief Administration . In- addition to meeting the relief  --  ; .4- , , roils ; Mr. Prial said , the city would meet all its salary obligations today in full . He added that no borrowing would be necessary . The Controller 's report recommended an increase of 1 per cent in the State sales tax and a like increase in the State tax on stock and corporate securities transfers . The proceeds from both levies , according to the recommendation , would be spread among cities on tie basis of their population . The revenues received by New York would be used specifically for relief . The city would expect to get $0,000,000 a year from both sources . At City Hall yesterday the impression prevailed that the city 's request would be heeded by the Governor , who is to speak today at the dedication of Grand Central Parkway in Queens and Northern State Parkway in Nassau County . It was pointed out that other municipalities up-State were as much interested as New York in a special session to relieve their financial difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor could not afford to deny the special session , because that action would bring upon him the responsibility for failing to meet the relief crisis . Sales Tax Else Fought . The Retail . Dry'Good Association of New York added its protest yesterday to others already expressed against increasing the sales tax . The Merchants Association , the Fifth Avenue Association . the City Af- fairs Committee and the Socialist and Communist parties have already gone on record against it . Doubling the State retail sales tax will " put an immediate damper " on the increased buying which has been developing . Walter Hammitt , president of the Retail Dry Goods Association of New York and vice president of Frederick Loeser &; Co. , said : " The retail merchants of New York State will be seriously alarmed at the proposal made by the city authorities to double the State retail sales tax . Stores can not possibly absorb this tax . They must pass it on to consumers and it must result in rising rktail prices . " Are the people of this State able and willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on top of that increased taxes ? There is certainly no indication yet that they either can or will take up such a burden . " To double the sales tax now will be to put an immediate damper on the increase of retail buying which is slowly but clearly making itself evident . Is that the way back to prosperity ? js that the way to keep the fac &ries; busy and people ' employed ? . rEvery citizen who wants to see better times should make it quite clear in the legislative halls that more collars around the neck of retailing in this State in the shape of sates taxes will not be permitted . " A group of unemployed tried vainly yesterday to find out what had been done toward investigating a list of needy cases submitted to Mayor O'Brien lest Wednesday . Joseph Porpoer of the Downtown Unemployed Council led the group of thirty to a home relief station in a public school at Spring and Elizabeth Streets . Learning , that the list had not been received there , the delegation came to City Hall to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Adirondacks , but the group was informed that the list had been sent to Welfare Commissioner Frank J. Taylor . When the marchers a ? rived at Mr. Taylor 's office they were told he was not in . The Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York has telegraphed the Governor that it believes a special session of the Legislature should be called to consider the general condition of the city 's finances , " but that no new taxes should be approved until drastic reductions are made i in the city 's expenses , Including reduction of the higher salaries and elimination of unnecessary employes , and that present mandatory legislation should ' be repealed or waived until the end of the emergency . " This was announced by Lawrence B. Elliman , chairman of the executive committee .                     