@@704297

txt The combined efforts of Germany 's secret criminal and political police had still failed tonight to bring forth a definite clue regarding the perpetrator cf the explosion that wrecked the Buergerbraeu Cellar on Wednesday night a few minutes after Chancellor Hitler had left it . Arrests have been made in every direction ? including monarchist , Jewish and Catholic circles  --  but the mystery of the explosion still remains . In Berlin , however , the official German News Bureau announced that recovered fragments of the time-bomb used in the assassination attempt " actually trace the crime to a foreign country , " The United Press reported . The bodies of the seven killed in the blast were laid out in state at the Feldherrenhalle this evening and a guard of honor was stationed there . Tomorrow at 11 A. M. , the hour at which , twenty-one years ago , the World War came to an end , they will receive a state burial . The seven coffins were each covered with a Nazi flag and flanked by tall flame-topped pylons , which lit up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steady stream of people passed before the columns of the Feldherrenhalle , their arms upraised and their heads bared in the slight rain . A huge gold swastika glowed on a background of dark red cloth . The light of the torches could be seen for miles through the darkened city . Services to Be Broadcast The funeral services tomorrow will be broadcast over a national hook-up , and flags on all public and party buildings are to be halfstaffed . Adolf Wagner , Nazi Governor of Bavaria , today visited those of the sixty-three wounded who are still in hospitals and conveyed to them personal greetings from Chancellor Hitler . Tonight Munich was still shivering with fear and excitement as the police probed into every nook and corner of the city looking for the person who planted the bomb . Among those who have been ar- rested are 120 building workers who were engaged in renovating a wing of the building a short time ago . The entire staff of the Buergerbraeu Cellar also has been arrested . An American student who was leaving for a day in the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the main railway station as he was about to board a train . He knew nothing of the explosion , but the fact that he had passed the night with a friend two blocks from the building was sufficient reason tor the police to investigate his character . As it happened , he had no papers , since he was waiting for a new passport to be issued by the United States Consul General here . He was taken to the consulate for identification and then was immediately released . British Guilt Charged Anew Wireless to THE NEW YORK Tams . BERLIN , Nov. ** planted the bomb in the Buergerbraeu Cellar with the intention of assassinating Chancellor Hitler continues to be the major theme in the German press . The actual persons responsible for the deed , however , are considered less important than " those elements responsible for the atmosphere in which the Munich bombing took place . " Those " elements , " the Germans insist , are Britain and the British Secret Service . Official quarters refuse to anticipate the findings of the nation-wide police search for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing conclusions  --  they can hardly be termed deductions ? from a British radio statement made on . Wednesday , before the explosion , about some new " surprise " for the Germans ; from the alleged fact that a London newspaper carried a report of the explosion at midnight Wednesday although it has no correspondent in Germany and thus , it is asserted , " beat " other foreign newspapers , and from similar " evidence " the press finds Britain responsible and promises retribution . An official tone was given to this view tonight by the DiplomatischPolitische Korrespondenz . This Foreign Office organ does not hesitate to lay direct responsibility for the explosion on Britain ; it is held part of her announced campaign to destroy Hitlerism . " Germany , however , " the publication asserts , " is not willing to submit to this newest assault against its own and Europe 's future , but rather , with weapons in hand , will defend her own and Europe 's security against British encroachments . " Mgr . Cesare Orsenigo , the Papal Nuncio , as dean of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to convey the sympathy of the entire corps as well as the Pope 's personal sympathy . At the same time he notified Herr Hitler of the Vatican 's whole-hearted approval of the Netherland and Belgian mediation offer . Particular attention is devoted in the press to the exchange of telegrams between Herr Hitler and King Victor Emmanuel and Premier Mussolini . The texts of the Italians ' expressions of sympathy as well as the Chancellor 's responses were printed . Other Italian leaders as well as the heads of most other European neutral States are also reported to have sent similar messages of sympathy , while President Kyosti Kallio of Finland is said to have telephoned Herr Hitler personally . " Proof " of Foreign Origin BERLIN , Nov. 10 ( UP ) ? Recovered fragments of the time-bomb used in the attempted assassination of Chancellor Hitler at Munich " actually trace the crime to a foreign country , " it was announced tonight . The official German News Bureau , which made the announcement , said tt investigators of the secret police working under Heinrich Himmler , their chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beer-cellar debris . The foreign origin of the crime was said to have been established by an examination of " certain parts of the time-bomb . " There was no amplification or description of the " certain parts " of the bomb discovered . The government also announced that the membership of a special commission established under Herr Himmler to investigate the blast and attempt to run down the perpetrators had been trebled to han- dle more than 1,000 tips and clues received from the German public . , Anti-Nazis Claim Responsibility Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . COPENHAGEN , Denmark , Nov. 10 ? Danish radio listeners tonight heard the anti-Nazi German Freedom station , more powerful than before , broadcast : " Our n.en managed to enter the Buergerbraeu Cellar and will be able also to manage to lead Germany into a new future . Our battalions are ready on the inner front . "                     