@@701456

txt The League of Nations ' procedure toward bringing the Italo-Ethiopian issues to a showdown was moderately speeded today in the gloom following Premier Benito Mussolini 's rebuff to the peacemakers . A subcommittee of experts , after working all day drafting the fivepower committee 's report to the Council , decided to work through Sunday in the hope of finishing it . in time for the committee itself to begin acting on it Monday instead of Tuesday . This report is understood to contain a new offer to Italy on which Premier Pierre Laval of France bases his hopes of preventing war . The sooner it is formally made and formally answered , the sooner will the Council , ' In the event that Mussolini rejects the offer , have to face the question of translating into concrete action all the recent general pledges to uphold the Covenant . Ethiopia Helps Clear the Way . Ethiopia also helped clear the way by filing late tonight her answer to the Italian memorandum , along with a detailed criticism of it by Marcel Griaule , one of the authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's news from Rome " very disappointing , " especially in view of the conciliatory note sounded in Mr. Laval 's declaration and Sir Samuel Hoare 's broadcast . But he said that , aside from deepening the already deep pessimism , it left the situation here unchanged . A French spokesman professed not to be discouraged and sought to minimize the importance of Mussolini 's stand , particularly as regards withdrawing from the League . He saw Mussolini " doing his utmost to prevent a colonial operation " from forcing Italy to leave the League . He thought Geneva was still far from making Mussolini choose between Africa and European policies , but found it natural that the Italian Premier should be preparing for all eventualties . The French delegation , he said , believed the project that the subcommittee was elaborating technically was realizable . He remained hopeful that it would be possible through the joint efforts of Great Britain and France to get Mussolini to accept it eventually . Some Frenchmen consider Mussolini 's move merely another bargaining one to get the best possible offer before beginning a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prevailing one here . It is noteworthy that even among such powers as the Little Entente opinion grew considerably today that , since all that has been said here in the past four days by Sir Samuel Hoare , Mr. Laval and others has been thus brushed aside by Mussolini , it is useless to place hope any longer in conciliation and it is necessary to hasten getting down to decisions . Little Entente Cautious . Officially , however , the Little Entente States are keeping themselves well in hand . Dr. Eduard Benes , the Czechoslovak Foreign Minister , apparently hopes that , if they let the situation get bad enough , they can wrest a specific promise from Britain to do for them in Central Europe later what she wants them now to do for her in East Africa , The League Assembly today heard Maxim Litvinoff , the Soviet Foreign Commissar , and the delegates of ten small countries . Most of the latter gave pledges to keep their covenant obligations in much more general terms than did Mr. Laval . Among the exceptions were Finland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without reservations , she supported " the policy that the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom has enunciated , and we accept its implications . " This contrasted not only with the weakness of Australia 's stand Wednesday , but with the attitude of Canada today . " Canada , " said her spokesman , " believes the League is an indispensable agency of world peace . We can not agree that any member is warranted in resorting to war to enforce its claims in violation of its solemn obligation to seek and find a peaceful settlement for every dispute . " We hope that an honorable and peaceful solution of the Ethiopian controversy may yet be reached . If , unfortunately , this proves not to be the case , Canada will join the other members of the League in considering how by unanimous action peace can be maintained . " The Yugoslav delegate , speaking for the Little Entente , said : " Having signed different international undertakings , treaties of peace and the Covenant of the League , we consider them sacred , and we intend to remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman for the Balkan Entente , the Greek Foreign Minister . He said its members " more than ever remain faithful to the principles of the , Covenant . " Litvinoff Reaffirms Stand . Mr. Litvinoff reaffirmed his recent statement in the Council , which remains one of the strongest yet made against the Italian view . But he prudently echoed Sir Samuel Hoare 's promise " to be second to none " in discharging Covenant obligations . He reflected the doubt that remains widespread here as to whether the governments will act as they talk when he said : " If we leave this Assembly with a certainty that the States whose representatives have addressed us here have formally and solemnly pledged their governments not to allow new attacks on the League Covenant as an instrument of peace and to make use of it in all cases of aggression , irrespective of their origin or object , this Assembly will become a landmark in the new his- , tory of the League . " What concerned Mr. Litvinoff mainly today were " other ominous dangers " facing Europe and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League from being further damaged now , as " we may need it more than once and on still more serious occasions . " Finding " the collective security afforded by the covenant is not sufficient , " he advocated more mutual assistance pacts . Without specifying the Polish-German non-aggression pact , he denounced this type of treaty as providing security ; for aggression instead of for peace . " Localization of war means , " he said , " its legalization . " Revives Briand Proposal . He urged that the Assembly revive the late Aris:ide Eriand 's committee of inquiry for a European union , arguing that such regional agreement would be more than Justified , now that the Assembly had on its agenda the question of its relations with the Pan American Union . He suggested that the time had corn .. also to resume consideration of the Soviet proposal to define the term " aggressor . " Presumably this was because Sir Samuel Hoare 's pledge to resist " unprovoked aggression " made such a definition all important . The Portuguese Foreign Minister voiced the fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the League with such projects as that now before the five-power committee might form a precedent for satisfying the German desire for colonies by taking those of Portugal . He put it in these veiled terms : " Collective security would mean nothing unless it safeguarded against any sort of infringement the whole of the national territory of every country , as well as its political independence . I mean by that , safeguarding them against conquest and also against any decisions that have not been freely accepted . As far as I am concerned , I would say there is one thing which to me is even more repugnant than war- namely , spoliation by procedure . " Ecuador , Finland , Honduras and Turkey were also among the nations heard from today .                     