@@699640

txt It is virtually certain tonight that the boycott of the Jews , a sample of which was served up yesterday throughout Germany , will not be resumed Wednesday , the day conditionally set for its continuance . The opposition of sober Germans outside the National Socialist ranks who realize what it has meant for Germany in the outside world is too strong . The Nazi press , which now means the great majority of the German newspapers , still fulminates and threatens as to what will happen unless the rest of the world clicks its heels and obeys the Nazi command to change its opinion about Hitlerism . Nevertheless , there is every reason to believe that before Wednesday the official telescopes now searching the horizon for evidence of world recantation will discern something that they can present as such . If they do not , all information tonight is that the boycott will be called off anyway . Bitter Clash in Cabinet . For one thing , it is now pretty well established that the controversy in Cabinet circles Friday night over the boycott 's expediency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat and that at least two resignations were threatened . From industrial , financial and shipping authorities frantic appeals were coming to call off the boycott at all costs , and discussion showed an actual majority of the Cabinet strongly opposed to proceeding with the plan . The Nazi members broke down this opposition only by pointing out that the boycott orders had already reached the rank and file and that recantation would not prevent their being carried out to a greater or less extent , but would only result in widespread undisciplined procedure out of which any amount of uncontrollable violence might come . Even then , according to one report  --  which was unconfirmable of course  --  Baron von Neurath , the Foreign Minister , persisted in his threat to resign . An open break was prevented only by the intervention of Vice Chancellor von Papen , an understanding being reached that the strictest vigilance should be exercised yesterday and that there should be no more of the boycott . Calls Move Mere Rehearsal . Nevertheless , the chief Hitlerite organ , the Voelkische Beobachter , still declares today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a further " series of measures that will be put into operation unless world opinion definitely changes . " " The Jews have now been made to understand that we no longer intend to bargain with them but that we propose to tackle them in their most vulnerable spot  --  their purses , " it adds . Berlin began to present a normal appearance again today , however . The coffee shops and restaurants that closed yesterday reopened and were thronged as usual . The other shops will reopen tomorrow , and today , Nazi headquarters in Munich having given permission for the removal of the offensive signs with which they were placarded yesterday , there was great activity in window-washing everywhere . But the school teachers , university professors , lawyers and doctors  --  not to mention the judges and other public servants  --  outlawed by successive Nazi rescripts remain unemployed and under the ban , and all they can do when their cash savings have been exhausted will be to join the breadlines . They can not draw out their bank deposits nor can they leave Germany without passports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excuses for it seems to be in order . It has been insisted by National Socialist leaders that the boycott was in retaliation for the publication in the foreign press of stories of persecution and " atrocities " of which Jews in Germany , native and foreign , had been the victims . These had produced widespread indignation abroad and threats to boycott German goods . For " inventing " such stories and circulating them through their influence on the foreign press , the Jews of Germany were blamed as well as the foreign press itself . Among the latter Tee New Ibex TIMES did not escape its share of censure . A dispatch sent from Paris , published March 20 , recounting stories told by Americans arriving there of conditions in Germany in which Jews were pictured as victims and citing instances of physical violence in which Jews were sufferers , was instanced by the Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung , most dignified of the government organs , as having " given the signal " to all the American newspapers that still hesitated in the crusade against Germany . The dispatch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the imprints of a prearranged job . " Ca n't Reach Officials . The good faith of this semi-official assertion may be judged in the light of the fact that during the four days that have elapsed since the issue of TB:E NEW YORK TIMES containing this dispatch reached Berlin , evory efffort has been made through official channels and by other means to exhibit it to any one of several high governmental authorities and obtain a specific statement in refutation  --  and every such effort has failed . An appointment with Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels , the Minister of Popular Enlightenment and Propaganda , was even obtained in advance of the arrival of the newsPaper , but the day it was to have been granted , it was called off . The Minister was too busy . It only remains , therefore , to analyze the statements made in the dispatch in the light of the coird= spondent 's experience en the spot and to see where , if at all , they were in error . These stories of " atrocities " were presented as told by Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one case , as coming from a partial eyewitness . Americans are certain that these stories could not come direct from Germany because of censorship . There is no doubt that Americans leaving Germany are telling such stories immediately they get out . They are alsd telling them to each other here  --  privately . The Cases Cited . As to censorship preventing their reaching the outside . world , while there is no doubt about the exitI6 tence of German censorship , the fact it that out of the four instance* ( Med in the dispatch , two were recognized here as having been telephoned to London by British correspondents here and printed in reputable London newspapers before they were told in Paris ; the third was avowedly taken from the Paris newspaper La Liberte as related there by the victim 's wife  --  later identified by American correspondents in Paris  --  and the fourth was an account of what the American who told it alleges he saw . Such stories are quite common here . They are not sent to America by the correspondents of THE NEW YORK TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be confirmed because the National Socialist Government itself prevents confirmation . The Nazi-controlled police and their Nazi auxiliaries certainly would not confirm Stich stories . And under a recently decreed law it is a severely punishable offense for any German to give any foreigner " information detrimental to Germany . " Information about brutal assaults upon harmless citizens would certainly be " detrimental to Germany . " But that such cases have occurred , and plenty of them , there is not the slightest doubt . Captain Hermann Wilhelm Goering , Nazi Minister Without Portfolio , admits it himself . Addressing the representatives of the foreign press on March 25 in an impassioned argument against what he called " the drive against the national uprising in Germany , " he said  --  and THE NEW YORK TIMES correspondent so quoted him : " Against the government 's will ? but we can not be everywhere ? there have been individual acts Of lawlessness and violence . But some such have been inevitable under the circumstances and they have been negligible in the face of the general tranquillity and order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deaths incident to the national revolution were actually no more than there were in the normal unhappy Germany in her internecine conflict . " Careful investigation by American correspondents has disclosed that there were actually 150 complaints of violence and persecution , all supported by affidavits , in Which the complainants were Jews Of foreign nationalities , on record in foreign embassies in Berlin before the boycdtt began . Nine fit Our Embassy . Nine are in the - American Embassy . The details a these have been reported in dispatches to Tam New Yoax Trues , and the censors passed them . There is none in the French and none in the British Embassy . The largest number is reported by the Polish Legation .. These are foreign Jews . How many German Jews have had reasons for complaint there is no means of knowing . There are 600,000 native Jews , besides the exceeding few Of foreign nationality in Germany , and the population of German is 65 , - 000,000 . When the police reported three complaints in a single morning The London Times referred to them aft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the light of these circumstances the retaliative aspect of the boycott does not stand up very well . The alleged initiative of THE NEW Yo y TIMES in bringing it about is dis seed of hero by . the revelation that the meeting at the Hotel Astor in New York , at which a boycott of German goods was first discussed was held the night before the Paris dispatch was published and was reported in the issue containing the dispatch . And the fairness of the German censorship will be indicated by whether this thoroughly authenticated statement of fact reaches the American public . The commissarial government of Bavaria has issued a summary order forbidding the establishment of new department stores , the enlargement of existing ones or the extension of their branches . A corresponding interdict falls on oneprice and cooperative stores .                     