@@703918

txt The wasteland that was Flushing Meadow three yearsLago changed to Wellsian fantasy of color last night as engineers of the World 's Fair staged its first dress rehearsal of night illumination . Heavy mist , low on the old marshlands , gave an added effect of softness to the scene , shortly after 7 o'clock , when the lights were turned on . The Perisphere loomed on the horizon like some giant planet , swimming in a cloud . It had the vague , mysterious blue of deep moonlight on its surface and men and women visitors entering its immensity looked like tiny microbes . The Trylon , beside it , also bathed in the ghostly blue , soared out of sight in the reddish haze . The Aviation Building , ' on another part of the Fair Grounds , was an immense yellow harvest moon . Visitors ' eyes , roving to all points of the compass , encountered a quiet , mystical beauty  --  blue , red , gold , green , purple ; all- in soft , soothing harmony . Constitution Mall was something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throwing their light up from the side bathed the budding trees in a greenish fluorescence of strange unearthly quality Warm murals of the variom buildings , bathed in their own lighting , provided beautiful background . A Real World of Tomorrow The World of Tomorrow became something more than a phrase as roving eyes took in the whole fantantic scene . It was as if some invisible hand , with consummate art , had mixed on a tremendous palette a weird combination of pastel shades of light . Odd-shaped buildings that had stared blankly on the fair lawns in the light of day glowed suddenly with great blocks  --  as of ice illumined from within  --  with cold blues and faint greens . Sculptural groups , recessed in blank walls , lighted from behind , stood out with amazing strength . At 10 o'clock the final miracle of the lighting wizards brought a gasp from onlookers . In the j.Jagoon of Nations 585 twin projectors , each charged with the strength of 1,500-watt tungsten lamps and 400-watt mercury arc lamps threw breathtaking floods of color on the dancing fountains . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  were transformed into vapory columns of green , blue , gold and various pastel shades of red , and the ? fountain became - living fire . The whole effect was heightened by deep organ notes pealing from an invisible sound system . Between the larger exhibition buildings , as automobiles took a caravan of visitors around the grounds , huge mushroom-shaped structures , bathed in silver white , loomed out of the ground haze like the growths depicted on magazine covers of the amazing-story type . Searchlights struggling through the fog roved over all with wide bands-of light . In ' far corners of the Fair grounds a few of the unlighted buildings and pylons loomed up as immense shadows . On top of the great metal statue at the Russian exhibit , a pin-point of reddish light , like a distant star , glowed and vanished alternately in the mist . The fluorescent lamp , an invention forced out of the General Electric research laboratory to provide special effects for the Fair 's night lighting , gave the whole display the uniform softness that so impressed spectators last night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from this type of lamp . It is a new low-voltage mercury vapor fluorescent tube that uses chemical powders to convert its invisible ultra-violet rays into velvety pastel tints with a color range , and gentler nuances never achieved with electric or neon light . Different chemicals , coating the various tubes , introduce different tints . White incandescents were used to throw the Vulcan and Prometheus statues into relief on the theme end of the great Metals Building . The Home Furnishings Building in the " golden zone " of light , with Wayland Gregory 's " Fountain of The Atom " and the supporting shaft alternate red and gold , was another beauty spot . Color at Food Building The Food Building on Constitution Mall at Rainbow Avenue was a study in deep burgundy . Its zigzag patterns , only a vague tracery by daylight , changed at night into long , glowing lines of luminescence . The oval-shaped setback drum was softly bathed in pink and white , while the lower part , only faintly illuminated , took on the colors of dusk . Fluorescent mercury vapor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science into square patterns of blue and green , a translucent effect something like the surface of a soap bubble . The long upper fin of the Hall of Fashion was deep gold , thrown from the building setback , while the drum at the south end , a deep blue , seemed to move as reflected white light was thrown on it . The hairpin lighting towers at the north end of the Hall of Fashion were bright with strips of gold and green light . From the roofs of buildings on the outer edge of the Fair and from the Long Island railroad platform , the whole 1,216 acres presented what is probably the most unusual color pattern the world has ever known . Lighting engineers and laboratory research men pronounced the display the most comprehensive trial lighting in history . Grover A. Whalen , president of the Fair Corporation , who had invited a few hundred special guests for the display , used the occasion to emphasize the Fair theme . " Just as the important new developments of recent decades , in lighting , have come out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now certain that the illumination of the New York Fair will result in scientific advances and improved equipment long after this Fair has closed . " After 10 o'clock the glow of color began to ' fade and the buildings resolved into huddles of shadow . The show was over .                     