@@702503

txt Though some doubt may exist over the extent to which President Roosevelt 's forthcoming conference with legislative and departmental leaders will concentrate on the sit-down strike situation , it is Increasingly clear that the labor problem is sitting down on the White House doorstep , and can not wait for settlement of the Supreme Court issue . The temporary ailleviation of the acuteness In Detroit is expected to have some effect on Washington , where outspoken alarm in Congress over the spread of sit-down strikes had produced the call for a presidential conference . But it has not disposed eyed of the immediate problem , not to mention the long-range questions . Administration stalwarts , as well as conservative critics , have been stirred by what Senator Joseph T. Robinson ( D ) of Arkansas yesterday called a " crisis . " They were demanding that President Roosevelt " act . " Resolutions against the sit-down strike technique were being dratted right and lett . And this bask apprehension remains , what ? ever the immediate solution in Detroit . Resolutions Delayed Most of the resolutions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference with President Roosevelt . Senator J , Hamilton Lewis ( D ) , Illinois , today revealed that he had planned to introduce a resolution calling for a broad investigation of sit-down strikes , but had decided to defer action until after the scheduled conference . He was said to be hopeful that a solution to the problem might . be reached which would dispense with need of a congressional study , Representative Martin Dies ( 13 ) . Texas , today completed the draft of a bill to outlaw sit-down strikes by making them a violation of federal anti-trust statutes . Such violation would then call for federal en forcement , as contrasted with in esent action by states alone . The Dies proposal defines sit-downs as " the act or acts of employees who refuse or fail to vacate the premises and grounds of any plant , mill , industry or business of their employer or his duly authorized agent . " Provisions of Measure The bill provides that the employer or agent must first assure the employees that reasonable time , to be fixed by the Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and adjustment of the dispute before plant operations are resumed . These two instances of proposed congressional action are advanced not because either of them is likely to be enacted , or even lengthily considered , but because they indicate the sentiment in Congress , not of Republican critics but of two regular Democrats . A flood of protests , communicated to the President at Warm Springs , was said to have produced the plans for a conference immediately upon his return , either on Saturday . March O. or over the week end . But by the same token , the White House would be anxious to avoid the appearance of being rushed into a conference on a pressing Issue . Since the initiative apparently does not rest with the President that probably explains ' today 's statements that the conference is to be about routine legislative problems . ' No conference could cover current legislative problems without giving much attention to the sit-down strike situation .                     