@@700397

txt Colonel Carlos Mendieta , leader of the rebellion against former President Gerardo Machado in 1931 and head of the Nationalist party , was sworn in as Cuba 's new President at 12:30 P. M. today while a wave of joy and enthusiasm swept the island . The public saw in his inauguration the termination of months of political turmoil , a feeling that was substantiated by the calling off of a revolutionary general strike that had appeared menacing earlier in the day . Although the presidency of Colonel Mendieta was assured in the early hours of the morning when Carlos Hevia resigned the post after holding it less than forty-eight hours , the public waited with expectancy tinged with skepticism until the Presidential salute , fired by the guns of Cabana fortress , announced he had taken the oath . Reaction from the tension of the past four months , during which the student-army government strove to impose its rule by force , and a feeling of confidence that recognition by the United States would come immediately , raised hopes and enthusiasm to the highest pitch . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential palace early this morning Colonel Mendieta was formally selected as the new President . After the meeting Dr. Carlos Saladrigas , who was Secretary of Justice in the de Cespedes administration and was one of the chiefs of the ABC revolutionary organization , said : " The selection of Colonel Mendieta was a spontaneous response to public demand . He is not installed for any specified period of time , nor were any conditions imposed upon him . " Confusion as to Succession . There was some confusion , due to Sefior Hevia having delivered his resignation to the revolutionary junta instead of to the Chief Justice . The opinion was expressed that Secretary of State Manuel Marquez Sterling technically became President upon the retirement of Senor Hevia , but it was decided the technicality had no significance as Cuba is without a Constitution at present . Thus Cuba was left without a President from 1:30 o'clock this morning until 12:30 this afternoon . Early in the morning Cubans of all walks of life began gathering around the Presidential Palace to await the inauguration . By 11 , o'clock all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parks in the vicinity were a solid mass of humanity . All floors of the palace were crowded with friends , political adherents and the most prominent members of the various factions of the island , so it was almost impossible to gain entrance to the building and those able to enter had to fight their way through the dense throng to the massive grilled gates . With the exception of heavy soldier guards posted at the entrances to keep the huge crowd from attempting to enter the palace en masse there was no military display . Military bands played martial music in the patio of the palace before the arrival of Colonel Mendieta to take the oath . Crowd Cheers His Arrival . Just . before noon Colonel Mendieta , with a civilian escort and his family , arrived at the palace . Their automobile forced its way slowly through the packed street , entering the patio with the greatest difficulty as the crowds cheered wildly with many " Vivas ! " Somewhat flushed and disheveled from pushing his way through the frenzied crowd , the stout , grayhaired colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace , where the Chief Justice , Dr. Federico Edelman , and other members of the Supreme Court waited to administer the oath . Owing to the milling crowd the magistrates were forced to retire to the office of the Secretary of the Presidency , where the oath was administered . The simple ceremony was soon concluded and the new President responded to congratulations of members of all the political and revolutionary factions who filled the immense reception salon to overflowing . As ceremonial Cuban flags were unfurled and raised atop the palace flagpole at the termination of the ceremony the thousands who surrounded the palace went wild with excitement and enthusiasm . Men and women threw hats into the air and embraced their neighbors with abandon , shouting " Viva Mendieta ! Viva la Republica ! " Army and Navy Adhere . The guns at Cabana fortress fired the Presidential salute , and smaller guns at La Punta naval headquarters immediately followed with a second salute to signify the adherence of the naval forces . Passing out onto a balcony , the new Executive received one of the greatest ovations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were brief , but he was compelled to remain on the balcony for a considerable time to respond to greetings of the public . Former President de Cespedes , who was ousted by a military coup on Sept. 5 ; attended the ceremony and shared the hearty ovation , the public shouting enthusiastic greetings to the man who took over the Presidency after the fall of General Machado , Thousands of those surrounding the palace then surged down Misiones Avenue to the United States Embassy , where they paused to shout " Viva Roosevelt ! Viva Caffery ! Viva Welles ! " This was was the first time in several months the crowd had acclaimed Americans . Caffery to Confer With Hull . Jefferson Caffery , the personal representative of President Roosevelt in Cuba , will leave Havana on a destroyer for Key West tomorrow morning to confer with Secretary of State Hull , who will arrive there in the afternoon on the cruiser Richmond , it was learned tonight . It is understood Cuban affairs will be discussed and Mr. Caffery will return immediately to Havana . President Mendieta refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press today , explaining he would receive correspondents tomorrow morning . He indicated , though , that he was studying the Cabinet situation but had no announcements to make . The impression has been gained that Dr. Cosme de la Torriente , former Cuban Ambassador to the United States , who has labored unceasingly to bring about political peace in the past few months , would be appointed Secretary of State , while Dr. Manuel Marquez Sterling , in all likelihood , will return to Washington as , Ambassador . So far there is no concrete information as to other portfolios . Celebration Grows Wilder . The entire day has been given over to celebration of the new regime . The streets were filled with shouting throngs and the continuous firing of pistols into the air , of small portable cannons and of fire crackers kept up an incessant din . Merchants closed their shops to give their employes a holiday , and flags and bunting were lavishly used for decoration . Caf ? s and bars handled a capacity business for the first time in many months and the celebration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded streets today recalled the hysterical outflow of pent up emotions at the time of the fall of General Machado , but the dangerous mob spirit which spilled much blood on that day was entirely lacking . The public today was only enjoying a holiday in the hope it was a prelude to a brighter future . Seven persons were injured by stray bullets and several sustained minor injuries in fights over political questions in the midst of the celebration . Strike a Discordant Note . The only discordant note in today 's events was the declaration of the general strike by radical labor leaders and the protest of Leftist students against the return to what they describe as a " reactionary government . " Electric power service was suspended at 6 A. M. throughout the island by a strike of employes of the Cuban Electric Company , a subsidiary of the Electric Bond and Share Company , whose properties were seized by the Grau Government several days ago and are now operating under government control . The strike was called when the union leaders received a report the Mendieta administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by 12:45 service had been resumed , with army engineers directing strike-breakers . This afternoon the strike was called off and Resident Mendieta ordered the milHarris gc Ewing Photo . NEW CUBAN ENVOY . Manuel Marquez Sterling . itary authorities in control of the plants to discharge the strike-breakers and permit the regular employes to return to their jobs . A committee to settle differences between the electric company and . its employes will be appointed immediately , it was learned tonight . President Mendieta 's first official communication was a letter to the light , gas and water union , informing it that the seized properties would remain under government control until all labor difficulties were smoothed out . They immediately returned to work . Frank Steinhart Sr. , director of the Cuban Electric Company , who is now in New York , has been requested by President Mendieta to return to Cuba to head the committee . Employes of the United Railways of Cuba , British-owned , who have been threatening to strike for sayeral weeks , also walked out , sat did employes of all Spanish newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned towork late tonight . Various other smaller unions complied with the strike mandate , but as a whole labor failed to respond and seemed anxious to see a stable government firmly established . A short gunfight took place at 3 o'clock this afternoon in the railway yards here between soldiers and individuals believed by the military authorities to be striking employes bent on sabotage of company property . No casualties were reported . One of the most important problems is that of the army . Colonel Fulgeneio Batista , the chief of staff , who holds the island under tight military control and to whom full credit can be given for the present change of government whatever may have been his motive , withdrew today to Camp Columbia , taking r.o part in the installation of the new government . Colonel Batista said in a speech to soldiers at Camp Columbia he was pleased that peace had been restored . He also spoke of the necessity of bringing about friendly relations with the ' United States and other foreign nations , of respecting foreigners ' rights and of restoring normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Cuba for months . Hundreds of friends and relatives , hoping for the immediate release of the former army and navy officers who were captured in the National Hotel battle last October , gathered at 3 o'clock this afternoon on the waterfront , expecting to greet them on their release from Cabana fortress . Later these friends and relatives marched to the Presidential Palace to petition for the immediate liberation of the officials . Mendieta Pledges Action . Speaking from a balcony Colonel Mendieta assured the crowd the question of the imprisoned officers was receiving attention , and he hoped to sign an order freeing many of them at once . It is understood that those against whom charges have been preferred will remain in prison to face trial . Probalily the gravest problem and the one which most directly affects the economic life of the nation is the labor question . During the Grau administration the radical element obtained control of the workers and , aided and supported by drastic labor decrees , provoked widespread unrest and continuous strikes . The sugar mill managements have openly declared they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from disgruntled workers who have forced them by intimidation and sabotage to agree to extravagant demands which they can not fulfill . No mills have yet started grinding , despite a Presidential decree setting the commencement of the crop under the restriction plan for Jan. 15 , Although American officials here are reticent as to recognition , American business interests are optimistic that it will be forthcoming almost immediately after the designation of Colonel Mendieta 's new Cabinet , which will represent au factions . Once more the eyes of the Cuban people are turned toward Washington , hoping f , r recognition  --  and a liberal sugar quota to save the principal industry of , e island from ruin . They are eager to sign a new commercial treaty lowering tariff barriers and permit the restoration of trade between the two nations .                     