@@699359

txt Through the practical application of social reform , which may eventually graduate into Socialism , some men interested in their own Latin-American nations propose to open the way for governmental operation of all industries . For a number of years social reform measures have been opposed by il a majority of Socialists . Of late , however , there have been vigorous ' discussions relating to the " halfway steps " climbing toward a Socialistic state . While perhaps the majority of Socialists now " accept " the doctrines of straight social reform , they do so ! with the belief that such reforms I are merely temporary , and that the only proper method for the opera-1 non of capital must come through I the ' socialization of all industries . To bring their program to a head ' they propose : 1 . Achieve a wide distribution of cultural benefits among the peoples of the republics ; benefits gained from the profits of industry . 2 . Piovide social justice by doing away with class barriers , causing conflicts ; concentrate labor in urban centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association . 3 . Provide a capitalistic system by enlarging accumulated savings earned under state ownership of industries . 4 . Enlarge the sphere of state control . 5 . Prepare the way for government ownership . To differentiate between social reforms and Socialism it , should be recalled that social reforms contain the dominant features of capitalism ; i. e. , private ownership of industry and two antagonistic classes  --  workers and capitalists . But it seeks to remove the flagrant abuses of capitalism and advocates remedial // of action , and the political system aimed at the attainment of social betterment for the entire Ironies : their cultural as well as spiritual welfare . And to obtain it through the development and exploitation of natural resources along the lines of collectively planned economy for the benefit of all . " In o'her words , work , education , wages through government ownership of industries . Engagingly frank , Senor Mantes pointed out , here in Washington the other day , that Latin America as a whole lacks political stability . The information was not news ; nor was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , technical and agricultural schools , and industrial development and capital . Nevertheless . that an energetically patriotic Latin-American citizen would admit faults of such character was interesting , as were the remedies he mentions farther along In this article . Difficulties of Democracy At the very outset , one must appreciate that democracy , a thing this Mexican economist most desires . Is more or less a theory among the nations of the southern continent . This is probably due , more or less , to scattered populations , a lack of educational facilities , incompleted rail and highway connections , and two distinctly divided classes . Aristocratic and wealthy groups , when not engaged in perpetuating their political oligarchies , " have generally catered to whatever group might be in power . " The peon has been held in subjugation for more than 100 years . Even the land has been denied him , and the estates of the wealthy have been , and are , wide and numerous . Democracy can not flourish under those conditions . All this , says Sefior Mortez . Socialism intends eventually to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher schools . also those having technological and specialised courses 2 . Division of the large estates . thus providing the masses with lands to cultivate and a means of sustenance . 3 . Encouragement of native culture and folklore . 4 . Establishment of new industries . especially of the smaller type built up for domestic markets . Such reforms have a familiar sound , and some of them are already set up . However , they come within the socialistic doctrine that , without Socialism to carry them to a conclusion . nothing can succeed . Review of Achievements Socialism has accomplished many beneficial things . Senor Mortez believes . He refers to Uruguay and Mexico as examples . In Uruguay , for instance , legislation is said to rank among the most advanced in the world . Further , that Republic has enjoyed stability of government and an absence of militarism . Socialism has been at work in Uruguay since 1905 . Today , Uruguay operates the Bank of the Republic ; Bank of Insurance , including life , casualty , workmen 's compensation , fire ; automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rent insurance . The Government , likewise , operates the electric power plant in the- capital , Montevideo , and manages 19 provincial power plants , besides public utilities like the railroad and the telephone . Mexico , Senor Mortez considers to have gone a long distance toward the achievement of elementary human justice for the common people by introducing new social-economic practices , all part of socialistic doctrine . The nationalization of subsoil products , gas ; mineral and oil contemplated by the Mexican Government fits in perfectly with socialistic ideas , according to SefiorI Mortcz . In the ideal socialistic state all things bmployed in the production of wealth and used in common would be owned by the Government ; while all things used by the individual directly for the satisfaction of his own personal wants would remain his property . Collective Ownership For example , factories , mines , rdilroads , telegraph , telephones , etc. =those instruments of production which " now are used by thousands of persons and upon which thousands of persons depend for a livelihood  --  would be owned collectively , , that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Individual tools , however , like a carpenter 's saw , a miner 's shovel , and the clothing of a man , woman and child would be the property of those individuals . Socialism would put an end to the capitalistic class and there would be no private ownership . Yet socialism would not abolish capital for there still would remain as great use for it as under private ownership of industries . Ex-President Divila of Chile , whose socialistic regime lasted hardly long enough to be called a Government , declares for capital , but qualifies the declaration with the proviso that as time went by new capital would be acquired from the profits made under state owner ship of industries . Until that was possible foreign capital would be accepted . To a major extent Sefior Mortez agrees with this plan . He adds . nevertheless . " We shall need capital to combat possible expansion of huge foreign corporations . It should be obtained through internal and external loans : ( I i by the cumulative profits of national industries , ( 2 ) by requiring foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southern republics a fair proportion of the prOfits Obtained therein . " Socialists are not backward in making claims for their movement . For , instance , they list among their " achievements " : eight-hour working days , six-day weeks , regulation of woman and child labor , special inheritance taxes for the advancement of popular education , compensation laws for labor , old-age pensions and retirement measures . That . is a large program and anti-Socialists might well claim a share of credit . However , that the socialistic movement is interested in such reforms is not to be overlooked . Sefior Mortez looks into the future and concludes that to pretend the Socialist Party in Latin America has alone accomplished all social reforms , or that it has discovered the road that would lead directly to what it desires , would be unreasonable . He urges that so far as the Socialist Party patterns after human progress in the United States , it should guard against " unchecked individualism . " " Need we mention , " he asks , " the great numbers of farmers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the immense number'of workers , industrial and white-collared , enjoying short periods of prosperity ? Should we not profit by their mistakes ? "                     