@@700543

txt Minor changes in the Securities Act were forecast as a possibility today by 1 Chairman Rayburn of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee as Jesse Jones , chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , predicted at a press conference that banks would lose their fear of both this act and the pending Stock Exchange Control Bill . Mr. Jones did not go into detail , nor did Mr. Rayburn specify the changes that might be made in the Securities Act , or how soon Congress would make them . There were reports , however , that modification of the liability provi-sions of the Securities Act might I be accomplished , in effect , through I amendments to the liability sections of the Stock Exchange Control Bill , which is pending in Congress . There were some intimations that administration advisers had drafted clauses along this line , and that they would be offered at an appropriate time . Some members of Congress indicated doubt , on the other hand , that any revision of the Securities Act itself would be attempted at the present session . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place a maximum of responsibility on the issuers of securities , and , it is contended in financial circles , have operated to discourage new issues when business needs new money . This situation , it has been argued , has been most marked in the heavy industries , where unemployment has been heaviest . Although Representative Rayburn held out some hope for minor amendments to the Securities Act , his statement was intended primarily as a reply to the attack on the act made yesterday by the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . Agitation for amendment , he declared , would not get very far . There would be no general revision . " It is not true , " Representative Rayburn said , " that the Securities Act is preventing the sale of securities ; it Is lack of a market . This liability section has been lied about by men who will not tell the truth about anything . Money is too timid yet to invest in anything with any degree of speculation . Ask any man with $100,000 what he will do with his money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you he thinks he will buy United States Government bonds . " These vicious attacks on the Securities Act , trying to tear it up by the roots , are not going to get anywhere . There may be minor changes in the act , but there will be no general revision . " Senators were noncommittal today on the prospects , their attitude being that , in the final analysis , responsibility for suggesting the changes to Congress rests with the administration . They are not certhin what President Roosevelt 's attitude may be , although from what has been indicated heretofore Mr. I Roosevelt wants the " teeth " re-tained in the act . Such leaders as Senator Robinson , Democrat , of Arkansas , hold it certain that the Senate would vote to modify the liability provisions if the administration should indicate that it would approve such a step . More complaints have been heard among Senators against these provisions than to any other parts of the act . Meanwhile , Representative Rayburn explained that he expects his committee to report the FletcherRayburn Stock Exchange Regulation Bill to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the end of this week , and to bring it to a vote next week . That the measure will pass the House with a substantial majority appears certain at this time . The committee will meet in executive session tomorrow , when Mr. Rayburn said he expects final action to be taken on various amendments , after which the bill will go to a subcommittee for final drafting . " These amendments , " he said , " will be minor in nature and I expect the bill to be reported out by the committee and passed by the House substantially in its present revised form . " Mr. Rayburn declined to disclose the nature of the amendments which the committee may order written . A. majority of them are said to be of a clarifying nature , while the others relate mainly to the administrative sections . Generally , the opinion here is that there will be no material changes in the marginal clauses which , as they stand , vest full authority in the Federal Reserve Board to decide all questions involving marginal transactions on the Stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected by Senator Robinson of Arkansas to act this week on the Fletcher-Rayburn legislation . There has been " too much fooling around with the bill , " he declared . When the bill is called up in the Senate , a vigorous battle to amend the marginal and other important provisions will get under way , with the backbone of the opposition on the Republican side . Senator Kean of New Jersey is expected to direct the opposing forces . As in the House , however , the Senate is not expected to make any important changes in the margin provisions . " I will not attempt at this time to indicate what changes , if any , may be written into the bill when it comes to the floor of the Senate , " Senator Robinson said . The position of Senator Glass continues to cause considerable speculation . Foes of the legislation are hopeful that he will oppose the bill in its present form , while its friends are apprehensive lest he delay passage by proposing the substitution of a stock transaction tax measure . ? Taxation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer to the Stock Exchange problem . The Federal Reserve Board , he agrees , should not be charged with responsibility for the fixing of margins , but should keep out of the market . Besides , he adds , the members of the board do not know , and are not expected to know , very much about transactions on the Stock Exchanges .                     