@@700347

txt The American Institute of Accountants has drafted a form of accountants ' report and has submitted it to the Committee on Stock List of the New York Stock Exchange for an expression of opinion on it . The new form follows somewhat the practice in England of emphasizing the fact that accounts , and consequently any statements or reports based thereon , are necessarily in large measure an expression of opinion . By inserting this language in the report it is considered likely that the reader will not exaggerate the extent of the auditor 's examination . The Institute concurs in most of the opinions of the New York Stock Exchange regarding auditing reports , and emphasizes the importance of the detailed audit . Suggested Form The form drafted , together with special notes included by the American Institute of Accountants through the committee on cooperation with stock exchanges follows : To the XYZ company : We have made an examination of the balance shee. : of the XYZ company , as at December 31 , 1933 , and of the statement of income and surplus for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or tested accounting records of the company and other supporting evidence , and made a general review of the accounting methods and of the operating and income accounts for the year , but we did not make s. detailed audit of the transactions . In our opinion , based upon such examination and upon explanations furnished to us , the accompanying balance sheet and related statement of income end surplus fairly present , in accordance with accepted principles of accounting consistently followed by the company , its position at December 31 , 1933 , and the results of its operations for the year . Notes 1 . It is contemplated that before signing a report of the type suggested , the accountant should have at least made an examination of the character outlined in the bulletin , " Verification of Financial Statements " as interpreted in the communication of the Committee on Stock List to the Governing Committee dated October 24 , 1933. 2 . The report should be addressed to the directors of the company or to the stockholders if the appointment is made by then : . 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , confoirm to the titles of the accounts or statements reported upon . 4 . In the second sentence , any special forms of confirmation could be mentionLd. e.g , " including confirmation of cash anu securities by inspection or certificates from deplaitaries. " 5 . The clause , " based upon such t xamination and upon explanations ** to us " could be omitted if desired . 6 . It is contemplated that the form of report would be modified when and as necessary to embody any qualifications , reservations , or supplementary explanations .                     