@@697686

txt Another step toward complete substitution of arbitration for war was taken in the House of Commons last night . The decision was reached for Britain to make applicable to itself the General Act for Ithe Pacific Settlement of International Disputes , passed in 1928 by the Assembly of the League of Nations . This decision took the form of acceptance of a resolution moved by Arthur Henderson , Foreign Secretary , a wrecking amendment put forward by Sir Austen Chamberlain , former Conservative Foreign Secretary , being rejected by 231 votes to 139 . The view which prevailed was that . imperfect as might be any machinery that human ingenuity could design to enable arbitration to be substituted for war . under all the circumstances it was better to accept such as could be found than to leave a gap in the defenses of peace . The House was also influenced by the warning given to it.by Sir Norman Angell . This international authority said , in the course of the debate , that if the Government 's proposal were rejected , next year 's disarmament conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was acceptance beforehand of the fundamental of third party judginent could the nations feel they had some assurance , other than their own strength , for protection of their rights . The so-called General Act was drawn up by the League Committee on Arbitration and Security and submitted to the General Assembly in Geneva Sept. 26 , 1928 . Its purpose was to afford an agreed model for pacific settlement of international disputes . It is therefore accompanied by three model bilateral conventions for conciliation , arbitration and judicial settlement , a model collective treaty of mutual assistance , a collective and bilateral treaty of nonaggression , and a model treaty to strengthen the means of preventing war . The multilateral General Act , which came into force on Aug. 16 , 1929 , essays , therefore , to bridge some of the gap between the Kellogg pact and the League Covenant .                     