@@698276

txt The real choice ( or Germany at this moment is between the Chancellor , Dr. Heinrich Bruening , and Gen. Wilhelm Oroener on one side , and Herr Adolf Hitler and Alfred liugenberg on the other . President von Hindenburg has clone his best to keen in office the Chancellor whom he politically discoverect , and who has , in fact , fully , justified the hopes that were placed in him . Yet though it is possible to make this clear division between Dr. Bruening and Herr Hitler , and although the European countries have no doubt as to their preference , there are forces at work which tend to break clown the distinction . Everything pushes the Chancellor to the Right , and the Right , in the most extreme sense , professes its willingness to accept the responsibilities of Government . Dr , Julius Curtius was obliged to resign as Foreign Minister despite his definite acceptance of the foreign program of the Hitlerites and of the Hugenberg Nationalists , The Chancellor faced a Reichstag in which there was no trustworthy majority . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ votes , but the situation was too uncertain to run the risk of defeat often . Power Delicately Poised On one side are the parties of the Left , notably the Socittl Democrats , and some of the groups of the Center . On the other side are the so-called National Socialists of Herr Hitler , and the Nationalists of Dr. Hugenberg , together with members of the Center groups . The Communists ' am likewise against the Government , as they are against all ordinary governments . It is impossible therefore , with the balance of parliamentary power so delicately poised , for the Government to be sure of any tenure of office while Parliament is sitting . Yet a government is necessary , and the only alternative to the present Government is doubtless a government of the Right which , if it . made good its words , would frighten alt Europe . In these circumstances Chancellor I3ruening has , with the support of President von Hindenburg , managed as much as possible without Parliament . In n relathely mild manner , and with intermissions , Germany is under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : it is to defend the currency of the gold mark . If Germany does not resort to inflation , and if Germany does not fall into revolution , the mark should remain steady . But there are immense difficulties . Unemployment on a vast , scale exists in Germany , and the Chancellor is obliged to impose the strictest economies with ' educed salaries , with prices kept down , and with the abandonment of reparation payments . Political Truce Difficult Effective assistance of Germany depends largely on the possibility of a political truce . But the clamors of his countrymen for the revision of the Treaty of Versailles and the relief of the German army from the disabilities that were placed upon it , make a political truce difficult , especially as the Chancellor 's own sympathies , and the sympathies of nearly all G ? Tmans ( though many have doubts as to the opportuneness of aggressive propaganda ) are precisely in favor of revision and removal of disabilities . It is clear that ' the coming winter will provide a severe test . Fundamentally , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there are those who pursue them reasonably and there are those who pursue them unreasonably . The choice is between government by decree as provided for in the Constitution , and a veritable dictatorship of extreme forces which might plunge Germany Into a wild adve nture . The tusk is arduous , and we should not be unduly critical of the Chancellor if his views often clash with those of the neighbors of Germany ,                     