@@697110

txt After twelve hours of fervid discussion of censorship of obscene books and pictures imported into the United States , the Senate tonight adopted without a roll-call the Smoot amendment , slightly modified , extending the present law to make district courts the final arbiters of obscenity in literature and art , and treasonable publications . This action upset the Cutting amendment , agreed to by the Senate in Committee of the Whole last Fall , which eliminated books from censorship . It creates for the first time a real censorship by judge and jury , and takes from the customs officials and the Treasury the authority to decide what is obscene or immoral . The censorship fight was led vigorously by Senator Smoot , chairman of the Finance Committee . Debate Covers Wide Range . At one time he said a book like some of these piled upon his desk , which had been under his scrutiny , and that of his colleagues , could only be written " by a man with a diseased mind and a soul so black that he would even obscure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would write a book like that unless his heart was just as rotten and as black as it possibly could be . " Today 's debate covered questions ranging from the difference between Heaven and hell to whether Brigham Young 's essays would come under the ban . It ended a discussion which began last night and continued through all of today , which involved a comparison of Shakespeare with " Lady Chatterly 's Lover , " and raised issues as to whether Rabelais was worse than certain " hot " magazines sold at railway stations . At times considerable acrimony was shown . Pulp Wood Duty Restored . After disposing of the censorship question the Senate rapidly disposed of several other administrative features . The countervailing duty on pulp and pulp wood was restored , as was the Senate provision which shuts out wood manufactured abroad tinder American trade marks . This places this subject in conference . The controversies over oil and lumber will come up tomorrow . Senator Smoot said that these would require considerable time . After *they are disposed of each schedule will be reviewed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave notice today that he would sponsor an amendment for a duty of eight cents a gallon on blackstrap molasses . Senator Smoot moved a recess just before 8 o'clock , and then said that the bill perhaps would be disposed of by the Senate late this week . Senator Cutting , Republican of New Mexico , supporting liberal censor laws , occupied the attention of the Senate for nearly three hours . He replied to Senator Smoot , who last night defended drastic censorship of obscene literature . At the outset Mr. Cutting read an article by Professor Neilson , which urged no government censorship and declared that the individual ought to decide what book he wished to read . Mr. Cutting said that the States were better qualified to decide what book should be circulated than the Federal Government . He recalled that Nero tried to place a censorship on Roman authors and gave it up , saying : " Authors of bad and vile books will quickly fall into oblivion if their works are to be obtained freely . " What Mr. Cutting said represented the epitome of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Discussing one of the famed books , " Lady Chatterly 's Lover , " by D. H. Lawrence , the New Mexico Senator said it was rather dull , and indicated that it would not be sought after if Senator Smoot had not declared that it was a bad book . " Read extracts of ' Lady Chatterly 's Lover ' into the record , " interrupted Senator Smoot . " I will get to that later , " Senator Cutting replied . " May I say if ' Lady Chatterly ' is calculated to contaminate the American people the blame rests with Senator Smoot . " Senator Smoot replied that if his amendment were adopted there would be no more of such books imported into the United States . Children read books in their schoolday period , Senator Cutting said , that were just as indecent as the one referred to by Senator Smoot . " The first page of ' King Lear ' is grossly indecent and the love scenes of Hamlet and Ophelia are coarse and obscene , " the Senator said . " Did not the Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday ? " asked Mr. Cutting . Senator Smoot angrily replied that he had not . Senator Cutting said that he objected to making custom officials arbiters of the books the American people should read , as proposed in the Smoot amendment . Senator Smoot had declared that these men " had knowledge of world affairs . " Customs Officials Discussed . " Knowledge of world affairs and literature reposes in these officials , " Senator Cutting said . Yes , the knowledge most of them has is how to get from the Bowery to the piers , and to open trunks and leave them in confusion . And this , Senator Smoot says , qualifies them to be the judges of world literature ! " The New Mexico Senator told of a Baltimore deputy collector who had prohibited the books of Rabelais coming into Baltimore . This official , George W. Hill , testified , Senator Cutting said , that he had not read much and was not able to answer whether Chaucer , Fielding and Smollett were still living . In addition to the customs officials , the censorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of the Treasury Lowman . These officials pass upon the action of the customs officials who ban the importation of indecent books , Mr. Cutting said . " While they are all estimable gentlemen , I do not believe that any Senator who knows them would consent that they should dictate the selection for his library , " he added . American Publications Criticized . " Mr. President , " said Senator Cutting , " we have denounced foreign English authors , " said Senator Cutting . " This book has been in the Congressional Library so long , It has been fingered by so many people , that the cviginal copy is going to pieces and one is not allowed now to read it in its original form , but any citizen who wishes can get a photostatic copy by paying for it . " Here is one , and I now assure the Senator from Utah that there is a great deal of matter in it of exactly the same kind as was exhibited last night . " Senator Cutting described how books are published and circulated " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He said such books included all those on Senator Smoot 's desk and the desk of Senator Watson last night . In the course of the discussion , Senator Cutting accused Senator Smoot of having taken some hours to read " Lady Chatterly 's Lover . " Senator Smoot angrily denied he had taken ten minutes on the book , outside the opening pages . Senator Cutting then discussed the Bible and said some of its passages , read alone , could be misconstrued . He said a book had to be read as a whole . Senator Smoot , however , was not to be diverted from " Lady Chatterly 's Lover . " He declared " it was written by a man with a diseased mind and a soul so black that he would even obscure the darkness of hell . " Senator Cutting said that he could show Senator Smoot in Shakespeare " all of the matters which are contained in the extracts of the so-called objectionable books . " " I have read Shakespeare and there is no more comparison between what is in Shakespeare and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking now , than there is between heaven and hell , " replied Senator Smoot . " I would be much interested to have the Senator from Utah tell me the difference between heaven and hell , " Senator Couzens interrupted . " I have not been able to get any definition of it . " Brigham Young 's Essays Discussed . " I want to ask the Senator from New Mexico if he has read from some of the essays of Brigham Young and also whether Brigham Young 's essays would be permitted to come into this country under the pending amendment , " said Senator Wheeler . " If any of these could properly come under the provision of this amendment , they ought never to come under the provisions of this Senator Wheeler declared he could show Senator Smoot extracts from Brigham Young 's essays that would be banned by the amendment . He said some of the language " would be calculated to stir up insurrection . " Yet the country had lived through and was big and broad enough to stand it and he should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the circumstances . " Smoot Praises Mormons . Senator Cutting declared he could not understand in view of the manner in which the Mormon people were persecuted , how any one could adopt the " intolerant attitude which we have seen here from the Senator from Utah . " " I am entirely in favor of the circulation of all the opinions of Brigham Young or of any of the other elders of the Mormon Church , " said Senator Cutting . Senator Smoot. who exhibited much feeling while the Mormon Church was being discussed , paid a tribute to the Mormon people . " I know they are as industrious as any people in the world , " Senator Smoot said , " I know that the men and women of the Mormon Church are virtuous , and if I should lose my virtue the first thing I would do would be to leave the Mormon Church . " Wheeler Condemns Intolerance . Grouping themselves under the banner of censorship , Senators Trammell of Florida , Blease of South Carolina , of Tennessee and Heflin of Alabama engaged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blease was particularly concerned by a statement by Senator Wheeler that Josiah Moss , whom he believes to be a professor at the University of South Caroline , had pronounced such censorious legislation dangerous . If Mr. Moss is a professor at the university of his State , Senator Blease said , and " if he made such a statement , " the South Carolina member promised the members that he would not remain in his position for thirty days . " I am against the intolerance that is constantly put forward on the floor of this Senate , " Senator Wheeler said , adding that " it is easy to advocate appeals to the passions and prejudices of the people . ' Among those who are against censorship , Senator Wheeler named Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , Bishop McConnell of the Methodist Church , the Rev. Henry Sloan Coffin , the Harvard and Cornell faculties , the editor of Scribner 's Magazine and other authorities whom he quoted . " Does any one think that these want to destroy the government of this country ? " he asked . Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had advocated repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and had been reported to be an advocate of violation of the prohibition laws . " If we 've come to a place where we ca n't advocate the repeal of statutes without having our characters attacked we have come to a pretty pass , " answered Senator Wheeler . Saying that " it is the abuse of laws that make them dangerous , " he stated that " one of the things that wrecked the Democratic Party was the extent to which some officials went in abusing the sedition laws . " Text of Smoot Amendment . The Smoot amendment as modified reads : Prohibition of Importation ? All persons are prohibited from importing into the United States from any foreign country any book , pamphlet , paper , writing , advertisement , circular , print , picture or drawing containing any matter advocating or urging treason or insurrection against the United States or forcible resistance to any law of the United States , or containing any threat to take the life of or inflict bodily harm upon any person in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , writing , advertisement , circular , print , picture , drawing or other representation , figure or image on or of paper or other material , or any cast , instrument or other article which is obscene or immoral , or any drug or medicine , or any article whatever for the prevention of conception or for causing unlawful abortion , or any lottery ticket , or any printed paper that may be used as a lottery ticket , or any advertisement of any lottery . No such articles , whether imported separately or contained in packages with other goods entitled to entry , shall be admitted to entry , and all such articles , and , unless it appears to the satisfaction of the collector that the obscene articles contained in the package were enclosed therein without the knowledge or consent of the importer , owner , agent or consignee , the entire contents of the package in which such articles are contained shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture as hereinafter provided . The drugs hereinbefore menHoned , when imported in bulk and not put up for any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of this subdivision : Provided further , That the Secretary of the Treasury may , in his discretion , admit the socalled classics or books of recognized and established literary or scientific merit , but may , in his discretion , admit such classics or books only when imported for noncommercial purposes . Upon the appearance of any such book or matter at any customs office , the same shall be seized and held by the collector to await the judgment of the district court as hereinafter provided , and no protest shall be taken to the United States Customs Court for the decision of the collector upon the seizure of such book or matter . The collector shall transmit information thereof to the District Attorney of the district in which is situated the office at which such seizure has taken place , who shall institute proceedings in the district court for the forfeiture , confiscation and destruction of the book or matter seized . Upon the adjudication that such book or matter thus seized is of the character the entry of which is by this section prohibited , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon adjudication that such book or matter thus seized is not of the character the entry of which by this section is prohibited , it shall not be excluded from entry under the provisions of the section . In any such proceeding any party in interest may upon demand have the facts at issue determined by a jury , and any party may have an appeal or the right of rtvIew as in the case of ordinary actions or suits . books for a long time . I do not think the foreign countries have very much on us in the way of indecent literature . From a railway bookstall in Chicago the other day I purchased these important works , which I now exhibit to the Senate . " Mr. Cutting then gave a list of magazines he had bought . " Unlike the Senator from Indiana ( Watson ) , I am not going to circulate these books among the members of the Senate , " Senator Cutting went on . " I think that me standards of ! he Senate ought to be maintained . E do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this honorable body . " I have looked these magazines : hrough casually and I consider them far more indecent in every way than my of the literature accumulated ast night on the desk of the Senator from Indiana . " Senator Cutting exhibited a work ) btained from the Congressional Li ) rary , by Vizetelly , consisting of extracts " from all the leading authors , beginning with Shakespeare . " " It is the condensed indecency of                     