@@703121

txt Amendments to the Maloney bill . for regulation of over-the-counter trading , will be recommended by the Investment Bankers Conference . Inc. , when hearings on the bill get under way February 1 . This was revealed last night following an all-day meeting of the governing committee and advisory council of the Conference in New York City . At the conclusion of the meeting . B. Howell Griswold . Jr .. chairman of the governing committee , stated . " n is our purpose to suggest certain amendments to the proposed bill which we believe will facilitate the formation of national associations and aid in the effectiveness of their administration. - The bill provides for self-regulation of the securities business by dealers through association - of brokers or dealers . The Investment Bankers Conference , Inc. , . has long been studying the question of selfregulation . Its representatives have held many conversations with members of the SEC on this bill in the past . Self-Regulation Principle Favored Mr. Griswold said it was the feeling of those present that the general principle of self-regulation for the furtherance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of the great body of public investors and the investment banking industry . While nothing official could be obtained as to what amendments would be suggested , it Is quite likely that changes will be sought in the section of the Maloney bill which would give the SEC broad supervisory and regulatory powers over dealers . Under this provision the Commission would have authority to change rules or make new ones , as it saw fit . Special Committee Named As a result of yesterday 's discussion , a special committee was appointed to study the bill and to offer its cooperation to Senator Maloney and the SEC in the detailed development of the bill . The Maloney bill , as introduced in the Senate last week , provides for the voluntary formation of associations of brokers and dealers to prevent fraudulent and manipulative practices , to protect investors and the maintenance of an open and free market . It also provides for disciplinary action against members , and calls for " unreasonable safeguards against unreasonable profits or unreasonable rates of commissions or other charges  --  provided that nothing herein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum prices , discounts , commissions , allowances or other charges . " Because of the voluntary aspect of the proposed regulation , the majority of dealers undoubtedly will have to join in order to make it effective . If this should fail , the SEC probably would have to seek other means of regulating the business . Officers Reelected Other subjects discussed included when , as and if issued trading , the question of uniform practices among security dealers , and the possibility of establishing a clearing agency for over-thecounter transactions . A. report on the latter was read by Wallace H. Fulton , director . The following officers were reelected : B. Howell Griswold , Jr. , chairman of the governing committee ; Francis A. Bonner , vice chairman ; Sydney P. Clark , treasurer , and Wallace H. Fulton , director . Investment Bankers ' Conference , Inc. , is a national organization of brokers and dealers , with a membership of approximately 1,700 . Since its organization , the Conference has , as part of its duties . studied the various problems facing the investment banking industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations . Hearings February 1 WASHINGTON ? Senator Wagner has an -- minced that the Banking and Currency Committee of the Senate would begin hearings on the Maloney bill for regulation of over-the-counter trading on February 1 . Chairman Douglas of the SEC , is likely to be the opening witness on the measure which was prepared after SEC studies on over-thecounter trading .                     