@@698697

txt Because of the many uncertainties that have developed , both the Republican and Democratic campaigns for the big primaries of Tuesday will continue actively and vociferously up to the last moment . The " tumult and the shouting dies " much later than has been customary . It always has been a political tradition that public sentiment is crystallized by the Friday night before an election , but recognizing that this is an unusual year in both parties candidates intend to remain on the stump right up to Monday night and the managers will be working to even a later hour . Many Sunday Meetings . There will be an unusual number of meetings today , there will be noon meetings tomorrow , and the radio public will be swamped with addresses for every available hour from the stations willing to sell time to the candidates and their supporters . There were the usual forecasts of victory from rival camps yesterday , an old American custom that develops into a contest to determine which manager or which candidate can make the biggest claim backed by the closest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when one of these forecasts even admitted the slightest possibility of defeat . Confusion in G. 0 . P. Fight . But in spite of these proclamations of certainty there remained the announcement of prolonged activities by all sides . It is conceded that there is less uncertainty in the Democratic situation , where there has , been a fairly clear cut fight betWeen- tiiie sides , but the confusion among the Republicans because of the multiplicity of factions , the lack of organization leadership , the deals and trades that have been made is pronounced unparalleled in many years . Both parties are to pick their state tickets headed by their nominees for United States senator , governor , and six other state officers , name their entries for congress and the general assembly , and nominate their candidates for county offices , for sanitary trustees , and for twelve seats in the Municipal court . In addition they will elect the delegates to their national conventions , the members of the state committee , and the ward and precinct committeemen who will constitute new , county committees . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years the Democratic organization has a fight in its primary . Observers who attempt to be neutral believe the organization will win , probably all the way down the line . But nevertheless there are uncertainties that have led the leaders to keep up the battle at a higher pitch and for a. longer period than they had expected . One of these factors in both Cook county and downstate has been the question o : the popularity or unpopularity of Mayor Cermak . As one of the men who selected the HornerDieterich-Courtney ticket , he has been singled out for the mass attack of the opposition behind Michael Igoe and Bruce A. Campbell , candidates for the governorship . Mayor Called a Czar . Cermalt has been called a czar and a super-dictator , this appeal being made chiefly downstate in order to win wha . anti-Chicago vote is to be sw ? ed there , but also in Cook county where several thousand employs discharged or laid off as the result of the retrenchment program led by Cermak have goneoxerio the opposition . This small army of rebels against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has benefited by the economy program . Another element in the Democratic situation that is considered of problematical effect is the influence of an unusual combination of the religious and racial . issues which have been used in this campaign , although , not beyond the whispering point up to this stage . There is ' a qUestion whether the tones employed might not be made louder over Sunday when the agitators may think it will-be too late for their tactics to react against the candidates - that are intended to benefit . - Chaos in G. O.P. Ranks . However , the Democratic situation is regarded as relatively simple when discussion turns to thezhaos in the Republican party . The. , : line 's of the regular Democratic organization , so far- as can be learned , have not been broken , but there is n't a single Republican factional , leader who will contend that his candidate 's or candb. date 's following among the regulars is more than fractional . In other words , it is admitted that the Republican governorship nominee - will be a minority candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the vote . No candidate is expected to approach a majority . - What state organization there was when this campaign approached has been shot to pieces . It never was a real organization . Gov . Emmerson retained in service many of the old Small henchmen and there never was harmony among the so-called Emmerson employes . Many county chairmen and other leaders who expected things from Emmerson are against him and have scattered their strength among the field . Prohibition Factor Enters . Avilaen came the Anti-Saloon league irtflorsement of the Emmerson entry , Diner N. Custer , and that candidate 's declaration to the W. C. T. U. that he expects to stand by prohibition " al-Ways . " That drove more downstate leaders away from the organization standard and in Cook county raised heb with the local Emmerson unit , ' e'hich is wet to a man . Chicago ward eemmitteemen supposedly with Custer have dropped him quietly . All that is left of the state organization is the 4y , church elements downstate plus the few original Emmerson elements that have received patronage from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old church vote from him and Small also has lost considerably since he was indorsed by the Ku Klux Klan . ' Ile former governor 's hopes are limited to a belief that a former Repriblican mayor can deliver the Negro vote to him solidly and that he can wIn with only a fractional minority behind him . , The vote that left Custer and Small IT said to have gone largely to Attorney General Carlstrom , although the supporters of Edward J. Brundage claim a part of it . Each is wet and Carlstrom had the advantage of Dying been in the field for more than a.year during which he built up his fences with little opposition , while Brundage entered the race at the last passible moment . Malone Is Active . ' So far as can be learned , William H. Malone , former chairman of the state tax commission , who perhaps has made one of the most active indA , vidual campaigns ever seen for this office , has failed to line up any substantial blocks of organized Republican strength . He intends to continue his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last moment , but all organization leaders say he will finish in fifth place . , There has been some criticism by candidates and others in recent weeks that newspapers , particularly those in dliicago , have paid too much attention this year to the question of where the organized strength lies . But it- is , without exception so far as is known , the opinion of observers that this factor will be the determining one in both primaries next Tuesday . The Democratic battle has been one almost entirely between the independents and the organization . And the Republicans concede that they have not been stirred to enthusiasm such as is necessary to give sentiment a victory over organization and that the outcome may depend on the last minute deals new under way  --  the marking of sample ballots by various ward committeemen in Chicago . Trying to Straddle . ? Gossip has had it for some time that many of these committeemen not only have one foot in with each of two governorship candidates but also have been trying to get a hand into the cash registers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this year as such things go in campaigns and , in addition to the ordinary trades and deals , committeemen are anxious for funds with which to boost their own election chances without regard to the welfare of the candidate in whose interests the money Is advanced . Some of them are not trusted , it Is said , in any camp .                     