@@703748

txt President Roosevelt began his message to the Seventy-Sixth Congress yesterday with a denunciation of the philosophy of the dictatorships and with a call for the democracy of America to strengthen its physical and moral lines in opposition to that philosophy . With the opening sentiments of the President as well as with the phrases that he used . there appeared no disagreement in his immediate audience which was compruwd of both houses of the new Congress , the cabinet and a gallery of distinguished visitors . His introductory was attuned to a strong spiritual note . " Storms from abroad directly challenge three institutions indispensable to Americans . now as always . The first is religion . Religion is the source of the other two ? democracy and international good faith . " Defends Spending Policies At the close the President launched a defense of deficit spending , boldly made a call for its continuation in the form of " government investment " and indeed by the method of his delivery challenged his Republican opponents in Congress to take the responsibility for ending it . He clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt might be one step toward a dictatorship in this country because it would curtail business expansion and that would be folowed by unple-sant social consequences . With this line of thought a good many of the President 's listeners did not agree . The newly invigorated Republican opposition , applauding where no applause was intended . served notice that it hoped to do something about the matter in a way that Mr. Roosevelt probably would not like . When the President made his points for spending and pump priming . the Democrats stood behind their leader and gave back as good as the Republicans sent . although some seemed to be applauding halfheartedly . Certainly the majority of Congress wishes it could cut expenditures and balance the budget . To do that , as President Roosevelt pointed out to them , they will have to cut into some governmental luxuries which a great many people choose to regard as necessities . Whether they have the courage to do that remains to be seen . After all applause is easier ? and generally more fun  --  than action . The President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite incidentally and without detail . He called for action on the transportation problem . a governmental reorganization and for an organization to report on the urgency and desirability of the various types of government investment . Apparently the latter would be some sort of an economic planning agency which would have some sort of authority over public works . At another point in his speech the President seemed definitely to say that he had no more reform legislation to propose . He admitted that the various reform laws had been rough hewn and needed smoothing down . He even Implied that he might be willing to accept amendments to the Wagner Act and to the Social Security Act . About these things he was not specific , except to indicate clearly that he favored broadening the old age benefits under the Social Security Act . Then at a later point , Mr. Roosevelt spoke in a vein that left at least a good many of his listeners wondering whether he Was through with reform and whether or not he was accepting without reservation the view that recovery must have full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide jobs . In fact a good many could not shake free of the suspicion that the President is demanding new reforms but that be intends to demand them in the name of national defense and in defense of democracy . National Income of $80,000,000,000 With a national income of eighty billion a year , the President said , the government income will balance outgo . But he regards certain factors as necessary to attain that figure and in his enumeration of those factors there were some things that were couched in the language of the " hell bent for reform " era in Washington . There was the call for " understanding among business men " of changes in economy and technology : the perfection of a farm program ; the " wholehearted acceptance of new standards of honesty in our financial markets " and the one mention of the utilities " the working out of new techniques  --  private state and federal  --  to proMeet the public interest in and to develop wider markets for electric power " . But certainly Mr. Roosevelt is now closer than ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clash between reform and recovery and that the time has come to give men and money the confidence they need to venture . But there nevertheless remained in his speech  --  even aside from his deficit spending philosophy ? grounds for fear that at a later date this session of Congress may find new and startling ideas dumped into its lap in the name of a nation united for defense . Vague on Taxes and Defense Mr. Roosevelt was understandingly vague on two important items , the details of a defense program and taxation . On the latter he seemed to go in various directions at various times . Today his budget message will be forthcoming and then more of the Administration tax ideas will be known . At a later date also he will send Congress a special message on national defense . In his discussion of raising national income to the eighty billion figure . the President seemed to imply that if that were done , new taxation would not be necessary Later he clearly indicated that new tax sacrifices might be necessary to finance his program for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a revamping of taxes between various governmental units and spoke of " consideration of relatively small tax increases to adjust inequalities without interfering with the aggregate income of the American people " .                     