@@702053

txt It is , perhaps , time for a short review and summary of impressions gathered here and there in central Ohio . northern Indiana and Illinois . with just a peek at Iowa , by your correspondent . Political interest . generally speaking . is far from the boiling point . But there has been a slight pick-up in this regard as the result of Governor Landon 's acceptance speech and the New Deal replies to it . I should say it may be a month yet before the Middle West is excited about the ' forthcoming elections as some political writers for big-city newspapers appear to believe it is today . As to issues , by far the most popular one among ordinary citizens is the spending question There is more discussion of that . 1 find . than anything else so far as the average midwesterner is concerned , be he city worker or farmer , be he pro-New Deal or numbered among the opposition . " It ca n't go on " is the typical comment from those who are inclined to favor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , the Roosevelt spending policy has its defenders well outside professional political and economic circles . A clerk in a store , for example , will say , " Well , the Republicans began the deficits . Somebody had to spend money to atop the depression . Where would we be today if the government had n't gotten things moving again ? " Or a. factory worker will remark , " Of course it 's cost a lot of money for relief and farmer benefits . But the country was sick , was n't it ? If you break your leg and have to go to the hospital , you expect to pay doctor 's bills , do n't you ? You do n't start economizing then . You wait until you get back on the lob . " Frankly , however , I have been surprised at the number of farmers who have criticized New Deal spending . A great many of them are now convinced they are , in large measure , either getting their own money back from the government in the form of benefit checks or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution Issue Ignored The Constitutional question is not a popular issue . Of course , business men and bankers ( slit about It quite a bit , but the man in the street or on the farm does n't If Governor 1 ... axicion 's campaign advisers think it is of such fundamental importance that it must be kept near the top of the list , naturally their efforts should lead to more interest on the part of the general public . My only point now is that the constitutional issue has n't and probably will not come to the top of its own accord . I find practically no talk whatever about the gold standard . It seems to be Just dead so far as popular discussion is concerned . This , by the way , contrasts sharply with the situation only a year or two ago . Virtually the same thing is true of banking questions . And Father Coughlin , so far as this vicinity is concerneo , has slipped badly . The people who " used to listen " must be numbered in thousands . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sort , for words and phrases which seem to come out over and over again in casual conversations in many different places . For instance , there is the phrase , " I vote for the man rather than the party . " Attitude of Many Voters Of course , skeptics will say this is mostly an assumed attitude which the average fellow uses to conceal his political predilections . But as a mater of fact it is literally true so far as a great many mid-western voters are concerned . It is especially true of state and local affairs . If you do n't believe it , observe the political makeup of city and county administrations in dozens of mid-western areas . One trequentty finds a Republican mayor flanked by a Democratic council , or vice versa . Many small communities always will have one or two outstanding local officials whose party affiliation indicates definitely that they were elected by split ballots . As another matter of fact , a certain proportion of these people who like to " vote for the man " actually have n't decided yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I do n't know what the proportion of such voters is . But I am convinced that in several sections it is probably big enough to swing the election one way or the other . Swings From New Deal It is much too early to hazard a guess as to whether the central and middle western states will give their electoral votes next fall to Franklin D. Roosevelt or Alf M. Landon . But this much can be said : The situation has changed in the last three or four months from a " sure thing " for the New Dealers to something very close to a 50-50 proposition . Obviously , a continuation of that trend means a Republican victory in this area . This fact is indisputable . The dispute  --  and it is a real one  --  centers only on the question of whether that trend can or will continue .                     