@@702396

txt An effort by Boeing Airplane Co. of Seattle to re-establish itself in the air-transport field was foreseen in industry circles here when it was learned the company is considering major production of a huge new passenger plane . This craft would be modeled along lines of the recently completed Boeing YB-17 , four-engined Army bomber . Boeing has made no large sales of equipment to major domestic airlines in. the last two years , most of the lines buying Douglas ships for their through routes . However , it is understood that at least one of the principal transport companies has recently completed negotiations for purchase of a new Boeing transport plane which presumably would approximate the specifications and performance of the 40-passenger ship Douglas is working on . The size of the probable order is not definitely known but would likely be for from six to 12 planes . In addition , it is believed that Pan American Airways and the Dutch air line , may have placed orders with Boeing . Pan American already is a Boeing customer , having ordered six giant flying boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . has been using DC-2 Douglases as part of its equipment since the London-Melbourne race in 1934 when a Douglas DC-2 came in second In competition with other ships built primarily for long-distance racing . Douglas In Lead Ever since that race Douglas has held the lead in supplying transport equipment to domestic lines . Transcontinental . &; Western Air , American Airlines and Eastern Air Lines placed large orders for the DC-2 , a 14-passenger plane . United Air Lines stuck to its Boeing 247-D 10-passenger transports , and not until 1936 , when the latest Douglas model became available , the DC-3 , a 21-passenger plane , did United put in an order for Douglas-built equipment . In early 2936 , when five air lines announced that they had:agreed . to cooperate in , partially financing  - -  a 40-passenger transport to he - cdeveloped by Douglas Aircraft Co. , it was generally thought this marked the first move toward standardization of equipment in the industry . At the time , it was pointed out that standardization would result in more economical airline operation lessening the need for heavy obsolescence charges which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchase of new and advanced equipment Lockheed Aircraft has been an important supplier of transports for the " feeder " air lines in this country and abroad . However , there has never been much competition between this coin- . Rimy and Douglas as Lockheed has concentrated on the smaller type transports with passenger capacity of from six to 10 persons . The most recently built ship in Lockheed 's field is an eight-passenger transport developed by Walter Beech , president of Beech Aircraft Corp . Other Companies ' prospects Other companies which might compete with Douglas in supplying the major lines with large transports are Glenn L. Martin and CurtissWright . Both are reported working on ships for sub-stratosphere flying . It is thought , however , that they will not be ready to go into production for some time . While it has not been possible to obtain confirmation directly from officials that Boeing soon will be the recipient of orders for a new transport , it is nevertheless viewed as significant that Claire L. Egtvedt , president of Boeing , spent most of January in New York . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annual report , the company said , " In addition to Model 299 ( the previously referred to Army bomber ) . the Boeing Aircraft Co. has several other designs of both military and commercial airplanes under investigation and development . These have been selected with a view to future business possibilities . "                     