@@703227

txt Fulfilling what he called a lifelong dream , Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler returned today as German conqueror to the city which he left twenty-five years ago as a starving house painter . Church bells pealed throughout the city to celebrate the dictator 's triumphal entry on orders of Cardinal Theodor Innitzer , archbishop of Vienna . It was announced shortly before 5 o'clock this afternoon that the Fuehrer , who was pursuing his triumphal journey from Linz , had entered the city limits and was passing the palace of Schoenbrunn where Marie Antoinette played as a child and Napoleon could not resist stopping for a night to sleep in the bed of genuine royalty . Stands in Open Auto . Hitler did not stop , however , scorning the dim glories of the Hapsburcso which are not wholly German glories . Standing in the front seat of his open automobile , wearing a brown garrison cap and overcoat , Hitler passed half an hour later in front of the opera house , doubtless remembering the old days when he had to go without food for half a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . : Eleven camouflaged armored cars , symbols of the armed might which has waged a campaign as great cc Napoleon 's without ever fighting a formal battle , preceded the Fuehrer 's car . A fleet of some fifty open cars containing high officials of the Nazi party , the army , and the police cruised in their wake , while a group of new bombing planes , the kind used in Spain , roared overhead . Dr. Arthur Seyss-Inquart , Nazi minister of the interior who assumed command of the Austrian government when Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg stepped down , sat in the back seat of Hitler 's car . He was dressed in civilian clothes . Trnnns Hold ! lark tirnsvilc Held back by a thin line of helmeted German soldiers and uniformed police brought in from Germany , the crowd that might have numbered 200,000 roared enthusiastically at sight of their conqueror in whose hands rests their future . This strangely colorless and powerfully moving procession came to a halt at the Hotel Imperial , once a palace but now just a good hotel . A few minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremonial mask of a grave but smiling conqueror , and returned the frantic salutes of the crowd packed below . He went inside and the Viennese kept on sh , , uting . He came out again and they shouted some more . Women Faint in Crush . They broke the police lines and in. a few minutes the whole boulevard was filled with a compact mass of cheering men and women . The crowd extended from the hotel almost to the opera house 300 yards away . Children screamed and women fainted in the crush . The Fuehrer appeared several more times on the swastika draped balcony while searchlights played on him in the dusk . It was not enough . The crowd wanted a speech . For the seventh time Hitler appeared and gave them their speech , short and impromptu . It was one of the few such speeches of his political career . Hitler Defies World . " What you are feeling , I have felt profoundly , " he said . " A great Historical change is being vouchsafed to our people . What we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only 2,000,000 of this city but 75,000,000 of our people in one reich . " I am moved and overwhelmed by this great historical change as are all of you who live in this same faith . Whatever may come no one on earth is ever going to shatter the German as it is . No menace , no neces ? sity. and no force can break this oath . 11. is sworn today by Germans from Konigsberg to Cologne and from Hamburg to Vienna . " The ring in Hitler 's voice was like the steel of the greatest war machine in Europe and the swing of his sen ? tences like the feet of marching mi ? lions . Government officials listening an on Austrian broadcasts from a chain of foreign capitals around what is now German 's Balkan frontier must have felt cold shivers running down their spines  --  especially listeners in Czechoslovakia , which is an hour 's run from Vienna for the formidable motorized forces now concentrated here . No one in this new frontier garrison in the heart of Europe who heard Hitler 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which brought him back to Vienna as master of an empire of 75,000,000 soldier citizens , will leave him stranded here . The same momentum , or less , carried Napoleon to Moscow  --  and Waterloo . Makes Victory Speech Today . The Fuehrer will make his real victory speech tomorrow at 11 a. m. 4 a. m. central standard time -- tcnight 's was only a sample . History has retired for the night . Victory celebrations were closed at 7:30 o'clock with the singing of Deutsch . land ' fiber Alles , and the Horst Wessel Nazi anthem flowing from thousands of lusty German throats . One minute later the radio announced that Hitler wished to rest and the crowd was told to cease making noise And go home . Vienna , lowered to its new status as a German provincial city , presented a colorful picture , full of contrast today . There were demonstrations of wild enthusiasm by thousands . There were thousands of others whose apathy in the face of the historic drama seemed almost incredible , and there were others to whom the day was just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Uniformed police imported from Bavaria and Prussia virtually took over organization of the ceremonies and the Austrian police were shoved into the background . Crowd Gets Out of Hand . The German police together with German troops had a hard job of keeping tralic running properly and getting the crowds lined up in the right places and keeping them away from the wrong places . They were gentle and good natured , but very firm and deadly efficient . Only at the end , when the enthusiasm was too great , did the crowd get out of hand . All day long the radio issued orders , instructions , and decrees . Most of the shops were ordered to close at noon . Food shops were instructed to remain open until ' 4 o'clock , tobacco shops all day . Naturally good Germans had been instructed to hoist the swastika over their homes . Authorities took care of decorating public buildings and lining the route along which Hitler was to drive with long trailing swastika banners . Many Austrian flags ate still in evidence , however , either because houses where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of swastikas for the moment . Told Not to Toss Flowers . During the afternoon the radio repeatedly warned crowds not to throw flowers at the Fuehrer  --  a great local custom . On the whole , police precautions for Hitler were less extensive than might be expected . Householders along the line of the march were not obliged to close their windows and Hitler , standing up in the front seat of his car , was much more exposed than heads of governments visiting foreign capitals usually are .                     