@@704163

txt The British Government today issued a firm declaration to Japan that the issues affecting Chinese currency and silver reserves in the British Concession at Tientsin could not be settled by discussion between Japan and Britain alone . It was therefore held here that consultation among the various signatories to the Nine Power Pacific Treaty , which guarantees the territorial integrity of China and the Open Door , would be likely . The possibility of a conference of those powers was also implicit in the British declaration . After Britain had gone a long way toward meeting Japanese proposals for a settlement of the Tientsin problems , it was stated in official quarters here , the Japanese Foreign Minister , Hachiro Arita , suddenly asked the British Ambassador , Sir Robert Leslie Craigie , during the course of their discussions , that Britain make two main economic concessions to Japan . Two Japanese Demands These concessions were : 1 . That Britain should hand over to Japan ? 8,000,000 worth of Chinese silver now in the blockaded British Concession ; 2 . That Britain should prevent the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain has now decided that proposals such as these would be likely to harm the Chinese currency as a whole , and therefore are the direct concern of other powers with interests in China . Accordingly she has informed Japan that no single signatory to the Nine Power Treaty is entitled to prejudice the rights of the others . The views of Britain , China and Japan are already known . The United States and France have been fully informed of the negotiations . Thus far the four other signatories , Italy , Portugal , the Netherlands and Belgium , have not disclosed their attitude . On all hands tonight there is evidence of a firmer British attitude toward Japan . For instance , The Daily Express says editorially : " The time has come to speak plainly to Japan on behalf of the people of Britain . Japan should know that we have long memories and that she is arousing hostilities in Britain that will not die down for a long time . Japan will have reason to regret the pressure she has put upon us in the hour of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away and when new issues confront the world . " Firmer Attitude Seen LONDON , Aug. 18 UP ) . ? Great Britain 's rejection of Japanese demands relating to economic questions in China was interpreted in diplomatic circles tonight as an example of firmness that might have a vital effect on the European situation . The move , these circles said , might serve as a warning to Rome and Berlin that Britain intended to be firm in Europe as well as in the Far East and at the same time it might give reassurance to Britain 's allies . On the other hand , London diplomats expressed the belief that the decision must inevitably make the situation extremely difficult in the Far East . They saw the possibility of a complete breakdown of the talks now going on in Tokyo on the Tientsin dispute and looked for a new outbreak of anti-British demonstrations . The government , through Ambassador Sir Robert Leslie Craigie , bluntly told Japan that Britain could not even discuss in BritishJapanese talks the Japanese economic demands in respect to Tientsin . The British view , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not purely local issues and that if there are to be further discussions arrangements must be made to take into account the views of other interested powers . There was no statement as to whether the British Government might have in mind a general conference of these signatory powers . A government spokesman said that it was possible to get the views of the other powers by consultation and that no definite decision had been reached as to what course would be pursued . The spokesman said that consid- eitable progress had been made in the Tokyo talks before the economic issues were raised . He then added : " Britain has reached a conclusion that not only is it impossible to regard these questions as purely local issues , but they must be regarded as issues which vitally affect the interests of other powers . " Therefore no useful results can be attained by pursuing these matters on a purely Anglo-Japanese basis . " In other words , if there are to be further discussions of these matters arrangements must be made to take into account the views of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any final discussions , but to ail parties to the Nine-Power and other revelant treaties must be given an opportunity to express their views . " This could be done either by diplomatic consultations or by an international conference , it was said . U. S. Is Informed Official circles said the United States and France had been in close touch with Britain on the Far Eastern question , but that the decision announced today was reached by Britain , acting on her own . It was added , however , that these powers , as well as other signatories of the Nine-Power Treaty , now were being informed of the decision . Japanese circles in London expressed regret at Britain 's action and expressed the belief it was bound to make the situation more difficult . They would not say definitely that the Tokyo talks would be broken off , but they did state that no agreement could be concluded on the points already discussed  --  such as police measures  --  unless there were an agreement on all questions . They flatly ruled out the possibility of a nine-power conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was because Japan would have no friends in the meeting except Italy , while on the other side would be China , Britain , France and the United States  --  all directly concerned  --  and possibly some of the smaller States . The Nine-Power Treaty was signed Feb. 6 , 1922 , in Washington by the United States , Belgium , the British Empire , China , France , Italy , Japan , the Netherlands and Portugal . The signatories undertook among other things to respect the sovereignty , independence and territorial and administrative integrity of China , to maintain the principle of the Open Door and to refrain from taking advantage of conditions in China in order to seek special rights or privileges that would abridge the rights of nationals of friendly States . Britons Again Warned TIENTSIN , China , Aug. 18 UP ) .  - -  A new warning to all Britons to leave Tientsin promptly was given today in letters mailed to British Tientsin residents by the " China Patriotic Youth Association . " The letters blamed Great Britain for prolongation of the ChineseJapanese war and said that unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Firms delaying departure , the letters said , might suffer the fate of the International Export Company , offices of which were stoned on Aug. 4 . The anti-British drive developed a new slant with the refusal of Chinese to sell Britons sandbags with which to reinforce dikes in anticipation of a flood crest within the next two or three days . Sales to Britons were prohibited , although about 2,000,000 sandbags were believed to be in the Chinese area of Tientsin . Japanese on Hong Kong Border HONG KONG , Aug. 18 ( .1.1 ) . ? The Japanese Army announced today that it had gained complete control of Chinese territory along the boundary of this British Crown Colony . Japanese units were said to be holding all important points and roads from Deep Bay , to the northwest of Hong Kong , to Mirs Bay , on the northeast . Japanese naval forces did not attempt to patrol the two bays because both are British territorial waters . British naval forces maintained a continuous watch . A number of Japanese planes , however , were reported to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken precautionary positions on their side of the thirteen-mile land boundary .                     