@@702137

txt Governor LANDON and the Roosevelt Administration are competing with each other in bids for the farmer vote . This is not an unkind or untruthful inference to draw from their rival plans . Both of them set out to insure the farmer against various possibilities of loss . Both proposed to embark upon the uncharted sea of crop insurance . But what both have immediately at heart is insurance of a crop of votes for their political parties in the coming Presidential election . To assert this is not cynicism , but a sober balancing of the facts as they appear to the ordinary impartial observer . Over all the speeches on the agricultural question , over all the plans and programs and platforms , the trail of politics is so obvious that even the wayfaring man can not fail to detect it . At Des Moines last evening Governor LANDON sought to allure the farmers by bigger promises than President ROOSEVELT has made to them . First of all he assured them that every contractual obligation entered into with them by the present Administration would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , the payments for restricting crops  --  a policy in which he does not believe  --  will be made as pledged to the farmer . Moreover , Governor LANDox bound himself to continue , or to enlarge if necessary , appropriations for drought relief . In effect , this was to say that he would do for the farmers all that President ROOSEVELT had done , and add to it a great deal more . This opened the way for his additional and higher bids , all of which are to be found in his speech printed this morning . As forecast in the Republican platform , a system of direct " cash benefits " from the Government is to be established for those living on a " familytype farm . " This form of Federal subsidy is to make sure that the farmer will be paid even for his unexportable surplus , and will be paid at the American price , not the foreign . Governor LANDON proposes one novelty in the form of what would be , in reality , a Government warehouse on every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a crib next to the barn and the Government will give him a warehouse receipt for it which he can sell for cash or on which he can borrow money . This is a novelty , the cost of which , like the cost of any comprehensive system of crop insurance , would run into very high figures . Governor LANDON admits that the great decline in our agricultural exports has been a heavy blow to the farmers . He expresses the hope that some day the old flow of commerce from American farms to foreign markets will be resumed . But he does not indicate any practical way in which this may be brought about . He indulges in the customary Republican lament about the rise in farm imports , and incidentally admits that the protective rates for our agricultural products have been quite " ineffective . " This is a direct abandonment of the traditional Republican position , that a protective tariff took care of our farms as.well as our factories . There was no hint in Governor LANDON 'S speech of a policy of tariff revision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promotion of foreign commerce and the restoration of our agricultural exports on the great scale once common . Governor LANDON is playing against the President for high stakes . His farm program , if put into effect , will infallibly swell Federal appropriat4ons and increase the deficits . This is what makes the Governor 's final plea for economy , for reduced taxes , and for cutting down the public debt seem very much like a piece of unconscious irony .                     