@@702311

txt The British and asked Germany nd Italy today to reply " by Saturday at the latest " to the . London proposal to ban foreign " volunteers " from ( he Spanish , civil war . Informed sources said the action was not an ultimatum but " was deemed necessary in view of the increasingly dangerous situation In Spain . " fly a Staff Correspondent of The Christhos Science , 11onitor LONDON , Jan. ** British Government . is seriously considering sending an emphatic protest to Rome on the subject of the 10,000 Italian " volunteers " who have reached Spain since Dee . 22 . Downing street estimates that with those previously sent , the number of Italians helping the rebels now totals about 20,000 . The number of Germans is estimated at 10,000 . Pending Foreign Secretary , Anthony Eden 's return to work today , Whitehall has been very cautious . But now there is no attempt to conceal the view that if Premier Mussolini pepists in his present ant- , tude , Saturday 's " gentlemen 's agreement " will cease to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispatch of : volunteers is teChnically not a breach of the agreement , since this question never has been settled by the International Non-Intervention Committee . But in the British view , there is not a shadow of doubt ' that Premier Mussolini has violated the " spirit " ' of she agreement , even if Its letter allows 111111 a free hand , The non-Intervention sub-committee met today , when the question of volunteers was up for discussion , and it is understood the Earl of Plymouth , the committee 's chairman , had something to say on Italy 's action . Meanwhile there Is a ray of light in regard to the Palos incident . In the first place , the Spanish Government has offered to release the confiscated cargo and passenger if the International Non-Intervention Committee thinks this should he done , Though it is considered unlikely that Germany will agree to the non-intervention committee dealing with the matter , it Is noticed that in the ultimatum sent by the German cruiser Konigsberg today , Germany merely threatens to dispose of the two Spanish ships taken us hostages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No mention 14 made of any subsequent action on Germany 's part . It Is therefore inferred In some quarters that the " honor " of both sides would be satisfied if the Spaniards keep the Palos cargo and passenger while the Germans hand their hostages over to General Franco , and that the 410014. will then be allowed to drop .                     