@@700287

txt With stores , hotels , restaurants and clubs throughout the city hurrying preparations for repeal Tuesday afternoon , hundreds of thou sands of gallons of legal liquor and wine are being rushed here on ships and special trains . The first " all-wine " train is duo to arrive in Newark from California at noon tomorrow . This train , coming over the Erie , is made up of twenty-four cars bringing more than 175,000 gallons of assorted wines . The wines are from the Italian-Swiss colony at Asti , and the shipment is valued at more than $600,000 . Foreign Liquors on Way . On the Bremen due tomorrow is a cargo of German wines and German cognac . On the Majestic and the Scythia , from Southampton and Liverpool are cargoes of Scotch , ports , sherries and Irish whiskies . Later in the week the Italian ship Rex is due with a cargo of Italian wines and vermouths . On the De Grasse due here Thursday morning will be a cargo of French champagnes , wines , cognacs and con. dials . Every agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on . Tuesday , or as soon after as possible , is being utilized . On and after Tuesday afternoon , there will be a steady flow of liquor in New York City , not only from the whisky manufacturing centres in this country , but from abroad as well . The foreign consignments are being received under the quota regulations announced in Washington . Meanwhile Coast Guard and custom officials were fighting to prevent the landing of cargoes by rum runners hovering outside the twelve-mile limit off the Long Island coast . At the offices of the Coast Guard , it was said that there were several such craft off the coast , with thousands of cases of liquor , and that every effort would be made to , prevent the landing of the liquors and wines in evasion of the Federal duties . Most of the cargoes are from the islands of Miquelon and St. Pierre . Only about half of the 6,000 who had applied for licenses of various kinds will be able to open for busis ness with the ratification of repeal , it was said yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The physical limis tation of passing on the applications , with the small staff that the board has at its disposal , was given . as the reason for the delay . Discussing the police arrangements for Tuesday here , Commissioner Bolan said that each inspector would be held responsible for conditions in his district . He did not expect any unusual situation to arise out of the repeal celebration . here , " because most of those inclined to celebrate are not in a financial position to do so . " Mr. Bolan said that Deputy Chief Inspector Thomas F. Walsh and Inspector Edward J , Lennon would have a sufficient number of policemen on duty in the Times Square section and elsewhere on Broadway , to take care of any " undue enthusiasm on the part of celebrants in that section of the city . " The police will be on guard against any attempts at window breaking or interference with pedestrians . Up to last night no word had been received of any contemplated outdoor celebration , Mr. Bolan said . Rule on Bottles Modified . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beverage Control Board to permit temporarily the sale of " Imperial quarts , " containing forty ounces of whisky , was announced yesterday by Edward P. Mulrooney , chairman of the board . The new ruling was made , Mr. Mulrooney said , because a good deal of the imported whisky now available was in forty instead of twenty-six ounce bottles . The price of the " imperial quart " usually works to the advantage of the consumer , it was said . Mr. Mulrooney explained that he wanted to give those to whom the " imperial quarts " had been consigned an opportunity to sell them . When the supply of this sized containers is exhausted the board will probably enforce its original rule that liquor and wine must be sold in glass bottles holding not more than a quart . To expedite the isuance of licenses , the staffs of the State and City Alcoholic Beverage Control Boards worked all day yesterday and will also work today . Inspectors of the boards will also work throughout the day . The entire list of more than 1,900 applications for retail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board to the State board . Louis Fischer , executive director of the city board , said that all the applications were filed in duplicate , and that the inspectors of the two boards were thus enabled to cooperate in making check-ups . About 400 applications , including those of restaurants , are being checked and cleared from the city board daily . Mr. Mulrooney as well as Mr. Fischer expressed the hope that by Tuesday afternoon more than half of the applications for store licenses would , have been acted on and that by the end of the week all the store applications would have been cleaned up . Until all the applications have been acted on , Mr. Mulrooney said , no new ones can be received . In the event the State board finds that more facilities are needed , action will be taken then . Concerning the required 1,500 foot distance between retail liquor stores , Mr. Mulrooney said that both sides of a thoroughfare were taken into consideration in measuring the distances , so that it would not be possible for stores to be opposite each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be situated In some instances around the corner from other stores , as the 1,500 foot rule applies to the thoroughfare on which the store is located . Inspectors reported yesterday that many places for which applications for store licenses had been made , were found locked and unoccupied . It was said that these were mostly stores on which options had been taken out and the inspectors were forced to return the applications without recommendation . Mr. Mulrooney announced that licenses had been granted to five department stores . The licenses were awarded on the basis of priority in filing as follows : R. B. Macy &; Co .. License Number 1 . Gimbels , License Number 2 . Hearn 's . License Number 3 . Bloomingdale 's , License Number 4 . Abraham &; Straus , License Number 5 . Sales will begin Tuesday after- i noon as soon as repeal is effective . In addition Gristede Brothers re- ; ceived licensed No. 6 . This is for the store at Madison Avenue and Seventy-sixth Street . Bohack 's at Jamaica Avenue and Richmond Hill also received a license @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. George Hotel , Elks Club and the Knights of Columbus Club , all of Brooklyn . The Buckingham Hotel in Manhattan obtained a license , as did the Amherst Club and the Cosmopolitan Club . Independent Units , Set Up . The department stores , in accordance with the regulations , are establishing independent units for the sale of liquor by portioning off the liquor department . Macy 's announced yesterday that its wine and liquor department would be staffed with forty experts , among them being a Dutch baron , a French count , an ex-officer of the Czar 's Imperial Military College and a recent member of the French Foreign Legion . Gimbels announced that Charley Donnelly , who was a bartender at the old Waldorf-Astoria bar for more than fourteen years , would be at their wine and liquor shop when it opened Tuesday afternoon . There will be a display there of the different gastronomic mysteries of foreign nations , a Mexican buffet , a spaghetti supper , Swedish , Viennese and Russian suppers , a French buffet and the British snack . There will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Society for the Advancement of Better Living , the only American association of gourmets , will have a table display . Bloomingdale 's liquor store will be on the ground floor of the store at Sixtieth Street and Third Avenue . Workmen are altering part of the premises so a separate store will be built to comply with the State regulations . Abraham &; Straus also will have their liquor store on the ground floor of their department store with a separate entrance for customers as required by the State regulations .                     