@@698114

txt The payment of an initial dividend of 30 per cent to the 408,498 depositors of the defunct Bank of United States by Joseph A. Broderick , State Superintendent of Banks , was authorized yesterday by Supreme Court Justice John F. Carew when he signed a formal order granting Mr. Broderick 's application to make the payment . Following the granting of the order it . Was announced at the Banking Department that depositors would receive dividend checks within a ! Week . The dividend checks , totaling $41,139,608.74 , were drawn and placed in addressed envelopes before the order was signed , it was stated , and all that remains to be done is to run the letters through a stamping machine lent by the postal authorities . It is this task which will hold up the payment for a few days . as as to Reorganization . Mr. Broderick , in an affidavit submitted to Justice Carew a few hours before the signing of the order , stated he had been informed that the financial group headed by General Lincoln C. Andrews , which is working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not hamper them in their endeavors . However , early last night . Max D. Steuer , chief counsel for the Bank of United States Depositors ' and Stockholders ' Protective Association , in a formal statement , strongly intimated that after careful investigation he was convinced that little hope remains for reopening of the bank . On Aug. 20 , when Mr. Broderick applied for the dividend order . Israel Perskin , assistant counsel for the depositors ' association , urged delay on the ground that reorganization plans were approaching fruition . Only a few days ago Mr. Perskin , on behalf of the association , filed a formal objection to the dividend payment , citing among other things that no payment should be authorized until October to allow additional time for working out the reorzanization plan . Justice Carew 's order , signed without an opinion , covered only one angle of the original application of Mr. Broderick . In-that application , in addition to the petition for the right to pay the dividend , the Superintendent sought approval of the accounts detailing the cost of the liquidation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an order directing the disposition of claims for which preference has been claimed as well as claims accepted by him to which objections have been filed . These latter two items are of minor importance . The question of approval of the liquidation cost , how ? ' ever , is another matter . A number of objections to specific expenditures have been filed , most of them having ' to do with the approximately $300,000 listed for legal expenses , of which $100,000 is the fee of Carl 3 . Austrian , chief counsel to the bank in liquidation , and $50 ; 000 , the fee of his chief assistant , Warren G. Fielding . Divided on Reopening . With regard to the possibiltities of reorganization by the Andrews group there was apparently a - dia. ; agreement between Mr. Broderick and Mr. Steuer . Mr. Broderick , referring to the objection of the deposi .. tors ' association that the dividend payment would materially harm the plan , said in his affidavit : " There is only one group to my knowledge presently engaged in the furtherance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . This group is headed by General Lincoln C. Andrews and has as its spokesman Henry W. Torney . My associates and I have been conferring with members of that group since July , ana I have been informed , as late as yesterday , the first day of September , 1931 , by Henry W. Torney , that the payment of a dividend of 30 per cent to depositors and creditors of the Bank of United States at this time will in no way embarrass or prevent the consummation of their plan . " Mr. Steuer 's statement was in effect an explanation to the members of the depositors ' association of the present status of the defunct institution . In addition it was designed to explain his own supposed connection with the Andrews group . " Since my return to the city on the 31st of August , " he said , " I have made inquiry into the supposed plan for the reorganization of the Bank of United States by a group that is alleged to be in cooperation with General Andrews . I have no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that he was under the impression , and perhaps still is , that those whom he interested in this project hkve the capital to finance the reorganization of the bank , and . that also they would be able to prodtihe ' a personnel ready , able and willing to man the bank satisfactory to the Banking Department . " I have already stated that this matter was first called to my attention on the 18th of July . Practically nothing had been done , so far as I : know , up to the 18th of August , and then I was solicited to procure an adjournment for the purpose ; mainly , of giving this group the opportunity to satisfy the banking  --  department of the feasibility of the plan and the financial ability of those interested . " I was kept in utter ignorance from then on until the 29th of August , when some outline of the situation was furnished to me by Mr. Mosessohn , who was supposed to represent . General Andrews . ? I am absolutely satisfied that Mr. ? Mosessohn ithroughout has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as achievement , however , is concerned , nothing has been accomplished . " No one has come forward to put up a dollar , and beyond writing a letter to the Banking Department on the 31st of August , making an offer , nothing has been called to my attention which indicates that any one who is capable of carrying it out is in the silghtest degree interested in the reorganization of the Bank of United States . " I trust that I am doing no one an injustice , but I feel that I owe it to the depositors , at the earliest possible moment , t ) let them know what I have been able to discover up to this time . From now on any steps that I take will be entirely independent of and without any consideration , to or for any alleged group that claims to be interested in the reorganization of the bank . " . Will Answer Objections . Mr. Broderick 's affidavit urged only the . authorization of the dividend . As to-the objections raised to the expenses of liquidation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later date . He took . exception to a statement made ? in . the Perskin objection that less than half of the depositors would actually receive any cash through the dividend ; sines. it . would have to go ? to the clearing . house banks which extended loans ' ? Up to 5Q per cent of deposits in the defunct bank . The actual number of borrowers under the clearing house plan , he said , were 120,458 . The ? United Depositors Committee of the Bank of United States announced yesterday plans fora mass meeting . to , be held . at 11 o'clOck Saturday morning in City Hall Park . At this meeting ; . : It . was stated , demands for payment In full to depositors and fogthe prosecution of " guilty Banking ' Department officials " - will be made .                     