@@697340

txt A more liberal attitude on such controversial questions as sex and the duty of the Church in regard to war , science and closer relations among the different churches ( marks the official conclusions of the Lambeth conference . The results of the deliberations of 307 Bishops of all countries are expressed in seventy-five resolutions , which were sent to all Anglican churches throughout the world and to Protestant Episcopal churches in the United States , with their use recommended for future guidance . Accompanying the resolutions is an encyclical letter signed by the Archbishop of Canterbury in behalf of all members of the conference . Clergymen and communicants who abide by the resolution on war and peace will be no longer free to yield to the excitement and emotion of an international crisis and encourage their own country to enter war if that country refuses to submit the dispute to arbitration and conciliation . In this matter the Lambeth conference just closed goes much further than previous conferences . Declare for Arbitration . After affirming that war as a method of settling international disputes is incompatible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace never will be achieved until international relations are controlled by religious and ethical standards , the conference appeals to the religious leaders of all countries to give their support to the ideals for which the League of Nations stands . The Kellogg pact was referred to by implication in the resolution , but was specifically mentioned in the encyclical letter by the Archbishop of Canterbury , who says : " We thank God for the achievements of the League of Nations and the Kellogg-Briand pact , which condemns war as a means of settling international disputes . " The new attitude of the Lambeth conference in urging churchmen to avoid countenancing war before their own countries have tried arbitration is expressed in the following resolution : " When nations have solemnly bound themselves by treaty , covenant and pact for the pacific settlement of international disputes , the conference holds that the Christian Church of every nation should refuse to countenance any war in regard to which the government of its own country has not declared its willingness to submit the matter in dispute to arbitration or concilia-tion " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is denounced by the conference as a menace to peace , and an appeal is made for a determined effort to obtain further reduction by inter ? national agreement . Twelve of the resolutions concern marriage , divorce and various phases of the sex question . Even more surprising than the new attitude on not countenancing war is a resolution of the conference approving birth control under certain conditions . This was the only action on which the conference was not unanimous . The birth-control resolution was adopted by 193 to 67 votes . " Where there is a clearly felt moral obligation to limit or avoid parenthood the method must be decided on Christian principles , " the resolution said . " The primary and obvious method is complete abstinence . " Nevertheless , " it says , " in those cases where there is such olearly felt moral obligation to limit or avoid parenthood , and where there is a morally sound reason for avoiding complete abstinence , the conference agrees that other methods may be used provided this is done in the light of the same Christian principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any methods of birth control from selfishness , luxury or mere convenience . " The conference further records its abhorrence of the sinful practice of abortion . " While the conference admits economic conditions are a serious factor in the situation , it condemns propaganda which treats birth control as a way of meeting those unsatisfactory social and economic conditions which ought to be changed by the influence of Christian public opinion . " Would Instruct the Young . The conference calls for church councils to study the problems of sex and to see that boys and girls are properly instructed in their homes to prepare them for the responsibilities of adult life . The conference condemns irregular unions " in that they offend against the true nature of love , compromise the future happiness of married life , are antagonistic to the welfare of the community and , above all , are contrary to the revealed will of God . " " In connection with rescue work on behalf of young people in sex matters , the conference records its appreciation of the services of social workers throughout the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , " the resolution concludes . On the general subject of sex the " conference believes the conditions of modern life call for a fresh statement from the Christian Church . " " It declares , " this resolution runs , " that the functions of sex are a Godgiven factor in human life and are essentially noble and creative . " The conference adheres to the view that divorced persons , whose former mates are still living , should not be married according to the rites of the Church , but the cases of innocent persons who have had civil marriages are referred for consideration to the Bishops . Then comes an entirely new suggestion on the part of the Lambeth conference that the Church still has an unceasing responsibility even for sinners in the matter of divorce . The text of the repolution on this subject reads : " The conference believes that in the exalted view of marriage taught by our Lord is to be found the solutions of the problems with which we are faced . His teaching was reinforced by certain elements which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of personality , the more equal partnership of men and women and the biological importance of monogamy . Reaffirms Monogamy Principle . " The conference believes that it is with this ideal in view that the Church must deal with questions of divorce and with whatever threatens the security of woman and the stability of the home . Mindful of our Lord 's words , ' What therefore God hath joined together let no man put asunder , ' it reaffirms as our Lord 's principle and standard that marriage is a lifelong and indissoluble union for better or for worse of one man and one woman to the exclusion of all others on either side and calls on all Christian people to maintain and bear witness to this standard . " In cases of divorce the conference , while passing no judgment on the practice of regional or national churches within cur communion . recommends that marriage of one whose former partner is still living should not be celebrated according to the rites of the churches . " Where an innocent person is remarried under civil sanction and desires to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for consideration to the Bishop subject to provincial regulations . " Finally , it would call attention to the Church 's unceasing responsibility for the spiritual welfare of all her members who have come short of her standard in this as in any other respect , and to the fact that the Church 's aim individually and socially is reconciliation to God and redemption from sin . It therefore urges all Bishops and clergy to keep this aim before them . " No Antagonism to Science . There was no antagonism in the Lambeth conference of 1930 to modern science , for in their fifth resolution the Bishops say : " We recognize in the modern discoveries of science  --  whereby the boundaries of knewledgye are extended , the needs of men satisfied and their sufferings alleviated  --  veritable gifts of God to be used with thankfulness to Him and with that sense of responsibility which thankfulness must create . " With equal emphasis the conference affirms " the supreme wishaken authority of Holy Scriptures as presenting the truth concerning God and the spiritual life in its historical settings and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is no part of the purpose of the Scriptures to give information on those themes which are the proper subject-matter of science , nor is the Bible a collection of separate oracles each containing the final declaration of truth . Although there is no reference to India in the resolutions on racial relationships , the conference obviously has that country in mind when it affirms that " the ruling of one race by another can only be justified when the highest welfare of the subject race is the constant aim of the government and when admission to an increasing share in the government of the country is the objective steddfastly pursued . " Bans Race Distinctions . Another resolution under the subject of race which applies to all countries where there are both white and black Christians reads as follows : " The conference affirms the conviction that all communicants , without distinction of race or color , should have access to any church to the Holy Table of the Lord and that nobody should be excluded from worship in any church on account of color or race . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of language or custom , Christians of different races normally worship apart , special occasions should be sought for united services and corporate communion in order to witness the unity of the body of Christ . " The conference affirms that the guiding principle of racial relations should be interdependence , though this interdependence does not of itself involve intermarriage . The realization in practice of human brotherhood postulates courtesy on the part of all races toward one another , cooperation in the study of racial relations and values and complete avoidance of any exploitation of weaker races such as is exemplified in the liquor traffic among the natives of Africa and enforced labor for private profit . " Under the head " Church Unity , " the conference expresses appreciation of the " courage and Christian charity of Cardinal Mercier in arranging the Malines conversations " and expresses its regret that members of the Roman Catholic Church were forbidden to participate in the World Conference on Faith and Order and other similar conferences . Moves for Unity Appreciated . Thanks are expressed for the approaches made toward greater unity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the separated Eastern churches , " the Old Catholic Church " and the Church of Sweden . Cordial overtures are also made to the recently united Church of Scotland and the evangelical free churches of England for the establishment of closer relations with the Anglican Church . It is in the pending proposals for the union of Anglicans , Methodists , Presbyterians and Congregationalists in missionary work in South India that the rAnforonce finds the moat hopeful evidence of Christian unity in the future . In line with this general tendency , the Lambeth conference makes another entirely new departure in agreeing that communicants of the Anglican Church may hereafter receive holy communion in churches of other denominations when physical conditions are such that it is too difficult for them to get to their own church . Another resolution urges that women of education and ability who have special training should have ample optortunity to share in the church work of the parish and diocese and that deaconesses will hereafter be entrusted to assist ministers in the preparation of candidates for baptism and confirmation , ' to assist at the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women , to read the morning and evening prayer and litany and to instruct and preach except in the service of the holy communion . This resolution concerning the powers of deaconesses marks a radical step in the attitude of the Church toward women . Archbishop Alludes to : Russia . No reference is made to the church situation in Russia in the resolutions themselves , but the Archbishop of Canterbury alludes to it briefly without naming the country in an encyclical letter . He also refers to the increasing indifference to God everywhere , but expresses the belief that scientific thinking is now reaching a point at which it is far more favorable to the Christian faith than it has been for a long time . " We are aware , " writes the Arch- , bishop , " of the extent to which the very thought of God seems to be passing away from the minds and hearts of many , even ' n nominally Christian nations . The ten years since we last met have seen the development of one vast political and social experiment which is at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even where God is still acknowledged he is often regarded as too elusive or removed to be relevant to the practical concerns of life . " And it is not surprising that , where the belief in God has weakened , the sense of sin has in large measure disappeared , morality has shown signs of degenerating into little more than recognition of the value of kindness and the supreme good has almost come to be thought of in terms of comfort and excitement . What Is More Significant . " But more significant is the increasing consciousness of thoughtful men and women that the emancipations which they have lately won do not yield deep and lasting satisfactions ; that selfishness is self-defeating ; that the heart of modern life , with all its exuberance of interest , is disquietingly void of conviction , and that once again experience proves personal happiness to be in fact and not merely in pious words linked with spiritual ideals and moral standards and endeavors . " Many , too , of those who at present are a bit loose to the faith and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the claim of Christianity ; they are not thinking about it ; they have not revolted against the gospel , but against a presentation of the gospel which falls far short of its true range and splendor . " Perhaps most noteworthy of all , there is much in the scientific and philosophical thinking of our time which provides the climate for a more favorable faith in God than has existed for generations . New interpretations of cosmic process are now before us which are congruous with Christian theism . The great scientific movement of the nineteenth century had the appearance at least of hostility to religion . " But now from within that movement and under its impulse views of a universal process are being formed which point to a spiritual interpretation . We are now able , with the help of the various departmental sciences , to trace in outline a continuous process of creative development in which at every stage we find the Divine Presence and power . Thus scientific thinking and discovery seem to be giving us back the sense of reverence and awe before the sublimity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ground of the universe but always everywhere active within it . " Christianity more than any other great religion has undergone the discipline of contact with scientific methods of thought and emerges therefrom still strong to redeem and Inspire . "                     