@@699442

txt The baiter plan for relieving unemployment , and the issuance of scrip to ease money stringency continue to spread The West takes particularly to this system , no less than 29 states being more or less involved in its favor . In several states barter exchanges have been organized , some incorporated , and do a flourishing business in " swapping " commodities for services and vice-versa In some instances the exchange is made in actual commodities ; in others , service is paid for in scrip exchangeable into commodities Special to The Christian Science Monitor OKLAHOMA CITY , Okla ? Progless of the barter movement here is marked by the appeal of a church for the services of an organ tuner to be paid in scrip money . The organ tuner was supplied , according to the Shirtsleeves Exchange , Inc , which issues the scrip . Scrip money made payable to bearer , who is protected ' against counterfeiting by serial numbers and other safeguards . will be paid to the organ tuner who , in turn , may use it to pay for commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means limited to such articles , ; on hand at the exchange . Statuary has been listed among other Commodities which may be obtained at the exchange . The purpose of the exchange is to provide a meeting place for surpluses . Farmers may exchange their surplus eggs or householders may bring hi baby buggies , household furniture . clothes or anything else they do n't need , and get scrip With this scrip they may buy something else in the exchange that they do need , either commodities or labor , Changes in the organization of the exchange have recently been made to put it under the complete control of the committee in charge of city relief activities . The new arrangement requires that all officials who issue scrip or handle commodities shall post surety bonds in amounts to be decided by the directors . City Attorney W. H Brown announced the change in the setun of the organization as one from a " socialistic to a business organization . " ? California Exchange Plans to Extend Its Barter Relief System Special to The Chrihtlein Selene. , Monitor LOS ANGELES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bartering labor in exchange for food and other necessities were made here recently at the convention of California 's Unemployed Cooperative Relief Association . One hundred delegates , reported to represent 300,000 nelsons , who ieeelve assistance through its many The exchanges operate what is called the " Compton plan , " by which members offer their labor to farmers in exchange for a portion of their crops , or for the unmarketable surpluses with which California has always been supplied plentifully This food is then dish ibuted among those who are in need according to the time they have been employed No wages are paid According to the report of Mr E J Krueger , president , there is a need to coat dmate the efforts of this group with 146 other similar movements throughout the United States , providing for an exchange of relief products between different areas Hogs and Hens Buy Flour And Oil in South Dakota Specicl to The Christian Science Monitor MADISON , S D ? Barter is the basis of 70 to 90 per cent of the business being done in Franklin , Orland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Acceptance of livestock as a medium of exchange causes some difficulties , but the merchants would rather have a little difficulty than no business . " Business has n't been so bad , " one of the proprietors reported , " since hens , eggs , cream , a cowinde , a quarter of beef or half a hog have been accepted as legal tender in exchange for sugar , flour , oatmeal and other merchandise on my shelves " A load of gram was accepted by one storekeeper in payment for merchandise The grain was used to fatten a number of shoats which were tendered in payment on other accounts The pi evading market price determines the value of the farmer 's products in terms of the storekeeper 's wares . The storekeeper in turn keeps the products until he can sell them profitably on the markets in the larger cities . Many Ohio Cities Turn To Barter and Scrip CLEVELAND , Ohio , Jan. 20 ( /P ? Ohio , feeling a need for a homemade method of dealing with unemployment , and having a shortage of ready cash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At least eight cities , with a combined population of more than 2 , - 000,000 persons , are considering the advisability of issuing their own ' scrip to meet city pay rolls or to aid them in meeting the problems of unemployment relief Yellow Springs , the home of Antioch College , has issued scrip for use at the exchange , and Ore homemade money has done its work so well that Dr Arthur E. Morgan , president of Antioch College , has urged its adoption on a wide scale as a " shock absorber " in the transition period of the economic readjustment . Toledo , Dayton , Springfield , Columbus , Cincinnati , Cleveland and Dover all have movements under way looking toward adoption of ' a local scrip . Alabama Farmers Urged To Accept Barter Plan Special to The Christian Science Monitor I MONTGOMERY , Ala . ? In the 1 belief that barter will improve tiv. 1 financial condition of the State , Mr I Seth P Storrs , state commissioner of aericulture , is urging Alabama farmers to join whole-heartedlv m the movement . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary materials with which to ' make a crop although they can not pay for them in , money To encourage the movement , the depariment is publishing the Alabama Farmers ' For Sale , Want and Exchange Bulletin , a bi-monthly paper carrying an average of 455 exchange notices The service is restricted to farmers and business men for whom the notices are ptblished free The paper now has a circulation of 14,000 and results have been obtained in 55 per cent of the exchange notices , says Mi Storrs                     