@@697669

txt Five big capitals of the world took up active discussion of - the naval accord yesterday . In Paris the French Cabinet approved the settlement , which is believed to safeguard French figures while raising American and British allowances . Henderson returned to London , where jubilation was expressed . It is understood there that the changes from the London pact are slight . Tokyo showed fear that a deal had been arranged with France to give her more submarines , and trouble is brewing for the government on that score . In Rome Mussolini issued a statement to The Associated Press hailing the accord and praising America 's influence in making it possible . Washington was informed of the settlement by the British Ambassador , but comment was withheld pending receipt of full information . FRENCH CABINET APPROVES . By P. J. PHILIP Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES . PARIS , March ** approval was given this morning by the - French Cabinet to the settlement of the Franco-Italian naval issue arranged by the two British Ministers , Arthur Henderson and A. V. Alexander , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the agreement will not be published , however , until Wednesday , after all the interested governments have been informed , it is stated . To all of those , including the Government of the United States , the text of the diplomatic " instrument " which will register the agreement and complete the London pact was forwarded by cable today after it had been finally drafted by Robert Craigie and Rene Massigli . It may be found when its terms are re1.  - -  ealed that it involves a slight departure from the figures of the London pact . Britain to Increase Tonnage . In order to meet the demands of France and Italy and at the same time to remove the danger of competitive building , the two British Ministers seem to have found themselves faced with the alternative of ' accepting for their own country a figure somewhat less than the twopower Continental standard or increasing that figure by a small markrin subject to the approval of the United States and Japan . They are understood to have taken the second course . There seems to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pact with revised figures , but it is believed that that will not be necessary because the new figures for Great Britain and the United States are of small relative importance . That there will be any increase at till in the London figures is not indeed officially admitted here . It is somewhat confirmed , however , by the satisfaction in French naval circles that the paring down of the French Navy has not been as drastic as was at one time feared and by the emphasis with which even Foreign Minister Aristide Briand last evening denied the veracity of figures which have been published as the basis of the agreement . It is reported here that Washington fears a row if a new text of the London treaty has to be submitted to the Senate and is said to have accepted the new figures as a rider . Against the slight increase in all the navies the Ministers who have been engaged In the negotiations of the past week are seeking to offset the importance of the results which have been obtained in the removal of the danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations between these two countries . The English , also , while not admitting officially that there will be any upward revision of the figures of the London pact , advance the argument that if such should prove to be the case , it is undeniably preferable to a forced appeal by England to the escalator clause . One of the changes which have been reported as having been agreed to is that between now and 1936 no warships of more than 25,000 tons will be laid down . This arrangement has been made , it is understood , with the double object of assuring that Italy shall not try to outclass the proposed French 23,000-ton armored cruiser and also to keep the total of English and Ameriean tonnage near the London limits . The agreement , it is said , was more easily obtained because of the revised opinion in naval circles of the value of heavy ships since Germany 's Ersatz Preussen set a new standard . I Mr. Henderson and Mr. Alexander leturned to London today and before they left Paris Mr. Henderson again emphasized his satisfaction with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can only say , " he said , " that I am extremely well content that we have reached an agreement . What was , above all , essential was to eliminate the possibility of competitive building which to some extent had already begun . " In his statement there was no reference to the possible increase in the London schedule . There was , howpier , a notable avoidance by him and by all the other Ministers who have discussed the agreement of any reference to the fitting of the FrancoItalian arrangement into the Landon pact without some alteration of the treaty . America Believed Informed . There is reason to believer that the United States Government has been fully informed of this condition of the new agreement and that It is prepared to accept the change . Until the figures are published , however , it should be added that there is no possibility of appreciating eitactly Its importance . Two features of the settlement Which were most emphasized in the l ' ' rench press today are , first , the hope that it offers of a better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , secondly , that it has been proved once more that France and England in agreement can always accomplish what neither can accomplish when there Is no entente . This second argument is dwelt on with special emphasis in Le Temps . among other newspapers , and has led to a revival of the suspicion that some political conditions were attached to the agreement of last week . It is believed , however , that this is less likely to be the case than that the French claim to use the Washington tonnage to begin the building of 23,000-ton cruisers was accepted by the English Ministers only on condition that there should be a revision upward of the London schedule . A third opinion expressed is that of the ultra-Nationalist writers , Who remain filled with apprehension and refuse to regard even the benefits of the Franco-Italian accord , With England and the United States behind it , as offsetting the sacrifice of a single submarine . Those who write in this vein , however , are warned by a public reprimand given by Charles Dumont , Minister of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures to be satisfied to withhold for the moment their full fire of criticisfn until the text of the agreement has been revealed . It is expected that M. Briand discuss fully the terms of the agreement Wednesday in the chamber of Deputies when the appropriations for the Foreign Affairs budget are j to be voted ,                     