@@701410

txt There is no compromise on the Wheeler-Rayburn utility holding company bill , despite the optimistic assertions of Congressional leaders , following the White House conference Sunday night that an agreement was in si eht Those handling the utility bill in conference were amazed , to say the least , to hear that the impasse had been broken in one sitting at the White House , when weeks of deliberations by the 10 House and Senate conferees had so far come to naught . The only compromise that could be obtained , this group generally believes , is for the President to make major concessions to the House Dill . Chairman Rayburn of the House conferees , after informal discussions with Senate leaders . including Senator Barkley ( Dem. , Ky. ) who is alleged to have the key to the whole " death sentence " problem , appeared more gloomy than ever over the outlook for utility legislation at this session . " 1 certainly did n't hear of any compromise while I was in the Senate , " Mr. Rayburn said . The House member conferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the attempts to break the deadlock . Mr. Rayburn said he had'no intention at the present time of asking the House to instruct its conferees to yield on a compromise . However , he emphasized that absence of such intentions at this time did not mean he might not ask such instructions . Wheeler Knows of No Compromise Senator Wheeler , chairman of the Senate conferees , in the afternoon stated he was not informed of any compromise , but added that Senator Barkley will have something to present to the conference today when they meet after a three-day postponement Senator Wheeler rather implied that there could be no adjustment between the two houses unless President Roosevelt decided to back down on the " death sentence " feature . This senator is understood to be standing pat until President Roosevelt releases him from the position be has maintained from the outset of the utility fight . Representative Huddleston ( Dem. , Ala. ) , who is supported by a majority of the House conferees in opposition to the " death , sentence " ; said he conferred at great length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new compromise had been devised . The Alabama congressman , however , said that Senator Barkley did not present to him any suggestions that had not already been proposed in the Conference Committee . " I. therefore , told Senator Barkley how far the House conferees would go in making concessions on Section Eleven , " Representative Huddleston said . His tone indicated that he had presented the final ultimatum on the controversial section . Barkley Plan Believed Old Proposal The Barkley plan , which was hailed Sunday night as the solution , was understood to be nothing more than the proposal already submitted to the House conferees by Chairman Wheeler as the " utmost concessions to the House provisions " . It provides for the striking out the date for dissolution of holding companies beyond the second degree , and leaving to the discretion of the Securities Exchange Commission the time when dissolution becomes effective . This proposal provides that in any , event first and second degree holding companies could control no operating companies outside an integrated system unless , in the opinion of SEC , the isolated company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Huddleston  |p4an  which has been submitted to the Senate group provides in substance that first and second degree holding companies may survive the " death sentence " , but may control operating companies in all parts of the country and be not confined to integrated systems in contiguous territory When asked about his compromise . Senator Barkley stated he was not at liberty to give out his suggestions until after they are presented today to the conference group of which he is a member . The essence of his compromise , however , came from other senators W ho had conferred with him on Monday . President Has Not Changed Attitude New Deal advocates of the " death sentence " V6 ho conferred with Senator Wheeler on Monday on plans for the conference between House and Senate today on the bill , declared that . there was absolutely no foundation for published reports that President Roosevelt had finally yielded to the House demands for elimination of the ' ' death sentence " . and that the Chief Executive would prefer ho legislation to the House bill . From a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise to split the ranks of the Democratic Party with the utility issue according to observers in Congress here . It is pointed out that some 134 Congressmen in the Democratic Party voted against the " death sentence " , many of whom are Roosevelt stalwarts on other matters . If the President desires to take the issue to the country the question arises as to whether he wculd not open a breach in the party which would take from him some of his beat supporters The same argument is presented with respect to Senate Democrats who voted against the " death sentence . " On this basis some of President Roosevelt 's congressional advisers ale understood to be attempting to discourage the political issue threats which have been forthcoming from the " death sentence " advocates .                     