@@702563

txt With collective bargaining established as the law of the land , representatives of labor and capital put their beads together here today to make it practicable in wiping out industrial strife in the United States . Simultaneously , a group of congressmen blamed the advice given by a committee of lawyers appointed by the American Liberty League for the failure of a number of employers to obey the Wagner Labor Act between July , 1935 , when it was enacted , and the time the Supreme Court declared it constitutional a week ago . Meeting with Miss Frances Perkins , Secretary of Labor , today at hei ? request were such industrial leaders as Daniel Willard , president of the Baltimore &; Ohio Railroad , Walter C. Teagle , president of- the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey , and Clarence Woolley , head of the American Radiator Company . Both factions of organized labor I were represented by William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , and John L. Lewis , chairman of the Committee for Industrial Organization . Misunderstanding Blamed Explaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry and labor to suggest a plan for the use of collective bargaining " which will serve to lessen the tension and minimize stoppages of work through misunderstanding by one or the other group . " It is especially important , she advised the conferees , that they send for federal conciliation officials before conferences between workers and employers are permitted to break up . Today 's conference , and others which are to follow , are being held , Miss Perkins said , " so that the public interest may be served by trying to make some rules of the game under collective bargaining , mutually agreed on by leaders among the parties most concerned , so as to help reduce the number of strikes and lockouts . " We are not takinl ; up any legislative program ? or matter of wages , hours or working conditions , but confining ourselves rather to reaching some mutual informal agreement by workers and management as to what general rules can be set up to stabilize industrial relations under collective baraninina . " Action in Congress Despite the confidence of labor officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will lead to a sharp reduction in the number of sit-down strikes that have been sweeping the country recently , the House Labor Committee went ahead with a resolution attacking the sit-down strike as illegal and contrary to sound public policy . Four members of the committee Issued a report of their owv. sharply condemning the " treasonable performance " of a group of 58 Liberty League lawyers who held last year that the Wagner Act was unconstitutional . The four congressmen defended the sit-down strike as being forced by employers ' attitude to their employees .                     