@@701549

txt With kind , conciliatory words for the Italian nation , the coordinating committee 1 of the League of Nations tonight ! fixed Nov. 18 as the day when the League world shall cut off all credits to and purchases from Italy and all exports to Italy of a score of key war materials . It next heard Premier Pierre Laval of France and Sir Samuel Hoare , British Foreign Secretary , express their " full agreement " on the need of applying loyally what the first called " certain economic measures " and the latter called " sanctions . " Both urged continuing peace overtures , which Mr. Laval stressed " nothing will discourage , " and Sir Samuel emphasized nothing will come from for " maybe some time " and then must come through the League and be acceptable to " the League . Ethiopia and Italy . " TEXT OF LAVAL SPEECH . The text of Mr. Laval 's speech follows : Now that the coordination committee has decided on the date of the coming into force of certain economic measures , I would recall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often stated before the League , is loyally applying the covenant . It will conform with the measures jointly agreed to by the various governments here represented . I wish to emphasize on the day we are taking the important decision that we have all another duty to fulfill , a duty dictated to us by the spirit of the covenant . We have to seek as rapidly as possible for a friendly settlement of the dispute . The French and United Kingdom Governments have agreed to collaborate also for this purpose . For France particularly this is an imperious duty , since on Jan. 7 last France signed a treaty of friendship with Italy . I shall therefore endeavor with firmness to assure that nothing will disturb efforts to find any possible basis for negotiations . For that reason I took the first step in conversations without ever having the idea of giving them final shape apart from the League . Only within the League can proposals be considered and decisions taken . I am convinced that the League will fulfill the hopes of all those throughout the world who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully its high and noble mission of restoring peace . Surprise Peace Project . Then the coordinating committee tacitly approved a surprise Belgian move to give France and Britain an apparently indefinite " mandate to seek the elements of a solution acceptable to the three parties  --  the League , Italy and Ethiopia  --  under the League 's authority and supervision . " This move , which Poland prevented from ending in a formal resolution by quickly recalling that only the League Council has power to deal with this question , is contradictorily interpreted . Some fear it is a sinister opening move to a three-power deal over Ethiopia after the British National Government has won the parliamentary election on Nov. 14 . Others welcome it as the best practical means to prevent such a deal . Still others find that outside British and French domestic politics it matters little and leaves the practical situation unchanged . Italian quarters profess to believe the negotiations have gone much further behind the scenes than is admitted . After the committee adjourned , Joseph A. Avenol , Secretary General of the League , gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a big new field . It states the arms embargo was raised too late to help Ethiopia much , it stresses the inequality of the war forces of Ethiopia and Italy , and formally asks financial assistance from the League . Aid Plans Made in 1930 . A League convention to this end was signed by most of the members in 1930 , including Ethiopia , Britain and France . Though still inoperative , it morally justifies Ethiopia 's request and provides the mechanism necessary for meeting it . No action was taken on this communication , which was sent to Geneva by the Ethiopian Legation in Paris yesterday . Officials say it will probably be discussed by the committee of eighteen Wednesday . This move may find wide support among all those League members who desire for their own sakes to see a precedent of financial aid to the victim of aggression . Britain and France will have to give most of the financial help Ethiopia needs to buy arms , and if they have to , make these loans through the League , as Ethiopia desires , they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tana and other things Ethiopia might otherwise be forced to give them . Earlier in the day Dr. Walter A. Riddell of Canada proposed . the addition to the key material embargo of things in which her neighbor , the United States , and also Germany are expected to play in decisive role . After Spain , a producer of iron ore , which is already on the embargo list , urged that logic required the addition of pig iron and steel , and after it was explained these had been omitted because " of the impossibility of imposing an effective embargo on them " Dr. Riddell proposed that petroleum and its derivatives , coal , pig iron , cast iron and steel be added to the embargo " as soon as it appeared the principle was accepted sufficiently generally to insure that the embargo of these products would be effective . " This Move , which involves the heart of the problem of relations with nations outside the League , was referred to the economic subcommittee which meets Monday to report to the Wednesday meeting of the Committee of Eighteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that of Switzerland 's neutrality in the event of a European war , was opened by Robert Coulandre of France , who made a formal declaration in the Com-1 mittee of Eighteen that " the League of Nations could not possibly accept " as " a precedent " the Swiss action in imposing an arms embargo on Ethiopia too . Explaining that France would not push this point now because it " is not of great practical importance in the case before us " and " this grave issue is rather one for the League 's organs , " the declaration stressed that " if the same attitude were adopted in case of a European conflict serious consequences might result . " This declaration was supported by Poland , the Balkan and Little Ententes , the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom . Dr. Giuseppe Matta then reiterated the usual Swiss arguments . He said Switzerland had gone to her " extreme limit " in the present dispute and asked that the question of principle should not be pushed because it was not now of practical importance . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole question of Swiss neutrality as it regards the League " by a competent body . " It was announced that all League members had replied to the five proposals except Austria , Hungary and Albania and that the acceptances have - been as follows : Fifty-one for Proposal 1 , the arms embargo . Fifty-one for Proposal 2 , the credit blockade . Forty-nine for Proposal 3 , the boycott of Italian goods . Forty-nine for Proposal 4 , banning exports to Italy of raw materials . Forty-two for Proposal 5 , for ' mutual assistance . San Domingo is favorably considering the proposals . The United Kingdom , Belgium and Mexico announced that their governments in principle are favorable to Proposal 5 but have not replied solely because an answer was not formally asked .                     