@@697372

txt If the British Trades Union Congress struck a radical note on the fourth day of the annual meeting at Nottingham , it would be radical only when compared with the extremely moderate tone of the first three days ' proceedings . For that matter , only one of the three resolutions adopted on Thursday can be regarded at this late day in labor history as verging on the revolutionary , This was the proposal for the transfer of the control over credit from the Bank of England to the British Government , one of the very latest dogmas developed by the intellectuals affiliated with Labor . Of the other two resolutions , one called for a fortyfour-hour week , which is not exactly hair-raising in the face of a normal forty-eight-hour week and of a number of trades actually working forty-four hours . The other demanded old-age pensions at the age of 60 instead of 70 , as under the present old-age system , Matching these results against the extremely realistic speech with which the president of the Trades Union Congress opened its proceedings , the total @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. BEARD paid his respects in great detail to that famous slogan , Socialism in our time . " Is there any evidence of a desire for it even in the Labor movement ? he asked . " I want to say emphatically there is not . " This would seem at first sight to be going a bit too far . It is true that the numerical strength of the Labor extremists was revealed as very modest in the test of strength precipitated by JAMES MAxTON and OSWALD MOSLEY several months ago . Yet even a dozen convinced Socialists are something . But what Mr. BEARD probably had in mind is that even the little band of faithful has been revising its expectations ' downward , . If " one may qwq in Twenty-five Years . " That may not be too long a period to qualify as being " in our time , " but . it certainly does not suggest the social revolution just around the corner . All architects ' estimates , including those for a new social order , must be allowed a very generous margin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years stretching out into fifty years , the problem has definitely been removed from " our time " into the future . It is hardly necessary to enter into the many reasons for the growing sobriety of British Labor in the last few years . The memory of ' the general strike of four years ago is still alive . A sense of responsibility has grown with Labor in control of the Government . The present economic situation does not encourage militancy . The generous administration of unemployment insurance has allayed discontent . But one factor outside of Great Britain must have played its part in suggesting sober second thoughts about Socialism in our time in Great Britain , and that is the record of Socialism in our time in Soviet Russia . As Mr. MAXTON sees it , when the English people has made up its mind to build Socialism , five years should suffice for the essential economic changes , and twenty years more for the " new mentality " and the " full fruits . " But it is now thirteen years since LENIN set to work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the veriest beginning has been made . It is not Socialism when wages and money and banking exist . As for the " new mentality , " the Communist Government in the fourteenth year of rule is still arresting bourgeois professors and experts for practicing " counter-revolutionary sabotage . " If a Russian experiment which has cost many millions of lives and untold treasure registers such slow progress , English Left Wingers , sincerely decrying Russian methods , must be content to revise their time schedules .                     