@@699121

txt A State Liquor Traffic Authority to control the manufacture , transportation and sale of liquor , following the termination of prohibition , was proposed yesterday by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , president of Columbia University , in an appeal to " public opinion throughout the length and breadth of the land . " Dr. Butler would fashion the State Liquor Traffic Control Authority in accordance with the general provisions of the Province of Quebec Act . He would have it incorporated and its members appointed by the Governor . He proposes that the State be divided into administrative districts coterminous with either judicial or State senatorial districts and that each district have a central storage warehouse and a local administrative officer of high competence . In his appeal , which is entitled " Outline of Plan for State Liquor Traffic Control Following Repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , " he goes on to explain how the State Liquor Traffic Authority plan might be applied on a larger scale to adjoining States , such as those of New England , or to a prohibition group , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Dakota . Favors High Price for Spirits . Dr. Butler suggests that the State Liquor Traffic Authority should not permit the sale of any liquor for consumption on the premises . He believes that the most practical way to reduce the consumption of distilled liquors is to follow the course of Quebec by charging heavily for them while charging low prices for wines and beer . Unconditional repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment is essential to the success of any plan for State liquor control , according to Dr. Butler , who said : " It is quite idle to talk of a Federal guarantee against the ' return ' of the saloon . It has only married the speakeasy and taken its wife 's name . The Eighteenth Amendment has amply demonstrated that the quickest and surest way to induce a man to desire liquor of any kind is to tell him that he can not have it . " He warns that these questions are so profoundly related to the fundamentals of our government , also to our economic , social and political order , that they should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plaything of ambitious candidates eager for political office . " Dr. Butler 's Recommendations . Dr. Butler 's proposals for State liquor traffic control follow : The following are offered as the controlling principles of a plan for State liquor traffic control to be proposed . for adoption in the State of New York : General Considerations . 1 . It is essential to the success of any plan for State liquor traffic control that-the Eighteenth Amendment be unconditionally repealed . Responsibility must be single and undivided . Any attempt to retain or to extend Federal control over State action in respect to the liquor traffic , except as heretofore and now possessed under the Interstate Commerce clause , is doomed to failure and worse . It is not only wholly impracticable , but if attempted would still further confuse the whole situation , undermine the principles of the Constitution as much as does the Eighteenth Amendment itself and throw the liquor problem into politics for another generation with evil results which no one is wise enough to foresee . It is quite Idle to talk of a Federal guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation of the Eighteenth Amendment and of the Volstead act have surely made that perfectly plain . The saloon has not " gone " anywhere ; it has only married the speakeasy and taken its wife 's name . A hundred constitutional amendments and a thousand Congressional statutes could not abolish the saloon . It can only be gotten rid of , as it will be gotten rid of , by local sentiment operating through local authority under a system which outlaws the liquor traffic when conducted for private profit . 2 . Each and every State in the Union , upon the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , will regain the right , in the exercise of its police power , to deal with the liquor traffic within its boundaries as it sees fit . Each State will be free to regard the liquor traffic as something to be regulated in the public interest , and to enact a prohibition law of its own or to adopt any other measure of control having a reasonable relation to suppression . The larger power to prohibit will include the lesser power to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free to devise and to adopt any plan which , in its discretion , it deems adequate , proper and reasonable . These State 's rights were consistently upheld by the Supreme Court and by State courts before the adoption of the Eighteenth Amendment and they will be upheld again when they are restored by the repeal of that amendment . 3 . The Congress , through its authority over interstate commerce , now possesses all necessary power to regulate interstate traffic in intoxicating liquors . No State will need any protection for its policy in this respect which it is not now in the power of Congress to give . 4 . These questions go so deep down into the structure and functions of our government and are so intimately concerned with the protection of our economic , social and political order that it is wholly unbecoming that they should be made the football of purely partisan politics or the plaything of ambitious candidates eager for political office . This appeal , therefore , is made to public opinion throughout the length and breadth of the land . Plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic authority should be set up to control the liquor traffic , following the general lines of the Province of Quebec act . This authority would be created as a. - " corporation . It should be vested with full and undivided power to control the manufacture , transportation and sale of intoxicating liquor within the State of New York . It should operate entirely free of partisan political influence . The members of this body should be appointed b- ' the Governor for overlapping terms of at least five years and vacancies should be filled only for the balance of a term . 2 . The State of New York should be divided into administrative districts . In those parts of the State which are north and east of the City of New York these districts might be made co-terminous either with judicial districts or with State Senatorial districts . The City of New York should constitute a single administrative district . 3 . Each of the administrative districts in the State should have its central depot or storage warehouse with a local administrative officer of high competence and clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate profit through traffic in liquor should be wholly excluded from the moment that the liquor comes into possession of the State liquor traffic authority . 5 . In my judgment it will be impracticable to make any effective and enforceable distinction between various kinds of liquor , save in matters of rather minor detail . Any attempts so to do will only invite and promote law violation and bootlegging . The Eighteenth Amendment has amply demonstrated that the quickest and surest way to induce a man to desire liquor of any kind is to tell him that he can not have it . The most practical way to reduce the use of spirituous liquors is to follow the ' Quebec example of charging heavily for them , while putting a low price on light wines and beer . Examples In Quebec and Sweden . 6 . Following the Quebec and Swedish examples , it will be desirable to define with great care the sort of place where liquor may be sold to be drunk on the premises . No one has defined or ever can define the term saloon in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What we can and will abolish , however , is the saloon and the speakeasy as they have existed and now exist and prevent their multiplication as selling agencies set up and maintained for profit . 7 . It will be necessary to provide that the agencies where the State liquor traffic authority dispenses liquor shall be limited ( a ) as to distance from each other and ( b ) in proportion to the population . 8 . The State liquor traffic authority should not permit liquor to be sold for consumption on the premises in any political community or unit which , either by popular vote or by action of its local political authority , may decide that it does not wish this to be done . On the other hand , the just rights and privileges of any individual living in such a locality should be protected by permitting him to secure , under definite regulations , from the nearest storage warehouse or centre of distribution , such liquor as he might wish for use in his own home . 9 . The liquor traffic should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The net profits from the operation of the State liquor traffic authority should be paid to the Treasury of the State in reduction of taxation . A scheme of Federal taxation must be worked out with great care , particularly since the public mind is now properly set on securing no in. considerable revenue from the liquor traffic when , following the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , it is permitted to be re-established in any State . Punitive Provisions . 10 . A punitive feature of importance should be that any officer or member of the State liquor traffic authority who violates the law or the regulations of the authority shall be discharged and not again permitted to be employed in any way under the jurisdiction of that authority . Moreover , any place in which the law or the regulations are violated a second time should itself thereby become ineligible to be again chosen as a place where liquor might be had . This is a feature which I first brought forward in New York State in 1894 , and the late George C. Boldt , the manager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of about $150,000 a year , then told me that if adopted this provision would bring every liquor seller on the side of the law and its strict enforcement , since the loss , if this penalty become operative , would be so large , indeed fatal . 11 . When several adjoining States shall have adopted the same or similar systems of State liquor traffic control it will then become distinctly helpful and a source of economy in administration to take advantage of the provision in the Constitution of the United States , Article I , Section 10 , Paragraph 3 , and , with approval of the Congress , to set up liquor traffic areas by compacts between groups of adjoining States which are ready to have the same system of liquor traffic control . Such a plan would greatly reduce the cost of administration , would widen the area and extend the boundary of the territory that would be under one single and uniform supervision and would go far toward solving the interstate traffic problems which arise in connection with this question . For example , all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquor traffic area . In like fashion a group of States whose people wished to continue prohibition , say , Oklahoma , Kansas , Colorado , Nebraska , Iowa and South Dakota , might take similar action . with a view to the application and . enforcement of their uniform body of law on this subject . 12 . It is of the utmost importance that those States which do not wish to maintain a system of Statewide prohibition shall be prepared with an effective plan of State liquor traffic control to take effect im ? mediately , if and when the Eighq teenth Amendment is repealed . Named Holy Trinity Pastor . The Very Rev. Joseph B. Seullyg dean for Cardinal Hayes in Sullivan and Ulster Counties , has been named pastor of the Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church , 213 West Eighty* second Street , which has been with+ out a permanent pastor since the death of the Rev. William F. Meehan on Dec. 31 , 1931.                     