@@702531

txt A " planned economy , - with public ownership of " socially necessary resources . " is urged in a report by the Methodist Social Service Commission which is before the Newark Annual Conference of that denomination today . The report , which closely follows the " liberal " thought of the commission , was placed before the conference with a request that it be merely " received " ? not " adopted " ? thus avoiding what was expected generally by delegates to the meeting yesterday as a " heated debate . " In agreeing to " receive " the report , the conference also spiked what otherwise would have been a move to place it on record back of the Lewis Committee for Industrial Organization . Backs Co-operation The commission , which is made up of 12 ministers and 12 laymen , goes strongly on record for the cooperative movement and denounces what it calls " the unlawful violation of civil rights " in New Jersey , especially in Hudson County , and declares that religious ? organizations in the Garden State " should come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denied these rights . " It declares that the church is in danger of having to face a fascist movement . While going on record in favor of the " reform ' of capitalism , it voices the view that this would not solve the problem of capital-labor relations . " The epidemic of strikes spreading throughout the country indicates that workers will no longer be the pawns of an acquisitive society and the victims of the industries they have helped to create . " the report says " Their future welfare depends upon their ability to organize . The Committee for Industrial Organization offers the great masses of workers an opportunity to secure better wages and working conditions through collective bargaining . Right to Reorganize " We have long recognized the right of both labor and capital to organize . Capital has made more extensive use of this right than labor . It is to be hoped that the workers will seize the present opportunity for more perfect industrial organization . " In social ownership , production can be planned so that every worker may be offered a job and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extension of public ownership to include all other socially necessary resources . We make this recommendation in the light of the failure of capitalism to overcome scarcity in a day of potential abundance . "                     