@@702462

txt The idea that large permanent unemployment is inevitable is a political fiction that disregards known facts of normal growth . This sentence is not mine . It is made in a study of " Unemployment and Busi'National Recovery " which has just , been released by the " National Industrial Conference Board , a New York statistical organization of established reputation . But , if the sentence is not mine , it serves to fortify everything that I have said on unemployment since the days when people began to be seized with unintelligent fears about a huge core of permanent unemployment . Such defeatists were not " men in the street , " either ; business men and administration officials shared their apprehension . I recall in particular a gloomy view of the unemployment situation from the President himself . Back in the fall of 1935 he twice drew attention to the disparity between the upturn of business and the lack of any upturn in employment . At the time I tried to refute the Presidential implication under the title of " The President 's Pessimism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of facts and figures that put the refutation on a firm statistical footing . The National Industrial Conference Board takes the situation as it existed at the end of last year and compares it with the situation in 1929 . The study shows that total employment In all enterprise for which " reasonably trustworthy " estimates are possible was approximately 9 per cent Under the 1929 average . The average monthly physical volume of total production and trade , however , was about 17 per cent under the average  --  monthly level of 1929 . Thus , while both employment and business activity in 1936 were below 1929 levels , total employment had returned closer to the 1929 level than had the total volume of production and trade . On the basis of these figures the board is bold enough to assert : General and serious labor shortage in 1940 is probable with continued increase in volume of production and trade output per man-hour during the next four years at the same rate as in the pas ; four lean : , ; inner prevailing working hours . A A A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary conclusions upon which the publichas hitherto been fed by pseudo-statistical experts . It is a reassuring conclusion , too . For this reason , no doubt , it will not obtain the same publicity as did the spectacular statements that defiled the newspapers in the trough of the business depression which sought to prove a thesis of progressive joblessness . Out of this fantastic thesis grew a vast number of panaceas . The one that remains to plague the writers of proposed Acts of Congress is a universal 30-hour week . From time to time I have given examples of firms which have reduced hours without any loss of efficiency , I e. , productivity . A lower-hours movement which does not curtail productivity deserves encouragement , and It certainly will be progressive . The enactment , however , of a universal 30-hour week is as fantastic as the thesis upon which It is founded , in that , by reason of its blanket nature and its drastic reduction of work hours at present worked , it would be bound to curtail production . This may not appear plausible in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 30-hour week regime some of the joblessness might be mopped up . To that extent if might seem that , what was lost to production by lower hours of work , might be made up by the increased labor force which would be working the fewer hours . A A The conclusion , however , by no means follows . Joblessness is now concentrated among the unskilled ; so that under a 30-hour-week regime the skilled , by working less , would doubtless produce less . The result would then be a sharing of work at the expense of productitity ; at the expense , that is , of work itself ! For it is what we produce that basically determines our employment , as well as vice versa ; which is the reason that the National Industrial Conference Board , in the quotation above . makes the prospect of a general labor shortage dependent upon the maintenance of prevailing working hours , rather than upon a diminution of them . Note : in Friday 's article , on " the Tariff Problem , " I am made to appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , oply 11w quixotic could be free traders In present circumstances : the phrase as written wail " freer trader , " ankh is vastir different .                     