@@703692

txt A world commodity price index , resulting from the cooperative efforts of General Motors Corp . and Cornell University , and designed as a guide to industry , business and finance in following world price trends . is being inaugurated today . It represents . the first effort of its kind to be made available to the public on a weekly basis . For the week ended November : co , toe worio index ( in gold ) stood at 60.4 against 63.1 in the United States only . Both figures are preliminary . The new index is built upon 40 basic commodities including grains , livestock and livestock products , miscellaneous foods ( coffee , cocoa , tea , sugar , etc. ) , textiles , fuels . metals , and a list of other miscellaneous materials such as rubber . hides , lumber , newsprint , linseed oil , etc . Each commodity is weighted according to its relative importance in world production , and the same weighting is used in the index of each individual country , regardless of the comparative importance of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial restrictions on exchange rates exist are not included in the index . Other countries will be added from time to time . Computation of the index is done at Cornell University , which for a number of years has been investigating price phenomena . The indices from the various countries , which are in terms of paper currencies , are reduced to a comparable basis in gold and then weighted in accordance with the relative importance of the world trade of each country . It was stated that gold was used as a base simply because it is a good common denominator and that its use does not in any way involve any monetary theory . The five-year period 1910-1814 Inclusive was chosen as the base price period since it , was a time of comparatively stable economic and currency conditions for all the countries from which prices are being collected . New World Commodity Price Index General Motor a-Cornell world price index chart indicating the fluctuations in both world and domestic lance levels of 40 basic commodities that have occurred since 1910 . The heavy /Me depicts the monthly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed In terms of . gold as the common denominator . The broken Use indicates the monthly levels of these prices in the United States . also in gold The dotted line which makes its appearance at the right of the than shoe ? the Soo , e ' , fent of prices of these 40 commodities In United States currency since early 1933 . Contribution to Business " The current availability of price trends of basic commodities in the countries in which the corporation does business will doubtless be helpful in the proper evaluation of the trend of its business . In addition , we feel that through this cooperative effort Cornell University and General Motors possess the opportunity to make a substantial contribution to business generally through the public dissemination of these index figures . We sincerely hope that the release of prompt and comprehensive price data will prove of value to financial , educational and commercial institutions , as well as to governmental agencies in the United States and throughout the world . " Dean Carl E. Ladd of the College of Agriculture at Cornell University . commenting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices constitute one of the most serious problems with which contemporary society has to deaL During the past quarter of a century the fluctuations have been unusually violent , resulting in all sorts of maladjustments which called for unparalleled remedial measures in virtually every country throughout the world . Although the inevitable maladjustments and suffering that result from a rapid decline in commodity prices fall heavily on all groups of society , the major burden is borne by the producers of raw commodities . who in a large part are farmers .                     