@@700687

txt Dr. Menas S. Gregory , director of the psychopathic division of the Department of Hospitals and one of the nation 's better known psychiatrists , resigned yesterday , bringing to a close a career a thirtythree years in the service of the city . The resignation , which was promptly accepted by Dr. S. S. Goldwater , Commissioner of Hospitals , ended a - bitter undercover controversy which has been waged ever since Dr. Goldwater took office last January . The commissioner at that time ordered a quiet investigation of the psychopathic division and especially of the Bellevue Hospital psychopathic section , which Dr. Gregory had headed since he entered the city service . Conditions of which Dr. Goldwater did not approve were brought to light . Attempts to persuade Dr. Gregory to make changes failed , it is said , and the Hospitals Commissioner became convinced that it was essential to the betterment of the service that the psychiatrist be replaced . No Hint of Resignation . Until the resignation was in Dr. Goldwater 's hands , delivered by a friend of Dr. Gregory , there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He started his annual vacation last Friday and at that time had vehemently denied any intention of quitting his post . The letter of resignation was brief . It read : I herewith tender my resignation as th , director of the psychopathic division of the Department of Hospitals of New York City to take effect immediately . Truly yours , M. S. GREGORY . Dr. Goldwater was asked to assign a reason for the Gregory resignation . He replied , " Dr. Gregory may tell you that . " Seen yesterday afternoon at his home , 101 West Fifty-seventh Street , Dr. Gregory did explain to some extent . He could not stay on duty , he said , and see the work of thirty years torn down before his eyes . " After thirty years of devotion and labor culminating in the present Bellevue Psychopathic Hospital , which has been approved by psychiatrists in general and by a committee appointed by the Academy of Medicine , I can not stand by and see the labor of thirty years go to pieces before my eyes , " said the psychiatrist. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldwater made no direct comment on the Gregory resignation , he did make public a formal complaint against the Gregory administration sent to him by the physicians of the Bellevue psychiatric staff . In this complaint Dr. Gregory was charged with having ; assumed dictatorial powers , with : poor direction of the division and with intimidation of those members of the staff who did not see eye to eye with him on policy ' and methods of treatment . Assistant Also Resigns . Dr. Gregory 's resignation was closely followed by that of Dr. Samuel Feigin , his chief assistant at Bellevue for the last fifteen years . It was reported that other members of the psychopathic staff were planning to resign . For the time being , Dr. Goldwater announced , Dr. Carter N. Colbert of 111 East Eightieth Street , an assistant alienist , will be in charge at Bellevue . Monday night at a meeting of fifteen senior members of the Bellevue psychopathic staff , which Dr. Goldwater attended , twelve of the fifteen , at the commissioner 's suggestion , voted to name Dr. Colbert their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had designatedl Dr. Feigin as acting division head . Dr. Colbert receives $5,450 a year salary as did Dr. Feigin . The Colbert regime will be only temporary , Dr. Goldwater said . Within a short time , he announced , a civil service examination will be held and one of the three physicians who head the list resulting from it will be picked to fill Dr. Gregory 's post . There is no such civil service list now in existence . In the meantime , Dr. Goldwater said , he will study the complaint sent him by the staff and a report submitted ? to him last week by a committee of the Academy of Medicine . Then , he said , he will probably name a committee of outstanding physicians , specialists in the psychiatric field , to make a complete study of the situation and work out a new and better method for administering Bellevue and the city 's other psychiatric sections . He appeared confident that such a committee report would call for drastic revision of the system now in vogue , a system which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medicine report the city 's psychopathic division was praised , but a long list of changes was recommended . Chief of these , was the suggestion that Dr. Gregory be relieved of all his duties except that of heading the Bellevue psychopathic division . Complaints of Staff . The staff complaint was an arraignment of the Gregory regime . It charged that the staff had had no opportunity to present its complaints to the Academy of Medicine committee . It declared that too great power had been concentrated in Dr. Gregory 's hands , so great that one man could not be expected to exercise it properly . " There has been a. tendency to utilize the hospital for the dispensation of special favors , " the staff charged , ' in all instances to patients who were financially independent , when at the same time the poor people of the City of New York were thereby deprived of services to which they were entitled . " Several specific cases were cited , but were not made public by Dr. Goldwater . At another point in the complaint it was asserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent plan for the management of the hospital . " There has been no proper segregation of patients , the staff complained . Methods of handling reports were also objected to as inefficient . Dr. Gregory , the staff continued , " frustrated " efforts to cooperate Moray Studio Photo . BELLEVUE HEAD QUITS . Dr. Menas S. Gregory . with other divisions of Bellevue and failed to allow the staff to carry on scientific work . High-Handed Actions Charged . " Persistently arbitrary and highhanded dealings with the staff have undermined confidence in the director and this impaired the effectiveness of the management , " ! said the staff . " Competent plysicians have been denied rotation of service categorically and kept on wards for inordinately long periods of time . Others have been transferred to duty at the Kings County Hospital because of ulterior motives , expressed and implied . One of ? the most promising of the younger men was told he was unfit to be a doctor . " Undignified humiliation of selfrespecting individuals has cut an ever-widening breach between the staff and the director . Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ atmosphere has always been charged with tension . Expediency has been set above the performance of service . " Staff physicians have been needlessly overworked , the complaint asserted , and members subjected to petty discipline . No adequate provision has been made for the educational and economic welfare of the staff , it was charged . " The present period of investigation has accentuated past difficulties to an intolerable degree , " the complaint added . " The staff has individually and collectively been subjected to intimidations and threats of reprisal which have kept a number of otherwise well-intentioned members from joining us in this statement . We feel , therefore , that a speedy and final settlement is imperative before irremediable harm is done to the hospital . " Protest by Physicians . A protest against the " alleged politics " which led to the Gregory resignation was voiced yesterday by a group of physicians and psychiatrists meeting at York Hospital , Sixty-eighth Street and York Avenue . The spokesman for the group , Dr. Louis Casamajor. vice president of the New York Psychiatric Society and Professor of Neurology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had brought about the resignation . The group felt that medical men should take a stand in the matter ; he said . " We felt it would not be fair to Bellevue Hospital , to psychiatric patients and to physicians doing psychiatric work if ? we allowed Dr. Gregory to be forced out after thirty years without a protest , " said Dr. Casamajor . " It is also a sad commentary if a man could give the best thirty years of his life to public service in our hospitals , working with a group of patients who are generally neglected , and after thirty years , due to intricacies of politics , which we do not understand , be sacrificed in a way that to us is cruel . " The future of medical work in public institutions is sufficient to cause worry . I do n't see how anybody observing the sacrifice of Dr. Gregory would want to expose himself and his career to such a possibility . It can only force able young men out of the city service where real ability la needed but does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  