@@700515

txt After being grounded for a week while new routes and safer methods were being worked out , the Army Air Corps resumed its mail t service soon after midnight . Planes were tuned to carry the mail over eight routes greatly curtailed in mileage , if not in mail volume . The first plane to take the air with mail left Kansas City for Dallas , Texas , at 12:50 o'clock this morning , Central Time , with Lieu ' : tenant W. C. Dolan at the controls . Another plane was scheduled to depart from the San Francisco air ! port at 12:20 A. M. , Pacific Time , I and head east for Chicago . Thereafter the mail was to begin to move from all points and in all directions over routes estimated by postoffice officials as amounting to 80 per cent of the mileage flown before the grounding order . This mileage is estimated at 40 per cent of that flown by the civilian air lines before the cancellation of their contracts by the Postoffice Department . The order grounding air mail planes remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to allow the army more time to redistribute ships and personnel in order to fly the air mail under the terms of President Roosevelt 's orders to Secretary Dern that the mail routes presenting undue danger should be discontinued forthwith . Poundage Also Basis . The 7,049 miles of mail routes over which the army resumes operations were chosen after conferences with postoffice officials and . were based on the poundage formerly carried as well as on safety . Most important of the new regulations laid down by the army is the one which prohibits the use of pursuit ships , except for short trips by daylight . In some cases six pursuit planes were formerly sent into the air to carry the load normally carried by one commercial mail plane . Except under the conditions outlined this practice has been abolished , as it gave five more chances for accidents , and larger ships will be used . Air corps officials were confident that the new arrangements would enable the army to carry the mails efficiently and safely . Major Gen. Benjamin D. Foulois , chief of the air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field , having gone on an inspection trip to Chicago and thence to Dayton and St. Louis . He expects to fly to Atlanta today and will return to Washington after having inspected all routes in the Eastern and Central zones . The Postoffice Department has made it clear that it is taking no part in the new operations beyond advising on the mail phases of routes and transferring the mail to and from airports . Quiet Day for Army . The army reported that yesterday was the quietest one at air corps headquarters since the President dumped the entire air mail load into the army 's lap . Secretary Dern , General Douglas , Chief of Staff ; General Hugh S. Drum , General Oscar Westover and other high officers were in conference at the War Department last night . None of the parties in the conference would reveal its nature . All air mail activity had ceased at the Postoffice Department , where lights had burned far into the night for the last weeks and where the last few Sundays had seen high government officials toil . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run there on Sundays . Now the problem is away front Washington and in the cockpits of the air mail planes , according to officials . However , observers here saw the possibility of administrative recognition of a political problem for the future in a conference between the President and Congressional and administration leaders at the White House . This lasted for a short time and no information was given out . Among those at the White House were Senator Robinson of Arkansas , Democratic leader , Senator , chairman of the Senate committee on post offices and post roads , and Harllee Branch , Second ' Assistant Postmaster-General . Mr. Branch said he had not participated in any conference , however , but had merely stopped at the White House for some papers and had gone on home . It was learned that the discussion was general and that no decision I had been reached . It was presumed that the conference had discussed the future of the air mail legislation before Congress , which includes a temporary bill to permit the private lines to reorganize and rebid for contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such a way as to eliminate certain alleged abuses in the granting of air mail contracts . The last bill is now the subject of Senate hearings .                     