@@700874

txt Rear Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto declared today that his country 's demand for naval equality with Britain and the United States was unalterable and that he had no alternative suggestion in reserve to offer should his original proposal be rejected by Norman H. Davis of the United States and Sir John Simon , the British Foreign Secretary . This restatement of the Japanese position after three weeks of fruitless bilateral conversations greatly simplifies the future course of the Americans and British with reference to their dealings with each other . It comes as a fortunate sequel to the satisfactory talk of Mr. Davis and Sir John yesterday , which , as was admitted in both groups , marked the turning point in their attitude toward Japan . The delegations of the two English-speaking powers are still determined to avoid both the reality and the appearance of forming a " united front " against Japan , but both now admit that they have a community of interest that is bringing them closer together . Modification of View . This is largely due to the Japanese tactics , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the modification of the British viewpoint had set in before the Admiral spoke . The new oil monopoly law in Manchukuo and the oil policy of Japan have so irritated British public opinion recently that the small pro-Japanese minority in the British Cabinet has practically given up support of Japan as a hopeless job in this country at the present time . So there is less pressure from within on the Britis naval negotiators to get them to do something satisfactory to Japan . Besides , there is now a greater realization on Sir John 's part that there is really nothing on which he can mediate as between Japan and the United States . The British are as desirous as the Americans to keep the Washington treaty alive and to maintain the ratio principle , so the British can not ask the Americans to yield to the Japanese on those fundamental points . Now that Japan reasserts that she will take nothing less , there is no further need for the British to continue the argument that they and the Americans should agree upon some formula to satisfy Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Expected ' On the contrary , both Washington and London now take it almost for granted that Japan will denounce the Washington treaty this month or next . Admiral Yamamoto intimated today that that was also his expectation . The Americans now take it for granted that when the break comes they will be made the scapegoats in Japan , but they now expect that a fairer and clearer understanding of the situation will develop in Britain . There will be further talks in London on the remote chance that results can be reached or at least that a break-up can be managed with a minimum of animosity . Admiral amamoto 's statement today was : " It is possible that the people of Great Britain and the United States are under the impression that we have an alternative plan . I wish to say with the greatest emphasis that the fundamental principle of our plan is unalterable . Therefore , we have no alternative proposal to submit . " In my estimation it is possible that the situation today is what it is because our explanation has not been effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So if , in the near future , other opportunities are given us to make further explanations , I shall avail myself of them . Though I dare not be too hopeful of an ultimate outcome , I would not say yet that we have reached an absolute deadlock . " We have not retracted any part of our plan and do not intend to do so . If the Americans or British suggest any plan that does not conflict with our fundamental principles , we shall be glad to consider it . Unless we can reach an agreement on the principle of our equality , we are not interested to discuss technical details of naval limitation . " Admiral Yamamoto , Ambassador L Taunt ? Mataudaira and their asso- ciates are going to Chequers tomorrow for another luncheon with Prime Minister Ramsay                     