@@697570

txt A rehearing in magistrates courts for the girls illegally committed to Bedford Reformatory as wayward minors was recommended yesterday to Dr. Leo J. Palmer , superintendent of the institution , by Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr. , as the proper legal remedy rather than the proposal to free the girls by writs of habeas corpus . The opinion , which will throw at least seventy-one cases , and perhaps many more , back into the committing court in Manhattan , was rendered yesterday as Isidor J. Kresel , special counsel to Referee Seabury and the man who originally uncovered the illegel commitments in an Appellate Division Inquiry , prepared for another public hearing today at which cases concerning a new magistrate will be presented , and as Magistrate George W. Simpson took a thirty-day sick leave , it was understood that today 's hearing would again centre on the women 's court , and therefore could not concern Mr. Simpson . At the same time Harry Levy , reported under arrest in New Orleans , was found , by means of the classification of his fingerprints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several arrests . His photograph in the Rogue 's Gallery was identified as a picture of Joe Lesser , who , at the beginning of the inquiry under Mr. Kresel , worked in the investigation office for several days and disappeared after telling a sensational story of having been kidnapped by policemen , taken to Jersey City and held in a house with three vice squad stool pigeons who are still being sought . Lesser , or Levy , said that he later had been turned loose . Held Illegally at Inwood . Other developments included the discovery that twenty girls held in the Inwood Home for Girls , 228 West Fifteenth Street , as wayward minors were illegally committed and , also , that Magistrate Jesse Silbermann , who was the figure at the last public hearing , would take the stand this morning to offer the explanation of three cases which he was invited to make by Mr. Kresel at the close of the last session on Friday . In Albany , Assemblyman Langdon W. Post offered a bill which would make the conviction of any woman of immorality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kresel 's office Sidney Handler , the legal assistant over whose pay the fight of two weeks ago developed , was drafting another piece of intended legislation which would enable illegally convicted women to get back their fingerprint records and photographs taken by the Department of Correction at the time of their conviction . Neither Mr. Kresel nor Mr. Seabury would comment on the opinion of Mr. Bennett or the action of Mayor Walker on Tuesday in offering the services of the Corporation Counsel to any wayward minor illegally committed , a plan which was somewhat nullified by the opinion from Albany . Mr. Bennett 's opinion was written in response to a letter from Dr. Palmer requesting advice on what course to follow , and one , to the same effect , from Mr. Seabury . Copies were sent to Governor Roosevelt , Dr. Palmer and Mr. Seabury . Governor Roosevelt , asked for comment , said he had been unable to find time during the day to read the opinion , but that what was necessary was " obtaining justice in the handling of these cases . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 11 , 1931 , addressed to the personal attention of the Attorney General , " Mr. Bennett wrote , " requests opinion and advice on the following question : What should be done by the superintendent of the New York State Reformatory for women where , as you state , in seventy-seven cases held under identical commitments in your institution , the commitment upon its face has stricken out the words . ' Upon competent evidence upon a hearing , ' and therefore based solely upon the defendent 's confession by plea of guilty ? " It appears that in the said seventy-seven instances , of which the one accompanying your letter is but an example , the words " upon competent evidence upon a hearing " are stricken out , and the commitment upon its face is based entirely upon the confession of defendant by her plea of guilty . This commitment , tested by the statutory requirement , is , in the opinion of the Attorney General , illegal and void . " In these instances , however , the plea of guilty would indicate that possibly a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be offenders against public morality . It therefore does not seem wise from the point of view of safeguarding the public morals summarily to discharge all of these individuals , whether by action of the governing body in the institution , by habeas corpus or by other means . " It seems that the proper procedure is unmistakably pointed out in Section 277 of the State charities law . Urges Return of Girls to Court . " You will note that where the board of managers are satisfied that a person committed to your institution ' is not properly committed ' they are under a duty imposed by the said statute in the following words : ' Such board of managers shall cause the return of such female to the county from which she was so committed . ' The manner of delivery is then recited and it is specifically provided that the said female should then be brought before the magistrate making the commitment ' or some other magistrate having equal jurisdiction in such county , ' and ' dealt with in all respects as though she had not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time , fair manner of handling the present emergency would be for the managers of your institution to meet and be presented with these instances of clearly improver commitments where it appears upon the face of each said commitment that it was not in accordance with Section 913-B of the code of criminal procedure . The board of managers must then , immediately on being satisfied that the commitment is not proper , return the individuals so committed to the county from which they were committed . This would provide for an immediate hearing in accordance with the law and it could then be determined whether or not the individuals so charged were guilty or not . The public welfare would thereby be safeguarded . " The foregoing , it is believed , covers the inquiry made by you . In respect to your specific question , it is the opinion of the Attorney General that the proper procedure is that dictated by section 227 of the State charities law ; that if exercised immediately it will result in the proper judicial determination of all of the seventy-seven cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will also obviate the necessity of writs of habeas corpus on behalf of these individuals . " Indictment of Levy Sought . Assistant District Attorney Harold W. Hastings who has been handling the developed evidence en vice eonditions before a county grand jury said late yesterday that he was prepared to seek an indictment of Levy as soon as fingerprints could be forwarded from New Orleans and that he had been informed that these I were on the way by airplane . Levy will be charged with " framing " three women with the aid of members of the police vice squad . It was reported from New Orleans Tuesday that he had said he was being paid to stay away from New York by Patrolman James J. Quinliven of the West 100th Street Station . The indictment was said to be necessary for extradition proceedings . Chile Mapocha Acuna , the stool pigeon whose testimony has caused the suspension of twenty-seven police , was sure that the Levy in New Orleans was the man he had mentioned . He conferred with Mr. Hastings yesterday , at which time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who has been developing the vice evidence , was also present . When the photograph of Levy was produced at Police Headquarters , however , it was said that Acuna could not be positive about his identification . Identified as Kresel Worker . The photograph was readily identified , however , by Mr. Cooper and by newspaper men as that of Lesser . Lesser , it was learned , came in at the beginning of the inquiry with certain information on vice conditions . In the development of this information , Mr. Cooper found it necessary to serve a number of subpoenas on persons whom Lesser , as he was known , had named . Lesser agreed to accompany the process server around and point out the persons to be served . This he did for a time and was paid for it . Lesser failed to show up one day and was gone for several days , without having made any explanation of his disappearance . When he did return he offered to sell to several newspapers a story of how he had been kidnapped by two policemen and taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for three days . In the house , he said , were Taube , Booth and Slutsky . One newspaper printed the story , and the next day when Lesser was wanted for questioning by Mr. Kresel and by Police Commissioner Mulrooney he was again missing . Kresel Silent on Hearing . Concerning the hitherto unnamed magistrate , Mr. Kresel yesterday was silent . It was learned , however , that the cases originated in Women 's Court . Besides Mr. Silbermann , the magistrates who served most in that court were Earl A. Smith , Jean Norris and H. Stanley Renaud . Magistrate Renaud is on vacation in Florida and has been since the middle of November . Mr. Kresel was asked if the magistrate to be figured had been notified and answered affirmatively . ' When asked it the magistrate would appear , he said he did not know . Cases concerning Magistrate Simpson were taken up in private examination reveral days ago , it was learnee . The magistrate had not . been notified that he was being investi7ated and had not been asked to appear and submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to temporarily appoint a magistrate to take the place of Mr. Simpson . Accompanying his request was a letter from Mr. Simpson 's physician , Dr. Monroe B. Kunsler , which said that the magistrate was suffering from " " severe , acute , infectious arthritis.                     