@@701930

txt Revised adjournment plans , agreed upon today among leaders of both parties and in both the House and Senate , were believed by them to give definite assurances that Congress would not be in session during either the Republican or Democratic convention , and , furthermore , that no other important legislation  --  was to be added to the calendar other than that already on its way through the legislative mill . This latter was contingent , of course , upon any last-minute move President Roosevelt might make to add new measures to his " must list . " ? Nevertheless , the President completed his plan to leave the capital Monday for a trip to the Southwest , confident that Congress would either be adjourned or in recess by that time . When asked at his press conference this afternoon what he thought about the prospect of final adjournment by Saturday , Mr. Roosevelt said with a laugh that he was Informed last night a good many bets were being laid on that date , and at even money . Under the new plan , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up at all odds . If , however , the leaders are unable to end the session by that time , three-day recesses will be resorted to until after the Republican convention next week , when Congress will again be called to act finally on conference reports and minor matters which it may be unable to clear away before Monday night . The leaders counted it as certain today that the - session would be adjourned finally before the Democratic convention , beginning in Philadelphia on June 23 , hence they did not carry their recess plans beyond the Republican meeting . Three-day recesses could be accomplished either by concurrent resolution or by each house acting independently . It was believed , however , that they would be carried out by resolution , a draft of which was said to have been prepared by certain members of the House . Leaders on both sides made it plain to their followers that the session , however much prolonged beyond either or both conventions , would be confined to taxes and relief , the two " must " bills yet to be acted upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already started through the legislative processes . It was thought that the GuffeyVinson Coal Conservation Bill , which is virtually assured of passage by the House tomorrow or Thursday , would be considered as having started on its legislative course , . particularly should the session be prolonged beyond Monday . Other measures , however , including the Wagner-Ellenbogen Housing Bill , the Ship Subsidy Bill and the Copeland Pure Food and Drug Bill , were understood to be slated for the shelf unless President Roosevelt should specifically press for them at the last moment . Members Hopeful of Speed As information of the revised adjournment program spread in the Senate this afternoon , belief heightened that adjournment would come by Saturday night or Monday . Senators felt that if legislation for the session was to be confined to rneasuresialready in the mill , and generally to taxes and relief , both houses should spur these measures along to fine votes . In keeping with this idea , Senate leaders determined to finish floor action on the pending Tax Bill tomorrow if at all possible and to rush it along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finance Committee , said he would attempt to hold the Senate in session tomorrow night until the bill was passed . Intended as an impetus to quick action on the Tax Bill , both on the floor and in conference , was the word being passed around late today that President Roosevelt would be perfectly satisfied with any measure evolved out of the House bill as already passed and the Flnance Committee compromise now pending in the Senate . Buchanan Move Fails The first attempts of the House to send the Relief Bill to conference failed today . Chairman Buchanan of the Appropriations Committee sought unanimous consent to give the conferees authority to deal with the Senate managers on any and all amendments to the bill , including strictly legislative provisions added by the upper body . Republicans objected to this , insisting that the House be allowed ' to vote on the Senate amendments relating to the Public Works Administration , reclamation projects and the Florida Ship Canal . Having failed to attain his goal by unanimous consent , Mr. Buchanan said he would ask for a special order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its conferees a free rein . This would require a special rule which can not be voted upon until Thursday . Regardless of this delay , Chairman O'Connor of the Rules Committee introduced in the House this afternoon the usual resolution presented toward the end of each session , permitting the consideration of special rules presented by the Rules Committee without the necessity for the twenty-four-hour lay-over , and allowing the majority leader or chairman of the Rules Committee to move a recess of the House at any time . Mr. O'Connor 's request for unanimous'approval of his resolution was objected to by Representative Michener , Republican , of Michigan , and therefore the House will be asked to vote on the proposal tomorrow . A conference agreement on the measure requiring registration of legislative lobbyists operating in Washington was reported to have been reached late today . Senator Vanderberg said he would introduce in the Senate tomorrow a constitutional amendment empowering the President to veto individual appropriations.                     