@@703816

txt Government , industry and labor must cooperate to remove " fear " or " a lack of confidence and distrust in governmental , social and economic procedure , " the executive council of the American Federation of Labor stated today . Summarizing its view of the business and economic situation , the council , on the last day of its session , expressed the coni#Iction that governmental spending of whatever nature was only a temporary measure and was not the permanent solution for the problem of unemployment . The statement called for a " sound economic policy " which would supply the masses with purchasing power and also stimulate private industry to increase production and thereby create additional employment . It emphasized that the " rules and laws under which industry should operate should be more definite , clear and understandable . " William Green , president of the federation , said that the executive council believed that the government should make " the rules of the game " clear for business and that when industry launched its enterprises new rules should not be issued that called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued existence of " an army of unemployed numbering more than ten million workers is appalling , " the executive council stated . In the last ten years the nation had " experimented with various relief measures and many organizations affiliated with the A. F. of L. have expended millions of dollars from their treasuries in supplying relief to their unemployed members . " Responsibility for absorbing the unemployed in industry " should be placed squarely upon the owners and management of private industry and the government . " The council was ready to assist " in the promotion of a plan which will provide for the employment , in private industry , of the millions who are now idle . " After saying that the conclusion was " inevitable that private industry " should be stimulated , the statement continued : " What can be done and what should be done , therefore , are the problems which , at the moment , call for consideration and a proper solution . We do not believe that the nation has reached the maximum in production or consumption of manufactured goods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who maintain that we must prepare to maintain constantly an army of unemployed as the wards of the government . " We must turn to private industry for the solution . It should and must serve the nation . Our national interests require that private industry be accorded the widest opportunity to do so . That involves expansion and an increase in productivity . Such action must be considered as the primary step necessary to create work opportunities for the millions who are unemployed . " Obviously , the next step must be the establishment of credit and the will and purpose on the part of the owners of industry to risk , invest , build and construct . The basis for such procedure must be found in the creation of a favorable state of mind . Fear , a lack of confidence and distrust in governmental , social and economic procedure should be removed . " A political and economic state of mind should be created which would enable all financiers and the owners and management of industry to face the future with confidence , willing to risk in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the manufacture and sale of manufactured products . " " We are firmly convinced that the realization of this objective should be the primary purpose of government , industry and labor . Whatever stands in the way  --  whatever barrier may have been created , either as a result of fear or as a result of affirmative action on the part of those who administer the affairs of government , ought to be broken down so that our industrial processes may function in a proper way and unemployment may thus be overcome . " Some strong , powerful and influential representatives of private industry maintain that in order that private enterprise may go forwargl it is necessary that the rules and laws under which industry should operate should be more definite , clear and understandable . This , it is asserted , would stabilize industrial conditions and would serve to release financial and industrial forces necessary to the enlargement and expansion of private industry . " The executive council is firmly of the opinion that this issue should be met squarely . All should understand that no new rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the rules and regulations definitely set forth in regulatory statutes enacted by the Congress of the United States . Such action will serve to help business , labor and the people generally . " The executive council reaffirms the position of the American Federation of Labor regarding private enterprise and private initiative . We are firmly committed to such an economic philosophy . We believe that private initiative , private investment and private endeavor in private industry should be encouraged and supported . We assert that those who invest in private industry should earn a fair return upon such investment and that labor should be paid a wage which would accord to all workers and their families an opportunity to live in decency and comfort . " We urge the development of the highest and most perfect form of cooperation between management and labor . We are convinced that the best interests of all the people of the entire nation can be served through the acceptance by those who administer the affairs of our government and by the law-making bodies of the nation of the well considered plans and recommendations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of long and varied experience , submit for information and consideration . " The council directed Mr. Green to obtain all possible information bearing upon the proposal made by the American Wage Earners Protective Conference that an excise tax be placed on imported goods , so as to place foreign manufactured merchandise on a price parity with goods of similar quality made in the United States . Mr. Green was also asked to obtain data on the State Department 's reciprocal trade policy and what that policy meant to labor in the United States . He explained that the A. F. of L. had been cooperating with the State Department on reciprocal trade agreements and had also tried to protect United States wage earners in all such agreements . The membership of the federation shows a substantial increase in the last quarter and it is rapidly approaching the 4,000,000 mark , according to a report made by Frank Morrison , secretary-treasurer . The council ended its session tonight . Its next meeting will be held in Washington on May 10 . Davis Denies Miami Report Jerome Davis , president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printed in a dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES from Miami , saying that/he had sent copies of a telegram from William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , to all local unions of the teachers ' federation with added comment . The telegram from Mr. Green was to John Fewkes , president of the Chicago Teachers ' Union , informing him that the executive council of the labor federation had not considered the situation of teachers , as stated in previously published reports . Mr. Davis said that he had neither sent out copies of the telegram nor had he added the comment : " This is the way Green puts Woll in his place . "                     