@@698737

txt Neat , clean and cheery homes here once dingy apartments existed are being exhibited this eek by the Boston Better Homes Committee as a product of its labors to show that better homes are not necessarily expensive . but the result of careful planning and wise spend-ing The apartments are open for inspection as part of the Better Homes Week program . which opened yesterday and will continue through May 1 In South Boston , at 00 West Third Street . an apartment once neglected and dilapidated has been renovated and furnished by the South Boston unit of the Better Homes- Committee for $100 . Following the exhibition , the apartment will be let to a young couple for $2 50 a week , with an extra charge of $1 a week for the furniture . At the end of a year , the furniture will belong to the couple . This apartment is open to the public this week from 1 to 5 p. in each day . Another three-room suite , located at 90 East Canton Street , South End , has been furnished for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this week from 2 to 5 p. in and 7 to 9 p. m . The Hyde Park unit is showing a six-room , Cape Cod type house on Thatcher Street , built at a cost of $7200 . This price includes landscaping and a garage . The Hyde Park committee furnished the house with inexpensile furniture suitable for this type of dwelling . A remodeled home is being exhibited by the Jamaica Plain unit at 1 Park Place . Programs will be conducted throughout Boston by various units of the Boston committee . The climax of the week will take place when the get-together dinner and dance of all units are held at the Hotel Victoria on Thursday evening . The speakers at the dinner will be Gov . Joseph B Ely , Mrs. James J. Storrow. chairman . Massachusetts committee . Better Homes in America , and Mi . Thomas C O'Brien , former district attorney of Suffolk County . In connection with Better Homes Week , the second state-wide conference on housing and town planning will be held on Wednesday at the Hotel Kenmore under the auspices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among the speakers will be Mrs. Addison C. Burnham , chairman , committee on housing and town planning , Massachusetts Civic League ; Mr. John Ihlder , executive director , Massachusetts Housing Association ; Mr. Charles F. Lewis , director , Buhl Foundation , Pittsburgh , Penna , and Mr. Benton , vice - president , Regional Association of America , and originator of the Appalachian Trail . Hoover Asks Support Special from Monitor Bureau WASHINGTON , April 25 ? President Hoover Saturday urged the people of the United States to " share whole-heartedly " in the annual observance of National Better Homes Week , April 24 to May 1 . " For many years , " he said In a statement , " Better Homes in America has contributed to or national wellbeing by stimulating improvement of existing homes and construction of new homes of sound standards of design , construction and equipment . "                     