@@698255

txt The Akron , the navy 's new airship , landed here tonight after a voyage of 500 miles . Carrying 107 persons , including a passenger list of forty-one , the world 's largest airship visited Washington , New York , Baltimore and Philadelphia . Within an hour after landing , the Akron took off again for a night flight over the New York area , and tomorrow her commander , Lieut . Commander Charles E. Rosendahl , proposes to take her up again with the greatest passenger load ever to go aloft in either airship or airplane . Weather permitting , 200 or more of the personnel attached to the naval air station will climb aboard the big balloon and have an opportunity to learn how the new mistress of the skies performs . On Oct. 21 , 1929 , the DO-X flew for nearly an hour over Lake Constance off Friedrichshafen with 169 aboard , the present record . On today 's cruise the newest ship of the line was accompanied throughout most of the voyage by the veteran Los Angeles . Taking off this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles joined the new ship in Maryland between Annapolis and the capital . Falling in astern , the older airship followed the new giant throughout the day , and this afternoon the two parted company over New York , the Los Angeles scheduled to spend the night over Long Island , New England and New Jersey . Those aboard the Akron in addition to the crew were Admiral W. A. Moffett , chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics for the Navy , thirty newspaper men and eleven other guests . The flight started just before sunrise this morning . The crew went aboard at 5 o'clock and the passengers an hour later . As each visitor filed out to the big dock a sheet of paper was handed to him containing his orders for the day . Each man was assigned to a station in the great airship for the take-off , and went directly to his place . A few found vantage points in the control car with windows all about them . A half dozen were assigned to the auxiliary control room in the lower fin . Others were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a dozen were placed along the port side within the hull , Where they lay or sat watching the ground from the ample windows slanting upward and out . A small ground crew , perhaps fifty in all , stood at the lines and the nose of the airship was held fast to the powered mobile mast while the tail rested on heavy trucks also powered , The ship was then " weighed off . " Men , climbing to hand rails at the control car , let go one at a time until she swung on even keel , held only by the mast and the car in the rear . On an order from the commander the mobile mast started towing the airship out of the dock and into the open . Again she was tested for balance . Then the men at the peak of the mast cast off . Men aboard hauled in the lines and the order came to " up ship . " lEngines Help Lift Ship . The last of the ground crew let go and slowly at first and then faster the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceptible motion . Passenzers had to watch the ground to realize that they were moving at all . With four of the great Maybach engines set to turning horizontal propellers to help raise the airship , and four more turning at two-thirds throttle with their air screws swirled to the vertical position , the airship moved up and forward . Three minutes after leaving the ground , 400.000 pounds of fabric and metal moved southward at a mile a minute , 2,000 feet above the ground . The four lift propellers swung into their vertical discs and the speed increased . From the bridge came the order to " pipe down . " which meant to the laymen aboard that they were free to move about and to members of the crew not on watch that they could rest . But there was no rest in the galley . The cooks had to prepare breakfasts for 107. and the voyage had barely - started when all available space was taken and mess boys were hurrying along the narrow catwalks with bacon and eggs , cereal , toast . orange juice and hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find room at the tables wandered about the airship . They climbed around the circular ladders at the main frames leading through dark passages between the great gas bags . These are perhaps the most fasginating features of the airship . Twerve of these twin pliable sacks inflated with helium do the lifting . and as the great airship rose and dipped in the wind the gas expanded and contracted , making the great sacks ripple and bulge with a quiet but persistent rustle . Only in the blunt bow does the trateeler gain a sense of motion . A catwalk guarded by cord hand lines leads up from the control cabin under the first gas bag . Here at the prow is a window in the fabric and inside the wind against the hull makes a roar like the sea at the bow of a speeding liner . Watch Is on the Alert . Everywhere about the ship the watch is on ' the alert . Men patrol all the avenues up and down and across , pausing to examine pipe lines . reaching between guy wires to smooth out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drop the water ballast and reporting at regular intervals by telephone to the bridge . There are nineteen of these telphones in a local system covering all parts of the airship . In the control room Commander Rosendahl stayed throughout the day and with him was Lieut . Commander H. V. Wiley. executive and navigating officer . Two helmsmen. one at the vertical rudders and the other at the wheel contronine- the horizontal elevators , worked steadily to keen the airship on the course , and they worked hard . Just behind the bridge the navigating officer spread his maps and watched his compasses . Lieut . Commander B. J. Rogers . engineering officer , stood close to the ship 's master when he was not traveling about the ship , from engine room to engine room . Above within the hull is the radio room and adjoining it the aerologist or weather man has his quarters . Lieutenant A. L. Davis received the weather reports and plotted them to the bridge . Lieutenant Morgan Redfield of New York . communications officer , spent a busy day divided between his radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty as guide and tutor to the correspondents aboard . After one tour of the air cruiser , most of the passengers were glad to settle near a window and watch the country beneath painted in bright Autumn dress , an ever-changing picture in vivid colors . Fly Across the Capital . At 9:24 Admiral Moffett spied the Naval Academy below , and a half hour later the stately buildings of Washington climbed the horizon ahead . Here the Los Angeles fell into line and the two airships flew across the capital down over the Potomac . Over the Virginia shore they sailed and circled back to cross the White House and the centre of the city again . A convoy of planes dipped and darted about the two ships . Baltimore came next and the airships passed directly over the Constitution lying at anchor in Chesapeake Bay . The Akron dipped in salute and the dirigibles circled once before flying north over Wilmington to Philadelphia . They flew straight up the Delaware past the navy yard and then laid a course up Market Street and over the City Hall and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass in review above the city . and in the river tugs and steamers whistled in welcome . More planes joined the squadron that had followed from Washington and the flying fleet moved on up the river to Trenton . The cook . had started serving lunch and passengers hurried through a dinner of chicken and roast pork to return to their favorite windows before arriving over New York . As she crossed Staten Island the Akron was saluted by two blimps from Lakehurst and dipped in acknowldgement . Then the helm swung to port and the greatest of all airships turned north over the Hudson River . Din of Greeting Here . New York 's welcome came from vessels in the harbor , windows and the tops of Manhattan 's towers . Tugs and ferryboats , freighters and passenger liners , switch engine ; on the tracks lining New Jersey 's shore joined in the din of greeting to the navy 's flying battleship and her escort . The Akron proceeded north over the new bridge , then swung east over Queens and back again to Manhattan , flying slowly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowded the observation pier atop the Empire State Building and thousands looked upward from the streets . Off Fort Hamilton the Akron swung east and circled again as the Los Angeles turned away to the northeast . Over land the air had been rough , And throughout the morning the big adman Wit dipped and railed easily in the tricky winds , but over water the currents were smoother and the dirigible settled to an even keel . " She 's in her natural elemen ! now . " Admiral Moffett said , " a navy ship flying over the sea . " Brisk Wind at Landing . Off Manasquan the Akron turned homeward toward shore , passing ovet a full rigged schooner driving north before the wind . A brisk wind blew across the Lakehurst field as the big ship came over . A few years age this would have meant a night in the air because of the danger of landing but Commander Rosendahl saw his mas+ wit in the centre of a great circular track . Again the propellers turned to the horizontal and aided by the tail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Landing lines dropped and the ground crew jumped for them . One was passed to the peak of the mast and it was made fast to the winch . The engines ran at reduced speed and the winch turned , drawing the ship down . Ten minutes of slow manoeuvring and the ship was made fast . Another ten minutes passed before the tail had been bound to a car on the circular track and the passengers got out . They had been in the air nearly eleven hours and all agreed with Admiral Moffet when he said as he left for Washington , " She 's a good ship . "                     