@@699008

txt However the recent election may affect internal and constitutional questions in . Germany , there can be little doubt as to its bearing upon the ditection of foreign policy . It is true that the tide of reaction did not reach as high as the leaders of the Right had hoped , but the returns show that the tide is still rising , or at least has not begun to recede . The days of Streseinanu already seem far away , and , however the groups in the Centre and Left of the Reichstag may align themselves , there seems little chance of their taking up again the policy of fulfillment of the Treaty of Versailles as a major directive in German foreign relations . On the contrary , the attack upon that treaty is almost certain to be intensified . The only differences in opinion on that point will be the question of political strategy , and present indications are that the strategy is to be that of concentrated and direct attack on the main objectives . This would seem to give priority to the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleared away . The settlement of finances and armaments normally precedes the revision of territorial questions . In any case , whatever the order of events , the disarmament question takes a new character from now on . For Germany 's insistence upon equal treatment is already a political fact to be reckoned with in the disarmament discussions just as much as if it were registered in a treaty . The task , therefore , before the disarmament conference of adjusting naval and military establishments according to agreed ratios has become very much more difficult . New Beginning Necessary . The higher mathematics of these last six months of calculations must be revised again or Germany 's refusal to accept it NVill make it unreal . On the other hand , with Germany intent on donning once more its shining armor , it is hard to see how these calculations can result in any immediate reduction . If the neighbors of Germany have been apprehensive before , they will be doubly alert from now on . Armaments may be a contributing cause of war , but no nation in its senses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to be needed . At first sight , therefore , the effect of the German elections is distinctly discouraging to those who have been working for the success of the Geneva conference . But I am inclined to think that this is a short-sighted and mistaken view . On the contrary , it is possible that the election may prove to be a blessing in disguise if it rescues the question of disarmament from a certain atmosphere of unreality and make-believe which has at times hampered its solution . At least from now on the problem can be seen as a whole . If it is to be dealt with fundamentally and effectively , this new challenge to the conditions and methods of the post-war period may turn cut to be what was meet needed to secure an ultimate success . That there has been little SUCCCE7S so far is acknowledged on all sides . The negotiations of the past six months at Geneva have just been summed up in the resolution of the conference , and if any proof were needed of the necessity of a new beginning it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itsclZ . The statement of the American deleatcs on leaving Europe that they anticipated criticism for not having achieved snore is an added indication of the p : , ycholorTy prevailing in Geneva . Criticism Out of Place . There should be no criticism , however . The disarmament conference has not suffered from any lack of ability on the part of the negotiators or any lack of sincerity on the part of the governments which they represent . The American delegation in particular was of outstanding competence . Seldom have we been represented at an international conference by those who could combine so much tact , perseverance and directness of purpose as had been the case of the Geneva delegation . Neither is there any zround for criticizing the administration for failure to give them energetic support . Fortunately , also , party politics has played no part in our share of the negotiations . The same absence of partisanship can be claimed for the British , as the opposition party supplies the president of the conference ; and since the last French election there has been no doubt of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has surprised the world by its energetic advocacy of genuine measures of disarmament . The disarmament conference , therefore , opened under most favorable auspices , so far as concerns both competence and the will to succeed . If , therefore , it has disappointed - the hopes entertained for it , the causes of this fact must . lie in some weakness in the method of procedure , some misunderstanding of the nature of the problem itself . The benefit that can come from the new policies which Germany has - , nnounced it will pursue is that it enables us to use the long recess which the conference has taken to re-examine fundamentals . The fundamental basis of the disarmament conference was stated to be the Briand-Kellogg pact . But , to judge by both the conference procedure : and American official statements , the ' United States never brought more than half that pact into the discussion . The renunciation of war is an impossibility unless he nations professing to renounce it are Willing to accept and establish pacific means of settlement as definite substitutes:for force and- violence. - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Mur- , derous procedure has never been - held valid , and " is never likely to be held valid in the future , if it means renouncing the only procedure that a nation has to procure justice f-cra another . War has been the instrument                     