@@704102

txt The Roosevelt Administration late tonight conceded defeat in its attempt to obtain revision of the Neutrality Law at this session of Congress , but in doing so placed responsibility for what might happen to world peace as a result squarely upon the legislative branch of the American Government . Deferment of all neutrality legislation until the next regular session in January was announced by the White House after a three-hour conference between President Roosevelt and Secretary of State Hull and the high command of hot% major parties in the Senate . The announcement came in two short statements authorized by the White House , one explaining the position of the President and Secretary of State and the other setting forth the opinions of Senators Barkley and , leaders , respectively , of the Democratic and Republican party forces in the Senate . The statements were issued after midnight , New York time . WHITE HOUSE STATEMENTS The White House statements follow : 1 . Position of the President and Secretary of State : " The President and the Secretary of State maintained the definite position that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would weaken the leadership of the United States in exercising its potent influence in the cause of preserving the peace among the nations in the event of a new crisis in Europe between now and next January . " 2 . Position of the Senate lead-ers : " It was said that Mr. Barkley expressed himself as follows : " The consensus of opinion on the part of those Senators present was that no action on neutrality legislation can be obtained in the Senate at the present session and that the majority of the Senate would concur in this view . ' " Mr. expressed the same belief . " They agreed that the majority of the Senate would consider neutrality legislation at the beginning of the next session . ' ' Key to Adjournment Plann Prediction of adjournment of Congress by Aug. 5 at the latest , and possibly earlier , followed immediately upon the White House disclosure that all neutrality measures had been buried for the session . This particular legislation hod been considered the key to the whole adjournment problem . Other major legislative tasks asked of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program , did not enter seriously into the discussion at the conference . The Republican leaders were credited or blamed , as the case might be , for beinging the neutrality question to a head . Spokesmen for the minority called at the White Houso with a commission from their colleagues to tell the President and Secretary of State that action at this session on revision of the existing arms embargo law was out . of the question , and they followed that mandate to the end of the conference . The President and Secretary Hull tried to meet this dark appraisal of the legislative situation with data showing a growing tension in Europe which might require a change at any time in our methods , in:luding a pessimistic report received by them today from the lips of Joseph E. Davies , United States Ambassador to Belgium . The Republican leaders were adamant , however . They virtually declined to discuss the merits of the pending neutrality legislation , and stood on the realities of a legislative situation as they saw it in Congress . The bearers of these tidings from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oregon , minority leader ; Senator Austin of Vermont , assistant minority leader , and Senator Borah of Idaho , ranking minority member of the Foreign Relations Committee and veteran of every foreign affairs fight in the Senate for the last thirty yea rs . They were accompanied to the executive mansion by Vice President Garner , Senator Barkley of Kentucky , majority leader , and Senator Pittman of Nevada , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , which bottled up the neutrality revision bill last Tuesday by a. 12-to-11 vote to postpone action until the next session of Congress . The conference was reported to have been one of the most dramatic that has taken place at the White House in many years . The President and Secretary Hull returned time and again to the possibilities of war in Europe . They made it plain that they were not predicting a military debacle on the other side of the Atlantic , but emphasized that reports from diplomatic agents were dark and alarming . When at last the President realized that he was faced by a determined group , he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate , and particularly the Republican wing , would have to shoulder the responsibility . The Republican leader replied , according to reports , that the Senate would he willing to accept the responsibility as a whole and not through any one partisan group . ? resident and Borah Clash While the two were talking , according to one version of the conference , Senator Borah cut in with a remark to the effect that the Senate was a. legislative body , responsible to the people and taking orders only from the people . One report had it that the Idaho Senator remarked that the United States was " not operating under a Hitler " and that the Senate would continue to fulfill its mission and accept its responsibilities . Mr. Roosevelt was said to have been taken back at first , but countered with the assertion that he might take the issue to the country . Senator Borah came back again , according to the reported version of the conference , with the remark that while the President was telling the people his side of the case , others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House determined to resist any suggestion for forcing the question to the Senate floor at this time and to re-echo the advice previously given the President by his own pa rty leaders that his foreign as well as domestic policies might be better served by permitting Congress to adjourn for a cooling-off period . As they went into the White House they entered a general demurrer to the idea that , they were there as partisans , and to insist that they responded to the invitation to the conference strictly as Senators . They laid before the President the results of a check which they had.macle of the Senate , tending to show that the majority was opposed to taking up the neutrality or any other question of foreign policy under circumstances prevailing at the capital . They were prepared to tell the President , however , that every member of the Republican contingent was part of that purported majority . They made a close check of their group today to be reassured that this was so , and the assertions they proposed to make to the President were said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The three Republican visitors to the White House were split among themselves on the merits of neutrality legislation in general . Senator Austin favors the reinstatement of the " cash-and-carry " provisions which lapsed in May . Senator Borah is opposed to any changes in the present embargo , but has stated that he preferred that the committee report a measure so the question could he fought out on the floor . Senator is opposed to any action by the Senate or committee . Nevertheless all three had entered a combination of Republican and Democratic critics of the Administration 's foreign policy to forestall action at this session and stood together to that end . Their reasons for wanting to delay action were varied . Ambassador Davies was pressed into action immediately upon his arrival here in the attempt of the Administration to force through a revision of the law . After presenting to the President his report on conditions in Europe , he was detailed to tell the same story to key men on Capitol Hill . He conferred with Senators Pittman , Barkley , Harrison and Byrnes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutrality issue . Leaving the White House , Mr. Davies said he was " not at all happy about the situation . " Later he issued a statement on the neutrality question , as follows : " If quickly , we can repeal the embargo and go back to historic processes under which our foreign relations were conducted for 150 years , in accordance with international law , it would have a potent effect in now preventing a world war , in my opinion . " Although the White House conference was called primarily so that the President . and Secretary Hull might talk to the . hepublican leaders , the White House preceded the minority members in the disclaimer that the neutrality measure was to he considered on a partisan basis . Earlier in the day Stephen Early , assistant secretary to the President , had recalled to newspaper men that several Republican members of the House had supported the Administration 's position when the question was under consideration there , and that newspapers of varied political bent had commended it e He placed the whole foreign service , career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his effort to change the law and added that the army and navy apparently approved . Two of the conferees , Senators Borah and Pittman , must have recalled , as they passed through the door of the White House , a similar errand on which they visited the Executive Mansion twenty years ago . They and fourteen other Senators , members of the Foreign Relations Committee , held a conference with President Wilson on the subject of the peace treaty with Germany , containing the Covenant of the League of Nations . The group , which met with him at 10 o'clock on the morning of Aug. 19 , 1919 , was made up of ten Republicans and six Democrats . The Republicans were Senators Lodge of Massachusetts , McCumber of North Dakota , Borah of Idaho , Brandegee of Connecticut , Fall of New Mexico , Knox of Pennsylvania , Harding of Ohio , Johnson of California , New of Indiana and Moses of New Hampshire . The Democrats were Senators Smith of Arizona , Hitchcock of Nebraska , Williams of Mississippi , Swanson of Virginia , Pomerene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , a President was faced by a balky Congress . Then , as now , feeling on both sides ran strong . President Wilson , however , had to deal with a Republican Senate , the elections of 1918 having turned the Democrats out of control . Aside from Senators Borah and Pittman , Senator Johnson of California , who is still a member of the Foreign Relations Committee , is the only Congressional survivor of that group . He was not invited to the meeting with President Roosevelt because only the ranking members of the committee were included . Since President Roosevelt and Senator Barkley decided that the conference was in order , the State Department has been busy preparing memoranda for the President 's guidance . Senators Barkley and Pittman believe that the Neutrality Act should be revised at once , before the actuality of war faces Congress . But their opinion is not shared by a large number of Democrats in the Senate , some of whom are committed to retaining the arms embargo and others are glad to postpone a decision . When the Foreign Relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postponement , but five Democrats cast their ballots the other way . The five Republicans voted solidly for postponement , but it is acknowledged that every Republican in the Senate does not want to postpone or is necessarily opposed to lifting the arms embargo . In other directions having to do with foreign affairs , Congress during the day was trying to clear its calendar preparatory to adjournment . The House Foreign Affairs Committee voted to report favorably an Administration resolution which would permit the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the Navy to supply vessels , anti-aircraft guns , coast defense artillery and similar armaments to the governments of American republics . The Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate has not acted on the proposal . After some discussion , it was decided to redraft the measure to insure the protection of military secrets , and Chairman Bloom set about this task with a view of introducing a new bill . This discussion took so long that the committee was unable to begin its consideration of Japanese embargo proposals . Senator Vandenberg , in an effort to compromise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war materials against Japan would cause in the Senate , introduced a resolution which read as follows : " Resolved , that it is the sense of the Senate that the government of the United States should give Japan the six months ' notice required by the treaty of 1911 for its abrogation so that the government of the United States may be free to deal with Japan in the formulation of a new treaty and in the protection of American interests as new necessities may arise . " Resolved , further , that it is the sense of the Senate that the Government of the United States should ask that the conference of Brussels of 1937 , now in recess , should be reassembled to determine , pursuant to the express provisions of the Nine-Power Treaty of Washington in 1922 , whether Japan has been and is violating said treaty and to recommend the appropriate course to be pursued by the signatories . " The committee has invited Secretary Hull to give his opinion whether an embargo against Japan would violate the terms of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     