@@703949

txt Cotton Crop Control Head of Farm Bureau Federation Lays Loss of Markets to Other Factors To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the same issue of THE NEW YORK TIMES of April 6 in which you published my letter concerning cotton policies you stated : " Mr. O'Neal 's letter might seem to imply that there was no cotton acreage control program in 1937 . " My point was not that there was no acreage control program that year . My point was that , because of the Supreme Court decision in the Hoosac Mills case , no effective cotton control program was in operation ; that cotton acreage in 1937 was 7,000,000 acres more than it was in 1935 , prior to the Hoosac Mills decision , and 7,000,000 acres more than it was in 1938 , after the passage of the 1938 Agricultural Adjustment Act ; and that because of this increased acreage in 1937 the crop was nearly 4,000,000 hales larger than it otherwise would have been . In the past , every increase o : decrease of 1,000,000 bales in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a cent a pound in the price . This excess 4,000,000 bales caused by the Supreme Court 's decision , therefore , undoubtedly was a big factor in the drop from 14 cents early in 1937 to less than 9 cents later in the year . Furthermore , it was this extra supply which caused the 1937 cotton loan of 9 cents and the later mandatory loan of 8.3 cents to become loans above the world market . This fact , in turn , brought about the present deplorable loss of cotton exports . Loss of Export Trade I have not overlooked the loss of our foreign markets for cotton , as you charge in your editorial , but this loss , in our opinion , is not due to the acreage control program but to such factors as the long-time trend toward increased acreage in foreign countries , difficulties of foreign nations in getting adequate dollar exchange to buy our cotton , and , more recently , to the fact that the accumulated surplus has depressed the price below the loan rate . Far from overlooking this situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and maintain our fair share of the world market . In another editorial , on April 5 , you declare that " the first and indispensable step must be the repeal of the compulsory loan clauses of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 . " You continue that " the second step of any serious effort to solve our cotton problem would be to give up entirely the production control program , instead of tightening it . " You conclude that " no doubt at the present stage of affairs some subsidy remains inevitable . But at least it could be a simple outright payment based , let us say , merely on that part of the crop normally consumed domestically . " If I understand your position correctly , you would he willing to let cotton crops of 16,000,000 or 17,000,000 bales be harvested every year , even though domestic and foreign outlets could be found for only 12,000,000 or 13,000,000 bales . You would also be willing to let the price fall as low as it inevitably would under such circumstances  --  very likely as low as 3 cents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of storage space for the unused cotton in view of the fact that warehouses all over the South are already full to bursting , I would like to inquire if you have thought through how much government money would be required for a subsidy under such a plan . At a price of 3 cents a pound , a subsidy of 13 cents a pound , or $65 a bale , would be required to give the equivalent of parity price . Assuming that payments would he made only on approximately 6,000,000 hales consumed domestically , a total appropriation of nearly $400,000,000 from the Federal Treasury would be required . With control , under the present program , cotton farmers are getting parity on domestic consumption at one-half this cost to the Treasury , We are advocating a program which we believe will liquidate our accumulated surplus of cotton , restore and maintain a reasonable balance between supply and demand , regain and maintain our fair share of the world market for cotton , and protect the prices and income of our cotton producers without placing an undue burden upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farm Bureau Federation . Washington , April 29 , 1939 . Totalitarianism ' in Bolivia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE TIMES story of Bolivia 's coup d'etat was the best that appeared in any New York paper . But it certainly is n't true , as Mr. White wrote , that Bolivia 's President Busch has established the " first totalitarian State in the New World . " If my memory serves , Mr. White himself wrote the same thing about the Franco dictatorship in Paraguay a few years ago  --  and so , I must confess , did I ! The Busch regime in Bolivia is no more " totalitarian " than that of Uhico in Guatemala or Trujillo in Santo Domingo or ? to delve farther back into history  --  the regimes of Gomez in Venezuela , Rosas in Buenos Aires , Garcia Moreno in Ecuador or any of a dozen other dictatorships that have controlled the several Latin-American republics at various periods in the past century and a quarter . The word " totalitarian , " too , is misleading when applied to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resemblance to the present regimes in Germany and Italy . No ideology , no colored shirts or national parties , no popular fanaticism backs the normal Latin-American dictator  --  nothing but a clique of politicians or army officers , who toss him out , usually with little difficulty , when the supply of jobs or salaries begins to dry up . The life of the average Latin-American citizen goes on much the same whether he is ruled by a dictator or by a semi-democratic government  --  which is not true of the drilling , parading , minutely regimented subjects of Hitler and Mussolini . It would be a big step toward clearer thinking if editors would taboo the application of the words " totalitarian " and " fascist " to Latin . American governments , unless and until Latin America has produced the genuine article . There 's no evidence that they have in Bolivia yet . E. W. H. LUMSDEN , New York , April 26 , 1939.                     