@@774185

txt  | megalithic monuments and is noted especially for its historic ruins , like the great Angkor-Vat in Cambodia . The general results for southern Asia go to show that this part of the world , at least as far as India , shared all the major culture stages revealed in northern Africa and western Europe . Central Asia . Being comparatively difficult of access , central Asia has until lately been left practically untouched by the archaeologists except for its marginal areas . It is only recently that finds have been made which reveal the importance of this whole vast district for an understanding of earliest human prehistory . The finds include skeletal and cultural remains , some of which date back to the early part of the Pleistocene epoch , thus rivaling European discoveries in respect to both antiquity and primitiveness of culture status . " Northern Asia . Northern Asia , or Siberia , contrary to theoretical expectations , has also yielded important antiquities . The first important discovery was made by I. T. Savenkov in 1884 near Krasnoyarsk in the upper Yenisei country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mammoth , the rhinoceros , and other extinct mammals . Not until 1923 were the authenticity and character of the finds made generally , known.12 In the meantime G. P. Sosnovski , B. E. Petri , and other Russian investigators have uncovered similarly associated remains , not only higher up in the Yenisei valley toward Minusinsk , but also to the west , near Biisk in the upper Ob basin , and to the east along the Angara River as far as Irkutsk , near Lake Baikal . However , this primitive culture phase is not necessarily as old as its European counterpart , because the accompanying fauna here , as in America , may have survived until fairly recent times . The types find their parallel in the typical Mousterian and the transition to the Aurignacian of Europe . A more recent type , Petri 's Siberian Magdalenian , was found near Irkutsk . " In the same general latitude that is , throughout the steppe ' zone between fifty and sixty degrees north ? numerous Neolithic stations have also been worked at points ranging all the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few stray sites are known even along the Arctic coast , particularly at the mouth of the Ob River and at various points near Bering Strait . hinally , the North Pacific shore is represented by recently worked Neolithic locations , with pottery , on the Kamchatka peninsula .. " Indicative of the later culture stages , a rich and unique bronze-working center "  | has been made known in the Minusinsk region and elsewhere since about 1860 ; while evidence of an iron industry is marked , for example , in the upper Lena valley , northwest of Lake Baikal .. These two metal stages , however , according to Iiadloff , are widespread in south-central Siberia , as well as in Outer Mongolia , and are marked by burial sites in the form of both mounds and cairns . Summing up for Asia , it appears that in spite of practical difficulties much sound archaeological work already has been done and that the scattered and disconnected results demand further investigation . To date , perhaps the most important general conclusions that have emerged are the three following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as characterized in western Europe and Africa by the coup-de-poing , is confined to southern Asia and that therefore the available traces of contemporary stoneworking techniques north of the Himalayas correspond to the PreMousterian flake industry of central Europe . It appears equally certain that , as in South Africa , so in various parts of Asia ? India , Manchuria , Siberia ? the Iron Age followed directly upon the Neolithic without the intervention of the Bronze stage . Finally , it appears more than probable that western Asia and adjacent Egypt mark the locality in the Old World where early man made the first successful transition from the primitive mode of subsistence based on the hunting and gathering of natural food products to a life sustained mainly by artificial production through agriculture and animal husbandry . Indonesia . In the not very distant geological past a subsidence of southeastern Asia produced the series of islands variously known as the East Indies , Indonesia , and the Malay archipelago . This insulation of the outlying high portions of the mainland took place presumably before man arrived on the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ densely populated by an invading series of racial types , of which the Negritos are the most primitive though not necessarily the most ancient . Just when they or their predecessors arrived is uncertain ; but the discoveries in Java since 1890 , by E. Dubois and others , of primitive skeletal remains ( Pithecanthropus crectus , Homo wadjakensis , etc. ) of Pleistocene date suggest that members of the human and protohuman stocks reached this part of the world perhaps even before implements were invented . In keeping with this idea , Paleolithic culture remains are lately reported from Java , and indications of similar finds are alleged for  | the Philippines . Whatever the truth , the cousins Sarasin in 1903 excavated a number of caves in Celebes , obtaining a stone industry which , as in the case of Ceylon , they regarded as of Magdalenian affinities . " On the other hand , the caves of Borneo appear to have yielded nothing particularly ancient , and the same seems to be the case with Sumatra , Formosa , and far-away Madagascar . Shell heaps , strange to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Formosa . Pottery is extremely rare . Implements of the polished stone type are everywhere present in limited quantities and varieties , while chipped arrow points are absent for example , in Formosa and ' apparently also in Borneo and the Philippines . Associated doubtless with this prehistoric semi-Neolithic horizon are old mining shafts and agricultural terraces ; also a scattered sprinkling of megalithic features , such as monoliths , human images , circles , dolmens , platforms , and some peculiar great circular stone urns . Several of these items are identical in type with those of the adjacent continent ; but apparently , excepting Madagascar , such cyclopean works are no longer being produced . Architectural ruins of pretentious order are seemingly confined to Java and , like those mentioned in Cambodia , are of Indian origin , dating from the latter half of the first millennium of our era . Ceramic and other evidences of Chinese contact , confined mostly to the northern islands , are traceable also to about the same period . The final noteworthy fact about the Malay archipelago is that since the first arrival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of status , have all employed metals as the basis of their material culture . Australia and Tasmania . Passing southeast beyond the " Wallace Line , " which by a deep and ancient ocean channel has effectually separated the continental and island faunas , and also come near to marking the boundary between the metal-working and stone-working cultures in the Pacific region , we may turn our attention first to Australia and Tasmania . Archaeologically the Australian-Tasmanian realm is of more than ordinary interest . Being an extreme border region , comparatively unfavorable climatically and zoologically , it may have been the place of retreat of primitive forms . Professor Sollas , for example , has ventured to compare the Tasmanian flint-flaking technique with the facies of European eoliths and the Australian flaked and chipped stone industry with that of the European Mousterian stage . In short , he has sought to identify these isolated peoples as truly living  | representatives of the fossil men of the Old World mainland . These resemblances are real enough as far as they go , but their chronologic significance in the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yields a mixture of implements , some of which , measured by European standards , are of ancient form while others are presumably of relatively recent invention . Since most of the recovered Australian implemental data unfortunately have been obtained from living tribes or merely gathered from the surface of old workshops and camp sites , including rock shelters and minor shell heaps , the material may consist ' of mixtures dating from widely separated periods of time or stages of technique . Too little is known about observed time sequences to allow us to determine a succession of industries . The recent excavation of two stratified culture deposits in South Australia , 17 a rock shelter accumulation fully six meters deep and an open-air site of earlier date with about three meters of debris , do not give any clear evidence . The two sections together exhibit a slightly changing fauna and also four or five distinguishable implemental phases , the lowermost of which is in general very similar to the crude stone and bone industries of Tasmania . In other respects the excavated section exhibits rather unexpected sequences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the geometric microliths , or of the ground stone axe ; the technologically late oblong pointed flake comes early and shortly disappears ; and what is equally remarkable , bone implements are more abundant in the middle and lower levels than in the upper . Clearly , these chronological results add new problems in place of solving old ones , and we must accordingly await further excavation , perhaps of the shell heaps , which in places are said to reach a height of thirty feet . Melanesia . Until recent years the natives of Melanesia had a more or less advanced Neolithic culture except in parts of New Guinea where the influence of Malay and Chinese culture is noticeable . As to human existence here during the distant past , archaeology has so far revealed next to nothing beyond superficial observations . Certain monumental features are found , such as upright stones with and without carvings , stone circles , ruined megalithic structures , old mining pits , as well as irrigation terraces and aqueducts . This last group of traits , together with the polished stone implements , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a mysterious early historic people who came from the  | west , and who in their search for gold and pearls spread over the entire Pacific and even reached America. ; The old native types , found in part by excavation , include club heads , celts and adzes of jade , etc. ; spear points and knives of obsidian and other flintlike substances . Certain Paleolithic indications have been alleged for the Solomon Islands , but the oldest form here positively known is a flake tranchet or adze , nearly identical with the Northwest European form of the Campignian culture stage . " Stone structures of megalithic character are especially numerous and widespread in Melanesia . The general forms include monoliths , trilithons , carved images , small dolmens , pyramids , buildings , platforms , fortifications and agricultural terraces . In places like the New Hebrides these structures are regarded as of ancient date ; in New Caledonia some of them continue in use ; and in the Solomon Islands construction is said still to be kept up . Micronesia . Archaeologically considered , Micronesia can scarcely be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is concerned . Stone implements of the commoner types are rare in the area , their purposes being served by substitutes made mostly of sea shells and shark teeth . Nevertheless , the carriers of the early , relatively advanced culture successfully worked several kinds of rock for a variety of constructional purposes . The remains of these activities include pretentious buildings , pyramids , truncated cones , platforms , terraces , stairways , gateways , cyclopean walls and ramparts , harbors or canals with embankments , paved roads , etc. ? much as in Melanesia and the Malay archipelago . The majority of these features are now in ruins , or at any rate are regarded as relics of the past . Perhaps the most unique holdover trait is the use of the so-called " stone money " made in the shape of perforated disks like Chinese " cash , " and ranging in size from ordinary disk beads to specimens resembling millstones as much as nine feet in diameter . All of these lapsed cultural elements of the late prehistoric past were presumably derived from various South Asiatic centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a subject of considerable interest . Polynesia . We come at last to what seems the final outpost of prehistoric migration , the easternmost Pacific island group called Polynesia . This immense ethnographic area approaches the shape of a great scalene triangle the base of which coincides largely with the  | 180th degree of longitude , along which it extends from Hawaii to New Zealand , a distance of seventy-five degrees of latitude or over 5000 miles . The apex of the triangle , marked by Easter Island , lies near the Tropic of Capricorn in west longitude 109 degrees ( that of the Utah-Colorado boundary ) , or nearly 4000 miles above the base . Barring a few minor shell heaps in New Zealand and some scattered monumental remains not now claimed by native residents , there is little for the archaeologist to investigate . This barren condition may conceivably have been brought about by an allegedly recent subsidence of the island realm . On the other hand , the Polynesian migration legends and their accompanying genealogical tables , if they were to be considered of historical value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole immigration episode and limit it to the last two and a half millenniums . ' Turning now to the limited aspects of Polynesian culture which by courtesy may be considered archaeologic , we find a series of traits in all main essentials much like what has been indicated for Melanesia and Micronesia . That is , we have a somewhat unevenly distributed variety of monumental remains , partly of megalithic character ; and we have a similarly sporadic occurrence of somewhat unique portable artifacts . Fortunately , for reasons both climatic and economic , as well as sociological , we are far better informed about the imperishable handiwork of Polynesia than about the corresponding remains in any other sector of Oceania . Both general treatises and special reports exist ; and the available collections , while not large , are sufficiently complete to characterize widely separated sections of the area.21 The Polynesian monumental remains , as stated , correspond in large part to those observed elsewhere in the Pacific islands , and mere enumeration of the principal types must here suffice . Included are rock carvings or petroglyphs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; circles , platforms , terraces , pyramids , tombs , altars , substructures with low walls for temples and secular buildings , fortifications , roads , fences , gateways , and stairways ? all constructed for the most part of natural boulders and basaltic blocks , but in some places supplemented by cut and dressed rectangular slabs . In addition , idols carved of wood and simple earthworks , including agricultural terraces , irrigation systems , and a few mounds are found in certain scattered localities . Easter Island  | carries the unique distinction of having furnished a number of wooden tablets inscribed with semiconventionalized pictographic characters which presumably served as mnemonic devices rather than as truly phonetic writing . As indicated , not all of these features are everywhere equally profuse or even present . Stone idols , for example , are absent in Samoa , where they might have been expected , while abundantly present in distant Easter Island . Similarly , stone structures , though fairly common everywhere else , are rare iii New Zealand and the Chatham Islands . In both these cases wood ? gas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stone for constructional or monumental purposes , while well-developed , is not a distinctive Polynesian trait and , as one investigator has put it , may often have been resorted to merely because the material was plentiful and in places where tillable land was scarce had to be disposed of in some fashion , as in the case of our ubiquitous New England stone fences . Polynesian implements and utensils , as well as some of the ceremonial objects , were necessarily made for the most part of various kinds of volcanic rock . However , sandstone and nephrite were used wherever present , as were also to a limited extent such raw materials as coral , shell , and bone . Barring the sandstone , these last-mentioned substances served mostly for the refined types of implements and for ornaments . In working stone all the usual methods such as pecking , grinding , and polishing were employed ; only true pressure chipping was conspicuously absent . The actual inventory of stone objects is limited as to number but is correspondingly interesting as regards unique or specialized forms . Typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , grinders , and polishers , as well as boat anchors and sinkers for net , line , or hook fishing apparatus . Outstanding among the forms prepared by pecking , grinding , etc. , are grooved sinkers , plummetshaped slingstones , grooved club heads , sword-shaped clubs , mullet 's , food pounders of various pleasing shapes , pestles , mortars , cups , trays , salt pans , lamps , game stones ( spherical , discoidal , and pitted ) , flat circular rings , plummet-shaped charm stones , pendants of different forms , phallic emblems , fish images and human images , both naturalistic and highly conventionalized . The primary tools , prepared mostly by flaking and partial grinding , include the adze ( no less than eight varieties , different in size , general outline , and cross section ) , the chisel , the gouge , and rare examples of the axe . Finally , there is a small group of roughly flaked core forms and  | simple flake blades which include chopperlike implements , scrapers , drills , and knives . Shells of both marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulling hairs , as trumpets , as net sinkers , as beads for necklaces , and as ornaments for canoes . In addition , several of t he larger marine forms were worked into ornamental plaques , ear plugs , and arm rings . Shell was also on rare occasions used as a medium for adzes , but more often for fishhooks of both the onepiece and two-piece varieties , as well as for a curious form of pendant resembling a nearly closed one-piece fishhook ? identical , strangely enough , with specimens found in the shell heaps of southern California . Tortoise shell also served both useful and ornamental purposes , as , for example , for ear piercers and fans . Bone , though not precisely a scarce article in view of the presence of the domestic pig and fowl , and at all events of the human skeleton , was employed only sparingly . It was , however , wrought into such articles as dart points , barbed on one or both sides ; fishhooks of both the one- and two-piece types and also the straight doublepointed form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spatulate tools , as well as simple tongue-shaped pendants and I reads cut from hollow bird bones , are also extant . In the Marquesas , ubular sections of human bone , plain or carved , were used as hair ornaments . Ear plugs ( Marquesan ) and a unique hook-shaped pendant ( Hawaiian ) were made from whale ivory . Lastly , boar tusks were made into bracelets ; shark teeth were set into wooden handles t o be used as knives and razors ; and both whale and porpoise teeth were perforated and strung for necklaces and other purposes . The other more readily perishable media , such as wood and wood i her , feathers , skins , etc. , are here of little concern to the archaeolojst . It must suffice to say merely that they were all employed , most of them for a great variety of purposes , ranging from houses : 1 nd canoes to articles of furniture , household utensils , musical nstruments of various types , toys , weapons ? especially clubs and pears ? clothing , mats , baskets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Clay , strangely enough , was used for pottery the Tongan and Easter islands ; while elsewhere gourds and probIdly shells , as well as containers made of wood and stone , served all t ug purposes for which these roaming islanders employed such t ensils . Metals , as has been remarked , had no place at all in Polynesian economy .  | Summing up briefly for Polynesia , Micronesia , and Melanesia , it may be said that while our information is as yet rather scanty , the vast island region involved is of special interest to us because it was apparently the last habitable portion of the world to be invaded by prehistoric man . Part of it is also the last region to be exploited by modern Europeans and therefore the region where primitive culture is making its last stand . Indications are that while the first corners to Melanesia may have possessed only a late Paleolithic type of hunting equipment , the later invaders who swept over all the remaining Pacific island world brought a fairly advanced food-producing culture of Post-Neolithic or Megalithic affinities which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dropping back as it were to a condition resembling in several respects the normal advanced Neolithic status . Oceanian-American connections . If we seem to have lingered unduly over the Pacific island area there are several reasons for it . I n the first place , there has been until recently next to nothing known about the archaeology of this vast region . Then , too , the material traits found here are engagingly easy to understand , being few in number , moderately simple in form , in part very widely distributed , and , above all , nearly free from the complications connected with great antiquity and the resulting succession of chronological levels . But , more important than all this , some knowledge of Pacific island characteristics is made necessary by the fact that this area has long figured in the opinion of some students as the mysterious realm whence the American continent derived all of its advanced traits of culture.22 To this claim we must now give some consideration . The suggested transpacific connection between the Old World and the New constitutes a challenging many-sided problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Offhand it seems absurd to suppose that the navigators who so freely roamed the vast Pacific and Indian oceans , and who are said to have visited even the Antarctic regions , were unaware of the American continent . Obviously they were bound neither by trade winds nor by the ocean currents but knew their stars sufficiently well to steer a course out and back over thousands of miles of open sea . Compared to such bold seamanship contemporary feats of Europeans in the Atlantis ' seem child 's play ; and even if deliberate search for new lands had not brought the islanders over the extra two or three thousand  | miles to our shore , storm or accident sooner or later must have done so . Indications that the crossing was actually accomplished appear to be numerous . Thus there is at least some general similarity between the platform and pyramidal structures of North and South America on the one hand and those of the Pacific islands on the other ; between the simpler sculptured monoliths of Middle and South America , as well as of the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Melanesian pile dwellings ; and between certain Oceanian sailing craft and those of the Pacific coast from Alaska to southern California . Coming down to smaller features , a table of about fifty strikingly similar Oceanic and South American ethnological traits is given by Erland Nordenskiold , 23 and the list , consisting largely of items made of wood , wood fiber , feathers , I ( one , shell , and stone , could easily be extended . A somewhat shorter find different but equally important series of trait parallels is given iii the same paper for Asia and America . These include various technical processes used in metallurgy , ceramics , textiles , architecture , painting , hunting ; fishing , etc. , as well as specific products of some of these arts and industries . Now the presence in the New World of more than one hundred Old World elements of material culture ? not to mention the nonmaterial parallels ? is only partly explainable as a dissemination by way of the region of Bering Strait , and the individual traits must therefore be either independent inventions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be taken into account , for even if independent invention is allowed as probable in many cases , diffusion can not be ruled out altogether . However , if we inquire as to when the transmission took place , there arise difficulties . Some of the recent diffusionists insist that inasmuch as the Pacific islands were uninhabited until relatively late times , America could not have received her quota of advanced foreign loans until within the last two thousand years . But , unfortunately for that view , some of the American traits in question appear to be very old . Other exponents , however , point out that several of the outstanding Pacific island traits like the domestic pig and fowl , the cultivated banana , sugar cane , taro , and breadfruit , and especially the unique contrivance known as the outrigger canoe , never passed beyond Polynesia and that therefore merica must have received her accession of Old World gifts at a relatively early date ? that is , before these elements of culture were  | disseminated in the Pacific area . From this they naturally conclude that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In keeping with this latter view it may be urged also that such demonstrably ancient and important American contributions as maize , tobacco , potatoes , peanuts , beans , and peppers , as well as spinning , loom weaving , pressure chipping , and metallic objects , were not carried back to the Pacific islands . To be sure , vigorous claims have been made for the Pre-Columbian transplantation of the banana to America , of the sweet potato to the Pacific islands , and of the coconut palm either one way or the other ; but the facts do not appear to be adequately substantiated . At best , therefore , the only conclusion warranted by the ethnological evidence is that intercommunication between Oceania and the New World must have been of a sporadic and more or less accidental character . When we turn to the archaeological parallelisms it becomes necessary to group the available data under several separate headings in order that we may fully appreciate the significance of such trait identities as may exist . Thus , to begin with the broader aspects , it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like those of the eastern , made use of all types of readily accessible raw materials . Even iron of meteoric origin was utilized in America , though the smelting of its ores was not achieved . Moreover , examination reveals that both peoples employed , though not in equal measure , all the same basic handicraft processes . In short , the major arts and industries of the Old and New Worlds were identical . But striking as these similarities may seem , their significance is more apparent than real , for , on the one hand , the general classes of raw materials furnished by nature are so few that duplication in use was unavoidable ; and , on the other hand , while doubtless the elementary working processes reached America from without , t he shaping arts are also limited in number and their later refinements were therefore bound , independently , to take more or less the swine course . When we concentrate on the forms of handiwork produced , the similarities , though relatively fewer , have much greater significance , because here the maker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a demonstrable fact that more than two hundred varieties of implements and ornaments found in the New World an . duplicates of Old World forms . These inventions are not only similar as regards the purposes they  | served and as to general typology , but they are to a large extent identical in form . Incidentally , the list of parallelisms could be lengthened not a little by adding basketry , matting , textiles , and feather work ; and if we topped off with geometric ornamental designs our total would be nearly doubled . But here again there are limiting conditions which tend to discount the significance of parallelism . Elementary human activities do not vary greatly . The problems to be solved , the forces to be overcome , the raw materials to he dealt with , are much the same the world over . Under these circumstances , if similar solutions , similar methods , and similar devices for executing particular types of work have made their appearance in widely separated regions of the world we need scarcely be astonished . Independent duplication of inventions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today and doubtless was so in the past . And what is true about contrivances serving practical ends is surely true also for geometric ornamental designs . For here , too , duplication is unavoidable , inasmuch as the various patterns are made up merely of dots , straight lines , and curved lines which can he combined in only a limited and more or less obvious number of ways . This being the case , when or how can we be reasonably certain of diffusion as opposed to independent invention ? Obviously only in cases where controlling circumstances can be largely eliminated , or where , in other words , human fancy has had free play and where consequently " style " or uniqueness of some sort has resulted . Conventionalized representative art , therefore , would seem to be a valid standard ; likewise utilitarian objects of unusual or highly specialized design . Whenever such traits or , better still , particular combinations of traits , are found in widely separated localities , no matter what the distance , we are justified in suspecting genetic relationship , though our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than objective criteria . Now , to come to the point at issue here , it so happens that Polynesia and North America , in spite of the three thousand miles that separate them , share a number of cultural traits of precisely this specialized character . Full details can not be given , but the essential point is that the Pacific coast region from Costa Rica to Alaska exhibits sporadic occurrences of a variety of stone , shell , and bone objects peculiar to Hawaii and other sections of marginal Polynesia , ranging even to New Zealand . Of special interest is the presence in  | southern Alaska , British Columbia , Oregon , northern California , and Costa Rica of several forms of the unique food pounders which are typical mostly of Hawaii and which as implements are put to somewhat different uses in America . Equally noteworthy is the sword-shaped stone club shared by New Zealand and the Pacific coast from Oregon northward . Lastly , the coast region of southern California yields a peculiar circular one-piece fishhook ? or a pendant in the shape of a fishhook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has its exact counterpart in New Zealand . Parallel items of slightly less significance are stone adzes , chisels , mortars , pestles , discoidal stones , charm stones or plummets , slender oblong pendants with suspension knob or perforation , perforated subspherical stones , grooved sinkers , fish or whale effigies , as well as such bone objects as the straight double-pointed gorge hook and the barbed dart or harpoon point . In wood there are , for example , the rectangular house with gable roof and carved ornamentation , the plank boat , and the grooved or striated tapa or bark beater , which in Middle America is partially imitated in stone . Finally , it is worth noting that the New Zealand method of working nephrite and other hard rocks by the sawing method was practiced also in Mexico and on the North Pacific coast and that in part of the latter section of America the otherwise universal art of pressure chipping is all but absent , as it is in Polynesia . These and other similarities that might be cited give undeniable proof of Polynesian influence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so clear as might be expected . hor while the indicated parallelisms are far more convincing than the apparent Neolithic similarities between , for example , northwestern Europe and northeastern North America , still , like the later Norse discoverers of America , the Polynesians appear to have left no obvious impressions either on the Indian physique or the Indian languages , whatever be the case with social institutions . Accordingly , whatever the future verdict may be , at present we are warranted only in supposing that from time to time small groups of Polynesians and possibly other Pacific islanders deliberately or accidentally reached our shores and were effectually absorbed in the native Indian population . America . The first problem of American archaeology is that of 4 the origin of the American Indian . There is general agreement no ? that the American race is closely related to the Mongoloid and that  | its origin must be looked for in the Old World . Contrary to this view , F. Ameghino tried to prove that man originated in South America . His views were based on his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lund in the province of Minas Geraes of southeastern Brazil between the years 1835 and 1844 . Lund is said to have investigated more than eight hundred caves . In six of these , located in the vicinity of Lagoa Santa , were found about thirty human skulls , as well as parts of skeletons and traces of artifacts , in some cases seemingly associated with extinct Quaternary animal remains , but under conditions , nevertheless , which did not warrant the finder to claim geologic antiquity for them . Ameghino 's own investigations were begun about 1870 in the Argentine Republic . Argentina , topographically and geologically , resembles our western prairie and Rocky Mountain states in being made up largely of a vast alluvial plain known as the Pampas which slopes gently from the Andes to the Atlantic . This Pampean formation is made up chiefly of water-borne and wind-borne ( loess ) materials , interstratified here and there with lake deposits and near the Atlantic border with traces of marine beds . In the coast region this loesslike blanket , as in middle Europe , is separable into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known also respectively as the 1 ? nsenadean and Bonarean formations . Beneath these two characteristic strata lies an older Pre-Pampean formation called the Herinosean ; and above them , along the stream course and in the lake basins , there are superficial Post-Pampean or Recent deposits , while the Atlantic coast belt is marked by sand dunes , both fixed and moving . Until very recently students were at odds concerning the respective ages of these formations , except the sand dunes . Ameghino himself held some of the latest coastal surface deposits to be late Pliocene , the Pampean horizons to be middle and early Pliocene , and the underlying Hermosean to be Miocene . Later investigators for the most part agree in regarding the Hermosean as Pliocene and the two Pampean levels as Pleistocene . Ameghino 's " late Miocene " horizon has been demonstrated to be of modern origin . The determination of the geological age of these deposits is chiefly due to two paleontological facts : first , that the native mammalian fauna characteristic of all the later Argentinian formations was of a curiously primitive type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , second , that the mastodon , saber-toothed  | tiger , horse , and cloven-footed animals , typical of the North American Pleistocene , did not appear as migrants in South America until very late and persisted for only a brief period . Now that the later survival of essentially Tertiary species in South America as in Australia has been fully recognized , the discovery of archaeological remains associated with them in these same deposits no longer means what it once did for the antiquity of man in America . The archaeological discoveries in question range geographically all the way from Parana in southern Brazil to the Strait of Magellan ? chiefly , however , along the Argentine coast ; and geologically they are said to have come from all the indicated deposits . Thus , while most of the available artifacts have actually been found exposed on the surface of the sand dunes and especially on the Pampean surface , a considerable number of isolated finds were derived from both the Upper and Lower Pampean and even from the Pre-Pampean or Hermosean formation below . These latter finds have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but some apparently remain to be accepted . Skeletal finds , single and multiple , total up to thirteen for the Upper Pampean , four for the Lower Pampean , and two for the Hermosean ; but these also by some have been largely disposed of either as recent burials or as non-human remains , and for the rest as scientifically unacceptable . It must be remarked , however , that the credibility and significance of certain of these discoveries have not yet been generally agrees I upon . The affirmative view is still to some extent upheld by I " . Outes , R. Lehmann-Nitsche , and others , while the negative has been presented most forcefully by A. Hrdlicka , Bailey Willis , and W. H. Holmes.24 At best , however , little remains today of Ameghino 's theory that man and culture originated in South America and from there spread over the rest of the world . One reason for delaying judgment on the questions of both relative and absolute chronology of human remains and implements in Argentina inheres in the typological character of the artifact . Unfortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chipped , and ground stone , with a few potsherds appear to he surface pickings and not excavations from stratified deposits . But , even so , the inventories from the widely scattered coastal sites of the four southern provinces differ somewhat , so that , naturally enough , some students have suggested contemporary local variations while others have inferred chronological sequences . Thus , while  | Hrdlicka inclines to see only one culture of recent date , Holmes favors two , likewise late but somewhat localized variations , and Outes postulates four successive stages , one of Paleolithic and three of Neolithic aspect . The partial explanation is that Outes appears to have found isolated sites characterized exclusively by : ( 1 ) flaked core implements of the coup-de-poing type ; ( 2 ) flake implements with marginal pressure chipping on one face , typical of the Middle and early Upper Paleolithic ; and ( 3 ) completely pressure-chipped implements together with pecked and ground stone forms , as well as pottery . Then , too , in the Parana region roughly flaked core implements have been found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the true surface deposits of the region yield the normal Neolithic inventory , including bone implements , which appear to have completely decayed in the south . In short , the indications of stratification and gradual technological evolution in Argentina tally with those found by Iihle both superficially and in the shell heaps of Peru , and are further strengthened by stratigraphic data recently obtained from the shell heaps of Tierra del Fuego . What this seriation means in chronological terms it is impossible to say at present ; but it is at least certain that man was present in South America , as in North America , in time to witness the extinction , for example , of the mastodon , some of the giant sloths , and the horse . While in earlier years there was a strong inclination to parallel the Paleolithic development of Europe by means of typological comparisons with that of America , a critical examination of the finds has not so far yielded anything that can conclusively be proved to be of the same antiquity as the earlier Paleolithic remains of Europe . Geologically datable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only of the modern type of Homo sapiens , but exhibiting characteristics that do not allow us to assume a race fundamentally different from the modern Indian . The industries of these early periods are mainly , if not entirely , of typical Neolithic character . Particularly the lately discovered Folsom types , which belong to a period when man lived with some of the now extinct species of animals , show a highly developed and highly specialized stone technique . Thus the data available at the present time indicate the absence of an earlier race of man , corresponding to the Neanderthal or other early forms , and likewise the absence of the most primitive forms of artifacts . It would seem likely that man immigrated into America at one  | of the periods towards the end of the Ice Age when the continent was accessible by way of the Bering Strait region . Since , according to geological evidence , the way was open toward the end of the Ice Age for a migration from Siberia to America along the ice-free regions east of the Rocky Mountains , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached by man about that time . The earliest finds in North America seem to be located on the western plains and may belong to this early wave of migration.25 This view of the early history of man 's migration to America necessitates the assumptions of a very rapid movement from the . extreme north to the southernmost extremity of South America ; his adjustment to all the many types of climate , from arctic to tropic and again to that of the temperate zone ; and the development of many well-differentiated local types and of many cultures and languages . The last named might be explained by a long-continued immigration of different linguistic stocks , but of these we have no evidence . It is not possible to follow here the development of the numerous types of later local cultures . It will be sufficient to indicate that the immigrants must have been hunters and that agriculture as an essential foundation of existence must have developed in Central America , whence it gradually spread in both directions , north and south , but without covering the entire area in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced arts , such as pottery , spread over the continent . Metal-casting was confined to narrow areas in Central and South America . It seems that all these steps in cultural development occurred in the New World later than in the Old . A connection between them can not be established . The question of possible relations between Polynesia and Melanesia and America has been discussed before.26 General world considerations . From our brief survey we have not only learned something of the varied outstanding archaeological features of different habitable portions of the globe , but we have discovered , incidentally , that long as prehistoric man has been on earth and far as he has roamed , he did not , for obvious geographical , climatic , floral , faunal , and cultural reasons , complete its occupation . At least as far as is now known , he never reached either Antarctica or the outlying portions of the Arctic ; and aside from the closel y strung West Indian chain , none of the distant Atlantic island groups ? not even Iceland ? was ever occupied . Equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present called the Paleolithic culture stage human distribution was confined to limited and cont iguous parts of Europe , Asia , including Java , and Africa . Omitting England , Sicily , Malta , and the Canaries as until recently more or less completely connected with their respective continents , all other closely adjacent islands like Ireland , the Balearics , Corsica , Sardinia , ( ' rete , Cyprus , the Aegean archipelago , Ceylon , Japan , and Sakhalin have not yet been definitely proved a part of the early Paleolithic domain ; and presumably the ill-favored mountainous and glaciated regions , as well as the densely forested and swamp-covered areas like southeastern Asia and the Congo basin , remained largely uninhabited until comparatively recent times . Whether or not Australasia and America were invaded during the Paleolithic culture phase depends largely upon our definition of the word " Paleolithic " ; and necessarily , therefore , what migrations took place during the Neolithic stage becomes correspondingly uncertain . As further examples of the difficulties created by mere words , it might be pointed out that the aboriginal inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we have seen , arrived there in post-Neolithic times and who , when discovered in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , subsisted mainly by agriculture , have consistently been regarded as living in the so-called Neolithic stage of culture , while the same rating or status is given to the Indians and Eskimo of northern North America , who live entirely by hunting , fishing , and foodgathering . Our understanding of the situation as now developed by archaeological investigation clearly calls for an examination of these two important stumbling blocks . The terms " Paleolithic " and " Neolithic " as now used are sources of much confusion , for the simple reason that they have double and sometimes even treble meanings . Thus , " Paleolithic " refers to a definite geological time period in the Old World and it denotes also a much less definite type of physical man and a similarly less definite stage of cultural development ? namely , the stage especially marked by flaked and chipped stone implements . Similarly , and by contrast , " Neolithic " stands at once for a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characterized in part by ground and polished stone implements . At first sight nothing seems simpler or more explicit . But actually , except in a very broad or general sense , time and culture have no necessary connections . Time proceeds inexorably in one direction while culture rises and falls , owing to a  | variety of historical circumstances essentially independent of time . Our world culture distribution problem would therefore be much simplified if once for all we boldly divested the expressions " Paleolithic " and " Neolithic " of their precise chronological connotations . By doing so the term " Paleolithic " would be broadened and thereby become parallel to what the ethnologists call the hunting or foodgathering stage of culture ; while the term " Neolithic " would be narrowed and come to be parallel to the first phase of the foodproducing culture stage as founded mainly upon the artificial cultivation of selected plants and animals . So defined , there is no difficulty about admitting the presence now or formerly of Paleolithic man , for example , in Australia and America , or in any other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life prevails . It would still be true that certain early and characteristically primitive Old World features of the Paleolithic are missing for instance in the New World ; but their absence here is what we should expect if man and culture first arose in some other distant time and place . To complete our world picture of the origin and spread of material culture we might now very properly introduce a time-and-space chart giving the details of the story in more nearly graphic form . Several such diagrammatic presentations exist for Europe , and others have been attempted for the world as a whole 27 ; but all are defective , either because of inadequate knowledge about many of the areas considered or because of lack of harmony in the interpretations placed upon the available data . For that reason , as well as for lack of space , it seems best here not to add to the existing confusion . But the ideal chart would consist of a series of vertical columns representing the geographical divisions of the world arranged as far as possible in conformity with the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glaciated portion of northern Europe , the most feasible order would be central , western , and southern Europe ; the various sections of Africa ; southern Asia , Australasia , and the Pacific islands ; northern Asia , North America , and finally southernmost South America . The world ' , land forms not being arranged in a single continuous strip , as would be nearly the case if southern Africa , Australasia , and the Pacific islands were omitted , excursions , as it were , become necessary in these directions . But even so , the indicated arrangement throw most of the earliest inhabited countries toward the center of the chart while the countries on the left and right received their human  | populations in relatively late times . Our chart would also have to he ruled horizontally to represent geologic time divisions , which in turn would be subdivided to provide for the successive and approximately dated culture levels . The frame completed , it would remain to check , in the proper rubrics , the demonstrated culture stages for each country . Such a chart , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first great desiderata of prehistoric archaeology and one which can not be adequately realized without prolonged cooperative effort . Once achieved , we shall have a solid foundation showing when and where the basic culture complexes first arose and the approximate routes by which they spread . We shall then at last be in position to write the permanent outline of human culture history . As a partial substitute for this desirable two-dimensioned detailed culture chart , we may sum up on broad lines the present state of our knowledge by indicating the approximate limits of the successive culture stages on an ordinary world map ( Fig. 37 ) . Igor this purpose we shall accept the newly suggested definitions of Paleolithic and Neolithic ; we shall combine the early work in copper , tin , silver , gold , and their various alloys as a separate preliminary stage in metallurgy ; and we shall indicate work in iron only in so far as it involves the art of smelting . Now such a graphic presentation necessarily embodies compromises and generalizations and must therefore be viewed in the light of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difficulty of laying down precise cultural boundaries , it will be illuminating merely to recall that modern industrial outputs more often than not find markets far beyond the actual manufacturing centers and to suggest that to a limited degree the same must have been true also in the past . Iron implements , for instance , were apparently in use all over Africa , even to some slight extent in the Bushman territory of the extreme southwest , when first explored by Europeans ; but smelting was naturally confined to regions where ores and fuel were plentiful and where the requisite technical skill had been acquired ; while smithing or forging had a much wider range . For the rest of the continent barter served as the means of distribution , the peoples of the marginal areas receiving the trait in attenuated form only and at appreciably later dates than the centers of origin . The Bushmen , therefore , though benefiting by the industry , can scarcely be held to have risen to the Iron Age status . The same must be said also of the nomadic reindeer herdsmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few metallic implements from the south but took no real part in their production . An essentially reversed mode of distribution is represented by the preceding copper-bronze stage of metallurgy ; for during this relatively long double-process phase , while nuggets of copper , gold , and silver ( to a slight extent also meteoric iron ) were at first ? and in many widely separated regions of both hemispheres ? shaped by simple hammering , with or without heating , the melting and casting of such metals , as well as of bronze and other alloys , were not achieved until comparatively late , and then only in a few centralized localities of advanced states of culture , beyond which the articles produced had not , at least in Africa and America , been transmitted very far . Indeed , if the size of the map permitted , the early transitional stage of forging , commonly called the Copper or Chalcolithic stage , should be indicated separately from that of casting . IIowever , the two related processes continued on , independently , side by side , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and casting arose in the place or places where cold-forging was first practiced . A similar condition is presented by the Neolithic-Agricultural areas . The science and art of plant cultivation were far from equally intense or on the same level throughout the indicated ranges , let alone the fact that the plants used varied from place to place and sometimes , as on the North Pacific coast , amounted to nothing more than the growing of tobacco and planting of cinquefoil and clover . But , regardless of the status and character of this key industry , true agricultural produce , owing to its bulky nature , is not likely to have been transported to any great distance outside the actual areas of cultivation , so that the indicated geographic limits may be considered as relatively exact . On the other hand , products of the sedentary activities commonly associated with agriculture , as well as the activities themselves , such as pecking and polishing of stone , pottery-making , weaving perhaps , and even the crude fashioning of metallic implements , were so transmitted ( or else were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range of genuine agriculture . The outstanding case in point is that of northwestern North America , where the Pacific coast tribes , independent of agriculture if not exactly of animal domestication ( the dog being utilized ) , reached a status of development in some respects equal if not superior to the contemporary agriculturists or horticulturists farther south and east . With the so-called Paleolithic stages , how-  | ever , the case is different , for here the few natural raw materials employed were almost everywhere available , so that the geographic limits of production and utilization were more nearly the saute . Finally , it must be observed that the map is not a self-explanatory chronological guide , because the boundaries marking , let us say , the more advanced or later stages do not fall regularly either within or without the boundaries of the earlier phases of development , but . cross each other , as in the case of agriculture bursting out over Polynesia . The map is still more disappointing in that it can not very well bring out the important fact that in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as in the Malay arch ipelago and probably over most of Africa , the iron-working technique was apparently mastered before that of bronze or its equivalent alloys . For the rest , the map may be said to speak for itself as far as it goes . It reveals that human culture began in the Old World and that the earliest and most primitive phase was confined roughly to the central and at the same time doubtless the most favorable or most accessible portion of that hemisphere . It reveals that the second or advanced Paleolithic phase swept practically over the entire earth and was stopped only here and there by natural boundaries requiring artificial means of transportation not developed until a later date . It suggests that most of the initial steps toward artificial food production and the subsequent development of the more highly specialized arts and industries , such as agriculture , ceramics , loons weaving , and true metallurgy , were taken supposedly at particularly favorable spots in the tropical and subtropical belts , whence they gradually spread to the more temperate zones , there to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , take account of more or less purely nomadic herdsmen cultures , still typical of northern Europe , northern and central Asia , parts of Arabia and the Sahara , as well as of extreme southwestern Africa . The origin of this mode of subsistence , in point of time approximately contentporary with the beginnings of agriculture , presumably was mainly in the steppe regions of the temperate zones , though the colder and warmer belts can not be entirely excluded . In later times these two culture complexes , presumably not developed in entire independence , came to supplement each other . In conclusion we must take a last look at the map for tangible suggestions inherent in the spatial culture picture with respect to  | time relationships . Viewing the American continent for the time being as an independent unit , we observe that the three grand developmental stages ? that is , the late Paleolithic , the NeolithicAgricultural , and the Copper-Bronze ? occupy successively less and less territory and that their respective boundaries are approximately concentric . This condition , regardless of whether or not the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first , can mean only one thing ; namely , that the two advanced stages began somewhere in the central region , whence they gradually spread over the previously laid Paleolithic foundation , the builders of which for the most part adopted the new traits , while some of those who did not accept them may as a result have been pushed out into the marginal areas north and south or southeast , as well as into the barrens of Lower California . Such a geographical or horizontal presentation can readily be converted into a chronological one by exhibiting , as it were , a geological or vertical north-south section of the continent , taken along a line that shall intersect all three culture boundaries at both extremities . A section so constructed would reveal the successive culture levels stacked up in the shape of a stepped pyramid , provided we could be certain that the later trait groups everywhere overlie the earlier ones and that the earlier ones are nearly if not quite as old along the margins as they are in the center . But while the answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we have as yet no positive indications that man has occupied for long either northeastern North America ( including Greenland ) or the extreme southern and southeastern portions of South America , and it may well be that the late Paleolithic peoples entered those distant regions in relatively late times . In other words , time was passing while culture was spreading . Were we to present this most probable state of affairs in America graphically , our horizontally ruled time section would exhibit the beginnings of the Upper Paleolithic by a slanting line rising gradually from left to right ? that is , from Bering Strait to Tierra del Fuego , while the two succeeding culture stages would be represented by inverted pyramids having their apexes located approximately midway on the section or at points corresponding to Middle America and northAndean South America , as in Figure 38.28 The geographic boundaries of the cultural succession as presented by the Old World portion of the map are far less definite and orderly . Thus the beginning phase ? that is , the primitive Paleolithic ?  | fails to attain the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , its range does not lie central in the triple-continental area but favors the west and southwest . This eccentricity may , however , be more apparent than real ; for , very likely , environmental conditions at this time prohibited or discouraged occupation of the north and the southeast . Then , too , we have as yet no clear proofs that the early Paleolithic culture entered extreme South Africa until relatively late and therefore probably in a modified or improved form . The advanced Paleolithic , on the other hand , sooner or later reached all continental limits and even passed beyond . The Neolithic-Agricultural complex for various reasons , climatic and cultural , failed to expand as far as was possible either north or south , but instead spread suddenly out over the entire and hitherto uninhabited central Pacific island area . Parenthetically , it becomes necessary here to call attention to the fact that the habitable world was now nearly populated and that as an indirect result a new factor , trade , entered into all the later stages of progress . Up to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , slow migration and simple borrowing had largely sufficed as the agencies of dispersal , commerce in the strict sense having been of only slight importance . It could scarcely have been otherwise , because , as previously suggested , the arts and industries that had been achieved , regardless of their ultimate points of origin , were of the types that could readily take root in all the new home soils . In other words , hitherto- the production and the utilization of specific artificial means of livelihood enjoyed very nearly the same geographic range , no doubt for the simple  | reason that the natural raw materials employed were almost everywhere present . An inevitable change was brought about , however , by the discovery of the practical usefulness of natural metals and above all by the gradual perfection of processes for their artificial recovery from ores . For metals and ores were not found everywhere , and consequently the uniquely efficient implements produced from them naturally became objects of mutually profitable trade , a form of interchange ' which has since become the principal agent in the diffusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the preceding remarks in mind , it will readily be understood that the early metallurgical ( copper and bronze ) range is extremely difficult to bound because , in the Old World as in the New , it apparently had several separate centers of origin , both within and without the agricultural domain , as , for example , up and down the inner portion of East Africa , southwestern Asia , southeastern Asia , and possibly north-central Asia , some of which were chronologically early while others were undoubtedly late . But the extreme diffusion of this trait complex falls well within the earlier boundaries on the south and east , while in the north it extends , at least in central Asia , somewhat beyond the borders of agriculture . Finally , the use of iron has the same range as that of copper and bronze on the east and west , but extends beyond it on the south and to some extent at least also on the north . Were we , however , to ignore the distribution due to trade and instead to lay down the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should obtain a more nearly concentric or pyramidic arrangement of boundaries , except for the primitive Paleolithic , which in most directions was overtaken and outdistanced by the more rapidly moving advanced Paleolithic . In the light of the preceding explanations and interpretations there is little need of demonstrating the Old World chronology in graphic form . Besides , no cross section that might be chosen would be universally applicable because , as indicated , the successive boundaries are not uniformly concentric nor do they form a pyramid in an orderly way . There remains , however , the desirability of presenting a generalized sectional diagram to illustrate our chronological deductions for the world as a whole . Such a section might be taken across the map , say along the thirtieth parallel of north latitude , or it might follow a broken line stretching from South Africa via the Levant to Bering Strait and thence via Panama to Tierra del Fuego .  | The latter alternative is the more attractive because it conforms more nearly to the supposed major routes of cultural transmission and in addition offers certain other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ascertained sequence and chronology of cultural happenings in Europe as applicable in the main to the entire world ; and assuming that in the Old World the successive steps in the inventive process originated in nearly one and the same roughly central region represented by the eastern Mediterranean lands where Europe , Asia , and Africa meet ; and assuming also that they spread over the world at an approximately uniform rate , let us plot our section . By actual measurement the distance from the Cape of Good ILope to Palestine is found to equal 46 units ; that from Palestine via central Asia ( Lake Tsagan Nor iu the Gobi desert ) to Bering Strait , 66 units ; and that from Bering Strait via Panama to Cape Horn , 100 units ; and we proportion the vertical divisions of our section accordingly . Incidentally we may also note the locations of the various cultural boundaries , as given on our map , and so place them approximately where they belong on the section . We must next provide for the incorporation of the equally necessary geological or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the approximately one million years since material culture began , and we may do this to best advantage by giving the last few thousand years their properly equalized values and the early and less important time span an arbitrarily reduced allotment of diagram space . Taking A.D. 1500 as the most suitable upper datum to mark the end of prehistoric times for the world at large , and using 1500 years as the most convenient time unit , we may rule the section horizontally , adding dates as far as necessary , and our plotting frame is ready , as in Figure 39 ( p. 228 ) . There remains the dubious task of diagramming the selected human events . To do this with care a moderate show of precision calls for the exact dates at which the successive culture stages began . As these are not ascertainable in most cases , we can do no better now than to rely on the approximations given in our chronological chart ( pp. 174 ? 75 ) for western Europe . However , as we perforce are seeking merely to express the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and space , absolute dates , however desirable , are not indispensable . If we but succeed in all the main essentials , the future will doubtless supply greater mathematical exactitude.  | Commencing then , for reasons that will presently appear , with the Upper Paleolithic and selecting Palestine as the point of origin , we may , in conformity with previous determinations , place its beginning at about 25,000 B.C. Its entry into America is placed at 12,000 B.C. as about the earliest likely date considering the presence of hindering glacial conditions in the north and the apparent state of the flint-working technique ( Solutrean ? ) at the time of entry . These two dates supply the approximate rate of geographical dispersion and enable us to calculate that the culture in question reached extreme South Africa about 16,000 B.c . Advancing at the same rate , the Upper Paleolithic would not reach Tierra del Fuego until about A.D. 7700 ; but inasmuch as man was there when the region was first visited by Magellan in 1520 and evidently had been there for some time , it must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , owing to the narrowness of the New World in places , he moved forward at a correspondingly faster pace . Of the two alternatives the latter is the more probable ; accordingly , if for a close approximation to the known facts we double his speed , he should have arrived shortly before 2000 B.C. , a not unlikely date . Having connected these time-and-space points on the section by the necessary " commencement " lines , we are able to enter the corresponding lines indicating the progress of the Lower Paleolithic phase . In doing this we may give some latitude to the beginning date roughly indicated as 1,000,000 B.c. ? and for the closing date rely on the apparent fact that the culture did not arrive ( if it did arrive ) in South Africa much before the coming of the Upper Paleolithic . The time-and-space values thus determined for Africa may be regarded as approximately true also for the spread of man and culture across Asia and are so indicated , the two uniformly diverging commencement lines being broken at the 25,000 B.C. date level in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale . Incidentally , it is worth noting that the point in central Asia at which the Upper Paleolithic overtakes the Lower Paleolithic agrees fairly well with the ascertained facts as given on the map . The next succeeding commencement dates are likewise none too certain in the absolute sense . For instance , published opinions concerning the dawn of the Neolithic-Agricultural stage for Egypt and Mesopotamia range all the way from about 6000 B.c . ( Peake and Fleure , Childe ) to 18,000 B.C. ( Breasted , Montelius , de Morgan ) and we shall simply strike the average and take 12,000 B.c. as the  | safest estimate . The beginning of the Copper-Bronze stage has by several writers ( Pumpelly , Peake and Fleure ) been placed between 5000 and 6000 B.C. for Turkestan and Egypt ; while the start of the Iron Age proper ( that is , ignoring the early use of meteoric iron during Pyramid times ) has of late been provisionally placed for Asia Minor at about 1500 B.C. by T. A. Rickard . With these approximate beginning dates fixed on the section , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pertaining to the Iron stage by bringing them up to the A.D. 1500 date level at the limits of distribution indicated on the map . We are now in position to add the commencement lines for the Copper and Neolithic stages , again using the given map limits for space values and bringing them at these points up to the commencement lines for the Bronze and Iron ages , which will give us the approximate date at which the NeolithicAgricultural and Copper-Bronze complexes were overtaken by the products of the iron-working industry . There remains the even more hazardous venture of introducing the origin and general distributional behavior of the post-Paleolithic culture stages on the American portion of the section . Figure 38 gives a freehand presentation , or merely a setting up , of the general relations ; but an attempt at something more precise seems justifiable . To begin with , unless all the known facts belie the antiquity of man in America , all our culture stages arose at a later date than did the corresponding phases in the Old World . If in conformity with this notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Upper Paleolithic onward occupied about the same proportionate lengths of time in the New and Old Worlds , and accept the middle point in the Americas as the starting point ( with date therefore of about 7000 B.C. ) , simple calculations give about 3400 B.C. and 1700 B.C. as the respective dates for the commencement of the Neolithic-Agricultural and the Copper-Bronze stages in America . For the upper limits on the A.D. 1500 date level we may consult the map as before and plot the two pairs of commencement lines , and our visual representation of culture in relation to time and space is complete as in Figure 39 . Now such improvisation is not of course to be regarded as equivalent to scientific demonstration . In viewing the diagram , all the assumptions involved must be borne in mind and the apparent conclusions accepted with corresponding reservations . For fear of misleading anyone , all the facts taken for granted and all the steps  | made in constructing the plot have been stated in full . The resulting picture is intended merely as a crude approximation to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved . General conclusions . The attempt has been made in the foregoing pages to present an outline treatment of prehistoric archaeology . The result is little more than a bare skeleton of the subject and might perhaps with greater propriety be labeled " the mechanics of the inventive process " or " a brief account of the inquiry into the origin and development of material culture . " Within prescribed limits the task has been to set forth what seemed most essential to a sound general understanding of the subject . In judging the presentation , it must be borne in mind that the subject is overburdened with undigested facts and therefore also with loose , ever-changing speculative theories . So much so is this the case that , even if it were possible for one person to examine all the evidence , it would scarcely be worth the while for present purposes , which are not those of a descriptive manual but rather a digest of general features together with a presentation of methods and principles by means of which it is hoped the vast multiplicity of facts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The purpose has been to define the nature , scope and general aims of prehistoric archaeology ; to name the principal objective features with which it has to deal ; and to indicate the important time and place connections of these features with other pertinent facts of natural history . Some attention has also been given to the methods employed in both the field ( stratigraphy ) and the laboratory ( typology and technology ) , with a view to bringing out of the ? haotic mass of details a reasonably clear account of early human progress . Lastly , maps and charts have been introduced , not merely to summarize past accomplishments in convenient form but also to ndicate present problems and thus in a measure to suggest future ) rocedure . And what , it may be asked , are the broad outstanding achievenents of prehistoric archaeology to date ? The most convenient Lnswer is threefold : there is the growth or organization of the science tself ; there is the accumulated body of facts from all parts of the vorld about early man as proof of his contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body of interpretations and its ibvious influence on modern thought . From what has been stated directly and indirectly it must be  | apparent by this time that we owe a vast deal to our prehistoric ancestors besides life and limbs . The main essentials may be summed up under a few general headings . Early man explored and settled nearly all of the habitable world . He located most of the places since found suitable as great centers of population . He opened trails and used waterways connecting many of these settlements , which to some extent have since been taken over as avenues for modern trade and intercourse . He identified and brought into use most of the ready-made natural resources ? animal , vegetable , and mineral ? either as foods or as materials suitable for implements . He discovered fire as a source of warmth and protection as well as its serviceability in the preparation of food ; and by means of fire and other agencies he converted or reduced additional resources , like clays and ores , into equally useful products . He converted or brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals , training the latter to carry his burdens and otherwise help him in his labor . IIe founded most of our basic handicrafts , devised the tools that served them , and with these in time produced clothing , shelter , and gear for all of his varied activities . He made at least all of our present-day activities . Our inductions based on the interpretation of archaeological material must concern the nature of culture as such ? its origin , its nature and mode of behavior , its practical use and ultimate value . The question of primal origin need not detain us long . About all that can be said is that material culture is a spontaneous phenomenon foreshadowed in the behavior of many of the lower animals . How it was that only one member of the primate group came to succeed with it we shall probably never know . At all events such questions can not be settled by archaeology alone . good beginnings with medicine and surgery , as well as with astronomy and mathematics in their practical application to the calendar , to architecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all these practical endeavors , considerable advance was made also along several esthetic lines . Those attested by archaeological remains include decorative and representative art , executed in every available medium ; music , games , and sports expressive partly of individual temperament and partly of the community spirit ; and , finally dances , ceremonies , and rituals to suit , we may suppose , every critical occasion in the group life . In short , primitive man , as we are pleased to call him , is seen to have laid the foundations of practically  | As approaches to the essential nature and behavior of culture , on the other hand , archaeologic findings are obviously of the highest importance . On the first point nothing more need be said than that material culture is a new way of adapting inner life forces to external nature or , to be more exact , adapting external conditions to the rule of mind . By means of implements ? mentally created external accessories new and otherwise unattainable advances have become possible . This unique mode of progress has several advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replaces . Thus it is governed from within rather than from without . It is far swifter in achieving lasting results and , above all , it enables the individual for the first time really or consciously to take part by affording him personal opportunity and thus lending him a sense of endless adventure in an otherwise seemingly meaningless humdrum existence . With regard to the second point , the behavior of culture , it is possible to be more specific . Not many years ago it was taken for all but granted that material culture had grown , as it were , always from the bottom up . That is to say , whatever was found to have happened , for instance in France , was assumed to have happened also by sheer inner necessity in every other part of the world . This would be a situation such as could be diagrammed by a simple stepped pyramid or cone the top center of which would represent the latest high level not yet reached by the surrounding zones . At present , culture is conceived not as a merely static @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceived as a diffusional phenomenon and one which in a certain sense may be said to have grown from the top down . This condition has been diagrammatically represented by a succession of inverted pyramids ; but , as must be apparent , such schematization oversimplifies the process involved and does not tell the whole story even as to all the known but scattered primary centers of invention ; much less does it take account of the unknown secondary centers . The diagram does , however , convey two fundamental suggestions worth noticing . One is that the advanced centers of culture literally radiate traits or influences in every direction , influences which in time tend to raise all the recipient areas to new and higher levels , perhaps even high enough to become in turn new centers of radiation , as in the actual case of Europe and China superseding the Near East . The other important fact revealed by the diagram is the ever-accelerating speed of the culture  | process ? that is , the gradual shortening of the time interval which separates the successive stages . The final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceived , is that the origin , the development , and the diffusion of the long lines of discoveries and inventions which go to make up the entire modern material culture complex constitute a genetically connected whole ; or , stated in other words , the various artificial contrivances in question are the visible manifestations of a great continuous creative process which serves to reflect the growing mentality of their creator , man . Broadly viewed , this material culture process appears to us as an orderly succession of related events with few upstarts or erratic phenomena in evidence . Studied in detail , it is seen as a mode of origination by more or less gradual specialization or improvement , brought about in the course of time as the result of human ingenuity at work adapting the few material resources to all the numerous desirable ends that necessity or fancy suggested . It is seen as a natural process with rhyme as well as reason in it ; for the steps , as shown , follow each other in due order : first the ready-made raw materials , then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacture , then the slow and painstaking ones ; first the crude generalized implements , then the refined and specialized ones ; and first the crude utilitarian forms , then the addition of esthetic embellishments . Further scrutiny reveals what may be regarded as occasional mistakes and lapses , in places even revolutions now and then ; but these are comparatively insignificant and tend to fade out when attention is focused on the general trend of development and might disappear entirely if we knew the whole history . The final and seemingly inevitable conclusion is therefore that cultural growth is continuous , undergoing change or growth by gradual modification , usually in the direction of higher specialization or greater adaptiveness toward any given stable type of environment . Just what " growth by modification " means in the case of material culture ? in short , how new or improved inventions really come about ? is a problem we must leave for the present to the psychologist . New questions face us on every hand . For with all that has been done there is as yet scarcely a country in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in northwestern Europe , that can be said to have completed its preliminary field studies . For the rest  | there are many more countries where the investigation is hardly well under way , and still others where it can scarcely be said to have been more than begun . Our own richest and well-worked high centers of prehistoric culture , like the Ohio basin , the Southwest , Middle America , and Andean South America , still offer problems for solution ; and as for the rest of the two Americas , we have only partial notions of what secrets they hold . In short , systematic accumulation of field data must continue . In the laboratory and study other tasks are awaiting solution . Typological work ? that is , identification , classification , and general systematization of many lines of evidence ? is still necessary for most culture areas and culture stages , with a view to establishing true , historically valid series , as well as to eliminating nondescript artifacts that now pass as implements . Comparative studies of adjacent culture areas and continents are required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need a simplified but more adequate terminology . If we have properly identified the fullfledged stages in the culture process , we are still not clear about the origin of some of the transitional phases . The main steps now named as indicative of the course of development are at least partly arbitrary and do not in all cases furnish a true estimate of the carriers or producers concerned . For example , the division between Paleolithic and Neolithic is highly artificial , especially as applied to America , and requires modification . Then , too , there are larger questions that demand answers . When , for example , did man actually enter the New World ? And are his higher achievements here truly independent developments or not ? Still broader and more fundamental problems loom up in the Old World . Granted that our chronology is approximately correct and that our typological subdivisions of culture stages hold true in a general way for the world at large , we still do not know for certain that the main succession of steps were all taken in one and the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same order . Chance traits were surely invented or discovered in various out-of-the-way places where they remained relatively unimportant until taken up , improved , and fitted into the centralized vanguard culture complexes , thence to start out anew on their diffusional careers . We have therefore to ascertain the time and place of origin of many important single inventions as , for example , the bow and tailored clothing . Incidentally we shall presumably  | always have with us the tantalizing ultimate question of how , when , and where if not why human culture arose in the first place . In conclusion then , prehistoric archaeology calls for workers along several different lines : field study perhaps for only a few generations and the laboratory study for a much longer period . The museum will continue to require and to furnish endless opportunity for improved realistic demonstrations of various lines of development to answer temporary or permanent public interests . And in the meantime the teacher will have his task of exposition and application cut out for him as long as learners retain a spark of interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Discovery and invention . Even in the simplest stages of culture man does not obtain his living without providing , no matter how inadequately , for future needs . He does not live without the help of some simple utensils , and nowhere is he without some kind of protection against the inclement weather and without some sort of ornament . Some of these achievements are shared by man and animals , particularly the habit of storing supplies and of providing artificial shelter . There is no reason to suppose that they originated in man in any way different from the manner in which they developed among animals . Among lower animals , particularly insects , these devices have most complicated forms , and examples are found even of an artificial control of food supply . ' But whatever the origin of these devices may have been , however much or little man 's achievements may be due to his animal nature , the varied use of implements fashioned by human hands , the gradual changes in their form , the ever-increasing extent of modifications of products of nature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animals . The sources of these characteristically human traits may readily be observed since they continue to function even in our present stage of culture . Many are due to the observation of an unexpected phenomenon that challenges attention , or to the discovery that some object or some method of handling objects can be made to serve a desired end . Others are due to a conscious endeavor to find the means for achieving a purpose , such as the search for adequate materials or for methods of handling them . Often these are based on previous discoveries which are combined in new ways . In other cases they require the discovery of new materials and of new methods . Although we shall never be able to explain the ultimate sources of inventions , it seems more than plausible that in the early history  | of mankind discovery played a most important part and that the essential element was the recognition of the applicability to human needs of observed phenomena . The observation that a falling stone crushes things must have preceded the use of a stone as a hammer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition occurred in earliest times can not be decided . In modern man we may observe both tendencies : the sudden recognition of the usefulness of some material , form , or activity , and the intensive search for means of reaching a desired end . Discoveries can be made only in the environment in which man is placed . Nature offers the opportunities of which man avails himself . Stone , wood , and shell are found to be useful materials ; the branches of trees or caves offer shelter . Inventions or discoveries are based on the observation of the qualities and behavior of objects exhibited in the course of natural events or when handled by man . Fire and cooking . The discovery and the use of fire 2 will illustrate the complexities of early achievements . Clear evidences of the use of fire are found as early as Pre-Mousterian times . It is difficult to say how much earlier its usefulness may have been discovered . Since the remains of fire were found in caves , it must have been carried there from the outside or been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man was induced to domesticate fire , which must have appeared to him in nature as a terrifying phenomenon . Burning woods , grass fires , volcanic eruptions , are all of a kind to frighten man , not to attract him . It is impossible to tell whether the dead animals that were found scorched after a grass fire , the fish that were killed in hot or boiling water , attracted his attention and induced him to keep smoldering roots or rotting trees in order to start a new fire whenever he wished to do so , but some such reason must have induced him to preserve fire . It seems plausible that long before the art of fire-making was discovered , burning logs and roots were carefully preserved and means were found to preserve fire even when traveling about . Among many primitive people every village has its permanent fires which , when properly covered with soil or ashes , keep glowing for many weeks ; and various kinds of slow matches that can be carried along are in common use . The step from preserving fire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential methods of fire-making were by friction and by the strike-a-light . We must necessarily assume that some kind  | of experience must have preceded the invention of these devices . ' The most common form of the friction apparatus is the fire drill , an implement consisting of a wooden base , the " hearth , " and the wooden drill which is rapidly rotated with some pressure . Generally the hearth has notches through which the wood dust produced by drilling falls upon tinder . Since in early industries there certainly was no drilling of wood in wood , it seems not unlikely that the fundamental experience was that wood dust was produced by friction and that this dust was known to be useful for rekindling the smoldering fire . Then it may have come to be known that the rapid turning motion produced plentiful wood dust , particularly when a little sand was put in the drilling hole , and accidentally the first spark may have been produced in this manner . Considerations of this kind suggest at least a possible way in which this fundamental invention may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal , the fire plow , a board in which a stick is rapidly pushed back and forward , is confined to islands of the Pacific Ocean . In this case also the production of wood dust is essential . The fire saw is used in Malaysia . It consists of a split bamboo which is sawed through so that the dust drops down and is finally ignited by the heat produced by the rapid friction . It is equally difficult to understand the origin of the strike-a-light . The observation may have been made that flint striking another hard stone , particularly pyrites , produced sparks ; and since the art of procuring fire from an ember by adding appropriate tinder was known , the same experiment may have been made with the sparks obtained from the strike-a-light . At best all such assumptions can not be more than guesses that can neither be proved nor disproved . All we can do is to try to reconstruct conditions that seem possible in the state of cultural development of these early times . Fire was presumably used at an early time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fire or in hot ashes . Much more difficult to explain is the origin of steaming and boiling . The conditions under which the effect of steaming may be observed are hardly ever realized in nature . Still we find almost everywhere the art of making underground ovens . Red-hot stones are placed in the bottom  | of a pit and covered with leaves or branches . The food to be steamed is placed on top , covered with a new layer of leaves , and finally closed with a layer of soil . Water is poured in , and the steam generated when the water reaches the red-hot stones is kept in long enough to cook the food . The discovery of boiling food is also difficult to understand . Boiling water is rarely observed . If occurring after a great conflagration , man would hardly approach it until after the water had ceased boiling . It may be seen when a stream of lava reaches a pond , or in geysers . Rare as these two experiences are , they may have been important elements in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employs red-hot stones thrown into water . It is difficult to conceive how the use of fire could have led to the observation of boiling and to the experience that boiled food is palatable . Furthermore , all boiling requires vessels , and these would have had to be invented before the art of preparing food by boiling as practiced by the tribes of simplest culture could develop . Mechanical principles . The handling of materials acquainted man with a number of physical and chemical facts 4 that found application in many inventions . The strength of the blow of the hand was increased by holding a hammerstone or a club which offered the added advantage of hardness of the striking object . The principle of the lever must have been discovered at an early time . It may be presumed that wherever heavy objects are moved the lever came into play . The heavy trees used in traps may have been moved by the cooperation of many hands without implements , but heavy posts and stones can hardly be raised without some mechanical help . Shore poles or other devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends . ' The lever is used extensively in the construction of deadfalls in which it serves as a release . ' The South American Indians use it for bringing a strong pull to bear on elastic basketry tubes ' used for squeezing the juice out of pulp . The Eskimo use it for twisting the strands of sinews s with which they back their bows . By being twisted the sinew strands are shortened and give the necessary elasticity to the bow . Torsion is also used in other ways to obtain strong pressure . In Samoa torsion is used for squeezing out the juice from shavings of the bark of l3ischof a javanica , which is used for painting bark cloth ( tapa ) .9 The shavings are placed in a bag-shaped mat ending in ropes . One end is suspended from the branch of a tree ; the other  | has a loop through which a stick is passed , serving as a lever . By twisting the stick the mat bag is compressed . The striking part of certain traps 10 used by the Eskimo , Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cords which when released snap hack with great force , like the twisted cords used for spanning woodsaw s . Knowledge of movements due to the disturbance of equilibrium is utilized in traps consisting of a pit or cage concealed by a cover figure which is so supported that it tips over as an animal steps on it and then reverts to its original position . Such knowledge is also implied . in the game of seesaw . The resisting power of hard surfaces is made use of in shields and shelters . Rollers for moving heavy loads were used here and there , for instance by South American Indians in moving their canoes over portages . The Eskimo , whose mechanical genius is quite exceptional , given use pulleys for hauling ashore heavy sea mammals . "  | Mechanical principles used in implements . Many mechanical devices are in use to increase the force with which a projectile is thrown . When man used for this purpose sticks held at one end , he must have discovered at an early time that those heavy at the far end flew farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From this observation must have developed the numerous forms of throwing clubs with thin handles and a heavy knob at the end.12 Among African tribes this led to the invention of elaborate throwing knives which are hurled like clubs . " The stick used for striking is made still more dangerous when the striking end has sharp edges or when a heavy sharp stone is inserted in the end . These forms occur , for instance , in the tomahawk. figure Two other inventions are based on centrifugal force , the sling and the bola.14 By the rapid rotation of the sling and the sudden release of one end of the string the stone is given a much greater impetus than can be given by the hand alone . In the bola several small stones or other heavy objects are attached to strings which are swung around and thrown , and entangle the animal that is hit by them . A highly specialized form of throwing club , based more upon the cutting effect of striking sharp edges than upon the impact of the heavy end , is found in northeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of North America . It is a flat carved board for throwing . In the Australian boomerang its wings are slightly twisted ; this has the effect that the weapon , if it misses its aim , rises and returns toward the place from which it was thrown . Increased initial velocity of the thrown lance is also secured by an artificial lengthening of the arm by means of a wooden implement ,  | held in the hand , which ends in a peg or groove ? an artificial hand that holds the end of the spear . This point , being farther removed from the shoulder , moves more rapidly and gives to the weapon an increased impetus . The throwing board is probably a very ancient invention . It is used , for instance , in Australia and by the Eskimo . It survives in Mexico . In some regions a loop made of cord is used in a similar manner . Instead of being attached at the far end of the missile , it is placed near the center of gravity , where it is loosely held by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rotating motion to the weapon . " ' Centrifugal force was also used in the rapidly revolving spindle whorl , in bull-roarers , and in tops . The effectiveness of a straight forward thrust of a stick depends upon the straight line and strength of the shaft and the sharpness and hardness of the point . An attack on large animals with an unhafted cleaver would have been an exceedingly hazardous undertaking . It became less dangerous when the point of a stick was hardened in fire and then sharpened , or a sharp stone or bone was attached to a straight shaft which made it possible to direct the thrust or throw with accuracy . The elasticity of wood was used in the invention of spring traps and of bow and arrow . " The spring trap consists of a branch or sapling which is bent down and held insecurely by a holder . A noose is attached to the holder . In the simpler form of these traps the animal which is caught in the noose loosens the holder by its efforts to free itself , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In more complicated forms there is a mechanism by which the animal steps on a stick which releases the sapling . It seems very likely that the invention of the spring trap and of the bow are somehow related , although the transition is not easily understood . The two have in common the use of the elasticity of Fig. 43 . Eskimo throwing board ( after Otis T. Mason ) .  | wood and the taut strings , but the use of the latter for propulsion is foreign to the simple spring trap . More complex forms of the spring trap which make use of the arrow are undoubtedly late inventions . Bow and arrow were in use in late Paleolithic times , for rock paintings of this period represent hunters using them . The further development of the bow presupposes very specific knowledge of the materials that man was handling , for wherever elastic wood was not available complicated devices were used to increase the elasticity of the stave by combining materials of different elasticity . The wood or bone was backed with sinew , whalebone , or some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glued on or tied on in braids . All these methods are so complicated that they presuppose close observation based on experiences in handling materials . Playful handling may have played an important part in accumulating this knowledge . It is not unlikely that some of these inventions were made at one place and were gradually learned by neighboring tribes and thus spread over a wide area . The distribution of the compound bow favors such development of the arrow proves also that it is based on experience in handling materials . The distribution of weight in point and shaft , the form of the notch and particularly the steadying of the flight of the arrow by means of feathering , flat or straight and varying in number of feathers , must be the results of experience in handling . The local absence of the bow and arrow in Australia is a curious anomaly because the invention goes back to Paleolithic times . It seems likely that among the Polynesians and Micronesians and a few African tribes , who otherwise have an advanced inventory of inventions , its use has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the blowgun which is found among the Malays , Melanesians , and South American Indians . The light arrows are said to carry up to one hundred Fig. 44 . Noose trap of the Kwakiutl Indians .  | feet . Their effectiveness is due to the poison in which they are dipped . Both air pressure and suction are employed in the bellows of Asia and Africa . The effect of suction is used by the Bushmen for obtaining water . A hole made in the ground reaches down to the water table . A tube is inserted and the water is sucked up with the mouth and then squirted into ostrich eggs , the contents of which have been sucked out , and which serve as receptacles . The same principle is used in cupping , which is widely known in Africa and America . Friction is utilized in all forms of tying and joining . Diminution of friction plays an important role in transportation . Examples are the careful icing of sledge runners by the Eskimo , which allows the sledge to slide easily over the hard snow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Watertight and airtight materials are used for many purposes . Stone , wooden , and basketry vessels ? the last-named sometimes made tight by a covering of pitch or clay ? serve as containers of liquids . Intestines and bladders are used when airtight receptacles are needed . Hides are also prepared so as to become watertight and are employed both as clothing and as covers of canoe frames . Waterproof garments are also made of intestines . In hunting fish and sea mammals and in transportation the knowledge of the floating of objects of low specific gravity , and of the sinking of those of high , is utilized . Light wood and bladders filled with air are employed as floats holding up the tops of nets while the lower part is held down by sinkers . Floats are also attached to harpoon lines or shafts which prevent the escape of the game or the loss of the shaft . , The light weight of wood is employed in rafts . The observation that hollow vessels placed on water are less deeply immersed than solid wood and are capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other types of canoes consist of frames covered with watertight skins . The canoe is anchored by means of a stone sinker . The mechanical knowledge displayed in canoeing is remarkable . Paddles are used like levers ? one hand serving as fulcrum , the other as the moving force . The Eskimo use oars in their large boats and substitute a rowlock , consisting of two interlocking loops of thongs , for the fulcrum . In steering , a single paddler will turn his paddle so as to counterbalance the one-sided impetus that drives the  | canoe in one direction and to steer a straight course . The Eskimo uses instead of this the double-bladed paddle which propels his kayak first to one side , then to the other . When an equal number of paddlers are on each side , the steersman controls the direction of the canoe by turning the blade of his paddle or by paddling on one side or the other as conditions demand . Steadiness of the canoe is figure obtained by using ballast , in the South Seas by joining two canoes side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the outrigger . Sailing before the wind was known to the Eskimo and Northwest Coast Indians . The Micronesians and Polynesians sailed close to the wind and some of them had even learned to give to their canoes a slightly asymmetrical form in order to avoid leeward drift . The acoustic effect of beating and rasping strengthened by the resonance of a hollow space was utilized in drums and other instruments . Notched bones or sticks were pulled over the edges of resonance boxes , or an elastic stick was rubbed over a gourd provided with notches . In the friction drum , the drum was made to vibrate by means of a stick or string passed through a perforation in the center of the drumhead . The vibrations are produced either by passing the stick up and down or by rubbing it . The whizzing sound of rapidly moving objects is utilized in the bull-roarer and similar instruments .  | The observation that objects of different size produce different tones was made use of in some types of musical instruments . The two-tongued drums of Mexico and the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wooden blocks of New Ireland that are played by rubbing over the surface of the tongues are simple examples . The length of bamboo or iron rods is made use of in the African zanza and marimba ; the thickness and size of drumheads are varied to obtain pitch . Modification of tension is used for the same purpose . The length of the vibrating column of air determines the pitch of trumpets , and in flutes a number of sounds are obtained by the use of stops . The strengthening of sound by resonance is used in various types of drums , particularly in box drums and water drums , in string instruments , and marimbas . In monochords and marimbas gourds are often placed under the strings and sounding boards for intensifying the sound . Chemical , or at least partly chemical , processes are also used extensively . They enter into the preparation and preservation of foods and the manufacture of paints and dyes . Leaching serves the purpose of separating soluble substances from pastes . Fermentation is used in the preparation of drinks . Poisons are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or soaking in decoctions of bark and the like . Suds for washing are secured from roots .  | Shells are burned for preparing lime . Ochre is burned for paint . Most important of all is the reducing of iron ores for obtaining metallic iron . In the selection of materials for various purposes the most intimate knowledge of their properties is found . Tough stones are selected for pecking , brittle ones for flaking , soft ones for carvings . Woods of various kinds are chosen according to the purpose they are to serve : ash , yew , betel palm , Casuarina , etc. , on account of their elasticity for making bows ; easily splitting wood for making planks or for bending ; hard , insect-resisting woods for building ; fine-grained wood for carvings ; hollow stems for blowguns , and wider  | ones , like bamboo , for receptacles . Hard-shelled gourds and fruits like the coconut or tree calabashes as well as shells serve as watertight receptacles . Tough twigs , bark , and fiber are employed in tying and rope-making . It would lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faunal and vegetal products of his home that serve as food . Compound implements . It seems likely that all the earliest implements used by man were objects that were made more handy by modification of natural forms . Stones , sticks , shells , and jaws may have been so used . It must have been a great step forward when two objects were combined to form one implement . Some of these modifications , like wrapping with skin or covering with pitch the part of a sharp-edged stone knife held in the hand , served merely as a protection making possible the employment of greater force . More important was the discovery of the usefulness of handles to tools for cutting , piercing , breaking , or scraping . This may have been suggested by stout sticks with an attached branch , with which a much stronger blow can be given than with the branch alone . It is not saying too much when we claim that the invention of the handle was a step as important as the discovery of the usefulness of a tool . One aspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the handle . The difficulty of this step should not be underrated , and its importance was pointed out years ago by Daniel G. Brinton.lx There is no phenomenon in nature that would suggest the combination of different materials into a whole so as to form a handle . It may happen every now and then that a stone is inclosed in a root , but I doubt whether this is frequent enough to give the necessary stimulus . If the connection between handle and working part of the tool is not secure , it is useless . Therefore many additional experiences were required before an efficient handle could be made . In cutting tools the working edge must remain free . The handle end must be attached by being united securely with the handle . Archaeology does not give us information in regard to the earliest stages of this process , because the connecting material is necessarily perishable . From modern specimens we may infer that tying was one of the methods most frequently employed , but tying presupposes the invention of tying materials , thongs or strings . Tough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have furnished material , but the question remains : What suggested the idea of tying ? May it be that the firm encirclement of stems or branches by winding  | plants gave the suggestion to use them for holding parts together ? Or may it have been suggested by playing with strips , winding them around hand and fingers or around objects ? However this may be , it is clear that a great step forward was taken when the art of tying two objects together had been learned . When the stone was to be used for clubbing animals , it might be entirely encased , and for this purpose a piece of skin wrapped around and twisted so as to form a handle would be adequate . Cement was also used at an early time to unite separate pieces . Blood and various kinds of pitch , sometimes mixed with beeswax or powdered stone , are used by American Indians as well as by Australians . Arrowheads were thus glued to shafts . Cements are used for calking canoes and wooden vessels . The Eskimo use a cement made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forming the sides of a rectangular cooking pot to one another and to the bottom . The South American blowgun , which is made of two parts fitted neatly together , is made airtight by being covered with cement . Pieces of wood or thin stone slabs are also joined by sewing with roots , withes , whalebone , or other strong materials . Holes are drilled along the edges of the parts to be joined , and the strands are pushed and pulled through these holes . Sewing was done at an early time in a similar manner ; holes were made with an awl , and the thread was pulled through the holes . The invention of needles with eyes seems to have been made in late Paleolithic times . Other methods of joining materials , like pegging and weaving , are also late inventions . In Neolithic times we find stone blades driven into a socket in a piece of antler which forms the handle or part of it . This method requires knowledge of the effect of heat upon antler . The stone tool can be driven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firmly . Such handles are found in pile dwellings in Switzerland * and were used until recent times by the Eskimo ? In still later times blades were riveted to handles , the rivets requiring a perforation of the blade . Search for materials . Man was not always satisfied with the materials near at hand . There is early evidence of deliberate search for useful materials . In Mesolithic times there is already evidence of the mining of flint which was carried on in regions where there was an ample supply of surface material . The flint embedded in chalk was mined because it is better adapted for work . The search for materials is also proved by the occurrence of * See page 190 , Fig. 34.  | objects carried over long distances . In the younger Paleolithic times shells from the Atlantic Ocean were found among the remains of the caves of Grimaldi near Mentone and in Cro-Magnon in the Dordogne . Mediterranean shells appear in Switzerland and southern Germany about the same period . Stone . The fundamental discoveries and inventions relate to the modifications of form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The observation that brittle stones when broken form sharp edges , added to the experience that sharp edges cut , has led to the intentional flaking of brittle stones . This development is proved more or less stringently by archaeological evidence ( see pages 176 ff . ) . The degree and refinement of intentional flaking increased slowly during early Quaternary time . To the process of breaking by strokes was added the shaping by pressure with a sharp bone , small fragments being split off from a core . Of different origin is the shaping of tough stones , which are worked by battering the surface until the desired shape is attained . This art may well have been discovered by the effect of pounding with a tough grained pebble the striking surface of which was gradually worn down . The time sequence of these achievements has been described before . Extensive use of polishing flaked stones belongs to a later period , and is characteristic of Neolithic times . Drilling and scraping of wood and piercing and scraping of skin were also practiced in early times . Drilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not used until Mesolithic and the beginning of Neolithic times . Stones are cut by a sawing motion performed with thongs or thin pieces of wood combined with sharp sand and water . When the cut is deep enough the pieces of stone are separated by a blow or by means of a wedge . Soft stones , like slate , are ground into shape and provided with sharp edges on gritstones . In one series of tools the blade is attached so that it forms the continuation of the axis of the handle , the cutting edges being on the sides , as in a double-edged knife ; it may be pointed for piercing like a dagger , or provided with a cutting edge at the end like a chisel . In another series the blade stands at right angles to the handle , the cutting edge being either in the same plane as the bent handle , as in our axe , or at right angles to it , as in our adze . All these forms must be considered as the results of processes that were gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the blades of all these utensils are in principle alike , the handles show great diversity according to the technological development of each people . Special blades and attachments , such as gouges and crooked knives made of stone , and slanting attachments were also developed . The toothed saw does not appear until Neolithic times , although some irregularly toothed blades of the late Paleolithic period may have been so used . The saw is not universal among primitive people . The Eskimo , for instance , cut large bones by means of a line of drill holes placed in close proximity . The two parts thus produced are then broken by means of a wedge , and the ridges left by the drill holes are rubbed off with a rough stone . Thinner pieces of bone and deep grooves are probably cut by them with rough-edged thin flint blades . Wood . Wood for making large objects required a high development of stone , shell , or bone tools , for trees had to be felled and the wood worked with chisels , axes , or adzes . Wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or teeth . It is cut into shape or reduced to the desired form by means of gritstones . The surface is smoothed with rough skin or with leaves or stems containing silicious deposits . Large blocks of wood used as receptacles or canoes are hollowed out by means of fire and finished with axes or adzes . Bending of wood and bone by steaming is known to many tribes . Food . Even in Paleolithic times man secured food by hunting large animals , infinitely superior to him in strength and speed ; also by using fruits , roots , grubs , shellfish , and the like that could easily be procured . The hunting of large game required cooperation of hunters and devices for killing that would not necessitate a handto-hand encounter with animals of a strength like that of the cave bear . The simple stone tools would hardly be adequate for this purpose . Hunting with an unhafted cleaver would have been an exceedingly hazardous undertaking , and probably inclosures , pitfalls , and other trapping devices were used by the early hunter . This seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large pachyderms such as elephant , rhinoceros , and hippopotamus were the principal animals hunted . These could hardly be killed by a cleaver . Most of the bones are those of young animals which were more easily driven into inclosures or pitfalls.20 Some paintings of the late Paleolithic period seem to represent inclosures and traps.2 ' As soon as a reasonably long shaft allowed an attack from a point beyond  | the reach of the teeth and paws of the animal , hunting became safer . Cave animals may also have been smothered by smoke in their dens ; animals of the steppe may have been killed by fires ? all methods employed nowadays by primitive tribes . The invention of implements and devices for hunting and for obtaining vegetable foods will be described later ( see pages 282 ff . ) . The meat of animals , fresh or preserved , is roasted , boiled , or steamed . In Arctic climates frozen meat may be kept throughout the winter . In other regions it must be specially prepared . Knowledge of the anatomy of the animal is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to definite rules and dried in sun and wind or in smoke . Sometimes the dried meat is powdered and kept mixed with fat . Fish are also cut and sun-dried or smoked . The intestines of larger animals , so far as they serve as food , are eaten fresh , roasted , or cooked . Blood is used in the preparation of soups . Plants are also eaten raw or cooked . Many bulbs , roots , and fruits are preserved and used as staples for seasons in which no vegetable products can be gathered . Bulbs and roots are generally sun-dried . Dry seeds may be kept without any preparation . They need only protection against predatory animals , particularly rodents , and insects . Seeds are broken up either by pounding in a mortar or by grinding on a millstone . Berries and other juicy fruits are boiled to a jam and then dried . One of the most puzzling facts is the frequent use of plants which in their natural state are either unpalatable or actually poisonous . Among the former may be mentioned the bitter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of a pestle in a basket mortar , and the meal is leached until the bitterness is removed . In Australia , also , many acrid or poisonous plants are used which require a most elaborate treatment before they become edible . Best known among the poisonous plants are the manioc of South America and the potato , which in Peru , before being used , was exposed to frost and used only after the fluids had been removed by pressure . Complicated methods of preserving food and making it palatable are universal.22 The methods of preparing meals from the raw or preserved food products are principally roasting , boiling , and steaming . Roasting is generally done in ashes , broiling by the fire , boiling by throwing redhot stones into appropriate vessels filled with water ( see pages 239-241 ) . Sometimes the fluid to be boiled is placed over a fire in stone  | kettles , as among the Eskimo , or in wet skin or bark receptacles which withstand the fire long enough to permit the contents to simmer or even to boil . Steaming in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Baking on hot stones is found rarely ; the Pueble Indians , who bake cornmeal wafers in this manner , present one of the few instances . Meal obtained from ground or pounded seeds , bulbs , or roots is almost universally used for preparing mushes . Intoxicants and narcotics . The use of intoxicating drinks and foods is widespread although not universal . Alcoholic drinks made of grain , roots , or tubers , juices of fruits , sap , milk , and honey are found in Africa , South America , Polynesia , and southeastern Asia . They were also known in ancient Europe . In the extreme northeastern part of Asia fly agaric is eaten to produce intoxication . The use of peyote spread widely among North American Indians and goes back to pre-Spanish times . Narcotics which are chewed are the betel , the coca of South America , and the pitcheri of Australia , to name only a few . Hemp , opium , and tobacco are smoked , chewed , and eaten . South American Indians use powdered seeds of an acacia as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far to enumerate the medical uses of plants . Every tribe has discovered the effects of many plants upon the human body and these are extensively used 24 Animal and vegetal poisons are used . Putrid tissues , snake and insect venoms , as well as poisons obtained from plants , are applied to points of arrows and to blowgun darts . Poisonous plants are thrown into the water to kill or benumb fish . Poison is also used in ordeals to detect guilt . Preparation of skins . The progress from tearing up or cutting up animals to careful skinning was certainly not easy , but we may safely assume that the discovery of the skinning of whole animals was made in early Paleolithic times . The elaborate process of curing the heavy hides of reindeer , bear , bison , and deer is probably a later achievement . It requires the careful scraping of the inner side . This is done either with a stone scraper or with a hoe-shaped stone implement . After this has been done many tribes work the inner surface with a grainer , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skin is rubbed with brains and fat to make it more flexible . Rawhide is obtained by drying the skin and scraping off the hair . Tanning was invented at a very late period . Skins are allowed to putrefy until the hair can be removed . The same end is  | attained by soaking the skin in lye from ashes or some other alkaline fluid . In Africa dung of cattle is used for this purpose . After being properly scraped and softened the skins are often smoked.25 Clothing and bags are made of skins . Bark cloth . The art of obtaining large sheets of material by felting fibers is used in Polynesia , Melanesia , southern Asia , and South America . The bark of certain trees ( Broussonetia , Titus , etc. ) is carefully peeled off , cleaned , and beaten with a mallet with a corrugated striking surface . By this process the fibers are felted , and in the Polynesian bark cloth they are beaten down to the thickness of a tough paper . Finally it is rubbed with the hands until it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cloth are rather small and are sewed together , while in Polynesia large sheets are manufactured . The bark cloth is often painted by hand , or colored designs are applied with stencils.26 Basketry and mat weaving . The simplest form of weaving consists of the intertwining of pliable branches or twigs between stiff rods . Such watling is used for fish traps and for the construction of shelters ; later on it was filled with clay to form permanent walls . Closer weaving of pliable materials between warp strands is employed in ( after . Mason ) .  | the manufacture of coarse baskets . When a twist is given two adjoining strands of the woof , twined weaving originates . In a more complicated form of twining these strands are twisted around the warp so that every strand passes in front of two and behind one warp strand . The same technique is used with pliable warp . In plain up-and-down weaving , warp and woof are of the same width and pliability . This type of weaving is used for mats and to a lesser extent in baskets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infinite variety of forms , partly by skipping of warp strands in twining , socalled twilling , partly by varying the method of twining for instance , by braiding woof strands instead of simply twisting , by introducing overlays or embroideries into the single meshes , or by wrapping the twining strands around a cross woof . These variations may have originated from the pleasure enjoyed when playing with strings and from that of mastery of a complex technique ; perhaps also from the enjoyment of the figures resulting from the most complex forms of this technique . It would seem that the play with  | strings has been a most important element in the development of weaving and sewing . String games like cat 's cradle are found all over the world , and knots of the most varied kinds are used everywhere . Tricks of opening apparently firm knots play an important part in the shamanistic procedure of many countries . Spinning . The step from basket- and mat-making to weaving is not sudden . In North America woven blankets are found which are technically analogous to twined baskets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they become twisted and have the hair everywhere on the outside . These are united by twining with a warp made of vegetable fiber . In the same manner soft bark is used as a warp and made into blankets by twining . All these manufactures depend upon the art of spinning , of making strong and sufficiently long threads of material such as vegetable fiber or hair . The general principle is that the fibers are twisted together and that new fiber is so introduced that it becomes interwoven with the material previously twisted together . A common method of securing this result is by rubbing the fiber , hair , or feathers on the thigh or on some flat surface , attaching the end to a spindle which revolves rapidly and twists the material into a stronger thread . Stronger threads are secured by twisting two or more such threads together . Weaving . The methods of mat weaving may be transferred without change to spun material . The simplest form of weaving is done by hand , one set of threads being hung up as warp while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and down the warp threads . Simple looms were used in many parts of the world although the art of weaving is not by any means universal . Sewing . Sewing of skins and of wood has been referred to . After the invention of the needle the variety of stitches increased considerably and various methods of embroidery developed . Sewing is also employed in the manufacture of coiled basketry . Bundles of material are wrapped with tough strands and twisted into coils which are sewn together with the wrapping strands . The coils vary considerably . Generally they consist of bundles of fibers , but in some cases single rods or a small number of rods are substituted . Great varieties of sewing are used , and the pleasure of play is expressed iii  | this technique no less strongly than in the woven baskets . The stitches are so arranged as to produce varieties of patterns , and embroideries are added . Pottery . The art of pottery did not develop until Neolithic times . Its present distribution suggests that it was invented independently in the Old World and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northwestern America separates the regions in which pottery occurs in the two hemispheres . The knowledge of plastic clay goes back to Paleolithic times . In Neolithic times earth ovens appear . When made in clayey soil or lined with clay , the sides are hardened by fire . The time to which these pits belong is uncertain , but considering the wide distribution of cooking in pits it seems likely that the effect of fire upon clay may have been discovered accidentally , particularly if it happened that the same pit was used several times . During the period to which the Neolithic pits belong , elaborate pottery was in use so that the knowledge of firing clay must have been much older . Besides this , clay is being used for making baskets and canoes watertight.27 After drying , the clay lining may have separated from the basket . Tylor 28 has assembled evidence in favor of the theory that the making of pottery developed from the custom of protecting basketry or gourd vessels from being burned over the fire by covering them with clay which became fired when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often happen , the knowledge of the firing of clay in the earth oven together with the exposure of lined baskets to a hot fire , perhaps during a conflagration , may have given rise to the art . Generally the natural clay is fine-grained ; and unless tempered by the addition of sand , pounded shells or stones , or pulverized pottery , the fired pot is fragile . The knowledge of tempering is found wherever better grades of pottery are made . Pots are shaped in various ways . They are moulded with the fingers out of a lump of clay . The walls are finished by being beaten flat with a light spatula while they are supported on the inside by a smooth stone . Vessels were also moulded in or over baskets , as is evidenced by the impression of the fabric on the outer side , or over gourds . In more advanced stages of pottery , moulds of fired clay were made , into which was pressed the clay for the objects to be manufactured . An entirely different method of making a clay vessel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacture of coiled bas-  | ketry , only the coils of the plastic clay are merely pressed together and do not need sewing like the basketry coils . In all the more elaborate forms of pottery both the inner and the outer side of the pot are polished with some smooth material . Metal work . The use of metals which occur in pure state is probably contemporaneous with the development of Neolithic industries . In America pure copper was used in the region of the Great Lakes , in the Mackenzie area , and on the North Pacific coast . It was hammered out into daggers and other weapons . The Eskimo used also meteoric iron , small blades of which were inserted in the edges of bone implements in the'same way as pieces of flint were used when it was desired to obtain sharp cutting edges . According to tradition copper was heated on the Northwest Coast to make it more malleable . Pure gold was worked into ornaments . In Mexico it was melted and cast in lost forms . For instance , small bells were made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered inside and outside with clay . Then the whole was heated until the wax ran out and the molten metal was cast in the hollow form . The heat of the fire used for melting the metal was increased by means of a blowpipe . The reduction of metals is a much later invention which was presumably made in Asia or Africa . Bog iron ( limonite ) , magnetic iron ore , and brown iron ore when mixed with charcoal and sufficiently heated are easily reduced in a simple smelting furnace to loupe ( or bloom ) which can be hammered out . The reduction of the ore requires an adequate supply of oxygen , which is secured by means of bellows . It may be . presumed that the possibility of reducing iron ores was discovered accidentally in conflagrations . The whole process is so complicated that it must be based on many diverse experiences . The addition of charcoal as one essential had to be discovered . The necessity of increasing the heat of the fire by an artificial supply of oxygen had to lead to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish a sufficient amount of air for this purpose . First of all the ' usefulness of the iron which was obtained by this complicated process  | had to be found . Just how this came about can hardly be surmised . In the earliest finds iron serves merely as material for ornaments . It is soft and as material for cutting tools is much inferior to copper and bronze . The invention of bellows presupposes also many experiences . In this case it would seem that we may speak of an actual purposeful invention . It was necessary to obtain a continuous supply of air . First it may have been blown out of a single skin bag ii:h attached tube , but then the bag had to be refilled . The possibilif speeding the filling of the bag through a slit which when pred can be closed with the hand , and even the invention of the valve , may have been an accidental discovery , but the combination of two bags with connecting tubes which are filled with air and compressed alternately , thus securing a steady flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inventions . Although in the preceding pages the relation between discoveries and their uses , or the application of inventions , has been touched upon , it seems desirable to summarize briefly a few of the most important uses to which they are put . Devices for obtaining food . Weapons and mechanical traps have been described before . It remains to mention the various devices used for capturing animals . The simplest of these is the pitfall dug on the trail of animals and hidden by branches . Sometimes sharp posts are set in the bottom so that the animal falling into the pit becomes impaled . In both land hunting and fishing , devices are used that lead the game into a trap from which it can not escape . Wolves are caught in a double circular enclosure of posts driven into the ground ( Fig. 55 ) . The wolf enters through a door that opens only inward , and finds himself in the narrow space between the two circles , in which he can not turn . Dunning around , he closes the door and can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar principle ( Fig. 56 ) . They consist of a long basket into the opening of which a short in-  | verted basket is inserted , open at the end , through which the fish can enter but which prevents their escape . They are connected with weirs that lead the fish into the basket trap . In a similar way land animals are driven by a group of hunters towards converging nets that have a narrow outlet , or they are driven into a converging enclosure of bushes closed at the narrow end by a net . Here hunters are stationed who kill the animals . Herds of game animals are also surrounded from one side and driven towards a precipice . They kill themselves by jumping over , or are dispatched by the hunter . Others are driven into the water and killed while swimming . Nets spanned over a large fratne are thrown over birds . Fish are caught with hooks , in bag nets and drift nets . Hunting in disguise is much practiced . The Eskimo sealskin clothing imitates the movements of the barking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceal themselves under complete skins of deer , and stalk the game in this disguise . The Bushmen dress themselves like ostriches and thus stalk their game . Tribes that have no agriculture , or only the most primitive methods of cultivating plants , use the digging stick for gathering roots or tubers . The digging stick is made of hard wood and provided with a sharp point . The Bushmen increase its effectiveness by the attachment of a perforated stone . In other cases a crossbar is attached , on which the worker steps . The New Caledonians use the digging stick in preparing their fields . These men work in a line , push down their digging sticks to a depth of more than a foot , and jointly turn over the soil , which is then broken up by the women . The spade must be considered as developed from the digging stick . The most important implement of primitive agriculture is the hoe , which is either formed like a pick or has a broad blade , often running into a point . While the workers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who use the hoe pull it towards themselves . The difference is worth remembering when we try to understand the origin of the plow . The simplest forms of plows seem to be digging sticks pulled forward instead of being shoved forward . The uniformity of the principle employed in the plow , the range of its  | distribution in the Old World , and its absence in all the outlying parts of the Old World as well as in the whole New World make it certain that it is a single invention which has spread at a late period from a single center . In Egypt the plow was known in the Old Empire . Grass seeds are cleaned in flat winnowing baskets . The seeds are tossed up and the chaff is blown away by the wind . Berries are cleaned by being rolled down along wet planks , the leaves adhering to the plank while the berries roll down on a mat or into a receptacle . In several parts of the world gardens are irrigated by a system of ditches . These were found in the southwestern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere in Oceania terraces are built on steep hills to retain the soil and to regulate irrigation . ( See also pp. 294 ff . ) Protection against attack . In treating of the methods of increasing the natural strength of the hand in striking or throwing , their application in various tools and weapons has been mentioned . A word may be added in regard to the invention of the sh ield . The simplest protective shield consists of a staff or a narrow piece of wood , with a handle in the middle , which is used for parrying the thrust of a spear or the blow of a club . Such shields are found for instance in Australia and on the upper Nile . For protection against rapid projectiles such as lances and arrows it is useless , and wide shields made of wood or thick hide are in use . The body is also protected by armor made of heavy hide , of slats or rods of wood or bone tied together , or of closely woven heavy fabric . The head is sometimes protected by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Protection against climate is afforded by the house . The earliest house was probably the cave , which is still used in some parts of the world . The simplest structures are windbreaks made of branches of trees . Other simple huts or tents consist of frames which are covered with mats or skins . Some Eskimo tribes use as support a single pole over which a thong is stretched , the ends being held by heavy stones . A tert cover made of skin is thrown over the  | thong and held extended by stones . More complicated tents have the form of a gable roof , front and back each being formed by a pair of poles tied together near the top and spread apart at the bottom . The two pairs are connected by a ridge pole . Simple lean-tos are constructed in similar manner . Sometimes these are very long , serving as ceremonial or communal houses . The frames of round huts are often made of saplings which intercross and are buried at both ends . This structure is covered with matting or similar material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a covering of brush , sod , and the like . Round tents are also constructed over converging poles , often leaning against a central tripod . They have an opening on top for a smoke escape and a flap which serves as a door . Underground houses or figure those built in a pit are of frequent occurrence . They are generally of more solid construction than the tents . The walls of the pit are supported by wood , bone , or stone . When such houses are built on a slope a frame is erected for the front part , over which poles are laid as supports for the roof . In other houses of this kind four posts are erected in the pit , which support heavy rafters slanting upward from the sides of the pit to the center . Over these , horizontal poles are laid , which in turn are covered with dirt or other material . The entrance is often through an opening in the center of the roof , a ladder reaching from the middle of the pit up through the smoke hole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Arctic climates it is further protected by a tunnel . Large wooden houses are rather rare . They occur on the Northwest Coast of America . In the region of northern Puget Sound they reach enormous size , many sections being joined so as to form a single structure which is used as a communal house . The corners are made of posts which are connected by beams . The sides are made of boards which are tied between pairs of holding posts . The roof is either a shed or a gable roof . Whenever boards or horizontally placed poles or logs are used in house-building , the ground plan is necessarily rectangular . Houses built in shallow water are on platforms supported by piles ; others , built on the slope of hills , are on a  | foundation of crossed logs . Large rectangular houses are also common in southeastern Asia , the Malay Archipelago , and Melanesia . In arid areas houses are also built of clay or of sun-dried bricks covered with some kind of rain-resisting plaster . Buildings of this type are strengthened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or the like , which is filled with clay . Stone architecture is a late invention . In early Europe it is confined to the Mediterranean and later on to the Atlantic coastal region . In America it is confined to the advanced people of the Andean plateaus and to Mexico and part of Central America and to rather weak beginnings in the southwestern deserts of the United States . Special mention should be made of the Eskimo snow house , a true vault constructed of spi-rally arranged blocks of snow . Villages are protected against hostile attack partly by being built in inaccessible places , like the tops of steep hills , even on ledges or in recesses of steep cliffs , or by being surrounded by palisades or walls . Clothing . Protection against the rigors of the climate was in early use . It is probable that we Fig. 59 . Eskimo snow hut and section . overestimate the need of clothing for people living in climates like that of Tierra del Fuego or of the Northwest Coast of America . The Indians of the Mackenzie valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection between them and the neighboring Eskimo is particularly striking . Skins were presumably the earliest kind of clothing used . Many of the Paleolithic scrapers and awls were presumably used in the preparation of skins . It is unlikely that the hides of the large pachyderms , cave bears , and lions gave impetus to the preparation of skins . It seems more likely that we have to assume that birds and small mammals , the skins of which require for their preservation only drying and rubbing , were attached to the most sensitive parts of the body . The attempts of apes to cover themselves with leaves suggest the beginning of the use of more permanent coverings.  | The problem of the invention of clothing can not be answered with any degree of certainty . It is not self-evident that man on account of the loss of hair of the body was compelled to seek for an artificial covering . He may well have lived during the warm periods of Paleolithic times without any covering . However , at the beginning of the younger Paleolithic period we find evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man lived at that period did not make it absolutely essential for him to have more protection than a blanket , for besides the reindeer there lived other animals , like the deer , that require a temperate climate . The scrapers and awls found at this time make it probable that skins were prepared and sewed . It has been suggested that all clothing developed from ornament . This does not seem plausible , because the desire for ornamentation and that for protection are based on entirely different mental attitudes . Apes enjoy carrying flowers or other attractive objects as ornaments . This desire has nothing to do with the protection they seek in covering their bodies with leaves . On account of the limitations of clothing among the most scantily clad tribes to the regions of the sexual organs it has been claimed that the origin of clothing is due to a peculiar inborn modesty , to the aversion to expose the organs of sex.29 It seems impossible to reduce the origin of clothing to a single cause , for need of protection , fondness of ornament , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its share . In the development of clothing we may distinguish between the simpler forms , which consist of some kind of material cut into suitable form so that it can be wrapped around the body , and tailored clothing . The former type includes loin cloths , aprons , blankets , wrappings around the legs , and simple sandals . Tailored clothing includes shirts , leggings , moccasins , and caps , all of manifold forms . Ornaments . A variety of materials , techniques , and objects of manufacture are used for ornamenting the body . The body is painted or tattooed . Among people with dark skin ornamental scars are more frequent than tattooing . The teeth are filed or knocked out , among some people even inlaid . Ears , nose , cheeks , and lips are perforated for the attachment of ornaments such as plugs , strings , rods , or the like . The head is deformed by pressure . The faces of infants are moulded in the expectation that permanent effects will result . Thies Negroes flatten the noses , Indians try to shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deformed according to local customs . The Indians of Vancouver Island tie the ankles of women so as to secure slim ankles . The Chinese used to deform the feet of women . Painting , carving , inlaying , and artistic wrapping are used for obtaining artistic effects on objects of use . In weaving , twilling of colored materials gives rise to a wealth of artistic forms . Transportation . Ease of locomotion is secured by a variety of inventions . For travel by foot , protection of the sole is obtained by means of sandals , and of the whole foot by various types of shoes with hard or soft soles . For climbing and for support when carrying heavy loads , staffs are used . Travel over soft snow is facilitated by the use of snowshoes ? in the Old World skis , and in the New World generally netted frames . Swimming is to be considered a means of locomotion in a limited sense only . Almost all primitive people living near water are good swimmers . Loads are transported by being carried on the head or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rounded bottoms , are supported on stuffed rings or pads which are laid on the head . Back loads are held in place by a packstrap passing over the forehead or over the chest . The ends of the straps are attached to loops at the top of baskets or bags , or slung around the load . Branchless thin trees are climbed by the Aeta of the Philippine Islands by clasping the trunk with the hands and placing the soles of the feet against the trunk . Then the climber walks up the tree . Malay tribes and South American Indians climb larger trees by passing a rope around the tree and over the small of the back , thus forming a loop . Pressing the soles of the feet against the trunk and holding the loop tightly , they walk up the trees . The tribes of the North Pacific coast of America add to this loop a wooden seat through which the rope passes . Trees are also climbed by means of pegs driven into the wood as the climber ascends . Ladders are made of the trunks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open by frequent traffic . In South America and Indonesia , rivers are spanned by suspension bridges ( Fig. 60 ) . In the Malay Archipelago the footway of bridges is sometimes laid over a series of supports , each consisting of two converging stakes , driven into the river bed and tied together near the top . Other means of transportation by land are tied up with the use of domesticated animals . The most ancient domesticated animal is the dog , and it is used for carrying and hauling loads . The loads to be  | carried by the dogs are tied on like saddlebags . On the North American plains the dog is used to drag a small travois , an arrangement consisting of two poles which are attached to a simple harness and to the middle part of which , as support for the load , a netted frame is attached . More important is the use of dogs with the sledge for transportation over snow . A number of dogs are attached to the sledge , either fanlike or tandem . The sledge itself in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is built upon a pair of runners . The use of the dog as a draft animal for small carts has survived in Europe up to the present time . After the introduction of the horse the North American travois was enlarged and used for transportation of goods by horses . In South America the llama was used as a pack animal . A most important step forward in the art of transportation was made with the invention of the wheel , which in an open , level country took the place of more primitive means of hauling loads . It is probable that this invention was first made in Neolithic times in Asia . It is absent in Africa south of the Sudan and had not been invented in America at the time of the discovery . Both the sledge and the wheeled cart provided a means of more rapid transportation of man himself . The oldest monuments show the warrior drawn by horses on a chariot , not riding . It seems that the art of riding is more recent than the carrying of loads on the backs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originated somewhere in central Asia . The simplest method of transportation by water is by means of floating logs . Simple canoes are made of a large piece of bark , held spread by means of thwarts , or by hollowing out a tree . The former  | type is common in South America and Australia ; the latter is widely distributed over all the other continents . Much more complex are bark and skin canoes stretched over a wooden skeleton ? like the birchbark canoes of North America and Siberia and the kayaks of the Eskimo . Skin-covered round tubs , like the Welsh coracle and the bull boat of the Mandan Indians , are used locally . Rafts are made by tying together bundles of reeds or logs . Much more complex is the boat built of timbers . A gunwale raised by sewing a narrow board on to the dugout occurs in British Columbia . Boats with keels consisting of hollowed trees and sides built up of boards are found in Polynesia . Greater steadiness is secured by connecting two canoes by means of a platform or by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of crossbars at some distance from the body of the canoe . These forms area characteristic of the islands of the Pacific and Indian oceans . Double canoes are also used on the Northwest Coast of America . The art of sailing before the wind is known to the Eskimo and the Northwest Coast Indians . The former used sails made of thin skin , the latter those made of thin boards sewed together . Sailing close to the wind is known to all the maritime people of the Pacific Ocean . Games and tricks . Many inventions are used in games of skill . Almost all kinds of weapons like spears , bow and arrows , and blowguns are also used in playing . Skill in throwing and hitting is trained in ball games , in catching or hitting objects that are swung suspended from a string , and in hitting rolling rings with spears . For ball games a variety of types of bats have been invented , each serving a particular purpose . String games are played almost everywhere . Technical knowledge plays an important part in tricks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the handling of knots . The performer is apparently firmly tied but frees himself by opening the knots . Other tricks are based on the skillful handling of invisible strings , on ventriloquism , and the use of speaking tubes . Devices for  | deceiving the uninitiated are innumerable . Among tribes that use fire tricks it seems to be known that stones or metals in white heat can be handled with impunity . Medicine.32 The knowledge of the properties of poisons and of plants of medicinal values has been mentioned . Here we have to refer to the use of mechanical devices . Massage is widely practiced . It is reported from Easter Island 33 and Samoa.34 The Indians of Vancouver Island massage the abdomen in cases of constipation ; the Crow Indians against stomach-ache.35 It is also commonly practiced in connection with shamanistic procedure . Its use for bringing about abortion is probably known everywhere . Pressure by means of circular bandages is used to alleviate headaches and pains in the stomach . Perspiration is produced by placing the patient in a heated ditch or in a steam bath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 36 where it is often followed by a plunge in cold water . In Australia the affected part of the body is steamed while the whole body of the patient is covered with furs.37 Scarification is in common use . " ' Generally the blood is sucked out with the mouth . Opening of the veins and cupping are also reported.39 To stop bleeding , powdered charcoal , 40 bird 's down , and other similar materials are used . Abscesses are cut and the pus is removed by sucking or washing . The wounds are protected by poultices . In case of snake-bite some tribes make cuts around the bite , or scarify and tie a ligament above the bite.41 Cauterization is used for treating abscesses and to cure headaches or backaches 42 Emetics of various kinds are used . Tickling of the throat is resorted to . Enemata are given by means of tubes . Broken bones are set in splints or covered with clay which hardens and forms a protective cover . In other cases a cut is made , a splint is placed alongside the broken bone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splint is removed.43 Amputations are undertaken ritualistically rather than for surgical purposes although the latter are not missing . Certain natives of southeast Australia amputate two joints of one little finger , or remove there by stopping the blood supply by means of a tight bandage and letting ants eat off the mortified tissues . The Tsimshian of British Columbia cut off one joint of the fourth finger to put an end to a succession of deaths in a family . Amputations of hands or noses as forms of punishment have been reported from many parts of the world . The sewing up of wounds is not unknown . In East Africa when the mother dies in childbirth the Cesarian operation is performed in  | order to save the child . There is also a report of a successfully performed Cesarian operation from Uganda . The incision was closed by needles pushed through the margins of the wound and wound around with thread ( sutura circumvoluta ) . Trephining is widespread . Trephined skulls from Neolithic graves of Europe have been collected . Numerous specimens from Peru , New Caledonia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operative procedures of the sexual organs are customary . Circumcision is most widely distributed . In Australia subincision is practiced , which consists in slitting open the urethra . Excision of the clitoris , sometimes connected with infibulation , , is practiced in Africa . The castration of domesticated animals is known to primitive people . Thus the Hottentot castrate their cattle " and the Hidatsa Indians their dogs.45 Writing . The art of phonetic writing is unknown to primitive man , but he has devices for recording and communicating by means of conventional symbols which are understood by his tribesmen . Many of these are used for counting . The South American Indians use knotted strings which indicate the number of days that are to elapse before a festival . The invited guests open one knot every day and arrive on the day when all the knots have been opened . The Indians of British Columbia indicate the amount owed by a person by small cedar sticks , one length indicating blankets , another canoes . Another type of communication is by means of conventional signals . The Thompson Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ground that four persons had left that camp in the direction indicated by the slant . A larger stick points to where the sun was when the party left . Fresh leaves placed near the sticks give information telling about how many days previously the party had started . A number of hairs from a horse 's tail shows the number of horses they had . Deer 's hair tied on the horse 's hair shows that they were carrying venison . A stick placed apart with a fishbone or a root tied to it shows that they were out of provisions and were living on fish or roots.46 Smoke signals 47 are also used as means of communication . By covering repeatedly with a blanket the column of smoke produced by throwing wet grass on a fire , it is interrupted and in this way information is spread . The meaning is either traditional or prearranged . Other devices serving the purpose of communication or of assisting  | the memory are numerous . The Australians send messengers with message sticks in which notches are cut , each representing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a help to the memory of the messenger.48 Alone they have no meaning except in a very few cases in which notches in definite places have attained a traditional significance . Pictographs are used in a similar way . The Ojibwa and other eastern Indians used a series of pictographs marked on birchbark to remember the sequence of songs in a ceremony.49 Thus the six designs shown in Figure 62 signify the following : ( 1 ) The god of thunder and lightning filling all space . ( 2 ) A drum . ( 3 ) A drum ornamented with feathers . ( 4 ) A raven. ( 5 ) A crow . ( 6 ) A medicine lodge . Each of 1 . The god of thunder and lightning filling all space . 2 . Drum . 3 . Drum ornamented with feathers . 4 . Raven. 5 . Crow . 6 . Man in medicine lodge . these recalls a song that occurs in this particular order . Of similar type are the year counts of the Dakota in which an outstanding event of each year is recorded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in distinctive hair dress holding peace pipes indicate the conclusion of peace between two tribes ( Fig. 63 , 4 ) . The Dakota also indicate pictographically the name of a person by attaching a symbol of the animal to the head of the person . In Figure 63 , No. 1 represents a man called Wolf ; No. 2 , Eagle Feather ; and No. 3 , Little Moon.50 The use of pictography is widespread . In Africa simple outlines scratched into a gourd are symbolic representations of proverbs . These have been recorded from Togo and the Congo . Thus the design of a double bell means that it may be rung only at the time of the death of a chief . They are also used to record complex events . Most of the latter are probably not intelligible without explanations .  | 1 . Man called Wolf . 2 . Eagle Feather . 3 . Little Moon . 4 . Peace with Crow Indians ( after Mallery ) . Still more complex is the pictographic writing of Ibo which is used exclusively by a secret society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarrel between husband and wife ; in c the man ( 1 ) has eloped with the woman ( 2 ) and pays compensation ( 4 ) on account of the woman ( 2 ) to her husband ( 3 ) and to her family ( 5 ) ; d represents an inconstant heart ; in e the curved line represents a snake , the dots its poison , and the crossline the knife with which it has been killed . Cases in which pictures were given phonetic values independent of their significance occur in ancient Mexican writing , particularly  | in place names.J2 An example is the name Mapachtepec , Raccoon Mountain . It is represented by the symbol for ma(itl) , hand ; pacb ( tlr ) , the long lichens Usnea ; and tepee , in a mountain . In the same way Petlatlan is rendered by the syllables petla(tl) , mat ; and Ilan from tlan(tli) , teeth . Science . Man has not only utilized his experience in handling materials but has also , at an early time , learned to observe nature in such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Astronomical and meteorological observations and those relating to the tides are probably most widely found . Almost all primitive tribes have a lunar calendar . Most of the moons are designated according to the changing aspects of vegetation , the ripening of wild fruits , or the phases of animal life . Thus we find twelve moons among the Hottentot u largely named according to seasonal changes of vegetation . The Thompson Indians count eleven months and an indefinite rest of the year . They begin with ( 1 ) the rutting season of deer , followed by ( 2 ) the moon when people go into their winter houses , ( 3 ) the moon when bucks shed their antlers , ( 4 ) the spring winds , ( 5 ) leaving the winter houses , ( 6 ) fishing , ( 7 ) rootdigging , ( 8 ) ripening of berries , ( 9 ) summer solstice , ( 10 ) salmon run , ( 11 ) fish reach the heads of the rivers . " The Koryak count twelve months , many of which refer to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maori begin the year with June , the rising of the star Puanga , and count thirteen months . " The Marquesans counted twelve or , thirteen months.57 Both had names for the days and nights of the month . " Observations of certain phases of the positions of the heavenly bodies are frequent . Among the Hottentot and South American Indians the beginning of one month is determined by the rising of the Pleiades . The Thompson Indians as well as the Coast Indians of British Columbia and the Pueblos carefully observe the summer and winter solstices and readjust their calendar accordingly . The solstice is determined by observing from a definite position the day when the rising or setting sun reaches its most northern or southern point . The Kwakiutl of Vancouver Island determine the time of the arrival of the olachen , a fish that furnishes the indispensable oil , by the relation of high tide and the moon . They set out when the high tide of the second moon after the winter solstice is in the early morning . Wherever the year is counted to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lunar years .  | Among the Mexicans and Maya , a calendar had been developed by the priests based on a combination of divinatory and ceremonial units of thirteen days adjusted to a solar year . The divinatory cycle consisted of twenty periods of thirteen days each . Each of the twenty periods had a name and each of the thirteen days a number . The year consisted of 365 days divided into eighteen periods of twenty days each . The remaining five days were considered an unlucky period . The least common multiple of 20 X 13 and 36.5 ( = 5 X 73 ) is 52 X 365 , so that after 52 years the same divinatory combination will occur . The combination may also be written as 20 X 13 X 73 so that it contains both the elements of the divinatory and solar calendar . The revolution of Venus takes 8 X 73 days . These two periods may also be brought into relation . The Micronesians not only used the constellations as guides in their navigation but also observed the direction of the swell of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made sailing charts consisting of frames of thin rods tied together . " The central vertical line in Figure 66 represents the course to be followed . Inside of the lower triangle this line represents the meeting of the east and west swell deflected by the island of Jalut . The sailor follows this line until he reaches the steady easterly swell north of point ( 1 ) . He continues sailing at right angles to the swell . When he approaches Ailinglaplap he strikes again the meeting of ' the deflected swell and steers along the line of meeting of the easterly and westerly swell . The boats are so built that the lee side is much steeper than the gently curved weather side , which is on the side of the outrigger . This seems to have the effect that the waves pass under the boat more easily . In sailing , the outrigger is always kept on the lull side so that the sail has to be taken back or forward on each tack and the boat goes forward first with one end and then with the other.60 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers play an important role , additions are made without difficulty . Thus  | the Kwakiutl in important transactions add numbers of blanket s paid , canoes , and other objects the value of which is counted in blankets . Thus in one case a man paid for a valuable object 1000 + 200 + 400 + 1000 + 600 blankets , + canoes worth 300 + 120 + 80 blankets , + 200 blankets , + 2 canoes each worth 50 blankets , + 200 blankets , a total of 4200 blankets which were added after each amount had been deposited . " l For values borrowed , definite amounts of interest are charged . The Maya of Yucatan had developed a method of writing numbers , of adding and subtracting . They had also invented a symbol for zero and gave a value to their numbers according to position . The ascending values of digits in their writing are 20 for the first higher unit , 360 for the second , 7200 for the third , 144,000 for the fourth . The numerals up to four are indicated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number 19 may be designated by three bars and four dots . The higher units are written so that the highest is on top . Figure 67 , for instance , reads  | The quipus of Peru have been proved to be also a system of numerical writing . " The quipu consists of a string from which groups of pendants hang down . These are knotted , the knots being arranged in rows . The row farthest away from the main string represents units ; the one nearer to the main string , tens ; the next hundreds ; and so on . To each group is attached one single string which gives in the same manner the sum total of all the knots in the group . The diagram ( Fig. 69 ) illustrates this system . Measurements are needed for many purposes . The standards of linear measurements are generally taken from parts of the body . On the coast of British Columbia 64 the principal measures were a finger width ; a long span ( from thumb to tip of fourth finger ) ; a short span @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cubit ( from elbow to tip of second finger ) ; half a fathom ; a fathom . The Hupa of California measured their dentalium shells by the length of the finger joints and by marks tattooed on the forearm according to certain accepted standards.65 In southern California the measures are rather based on the length of the second finger and the circumference of the hand and forearm.66 I do not know of any kind of hollow measures except clam shells for medical administration of fluids and buckets or vessels of fairly standardized size . The Peruvians had invented beam scales 67 with an original method of determining equilibrium . When exact forms are to be made , measurement becomes indispensable . As an example I give a method used by the Kwakiutl of Vancouver Island in laying out the lines for a square house . A rope is run from the center of the line where the front is to be to the center of the rear , and the ends are staked off . Then the rope is halved . One half-length is stretched to the right , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Next another rope is used to measure the distance from the rear stake to the ends of the front rope , which is adjusted until these two distances are equal . In this way the front line is made to be exactly at right angles to the medial line . The rear corners are determined in the same way in reference to the stake in the middle of the front line .  | Another example of the application of geometric principles is found among the same tribe , who make square boxes by bending a board . The board is cut by making one edge straight by sighting along it and cutting off all irregularities . The width is marked at two points ( a and b ) by means of a strip of cedar bark , and the opposite side is cut along a straightedge of yew wood . Next a central line is determined by folding over the cedar strip used for determining the width and from one point of this line , by means of a piece of cedarwood , a half diagonal , running from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corner of one side of the box ( d ) is determined . By turning it the other three corners ( e , f , g ) are marked , and thus an exact rectangle is obtained . Then kerfs are cut along the end of each side . After the four sides have thus been marked out the superfluous part of the plank is cut off ; the kerfs are steamed and then bent until the two ends meet . To make the box itself rectangular a cross of two pieces of cedarwood of equal length is inserted in the box , which is twisted until the cross is parallel with the upper edge .  | Generall categories . All complex societies gain their food supply by farming , by stock-breeding , or by a combination of the two . Simpler peoples derive their sustenance by hunting , fishing , and the gathering of wild roots and seeds . This dichotomy has chronological significance , for tillage and animal husbandry invariably succeed the simpler economic activities . There is no convincing proof that cultivated plants or domestic beasts existed anywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archaeological remains of the Paleolithic period include the bones of wild game species , but neither indications of livestock nor of cultivated grains appear before some time after the beginning of the Neolithic . This Paleolithic " hunting stage , " as we may conveniently label the stage of hunting , fishing , and gathering , has persisted to the present day . The recently extinct Tasmanians , the Australian aborigines , the pygmies of the Congo and the Andaman Islands , the Bushmen of South Africa , the Shoshonean Indians of our Basin states , all Californians except those on the banks of the Colorado , and the Tierra del Fuegians are conspicuous samples of such backwardness . We shall see presently that notwithstanding the indubitable inferiority of their status , even their economic labor involves undreamed-of complexities that lift them immeasurably above , say , the anthropoid level . While hunting , then , represents the earliest food-getting stage , the relative priority of herding and farming is a moot question . Eduard Hahn I has illuminated the problem by sharply distinguishing two forms of farming : culture by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horticulture since the same methods are still used in the private garden , and culture by means of the plow , which we will designate as agriculture in a restricted sense . The former depends on human hands wielding a hoe , dibble , or mattock ; in the latter a plow is drawn by a domestic beast . Thus , by definition agriculture involves antecedent stock-breeding , while horticulture does  | not . As Hahn , and Alexander von Humboldt , as well as I. Iselin before him , ' pointed out , some primitive tribes farmed without ever having owned a single head of stock . In other words , they advanced directly from hunting and food-gathering to farming . The pastoral stage is not a necessary condition for tillage . Instead of the traditional three types ? hunting , herding , farming we are thus obliged to recognize four categories ? hunting , farming with hoe or dibble , farming with plow and livestock , and stockbreeding without farming ( pastoral nomadism ) . The chronological position of pastoral nomadism remains a subject of discussion . Hahn finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild animals so as ultimately to get them to breed in captivity . He assumes rather that the earliest domestication was achieved by horticulturists and that subsequently some tribes simultaneously practicing horticulture and stock-breeding completely abandoned the former pursuit , thus turning into herders pure and simple . On the other hand , as G. Hatt 3 points out , inclosures are often constructed by hunting peoples ( see below ) , so that their ability to impound and raise captive beasts as raw material for domestication is vindicated . Hatt himself , speaking of the reindeer only , rather stresses the hunter 's desire to use tame animals to decoy their wild fellows , the former being attracted by human urine ; and some such symbiotic arrangement is accepted by Schmidt and Koppers as foreshadowing domestication in the hunting stage . ' Up to date no decisive evidence has been brought forward in favor of either theory . It is , however , unquestionably true that Hahn exaggerates the primitiveness of the hunting stage and thus underestimates its potentialities . To return to our four categories , even these represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which fails to do justice to the multiplicity of actual developments . For one thing , the higher activities may be coupled in such varying degrees of relative significance with the lower as to yield quite different economic patterns . The Hopi of Arizona depended almost wholly on their maize crops ; with the Ojibwa around Lake Superior maize was auxiliary to hunting and fishing . Horticulture is not the same thing in these tribes . Again , in our own culture , farming has pushed the chase and angling completely into the background : they are gentlemanly pastimes but not vital pursuits . Not so in South Africa . There , for one thing , the rearing of cattle never led the Bantu to harness an  | ox to a plow ; they remained horticulturists . But unlike other peasants they were far from giving up the chase ; so long as big game still abounded in their country they continued hunting on a large scale . This is doubtless to be linked with another distinctive trait of their culture : they make abundant use of milk , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , the normal meat supply had to be provided in other ways , and there was but one other source , the wild fauna of the region . On the other hand , the Chinese , like ourselves , are agriculturists no longer largely dependent on the chase . But unlike ourselves they make little use of beef ; and unlike both ourselves and the Bantu they disdain all forms of dairying . These cases exemplify , then , a second principle : the totally different use made of the same economic possibilities . Clearly enough , the mere statement that people keep stock is inadequate . It does not tell us what they keep stock for ; it says nothing about the relative economic importance of animal husbandry and farming or hunting . But apart from such differences there are still other points to consider . Pigs are livestock , but the implications of pig-raising are utterly distinct from those of rearing cattle , horses , and sheep . Pigs can not be driven over large tracts of land ; hence they are characteristically lacking among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herd cattle , sheep , goats , horses , and camels , but have no use for pigs . These are typically linked with sedentary cultures , such as those of Oceania and China . " Horticulture , " " agriculture , " and " stock-breeding " are obviously catchwords , convenient enough for a rough characterization but far from telling us all we need to know . The same holds for " hunting . " Wahle objects to the term as applied to the earliest economic stages , on the ground that primitive man invariably eked out his flesh diet with vegetable substances . But his substitute , " gathering stage , " errs in the opposite direction . What primitives , no matter how vegetarian , forego the flesh of their fauna ? All these terms should be taken for what they are ? makeshifts to cover a variety of activities not included in their etymological meanings . Adhering , then , to the traditional " hunting stage , " we must merely stress the astonishing diversity covered by the concept . For one thing , we can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notion that " hunters " were uniformly rovers ad infinitum . Even Australian hordes wandered within narrowly circumscribed  | limits , and maintained a sentimental attachment to their hereditary tract ; and the Bushmen of South Africa exhibited " an almost passionate fondness for the rocks and glens in whose caves they and their fathers had lived , " clinging " to their ancient haunts . . . against all odds and all dangers . " 6 The Arctic sea-mammal hunters live in permanent settlements , and fixed villages are characteristic of the Amur River fishermen , of most Californians , and of natives of the British Columbia coast . Some " hunters , " it is true , like our northern Plains tribes , covered considerable territory . Others , like the northwestern Californians , lived in fixed hamlets and virtually never traveled except to their immediate neighbors . ' Apart from this difference in mobility , the " hunting " category can be unified only in contradistinction to the herding and the two farming categories . Positively , a chasm yawns between the Eskimo or the Yukaghir of Siberia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two Arctic peoples do not despise what vegetable food their environment offers , but this is of the most meager nature ; the upper holyma Yukaghir , for example , are restricted to berries and roots and extract the lichens from reindeer paunches . ' What is significant for these Siberians is the supply of fish , reindeer , or elk meat , while most of the Eskimo specialize in sea mammals . In the " forbiddingly desert " stretchescaf Cahuilla territory such sustenance was , of course , barred . Inhabiting a country poor in game , the natives enjoyed a compensatory abundance of wild plant life . They made a staple of the mesquite , grinding the fruit in mortars ; and they roasted the sweet stalks of agaves and yuccas , ate the seeds of Finns mnonophylla and other conifers , and reduced to flour the parched seeds of various species collected with the help of a special beater . ' Appraisal of the hunting stage . Nothing is easier than to exaggerate the difference between the simpler and more advanced economic activities . Mr. Perry has set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producers , " and Professor Childe adopts the distinction , contrasting the " purely parasitic " existence of early man with the . " productive life " of his successor , who " became a creator emancipated from the whims of his environment . " 10 But this conceptual dichotomy holds only for the two extremes of the series : namely , the lowliest hunters imaginable and the scientific agriculturists of the most progressive nations . It is true that agriculture gives man control over certain aspects of " the whims of his environment . "  | Potentially it supports a vast population while the same number of hunters would require ten times the area even in early times when an abundance of game animals existed . But what of the herders on a simpler plane whose maintenance is periodically jeopardized by plagues who , like some Lapp bands of the nineteenth century , were obliged to fall back upon fishing ? What of the primitive peasants who clear and till without compensation of the soil , exhaust one plot and pass on to the next , and are threatened by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of misfortune caused by natural conditions than the hunter-gatherer ? ' Without minimizing the important step involved in the intentional cultivation of plants and domestication of animals it may be recognized that the battle against the forces of nature was won when the storing of supplies enabled man to survive seasons of starvation . The beginnings of such provision are found even among animals who store food for the winter . The complicated methods of preservation and the quantities of food stored show an equal understanding of economic needs among both hunters and food gatherers on the one hand and early horticulturists on the other . Both the acquisition of the food supply and its preservation among hunters and food gatherers imply a considerable amount of ingenuity . As the pastoral and farming tribes are not necessarily masters of their destiny , so the hunters and gatherers of historic times are far removed from the parasitic appropriation of natural resources . Early travelers may have pictured the Californian natives as browsing in the field like so many head of cattle . We now know that they took fish in weirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them with special preparations of ground buckeye nuts fed into small streams . They drove rabbits into nets and decoyed ( leer . Above all , they made acorns a palatable staple by a lengthy process that leached them clear of tannin.11 This last-mentioned technique was as genuine and literal a form of food production as any on record . It certainly involved more labor and experience than many types of farming . This often holds for the securing of food even when it requires no actual transformation . The Vedda of Ceylon eat honey fresh , wax and all , but the method of obtaining it is hazardous and implies a number of adjustments to the situation . Descending precipices by means of long cane ladders , the natives cut off the combs from the sides of the rock , preferably at night when the bees are less ferocious ,  | and after first stupefying them with smoke . There is a fourpronged stick to remove the comb , which is carried off in a container of hide to prevent breakage against the rock as the gatherer swings to and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure is systematically taught to the younger generation and that the right to take rock honey from a particular spot is jealously guarded and transferred to a son-in-law as part of his wife 's portion . And when we learn of gourds hung up as hives for colonies of stingless bees , we have an actual case of food production.12 Equally important are the rules limiting the number of animals that a hunter is allowed to kill within a given time , a precaution that serves to maintain the food supply . But a fair comprehension of the economic life of our rudest peoples can be gained only by viewing it as a unit . Let us note the relevant practices of the South African Bushmen , one of the very rudest of known peoples.13 Like the Vedda , they prized the honey of wild bees , and in order to find a nest they observed the antics of the honey bird , which guided them to a nest in a rock cleft or a hollow tree . Again , like the natives of Ceylon , the Bushmen often risked their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heights of decayed tree tops or precipices by means of sharpened wooden pegs driven into the bark or crevices . In districts harboring fish these were shot with bow and arrow , struck with bone-headed harpoons , or caught in baskets set at intervals where the fish were known to ascend the streams at certain seasons . To prevent escape , the victims were hemmed in by obstacles that inevitably forced them into the basketry traps . Wolves are caught in a double circular inclosure of posts driven into the ground . A bait is placed in the inner circle . The wolf enters through a door that opens only inward and finds himself in the narrow space between the two circles in which he can not turn ( see page 261 ) . Running around he closes the door and can not escape . So long as South Africa swarmed with game , the Bushmen proved expert sportsmen . They stalked elephants , quaggas , hippopotami , and ostriches in suitable disguises . One of the best-known Bushman rock paintings shows the hunter approaching the ostriches as though himself a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skin , keeping the head erect with a long flexible stick run through the neck , and imitated the bird 's movements . Picking at bushes , rubbing his head against the feathers , standing still to gaze about , he gradually sneaked close enough to  | discharge his dart with telling effect . The Eskimo in sealskin clothing imitates the movements of the basking seal and thus approaches it . The Indians used to conceal themselves under complete skins of deer and stalked the game under this disguise . At other times the hunters collectively assaulted a big pachyderm till it succumbed to the wounds or was hamstrung by a harpooneer . Again , there was the device of suspending a poisoned shaft from a tree so that the animal returning from its watering place released the block with the venomous blade , which was driven deep into its flesh . Still more remarkable was the construction of pitfalls . Not only were the natives obliged to make enormous excavations with their crude digging-sticks in order to hold large beasts , but they forced the animals to their tomb . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scared the game with blazing torches so as to close all paths but that toward the fatal apex of the funnel ; guards on either side prevented the quarry from breaking the fences . The animals tumbled into the pit " into which they were precipitated one upon another , until the whole presented an indescribable chaos of writhing , smothering , tortured animals , " of which fifty to a hundred head might then be safely speared by the natives . But this does not yet exhaust Bushman food habits . They collected grass seeds for winter storage , fed on bulbs , took the chrysalides of ants from the nests , and did not disdain lizards , grasshoppers , and locusts ? the last mentioned being dried in the fire and pulverized with muller and metate . The tactics enumerated obviously imply a wealth of concrete knowledge as to fauna , flora , and topography ; the ability to produce suitable weapons of the chase ; and the skill requisite for successful manipulation of such implements ; not to forget such industrial processes as the plaiting of fish baskets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also tie up with social arrangements . On the lowest plane now under consideration , class distinctions are not pronounced , but individual differences and special privilege begin to loom on the horizon . Prestige goes to the expert hunter , and he it is that is sought as a sonin-law by ambitious parents , as among the Athapascans of northern Canada . Bushmen who had the good luck to discover a beehive claimed it as their inalienable property , to be transmitted to their descendants ; and they so marked the spot as to " detect any attempt  | that might be made during their absence to pilfer from the hives . " The comparable Vedda customs have already been noted . But the concerted effort imperative for effective hunting on a large scale might also lead to definite assertion of authority . The Washo and Paviotso of western Nevada recognized as a " rabbit boss " the Indian most competent to direct a rabbit drive ; and in organizing an antelope battue on Bushman principles they had an " antelope boss " who not only wielded temporal authority but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose very existence hinged on their communal bison hunt , went further and delegated supreme authority , for the time being , to a constabulary force . This " buffalo police " literally exercised dictatorial powers . If anyone prematurely started to hunt or otherwise acted in contravention of the rules of the chase , the police whipped him , confiscated his ill-gotten game , and might even destroy the offender 's lodge . The custom is an ancient one , being characteristic of most of the Plains tribes and reported by Hennepin for the Santee Dakota as early as 1680.14 Economic pursuits may thus culminate , even in , the hunting stage , in the temporary development of centralized political authority . Similar restrictions are found in regard to fishing and berrying . In British Columbia , for instance , one particular hereditary officer indicates the time when olachen fishing may begin ; and on the northern plateaus of British Columbia nobody is allowed to pick berries until a certain old woman , to whom belongs this privilege , indicates that the proper time has come . Another interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of unilateral clans . Suppose that a patch of shrubs is valued as the Vedda value their beehives . A natural consequence will be the desire to transmit such property according to definite rules of descent , and since exploitation is usually sexlinked as a result of the conventional division of labor , a man will transmit his rights to his sons , a woman to her daughters . In Queensland a woman individually owns patches of plants and her prerogative is acquired by her daughters . " The Washo transmit clumps of pine-nut trees from father to son . Hunting territories are perhaps still more rigorously inherited in the paternal line among the northeastern Algonquians.ls Thus patrilineal or matrilineal lineages are outlined in the most natural manner by the alignment of kin in consonance with customary rules of inheritance .  | the attempt of man to control the wild growing food supply does not necessarily begin with actual sowing and planting . We find a number of cases in which man endeavors to make the conditions of growth more favorable . Thus all along the North Pacific coast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of berry-bearing bushes . On Vancouver Island this process is regulated in such a way that every social group claims the right to those berry patches which are burned over every third year and used in turn for picking berries . The same people use the roots of cinquefoil for food . These grow in estuaries exposed to floods . The women clear away pebbles so as to cause the roots to grow larger and more regularly . Each little garden is the property of a woman . It is surrounded by boards put up on end , and the pebbles are thrown up around them like little fences . There is little planting , but care of the plants.17 It is noticeable in the cultivation of plants and in the domestication of animals that by far the greatest number of both , at least in temperate climates , are gregarious . The grasses which are among the early cultivated plants of a large part of the Old World , as well as maize , occur in large masses , covering extended territories . Most of our domesticated animals , cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It seems justifiable to suppose that there is a certain relation between this and their early selection for cultivation and domestication . While it is impossible to prove the steps that may have led to this , it might be supposed that the association of individuals or social groups with certain fields or certain herds from which they obtained their sustenance led to protection of the field by refraining from gathering in too much seed , and to protection of the herd against wild animals that might disperse it and thus endanger the food supply . Cultivation . If we keep in mind the frequently sedentary existence of " hunting " peoples and the often complicated devices by which they exploit the flora of their habitat , the first step toward the deliberate cultivation of plants will no longer loom as a complete break in the continuity of cultural development . The earliest attempts at cultivation need not have been made with our common cereals . It is true that the first more or less datable evidence for farming comes from Badari in Egypt , where emmer wheat is said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thousand years later Babylonia and Egypt are both  | found dependent on cultivated barley , wheat , and millet . But this may be a sheer accident. * For all we know the first efforts at husbandry may have been made in southern Asia and with species of a quite different order . As Werth has argued , members of the banana family probably have been cultivated in these regions from very early times , which on geologico-meteorological grounds he places about the close of the Pluvial period . " There is no reason to suppose that the technique of sowing seeds is more obvious than that of inserting into the ground the side shoots of a plantain , the only method ever followed in cultivating bananas . Plate III shows that artificial pollination of the date palm was practiced in Assyria as early as the ninth century B.c . Irrespective of this hypothetical point of relative chronology , the phenomenon has an important bearing on other historical problems . " Cultivation " is a convenient catchword but it represents no real unit as applied to methods so diverse as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is invariably not from the seed . The two processes can not be derived from each other . In other words , the congeries of practices we oppose as " farming " to " hunting " and " herding " have a diverse origin and it is idle to determine a single center of diffusion . On the other hand , the careers of distinct cultivated species are indubitably often intertwined , and it seems unlikely that the planting of each one constitutes a separate invention . Thus , rye crops are a by-product of wheat-growing . Botany tells us that " the varietal riches " of wild rye are concentrated in parts of western Asia where " as a cultivated plant it is either of secondary importance or no importance at all . " In Persia and neighboring areas it " is simply considered a nuisance jeopardizing the real crops of wheat or barley . " But in the mountain districts of Bokhara , Afghanistan , and Anatolia it changes its character from a weed into that of an independent crop , being sown pure at an altitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a curious fact , that at the border line of the struggle between winter rye and winter wheat it is an ancient custom . . . to sow out a mixture . . . . Not expecting to obtain a return of wheat every year , the farmer sows out the mixture of rye and wheat on purpose , hoping that if the wheat is killed by an adverse winter , rye will stand it and produce at least half of the expected yield . " 20 * See also page 263.  | This incidental creation of new crops from weeds holds for oats , originally a weed linked with emmer ; Eruca sativa , at first a concomitant of flax ; and other species . It implies the successful extension of a planting pattern . Apart from such special association , a pattern of this sort may even be applied to species without economic value . When the Hidatsa men planted tobacco seed , they followed the devices perfected by their wives in planting maize ; they hoed and raked the ground and hilled up the earth about each plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a corn hill . " Similarly , Linton suggests that the American Indians had evolved various devices for the treatment of indigenous species and applied them to maize when this cereal reached them.21 The development of tobaccogrowing may be visualized as follows . At one time in the past the Indians employed only wild species of tobacco , as some tribes had done until recent times . Horticultural tribes experimented with planting it by methods familiar to them from corn-growing , succeeded , and in course of time made the minor variations in procedure suggested by experience . In some cases ' hunting tribes , like the Crow of the western plains and the Yurok of California , borrowed the farming technique only with reference to tobacco and thus present the anomaly of growing nothing but a useless weed . The Kutenai may have learned the planting of tobacco from the Plains tribes . It is more difficult to understand the origin of tobacco-planting among the Haida of British Columbia , particularly since it was not used for smoking but for chewing with burned shells , somewhat like the betel-chewing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accident on the creation of a new crop . Chance may operate in the same direction through other factors . Some species ? wild hemp , for example settle and thrive on rich fertilized soils . Thus they naturally follow man , " keeping near his dwelling places , settling on rubbish and everywhere where the soil was manured . . . . During famines , when man turned to the seeds and fruits of wild plants , he naturally chose hemp . " Later hemp was used for fiber and oil.22 We have thus gained a number of significant propositions bearing on the early history of farming . In many cases the cultivation of a plant represents not wholly independent invention , but merely the extension of an established planting technique . On the other hand , there is no reason to suppose that such wholly distinct operations as those connected with banana- and wheat-growing constitute a  | single historical unit . It is inevitable to assume several distinct centers for " farming " operations . Where , precisely , the line is to be drawn in the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rice be conceived as a crop of wholly independent origin ? At the present stage it is less important to insist on a definitive conclusion than to realize the criteria that should throw the balance in favor of either alternative theory . In the case of rice , the innumerable variations of the plant fall broadly into two categories with corresponding techniques of husbandry . " Swamp rice " can be grown only in marshes or under irrigation . " Mountain rice " yields smaller crops but can be grown anywhere with normal precipitation . " Considering that irrigation is a highly complex invention , that it was demonstrably practiced in Babylonia in ancient times , and that Babylonia and India ? the most probable center of rice cultivation ? had ancient contacts , the transfer of irrigation methods from other cereals to rice is plausible enough even if mountain rice is supposed to have previously been grown by the simpler process . But it is probable that all rice-planting was a mere extension of , say , the practices used in the cultivation of barley . Wild rice , * @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribes , 24 and under stress of similar circumstances a South Asiatic people already familiar with tillage may have tried sowing the wild form . The factor favoring the theory of such extension of the knowledge of the cultivation of cereals is the continuity of the areas involved , which permitted the ready transmission of ideas , tools , and techniques . Moreover , though rice is generally associated in our minds with India and southern China , it can be grown in conjunction with the more northerly cereals or in proximity to them . The Kirghiz visited by Radloff raised wheat and millet in the central steppe , rye in the north , and in Tashkent rice also ; while in Persia wheat was the ancient staple , with rice gradually coming in during our era and not yet of prime importance a thousand years ago.25 The case of New World tillage is fundamentally different . No important Old World crop was raised in pre-Columbian times along with the distinctive native crops of maize , manioc , and potatoes . If the knowledge of farming came from the Chinese or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought in , which in these regions dates back thousands of years , but was wholly un* This bears of course no relation to the " wild rice " of our central states .  | known in America ? How would the broadcast sowing of Old World cereals suggest the typical American method of heaping earth around the growing maize ? " Still more , how could the process of sowing suggest the technique of raising potatoes or manioc ( cassava ) ? " Cassava can be propagated from seed , but this procedure is not practiced " by the Indians of Guiana.27 It has been argued that the Polynesians are responsible for at least part of American husbandry . The Maori kumara , for example , is equated with the American sweet potato by Rivet , who derives it from New Zealand.28 But this is a more than doubtful case . De Candolle , arguing from the botanical evidence , arrives at precisely the opposite conclusion : to wit , that the New Zealanders obtained their kumara from the American Indians , a conclusion in which Dr. E. D. Merrill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If the Polynesians introduced any food plant , we might expect them to have brought in the banana , which they actually disseminated over immense distances in Oceania and which has been thoroughly acclimatized in the western hemisphere since 1492 . But the historical , linguistic , and botanical evidence conclusively proves that the banana is post-Columbian . ' ? The Polynesians may furthermore be eliminated as apostles of farming in America on chronological grounds . Their occupancy of Polynesia itself is so recent that we should have to assume a beggarly few centuries of occasional contacts with the New World . Indeed , Professor Elliot Smith and Mr. Perry insist that the American Indians until certainly two thousand years ago were " food gatherers " little superior to anthropoid apes in their economic activities 31 If so , they manifested a rapidity of development subsequent to Polynesian contacts that is miraculous . Let us visualize clearly what is involved in the hypothesis of a Polynesian origin for American husbandry . Maize is descended from a wild grass indigenous in parts of Mexico . It has developed in such manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long distances . Still , at an early prehistoric time it was cultivated over a large part of North and South America . We have seen that it is grown by distinctive methods . But these methods are not and could not have been uniform throughout America . The Hopi of northern Arizona , for example , had to adapt cultivation to arid conditions of their region , while the Mandan and Hidatsa of North  | Dakota were obliged to reckon , with the shortness of the season . Furthermore , it is not a question of a single form of maize , but of a number of diverse varieties , which could not possibly be produced in the twinkling of an eye from a wild prototype . Indeed , in the older Basket Maker sites of our Southwest only " a single and apparently fairly primitive variety " appears.32 But maize represents only a part of the total problem . By A.D. 1500 the Aymara of Bolivia had developed 2.10 varieties of the potato along with methods of preserving them by a special process of freezing and drying in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which becomes a food plant only after the elimination of the deadly prussic acid from its roots . In Africa , where the plant was introduced in postColumbian days , a Bongo in Schweinfurth 's party died from eating of the unprepared manioc , 34 for it requires an intricate series of operations to convert manioc into food . Besides these the American aborigines cultivated the peanut , tomato , pineapple , and a number of other indigenous species . It seems , therefore , quite impossible that American agriculture was introduced from Polynesia . The only sane inference is that " farming " or " gardening " had a multiple origin in the world , though the number of truly independent efforts at cultivation is disproportionately small when compared to that of cultivated species ; and , specifically , American husbandry is preponderantly an indigenous growth . The extreme diffusionist position on this question seems to derive support from the indubitable fact that certain cultivated plants have in recent centuries spread with amazing rapidity . Thus , maize and manioc have rapidly usurped the place formerly held by other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with Ireland by the unsophisticated , as the pineapple is with Hawaii . Deliberate commercial exploitation of geographical possibilities has indeed greatly altered the original distribution of plants . Who connects the coffee tree with its Abyssinian center of origin ? One links it ordinarily with Brazil or Java , or at best with Arabia , from which it was first vigorously disseminated . But it should be noted that it is not a question of merely putting two peoples into juxtaposition and thus automatically precipitating an osmosis of cultural goods . Cultivated plants , like arts and ceremonies , are accepted selectively . Indian corn revolutionized the economic life of many African tribes , but it barely affected that of the Baganda : " Maize was never grown in any quantity ; it was  | only eaten while still young , either between meals , or as a relish after the meal ; no one called the two or three cobs which he ate a meaI. " a6 Here , presumably , the intensive cultivation of the plantain ( banana family ) precluded substitution of the newcomer . Equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among so many African tribes , millet is the outstanding crop . Through raids into Bunyoro the Lango became familiar with the banana and sweet potato , but their response to these two potential staples was quite different . " The former has not found much favor , and although here and there a tree is put in near a village the banana can not be said to be cultivated , and owing to their migratory tendency is not likely to become popular . With few exceptions , where it is planted it almost seems as if it had been planted for aesthetic effect . The sweet potato , on the other hand , is being planted in large quantities every year ; such was its early popularity , in fact , that when it was first discovered and brought back in triumph from Bunyoro , a bundle of runners for planting was actually sufficient dowry for a wife . " u Within our own culture sphere millet has been ousted from its ancient position as an important human food crop , while even the stress of war times failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , diffusion is a most capricious phenomenon and its psychology merits study in this as in other departments of culture ; the spectacular historical cases of maize , manioc , etc. , should not blind us to the ever selective and often nonrational tendencies of the human mind . When all qualifications are made , however , the distribution of cultivated plants remains a most valuable index of historical connections , and while the state of our knowledge often leaves important problems undecided , other instances provide us with quite definite results . It is clear , for example , that wheat , barley , and millet could not be first cultivated in central Europe where the corresponding wild forms are lacking . If , then , prehistoric sites in Switzerland harbor grains of these cereals , there must have been trade routes connecting the Alpine region with the Near Orient , where botanists discover the wild ancestral plants . Similarly , though maize was grown in North Dakota , its occurrence there is due to diffusion from the south , since the ancestral form is found in Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ range of the banana family . In part , indeed , it coincides with the  | foregoing ; since the Eumusa subgenus occurs in wild state only as far east as Tahiti but was grown in Easter Island , eastward diffusion of the cultivated plants is proved . But in Africa a wild banana , i1Msa ensett , occurs , from which a priori the cultivated forms might be derived . But botanical examination shows that that is impossible : the wild African form lacks the side shoots from which all cultivated bananas are grown ; its seeds are large and hard , whereas the seeds of cultivated bananas are mostly nonexistent ; and the fruit is small and inedible . The cultivated African forms are therefore one and all traceable to the South Asiatic bananas , which in a state of nature produce shoots , are small-seeded , and bear soft , fleshy fruits.3i Eduard Hahn coupled his luminous discrimination of hoe tillage and plow tillage with the theory that these two forms of husbandry were quite distinct ; that the former is historically associated with women and still remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and that the former correlation naturally grows out of women 's economic labors in the hunting stage . The elements of this theory are best considered separately . The view that farming by means of the hoe is conducted by women can be illustrated by many striking examples . The Banaro of New Guinea depend on their women for all horticultural products , the men merely making a clearing.38 In Uganda " the garden and its cultivation have always been the woman 's department . . . . When a man married he sought a plot of land for his wife in order that she might settle to work and provide food for the household . " Other Negro tribes , for example , in southeastern Africa and Nyassaland , conform to this pattern . " Among American tribes may be cited the Hidatsa , among whom maize , beans , and squashes are raised by women , men taking charge only of the tobacco gardens.4o . These instances are sufficiently numerous to have betrayed the present writer into acceptance of Hahn 's generalization.41 But closer study shows that among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceptions to warrant this conclusion . In all three areas mentioned there are many instances of masculine horticulture . A familiar picture shows Maori men pushing their dibbles into the ground ; and for the Tongans even Captain Cook in 1777 noted that the men were the tillers , the employment of the women being mostly domestic.42 In Unyoro , next door to Uganda , men assist the women and among the Lango the heaviest share is theirs ; in Bornu the two sexes are said to be equally busy in attending to field and garden  | with the hoe ; among the Nuba of southern Kordofan and the Lake Chad tribes masculine tillage predominates ; . and it is exclusive among the Lakka of the Logone-Shari districts . In ancient Egypt the hoe was invariably associated with men.43 In the New World men bear the brunt of hoe tillage from the Pueblo area southward throughout the region of intensive cultivation . In these cases the correlation of horticulture with the female sex is thus far less intimate than Hahn supposed . On the other hand , he seems to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plow with the male sex . Where that implement occurs in ancient Egypt , Babylonia , India , or China , it is operated by men , and the rare exceptions , as in modern Kafiristan , 44 hardly militate against the generalization . The question arises how the data just presented affect the theory of farming origins . They obviously complicate matters : it would be much simpler if women invariably were the dibblers and hoe tillers , as Hahn supposed . Shall we , then , abandon the view not only of Hahn but of virtually every writer on the subject , that the beginnings of cultivation must be credited to women ? By no means . In order to judge of these ultimate origins we must envisage the conditions which characterize tribes unequivocally in the hunting stage . Among the Semang of the Malay peninsula the men traverse the woods with their blowguns in search of small game , while the women dig up wild roots with pointed sticks.4 " Though men sometimes get yams among the Vedda of Ceylon , " hunting is essentially their work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 48 In New South Wales women dig up all sorts of esculent bulbs for the household , having been trained from infancy to recognize edible plants.47 To turn to America , the Nez Perce of Idaho are typical : " Camas , as well as the other food roots , was gathered entirely by the women , the men at this time being busied with fishing , hunting , and war parties . " 48 In short , in the hunting stage the providing of vegetable food devolves on the women . Hence , they were naturally the first to note the potentialities of seeds dropped by chance , or of shoots planted without definite purpose , and thus inaugurated the era of gardening or farming . Particularly in those cases in which definite areas served as a harvesting ground for the family , sib , or tribe opportunities may have arisen when the harvesting field was not only exploited but also tended ? like the berry patches of the North Pacific coast . p 300 How , then , are we to account for the fact that even the hoe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farming in the more advanced American tribes ? We must assume that the gradually increasing dependence on cultivation in some regions decreased the importance of the chase and induced man to take over the activities that formerly constituted the exclusive domain of the other sex . The hoe is either formed like a pick or has a broad blade , often running into a point . While the worker who uses the digging-stick shoves his tool forward , those who use the hoe pull it toward themselves . This difference is important when we try to understand the origin of the plow . The simplest forms of plows seem to be digging-sticks pulled forward instead of being shoved forward . The uniformity of the principle employed in the plow , the range of its distribution in the Old World , and its absence in all the outlying parts of the Old World as well as in the whole New World make it certain that it is a single invention which has spread at a late period from a single center . In Egypt the plow was known in the Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic independence of plow and hoe . To this view Dr. Laufer has given his assent , though he points out instances of degeneration in which Asiatic populations relapsed into the use of the hoe . " There is a sharp line of demarcation between tillage by means of the hoe and the plow , each being a well-defined sphere in itself , the latter not being developed from the former . " n This position of Hahn 's seems to rest on two grounds . On the one hand , he insists that the technological derivation of the plow from the hoe is inadmissible ; on the other hand , he stresses the correlation of the hoe with the female sex . It may be argued against this that , whatever else the plow may signify , it represents a technological achievement that must have arisen out of some earlier tool . The hoe does represent a simpler device serving the same purpose , and Egyptologists. have endeavored to trace its evolution into the plow 50 ( see , however , page 262 ) . Secondly , the ethnographical data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tillage need not be so absolute that the hoe ancestor of the plow could not have been used by men . Therefore the maize-growing of the eastern Indians of the United States which is carried on by women can not be considered as independent in origin from the masculine husbandry further south . Similarly we can not imagine that Egyptian women at one time came to grow barley and that , independent of this , Babylonian men at some other  | time and in complete ignorance of all cultivation of barley took to raising the same cereal with the aid of the plow . The definite cultivation of any plant from the wild state is too difficult a matter to be lightly assumed as being accomplished over and over again . Here , as in other fields , it is much easier to borrow than to create . Though we have suggested possibilities for the earliest gardening , it should be noted that a number of favorable circumstances must combine . The seed or shoot must get into proper soil , some primitive gatherer must observe the effects , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planting . While it is obvious that plants must have been first raised where they occurred in a state of nature , it is never safe to infer that because a plant occurs wild in a certain region the people resident there must have been the first to cultivate it . No one has more convincingly exposed this error than Laufer . It does not follow that the Italians raised olive trees at an early date because there is some evidence of a wild olive in the Pliocene of the peninsula ; we know from historical sources that the cultivated olive was brought to Italy from Greece at a relatively late period . So China had a wild grapevine but viticulture started there only after 128 B.C. through the importation of cultivated vines from the west ; and similarly the wild walnut indigenous in China was never grown there , another species being introduced from Iran as a cultivated plant.51 That is to say , even expert farmers having an agricultural experience of millennia may fail to detect the potentialities of wild species of their flora . Primitive husbandry is certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predatory " in the sense that there is little , if any , systematic practice of crop rotation or compensation . The consequence is naturally exhaustion of the soil , involving removal to a new plot , where a new clearing is made with much wastage of timber , as among the Lango . But positive achievements merit equal attention . The hwakiutl , whose weak beginnings of agriculture are confined to the care of clover gardens , burn over berry patches in a rotation of three years . Tribes like the Hidatsa , who were not even preponderantly dependent on tillage , knew enough to put away seed enough to last for two years.J2 The Lango do know that it is of advantage to burn over the ground ; that the growing corn must be protected from weeds and birds ; that millet must be harvested in time lest rainfalls cause the ripe grain to rot . They will construct stout palisades two miles in length to ward off the invasions of  | hippopotami and other large beasts.53 Again , the Jagga inhabiting the slopes of Mt . Kilimanjaro not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eleusine , which is grown on the steepest declivities and requires careful irrigation.54 The American Indians fertilized their maize with fish and in some places with manure . Certain social and political institutions are intimately linked with primitive farming . Among the frequently shifting Lango we could not expect rigorous principles as to land ownership . Land is not alienated or bequeathed , and this holds for the community as well as for individuals . " Any alien . . . who with its inhabitants ' permission settles in the village may cultivate the common land on exactly the same temporary terms . " A village may retain its right to cultivate old sites for a year or two , but these are open to occupancy by others , who can not be ousted . Within the village anyone may take up what unused plot he desires , " the appropriations being made by mutual agreement and the village headman deciding any dispute . " as In many other horticultural tribes , however , the arrangement is different . The chief allocates the land to each family and thus may become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fiji a suggestive development has been described . The chief originally wielded only a modicum of authority , but had the right to allot unused land . As tribal representative he thus came to assign plots to fugitives from other tribes . For these newcomers , however , he was naturally the dispenser of life ; he became their overlord a position he had not held toward his own people and with the aid of these henchmen he could arrogate to himself a status originally alien to the aboriginal polity.56 Through some such process we can conceive a chief turning into a truly dominant figure even without actual conquest of a neighboring group . The acme is reached when , as among the Baganda , the feudal scheme was fully developed , the king being sole owner of all land , the chiefs his delegates , and the commoners holding the land from these superiors " on condition of doing work for them , especially building work , and rendering military service . " 57 In the less pretentious monarchical system of the Jagga the ruler was likewise the sole landowner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , determined the time for sowing and harvesting , exacted service in his plantations , and transmitted through headmen his orders for constructing and repairing irrigation canals.JB Domesticated animals . According to Hahn 's classical definition , 59  | domestic animals differ from corresponding wild forms by some hereditary traits ; and they differ from merely tame animals by freely propagating in captivity . The latter point is a crucial one . In Indo-China , India , Ceylon , and Java young elephants are trained to do the work of domestic beasts ; and Chinese chroniclers of the ninth century of our era picture the aboriginal peoples of Fun-nan harnessing elephants to plows and using them to transport loads over long distances.60 But unlike horses and cattle , these animals will not breed in captivity ; hence have to be caught and tamed individually . The revulsion against natural breeding habits in confinement is the chief barrier against the multiplication of domesticated species . For at least two thousand years no species of economic value has been brought under domestication , and our main livestock animals have been living in symbiotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francis Galton 61 even believed that man unconsciously experimented for millennia , keeping all manner of animals ; that a very limited number proved capable of such association , particularly without diminished fertility ; and that this remnant represents all the domesticable species . The determinants of a permanent partnership from the animal 's point of view varied with the species . The ancestor of our dog is supposed to have been attracted by the protection of a fireplace and the temptations of refuse heaps.62 Reindeer have an inordinate craving for human urine , and even individuals not especially tame have been known to approach Lapp settlements in search of this coveted delicacy.63 From the human point of view , the psychology of domestication seems obvious ? economic exploitation . Nevertheless , this entirely utilitarian explanation is insufficient . It is one of Hahn 's great contributions to have consistently emphasized the irrational factors connected with incipient domestication ; and in this contention he has been ably seconded by Laufer.64 These authors rightly emphasize the fact that wild sheep have no wool ; that wild cows yield milk only adequate for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of eggs . It is a commonplace of the history of culture that the Chinese have kept cattle for millennia yet never milk cows or females of other species of livestock . Laufer points out that the same people are likewise sheep-breeders of long standing yet have ' lever made woolen textiles . He shows that in Burma and in its vicinity ? the probable ancient center of chicken-raising ? poultry  | are " not primarily kept for utilitarian purposes , and the eggs are hardly , if ever , consumed . " What the natives mainly want is to use the thighbones of the cock for divination : bamboo splinters are thrust into the foramina and the future is divined from the various angles at which the splinters project . This practice is recorded by Chinese observers going back to 110 B.C. This conception of poultry-raising is supported by African data . In Unyoro fowls and eggs are never eaten by the dominant pastoral population and rarely by the peasants . Herders keep fowls , nevertheless , partly to sell to other tribes , but also for magico-religious purposes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause of a person 's death . Elsewhere in the interlacustrine region poultry are kept solely for sacred uses . The eggs are abhorred as excrements and less squeamish tribes are treated with contempt . The Baganda did not allow women to eat eggs or poultry flesh , and associated their consumption by men with such occurrences as the birth of twins , the cementing of blood brotherhood , and the termination of the mourning period . The Bongo of the upper Nile , on the . other hand , considered fowls as proper food for women only . In Kamerun and Spanish Guinea the Pangwe abstain from eggs and reserve chicken for special and ritualistic occasions . To take the comparable case of another bird species , the Bambala take good care of their pigeons and build cotes for them , yet " they serve no utilitarian purpose . . . . The only reason ever given is that the people like to see them . " 65 The pig also , as Laufer points out , figures as an animal used for divinatory purposes , its gall bladder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Assam . In this connection it is most important to note that while swine appear as domesticated animals in prehistoric Egypt , not one practical purpose for their keeping has ever come to light : they were neither eaten nor worked in any way until a relatively late period . " This nonutilitarian position is further borne out by observations as to animal treatment by tribes the world over . Whether they do or do not rear domestic species , they lavish an enormous amount of affection and care on utterly useless pets . The pigeon cotes of the Bambala have already been cited . The Bakairi of Brazil keep parrots , macaws , herons , and lizards but breed none of them and find the notion of eating a pet abhorrent . The Guiana Indians shoot monkeys with arrows to stupefy the animals , and then raise them as  | companions . The Taulipang , a Carib tribe of northern South America , catch and carefully tend parrots , mice , turtle , and deer . Further south Nordenskiold saw a Choroti woman suckling an infant at one breast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ playmates of storks and ostriches . The Australian kept his dog , the dingo , without training it to catch game or render any service whatsoever . With the coming of the Whites European breeds superseded the dingo and the native transferred his affection to them . Each family is accompanied by several dogs , which are never killed . The blackfellow " tosses to them a portion of all his food , and at night he sleeps with them in his bosom to keep him warm . " G7 Nonrationalistic motives persist even in sophisticated civilizations that are well able to exploit some of their animal species . The reasons for the existence of lap dogs , race horses , and bulls for the plaza de toros are sentimental and sportive . The Chinese have kept crickets partly in appreciation of their music , partly to train them for the cricket arena.68 The conclusion is thus inevitable that the peculiar symbiosis under discussion was not entirely effected through deliberate human aiming at exploitation of beasts , but was due to a variety of reasons still powerful alike in tribes lacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husbandry . But though practical considerations are not primary , they often assert themselves and exert a potent influence on primitive economics , sometimes in ways no longer familiar to us . To the hunter , for example , the dog , the earliest animal domesticated , was often of vital importance . The Tierra del Fuegians used him against otters , the Hottentot against antelope , the Shoshone of Idaho in bringing to bay mountain sheep , the Eskimo for scenting the seal 's breathingholes . Here and there , as in New Zealand , he was eaten for food , and sometimes , as among the Dakota , at ceremonial festivals . In New Zealand he also furnished hair for weaving , and so did the long-haired breeds of Puget Sound and Chile . Dog traction gave the primeval hunter a mobility that made it possible to exploit a much larger territory , as when the Yukaghir of northern Siberia move in dog sledges to the . upper courses of the Kolyma River in search of wild reindeer and other game . The Kamchadal , too , in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family owning from eight to fifteen.69 Among the Eskimo the dog sledge played an important part , and the Plains Indians at least harnessed a dog to a  | wheelless dray of two poles lashed to each side of the animal 's back , the butt ends dragging along the ground , and with a netted frame connecting the converging poles to bear the load ( see page 269 ) . Wherever the larger livestock species were added , man acquired at least potentially further aids in transportation , vital sources of food , and materials for containers , tent covers , and other necessaries . Some districts are opened to human settlement or at least temporary occupancy solely through the possession of certain animals . In the Arabian desert , for example , the camel is indispensable as pack or mount . For several weeks it will keep up the even pace of five or six kilometers an hour for eight or ten hours a day . No horse could stand this ; on the second day of such a journey the camel will catch up with his competitor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while on the following day the horse must be led . If saltless pasturage is available , the camel owner need not worry about drink or fodder ; his beast finds its own provender and can go without water for a long time . In fact , it feeds its master , who can shift very well with camel 's milk , which is very thick and nutritious and yields butter superior to that from a sheep 's or goat 's milk . At a pinch the Arab traveler may even extract water from his beast . " If hard pressed the Rwala kill the fattest camel , cut out the paunch , place it on a cloak , and squeeze the liquid from it into a leather bag , allowing it to cool and settle . They either drink it or , if it is too thick , they suck it into their throats through the nostrils . " Professor MTusil 's guide had drunk such water on eight occasions , " and there is nobody among the Rwala who has not tasted it at least once . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iu the form of dung . Finally , the hair is made into cordage and sewing thread , is spun into yarn woven into cloaks , or serves as a padding for winter garments.70 In the Arctic the reindeer gains comparable significance , supporting itself where dogs have to be fed ; carrying loads and riders on its own back or on sledges , irrespective of winds that make travel impossible for the dog ; adding milk and flesh to the larder of some tribes and elsewhere at least enlarging the compass of their hunting trips.11 The more common uses of cattle , sheep , horses , and donkeys are too well known to require exposition . However , it should be once more emphasized that even where practical considerations play a dominant role capricious irrationality checks the full and rationalistic exploitation of domestic beasts . We expend thousands for breeding race horses but have never taken up  | the milking of mares . Yet in Turkestan " people of means live almost exclusively on kumiss , consuming it in enormous quantities , " during the summer time ; and Rubruk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mare 's milk they cared little for other food . The ancient Egyptians , we have already noted , originally made no use whatsoever of swine ; neither did they use wool , though they kept sheep from at least 3000 B.C. Negro stock-breeders prepare no cheeses , which seem a unique achievement of the pastoral nomads of Eurasia ; and there are African tribes that churn butter only to smear it as a cosmetic over their bodies . The Lango of the upper Nile are more reasonable and use it for food ; but they will milk neither sheep nor goats . Again , the idea of regularly eating beef is quite remote even from experienced cattle-breeders . The Bantu as a rule eat only the flesh of cattle that have died of disease ; slaughter is peculiar only to great festive occasions or looms as the prerogative of chiefs . The Kirghiz ride oxen on domestic errands or harness them to a plow in farming ; they milk cows and work the hides into leather containers ; but they will never eat beef if well-to-do , and even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is infinitely preferable , while the sheep-raising Baganda taboo it . Most amazing of all , from our point of view , is the attitude of the Chinese . Familiar with cattle for several thousand years , they not only prefer pork to beef , but they have never conceived the idea of milking their cows . As Laufer points out , this is all the more remarkable because they have long been in intimate contact with nomads who largely depend on milk for their sustenance and who do not scruple to milk the females of all their livestock . Apparently severed from other protocivilizations at an early time prior to the invention of dairying , the Chinese maintained unaltered the cattle complex that had evolved before their separation ; the ox was a beast for drawing a plow , and there its uses ceased.72 Finally , another aspect of irrationalism is significant . Irrespective of the measure of recognizing the possibilities of their animal species , people from sheer acquisitiveness will accumulate vast herds that can not be economically exploited . The stock-breeder develops not only an inordinate love for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and larger herds . There are tales of Negroes who committed suicide over the loss of a favorite cow . The Pangwe i3 keep sheep and goats not to eat them , which they rarely do , but mainly for the pure pleasure of possession . So , as Hatt explains , the Lapps "  | are prompted by " the lust of ownership . " Reindeer-breeding might be most profitable if they limited their herds in accordance with available pasturage and bred to produce meat . But " such modern rationalism is foreign to old Lapp ideals . " Again , though the horse is of little use to the Bedouin he will take infinite care to raise a mare and disregard the comfort of the household in her behalf . " The whole camp may suffer from thirst , and the children cry for a drop of water , but the master , unmoved , will pour the last remnants of water into a dish and set it before the pampered mare. " i5 The tremendous difficulty of making animals breed in unnatural confinement must affect our attitude toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from assuming an indefinite number of separate centers . The case of the oldest domestic animal , the dog , is instructive in this regard . The pre-Columbian American Indians had at least three main and sixteen lesser varieties , and it seemed plausible at one time to regard them as derived from such indigenous Canidae as the fox , wolf , and coyote . But Glover M. Allen 's anatomical comparison rules out all such hypotheses and proves that all American dogs are traceable to a single Asiatic type of wolf , their ancestor being brought from Asia in domesticated form . Indeed , Allen and Antonius derive all dogs the world over from a single wolflike ancestor , and Hilzheimer assumes but one additional ancestral type , the jackal , for African dogs . ' Like other semidomesticated forms the dog interbreeds with wild , closely related species . Thus the Eskimo dog frequently interbreeds with the wolf . Indications of bones gnawed by dogs or of dogs themselves occur in early Neolithic or even Epipaleolithic times ; therefore the earliest domestication of a wolf may have been achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessed of this companion brought him with them on their migrations , for example across the Bering Strait region , and in the course of millennia the observed diversity arose in different local centers . In some cases the dog , like other cultural goods , might be lost , as happened in some parts of Brazil . In a few instances extraneous evidence suggests that the lack is due to the crudity and isolation of the aboriginal culture . This holds especially for the Tasmanians . Zoologists who happen to be unfamiliar with the cultural aspects of the problem are liable to serious error in assuming that every biologically diverse origin has equivalent culture-historical implica-  | tions . For instance , Feige argued that " the variations of form , as among the various races of cattle , always indicate diverse descent . " In the same way the author infers several separate centers for domestic swine . " Of course , breeds that are not zoologically traceable to a common ancestor must have originated independently . But that is beside our point . Let us take the zoologist 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is descended from the banteng of Indonesia and Indo-China or from some wild form closely related to the urus.78 What interests us is , first of all , the apparently unanimous judgment of the specialists that the zebu of Africa is derived from India , that one of the taurine breeds of that continent definitely indicates contact with southern Asia . So far the zoological difference is also historically significant . But it does not mean that the first zebu-breeders domesticated their beast in total ignorance of the occurrence of other taurine cattle . What they evidently did was to apply the domestication pattern observed among their neighbors ? or preexisting among themselves ? to a related form . They succeeded , and added a new breed to the list of domestic animals . So with the more remotely related buffalo of India ( not to be confused with our American " buffalo , " the bison ) : its utilization was modeled on that of cattle . This is neatly demonstrated by the attitude shown as to milking buffalo . In Indo-China and Indonesia ? that is , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buffalo are not milked but are employed in agriculture , as the ox is in China . In India , however , where dairying flourishes , the preparation of milk products is practiced even by the comparatively primitive Toda . The question is how far this view can be safely extended . Schmidt and Koppers assume that an Asiatic tribe in the vicinity of Lake Baikal domesticated the reindeer as the earliest species of livestock ; camels and horses were domesticated in imitation of reindeer ; and ultimately all other forms of stock , including the Peruvian llama , go back to this primary stimulus.79 Let us consider first the Peruvian data . The llama and the alpaca are derived from the guanaco and vicuna , respectively the recent American representatives of the camel family . The llama was used primarily as a beast of burden , being able to carry a load of I - pounds a distance of ten or twelve miles a day . Its flesh was used only to a moderate extent ; the dung served for fuel in timbcrle. districts , but there was no attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilization of Old World camels . The coarse wool of the llama was sheared for textile purposes , as was the finer wool of the alpaca and vicuna.80 Considering these facts , the Polynesians are immediately eliminated as possible stimulators of guanaco domestication . At best they had only the fowl , the dog , and the pig , and none of these is in the least capable of serving as a model . But neither can the Indonesians have played the part . Their buffalo , used either with the plow in rice culture or for sacramental slaughter , seems an impossible starting-point . The Peruvians ' abstention from milk has been cited as a link with eastern Asia , but this purely negative feature has no evidential value : milking is obviously an artificial process , and its practice , not its lack , is what requires explanation . " We shall therefore conclude that llama domestication was achieved independently of non-American cultures . But even in the Old World several independent origins must inevitably be assumed , at least in some instances , if several species were domesticated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sake of argument , that cattle , sheep , and goats were domesticated by the Egyptians . Can we , then , derive the domestication of the nongregarious cat , which is generally credited to the Egyptians , from an imitation of cattle domestication ? The notion is not tenable , for there is no tertium quid comparationis . If ox and cat were both domesticated on the banks of the Nile , it was on the common basis of keeping tame animals for social and religious reasons , not because the ancients detected a similarity between cat and cattle potentialities . To take a less extreme instance : as Laufer and others have pointed out , and as Schmidt and hoppers admit , swine and poultry appear in a wholly different setting from that of the larger stock animals . " Both pig and chicken are nonmigratory animals and consequently make their domicile only in sedentary , never in migratory communities . " Hence the pastoral nomads uniformly lack swine , and even in modern Turkestan hog-raising is confined to the Russian colonists . " How sedentary horticulturists would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by watching the cattle- and horsebreeding nomads of the Asiatic steppes , as Schmidt and hoppers seem to suggest , " is difficult to imagine . To sum up , we shall do well to assume several , though not many , independent achievements of domestication.  | In agreement with all authorities we may put the almost univ ersa.I dog first in order . Beyond that it is not safe to make definite chronological statements . Domestic cattle , sheep , pigs , and donkeys appear in Egyptian pictures dating back to the fourth millennium B.c . Cattle and sheep bones are reported from early Neolithic North European kitchen middens , and a vast number of pig bones were found in Neolithic Chinese sites , but it is not easy to assign definite dates to these finds . The domestic horse does not appear in Egypt until approximately 1700 B.C. ; in Babylonia it is mentioned as the possession of rude nomadic tribes in about 2300 B.C. , though it remained rare until after Hamrnurabi 's reign ( ca. 2000 B.C. ) . Camels are mentioned in Mesopotamia about 1100 B.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B.C. The earliest mention of the domesticated reindeer ? as a South Siberian beast ? occurs in a Chinese source dated A.D. 499 . The dates given are , of course , not conclusive as to the period of earliest domestication : they merely tell us that at such and such a period the Babylonians encountered horse- or camel-breeders and that the Chinese first became cognizant of domestic reindeer toward the end of the first half of the first millennium of our era . Nevertheless , they are the best information we at present possess . Extravagant estimates have been made as to the Paleolithic antiquity of the reindeer ; the ox has been vigorously declared and vehemently challenged as the earliest livestock species ; southern Turkestan has been acclaimed as the fountainhead of all domestication ; but so far as I can see , none of these assertions can be accepted at present as more than guesswork . Some other conclusions seem more tenable , even though not strictly demonstrable . Thus , wild horses evidently were not the easiest of beasts to tame , and Hahn 's hypothesis seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the closely related and gentler ass , for whose domestication there is much earlier datable evidence . Breaking the horse in as a mount must have been a late achievement . In Babylonia it appears originally only harnessed to a war chariot , equestrianism not being mentioned until roughly a thousand years later ( ca. 1130 B.C. ) and Assyrian cavalry not until about 860 B.c . In Egypt the horse is also linked with the chariot . It was ridden only in exceptional cases and never harnessed to a common wagon or plow.84 The history of the reindeer is beset with moot problems ; yet on a  | number of points there is fair agreement . Whatever may have been the first attempts at the domestication of the beast , special features of its utilization are patterned on the complexes developed with other species . The reindeer sledge was a " conscious and rational imitation of driving with dogs . " The use of reindeer as mounts by the Tungus and some other Siberians is clearly modeled on the practice of South Siberian equestrians . Similarly the milking of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dairying customs of cattle-breeders . Indeed , the Lapp vocabulary itself for milk , cheese , and the correlated implements , betrays the Scandinavian origin of the technique.85 When people simultaneously own several species of livestock nothing is more natural for them than to transfer techniques perfected for one type of animal to another . This leveling may stop short of completeness from reasons inherent in the nature of the beasts , from aboriginal caprice , or from wholly obscure causes . However this may be , the tendency must be recognized . The Yakut , a Turkish tribe , driven northward by political disturbances retained their horses and cattle in northern Siberia , and even where they abandoned these for reindeer they applied to the new species their traditional experiences as to selective breeding . On the other hand , there is a reason why even the Kirghiz , who milk camels , goats , sheep , and mares as well as cows , do not produce other dairy products from mare 's milk . " It is poorer in fat , casein , albumen , and salts , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therefore is not adapted for butter and cheese making . " 86 Pastoral nomadism . The mere possession of livestock does not constitute pastoral nomadism . Our Plains Indians remained hunters after they had obtained horses from the Whites . They neither milked their mares nor took to eating horse flesh . The horse was to them quite different from what it was to the Kirghiz ? not a direct economic asset but a means of transportation that facilitated the chase and thus indirectly affected the food supply . If the Arabs had nothing but their horses , they , too , would fail to pass muster , for it is the camel 's milk and flesh that make their existence possible . On the other hand , the southeastern Bantu practice garden culture and rear cattle as sedentary farmers , so that they likewise can not be regarded as nomads ; and the same holds , of course , for all the higher agricultural civilizations that rest on field agriculture bound up with animal husbandry .  | But where pastoral nomadism appears in typical form ? in Mongolia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunting and farming recede into the background and may even be completely superseded . The Masai neither hunt game nor eat the flesh of wild beasts ; in the midst of their cattle wild gnu can be seen peacefully grazing . With the Kirghiz of seventy years ago hunting was practiced by individual amateurs and mainly as a sport and a test of horsemanship . Falcons were trained to soar into the air and swoop down upon their quarry while their master followed their movements on horseback , possibly at the risk of his neck . Or an equestrian might crush a fugitive wolf 's skull with a stick while galloping past his victim.87 The relations with farming are more intricate , and Hahn goes so far as to deny that nomads represent an independent economic condition . In his view they are degenerate horticulturists . They retain the livestock which , he assumes , they had brought under domestication while still tilling their gardens , but they are unable to subsist except by auxiliary farming or by sponging on the neighboring peasantry . This view is demonstrably inaccurate . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of southern Siberia and Turkestan dispels the notion that their existence depends on alien tillage . The Altaian Turks cultivate a quite negligible acreage of barley and buy flour only in years of dearth . The Kirghiz east of the Caspian raise barely enough grain for a dish of porridge , and only the well-to-do import flour for bread . Farther east , to be sure , they did devote part of their energies to growing wheat , millet , rye , and rice ; but their agricultural technique , which included large-scale irrigation , was the result of contacts with higher civilizations and remained unessential . People with ample supplies of mutton , beef , and horse flesh ; of cow 's , sheep 's , goat 's , camel 's , and mare 's milk , and with a variety of cheeses to boot , were not likely to starve . The Mongols whom Rubruk encountered in A.D. 1253 had access to millet and rice , but so long as they had kumiss in the summer they cared not for other kinds of food . The Rwala Bedouins live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Kababish camel herders of Kordofan thrive on it from November until February . It is true that great Mongol lords had their villages in the south , from which they could import flour and millet in the winter , and that even t I u poorer classes secured cereals in exchange for hides . In Arabia , too , the Bedouins , before setting out into the interior , coerce the set t led  | fellahin into supplying them with wheat . But all this is doubtless due to the common human craving for a varied diet . In North America pure hunters like the Crow were glad to obtain from their semihorticultural fellow-Siouans , the Hidatsa , supplies of maize , but if they had no opportunities of visiting them they went without as all American aborigines had to do in prehorticultural days . Contrariwise , such inveterate farmers as the Hopi did not scorn venison and rabbit flesh , an indulgence which by no means implied backsliding into the hunting stage . And if the Bedouin takes the fellahin 's wheat , the latter looks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the relationship , however abused by the stronger party , is not that of one-sided economic parasitism . Finally , it is worth noting that the " Hamitic " herders of interlacustrine East Africa not only despise the peasant race but vegetable products as well , to which as a rule they resort only in times of stress.88 The significant thing , then , is not the rearing of livestock , which is often coupled with a sedentary farming life ; nor whether or not a tribe obtains grain in the interests of a more diversified bill of fare . What determines classification under the head of pastoral nomadism is whether people depend mainly , and potentially altogether , on their flocks and herds . The medieval Mongols used cereals as they wore costly furs from Russia and silken stuffs from Cathay , but these were luxuries they were able to forego ; and as their true costume was of skin and felt , so their true and sufficient food was the produce of their livestock . But in order to subsist on what their livestock provides it is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the pastoral nomad , with his need of abundant grazing lands , and the sedentary stock-breeder . Even the reindeer , under suitable circumstances , can be kept in stables , as in parts of northern Russia and Siberia , but obviously this is possible only where there are , say , but three to five head to be tended . A large number of beasts inevitably creates for them and their masters a migratory existence and considerably less individual attention . Beyond supplying young lambs and fall calves with hay , the hirghiz make no provisions for sheep and cattle , which are obliged to seek their own subsistence even during the cold season . There is also a dearth of winter stables.8 " Nevertheless the animal husbandry of such peoples betrays a considerable degree of knowledge . To prevent the death of newborn  | fall lambs from the inclemency of the weather the northern Kirghiz employ contraceptives of felt during several months of the year . The Bedouins fully recognize the difference of thoroughbred and common camels and carefully watch pregnant she-camels lest they pasture on noxious plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the young animals would be devoured by wild beasts . A milking Tutsi keeps up a smudge of cow dung to ward off troublesome flies , and in case of illness there are veterinaries who specialize in bleeding the beasts . Herders generally make allowance for the female 's reluctance to yield milk except in presence of her offspring . Nearly seven hundred years ago Rubruk noted how the Mongols tied colts in sight of their mothers . " Then the mares take a stand next to their foals and allow themselves to be milked . " Similarly , the Kirghiz allow a calf to suck a little first , then tear it away , milk the cow , which is quite tractable after the process is once inaugurated , and finally again permit access to the calf . Among the Bedouins the milker stands on one side while the calf tries to suck from the other : " The camel gives her milk when she sees that the young one is approaching the udder . " In this context some widespread deceptive devices merit attention . The Arabs kill a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rope so that she can not smell , and make her yield milk to another sucking camel . The Tutsi and other Africans stuff the skin of a dead calf and with it dupe the cow into being milked by the herder . The same ruse is reported for the western Kirghiz in connection with mare-milking.90 The pastoral nomad , by the necessities of the case , is not an aimless wanderer . If he and his herds are to survive there must be adaptation to the pasturage required by each species and migrations determined by their interests . When the Kababish Arabs first encamp , the cattle feed near by , " but soon every blade of grass in the neighborhood is devoured and nothing but sand and dry thorn bushes remain . " Then the beasts go farther and farther away until they run risk of capture by the enemy . A wealthy Kirghiz herder is compelled to divide his herds according to the fodder best suited to the palate of each species . In winter they require protection in low , wooded tracts or low valleys not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The summer calls for open , well-watered plains or mountainous districts free from gnats and other insects . In the fall the narrower valleys and ravines make an appeal , because there the sun has probably failed to destroy the rich verdure , while in the                     