@@773603

txt i000 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770-1798 An art which in The Village is clumsy , heavy , but already strong , singularly sure as to its main intent , and of unsurpassed robustness ; ampler canvases , more brilliant hits , and a more unequal success , in The Parish Register and chiefly The Borough ; a still imperfect composition , but the firmly stamped unity of tone , and a style in which rough , dense elements are welded together by means of energetic , simple methods ? antithesis , repetition , alliteration : such is the talent of Crabbe in his best works . In the rest of his poetry he is weak , and tends to be verbose . Altogether , he keeps a place by himself in English literature . He is overshadowed neither by Wordsworth , who exalts realism and glorifies it through a touch of mysticism , nor by the novelists of social pity , who have given larger scope and livelier animation to his plea in favour of the poor . The truth of his pen pictures is harsh and incomplete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pathos is sombre , crushingly painful at times , but this only makes it more telling . The characteristics of his expression single him out as the last of the classical writers ; but there is also in his poetry the suggestion of a virtual Romanticism that has been repressed , the play in conflict of a suffering sensibility , and of an imagination resolutely bent under the yoke of the real . ' CHAPTER VI THE FRENCH REVOLUTION AND ENGLISH LITERATURE 1 . Acceptance and Rejection of the New Ideas. ? The movement of ideas which paved the way for the French Revolution of 1789 can be traced in part to English influences . On the other hand , the French " philosophers " of the eighteenth century left their mark on England . Rousseau , in particular , had a spiritual following on the other side of the Channel . Already , before the fall of the Bastille , there is evidence of a keener interest being taken throughout Europe in political and social problems , as though in anticipation of some coming decisive crisis . The outbreak of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From 1789 to 1815 , the drift of European literature and thought is in certain respects determined in relation to France , whose stormy fate promotes amongst governments , nations and writers diverse reactions of sympathy , fear and hostility . In the domains of political theory , philosophy and literature , England after 1730 is giving to France even more than she receives from it . But this proportion is reversed by the turmoil of the Revolution . Engrossed in its own affairs or propagating its ideas throughout Europe , Revolutionary and Imperial France is almost entirely absorbed in active interests , leaving to its political exiles , to a Madame de Stael or a de Villers , the opportunity of gathering the germs of foreign influence which the Romantic movement will stir into life . England , on the contrary , shaken as it is by the storm of events in France , and torn at first between a feverish admiration and a hatred mingled with terror , next almost completely united in the national struggle against Napoleon , is in a state of receptive susceptibility towards the contagious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new ideas , or violently opposes them , and through that opposition strengthens her consciousness of self . France is the pole of attraction or repulsion around which English intel-IOOI 1002 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 lectual life , in a large measure , tends to group itself during that period . This relation to France , whether in a positive or in a negative sense , is of use in enabling us to classify individual minds , and to isolate a group of writers , not too artificially , during the first phase of the period . The oncoming of the French Revolution , its actual beginnings , and successive stages , are , from about 178o to i800 , the predominant factor in the mental outlook of political theorists , polemical writers , novelists , and even dramatists and poets . From about 1800 , on the contrary , the moral and imaginative stir caused by the great upheaval enters into a new literature as one of its elements , and combines with the diverse impulses which give birth to English Romanticism in its definitive form . The influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and parcel of the study of the full-grown Romantic movement . On the whole , in the course of the first period , the revolutionary or counter-revolutionary fever is not connected in a simple way with the growth of Romanticism . It stimulates energies , calls forth individual temperaments , and gives each an added impetus in the direction which its own instincts were ready to take . Therefore this literature , from a psychological point of view , seems to possess very mixed characteristics . The partisans of the Revolution are , for the most part , generous enthusiasts , guided by sensibility and swayed by imagination ; but the doctrine of abstract liberty and equality appeals to reason , to passionate logicians it is given to propagate it ; and its intellectual rigour causes it to be denounced by its adversaries as an inhuman and chimerical kind of geometry . With the conservatives , one expects to find , and one actually does find , self-control and a cold bearing in matters intellectual ; they are fond of irony ; and their satires in verse are naturally cast in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find expression in tones of vehemence ; and the greatest of them all , Burke , quickens the organic doctrine of traditional order through a powerful and intuitive imagination , set off by a language of fiery eloquence . Revolutionary literature reflects the conflict in the minds of men . That conflict deeply stirs the soul of the time , and hastens the germination of the new art which is preparing . But 4 1798 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 1003 this is a silent , an underground influence . It is after the keenest part of the struggle , in the quiet meditation of a relative lull , that the lasting and fruitful effect will be felt . Until then , the absorbing question which engrosses thought furnishes works of literature with their subject-matter , rather than it enters into the determination of their style ; it is not yet a vital artistic influence . The great Revolutionary drama appeals to the whole of human nature , and calls all its rival faculties into play ; it rouses souls to a pitch of enthusiasm , or tears them by an inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tone which one could describe as unified . And this is just what helps us to understand the very special moral quality of this epoch , in which the universal diffusion of sentiment associates it closely with every activity of the most clear-sighted and uncompromising reason . 2 . The Revolutionaries : Politics , the Novel , and the Stage . ? The Revolution , from the start , has adversaries who are opposed to it in principle , just as it can claim its supporters . Burke 's indictment precedes the defensive arguments of Paine and Mackintosh . But , on the whole , the two attitudes adopted by English minds towards the events in France correspond to two successive phases , the second of which is that of hostility . Besides being the result of deeper and more mature reflection , the latter represents the instinctive opinion of the average mind , and is of a more lasting nature ; so that the doctrine of Burke , brought into being as it is by momentary circumstances , has the ample scope of a national thesis , which for many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social utility who appealed to reason found themselves united for the defence of the abstract general principles which France had just proclaimed . A sermon by Price 1 had called forth the denunciations of Burke ; Priestley ' replied to these . Mackintosh ' and Paine championed the theme of liberty by consecrating their learning or zeal to its cause . Even . 1004 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 to-day the treatise of Paine is not without interest . As a counterweapon against the impassioned rhetoric of Burke , he discovers the efficacy of a vigorous style of popular appeal . Better than any ' polemical writer among his contemporaries , he represents the union of a fearless reasoning and critical mind , a mind almost French , with a perceptive sense which can appreciate the concrete nature of reality , according to the original English tradition . But to Godwin 1 it was left to represent the extreme length to which intellectualism , in its application to social and moral problems , ever went in England . During those closing years of a century of reason , under the stress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeply inherent in the normal English mind is rooted out of certain thinkers ; leaving their thoughts to seek an equilibrium only in the coherence of principles , which can be deduced or brought into a system . Every tie , every limitation found in feelings , habits , prejudices , necessities of fact , are thus done away with ; an all-powerful logic destroys the existing order in its minutest parts , and sets up an entirely new fabric in its place . The intellectual search for truth and justice can alone give those ideal notions a precise outline . Justice and truth will be the work of a race guided by reason , a race which a well-planned system of education would from now onwards produce . Character can be moulded with a perfect sureness of touch , and the doctrine of determinism opens out before the eyes of mankind unlimited prospects of moral progress . Freed from the trammels of all emotional influence , each mind will find its own guiding standards in logical deduction . It will no longer be swayed by the illusions of feeling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every instance will reveal to it the highest goal of action , the common good . Such should be the one great aim of . 1798 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 1005 the legislator ; and a society founded upon reason will enjoy the full rights of equality and liberty . The existing distribution of wealth , the established forms of government , the traditional modes of living , even marriage itself , will be revised and remodelled according to those principles ; and every constraint exercised upon the individual will be reduced to a minimum . If laws remain a necessary evil , and if the prudent man , in this era of transition , must refrain from using violence against the existing law , he shall at least do his utmost to hasten the advent of the happy time , when all healthy-minded men unite in the spontaneous harmony of their desires . Anarchy , therefore , is the ideal towards which the thought of Godwin is drifting , and the very pronounced note of his individualism completes or corrects the communistic character of his social dreams . In its excessive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact which must enter into the solution of the problem ? this doctrine projects on to the immediate future the abstract lines of a necessarily distant ideal ; and mixes generous hopes with rigorous , no doubt imprudent , deductions . Slightly modified by its own progress , and less exclusive in its intellectualism from 1800 onwards , it remained the most energetic stimulus of the revolutionary spirit on English soil . Its influence has been widely and deeply felt ; and this it owes to the fact that the courage which animates it , born as it was of an ardent idealism , easily won the sensibilities of men hungering after a happiness , which the soul-stirring events of the time seemed to bring within their reach . In the glowing anticipation of this new hope , modern " feminism " was being formulated at the same time . The woman who demanded equality of rights and equal educational privileges was to be the wife of Godwin , but had formed her own ideas independently of him . ' Her book on the subject is of uneven merit and somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style , but enlivened by a sincere passion for justice . ioo6 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 It touches upon delicate problems , which it has the merit of raising , with more wisdom and sanity than is usually conceded . It is a century in advance with its theories , which are to-day accepted , or have become so familiar as to be no longer formidable . It points out how among women themselves are to be found the most dangerous abettors of the social minority of their sex , and it attributes this blindness to a false form of education , while clearly outlining the connection between the inferiority of woman and her economic dependence . It urges the need for co-education , for a national system of teaching ; upon love , marriage and family relationship , its arguments have a wholesome savour and a breadth of opinion , and are being gradually incorporated in the social life of our times . The ideal which coloured the theories of the revolutionary thinkers appealed too vividly to certain imaginations , for the novel of the time not to give it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting only from the historical point of view . There was in the new faith , when once it won the mastery of minds , a magnetism so powerful that all sense of discrimination , as of artistic choice , became subjugated to its influence . Those among its disciples who , in the end , were able to escape , did regain , along with their independence , the power of translating into a language of noble beauty the story of their lost illusions . In this sphere also Godwin is the most outstanding figure . His novels , despite their glaring faults and stretches of barren monotony , retain a vigour which is not without effect . This they owe not to their doctrine , but to the temperament of the writer , who is keenly attracted to any analysis of a searching and complex nature , and who in building up his plot allows his imagination to dwell fondly upon the emotional influence of terror ? in a manner akin enough to that of Mrs. Radcliffe 's school . With other novelists , the zeal of proselytism encourages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary ardour leads them towards a complete vision of a regenerated humanity , ' or whether less direct propaganda takes a more discreet form , even veiling itself at times , the aesthetic values nearly always lose through a didactic thesis , by which 1798 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 1007 life is divided into opposite camps , in accordance with the rival forces of social good and evil . ' Those novels are fanciful , despite the element of seriousness which permeates them . They show the drift to Romanticism in the free scope which Godwin gives to his sentimental imagination ; but the attempted pathos and the inventive talent of the writer scarcely possess any original or even striking qualities . A new movement in art is never exclusively the result of a general moral preparation . What is wanted first and foremost is an individual genius , who comes forward sooner or later , but who sometimes holds up all progress until he appears . The author 's talent in these novels only sparkles forth here and there ; and although they have not merited the discredit which has fallen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholar . The same may be said of the dramatic work of revolutionary writers . Originating in the sentimental drama , the spirit and scope of which it naturally continues to foster , it has come to-day to share the latter 's destiny . Before 1789 , we find nearly all the elements of Romanticism during its formative stages expressed forcibly enough in Hannah More 's ' Percy , a play of pathos , and at the same time medieval and humanitarian in character . Mrs. Inchbald , ' whose verve and power of observation , together with her properly theatrical gifts , are by no means indifferent in their appeal , sets out to plead the cause of penitentiary reform , or of that essential goodness of heart , opposed to the corruptive influence of society , which after Rousseau found a defence in the teaching of Godwin . Holcroft preaches the same gospel , but in a more blunt manner , being more explicit in his intentions ; yet it must be admitted that he has life and ioo8 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 movement . The younger Colman 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exotic setting , endeavours to incorporate it in scenes drawn from , reality . If , however , this group of writers has left no great work , it is not due to false aesthetic principles . The problem play and the social drama will develop an intense vitality , when the nineteenth century has widely diffused the power to become emotionally interested in the interplay of ideas . To the public of 1790 , however , such plots had little else than a superficial interest . 3 . The Counter-Revolutionary Writers ; The " Anti-Jacobin " ; Burke. ? Political satire had found encouragement in the conflict waged between Pitt and the Tory Party on the one side , and the Whig Opposition on the other . From 1784 onwards , the Rolliad , a kind of fictitious epic , symbolising the intellectual sluggishness of the country squires , stubborn supporters alike of Church and State , is assailed in a series of versified parodies . ' But with the triumph of the Revolution in France and the activity of its partisans in England , the instinctive desire for social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their turn seize upon the weapon of ridicule . The excess to be feared seems no longer one of timidity , but rather of rashness . Irony is now on the side of a traditionalism which claims to be inseparable from good sense . This cult of tradition , narrow and dogmatic , is stimulated to a remarkable vigour by the assurance that it has the broad support of national sentiment . The tone of the Anti-Jacobin ' can not be mistaken ; it expresses both a temperamental and a racial hostility , in which patriotism , religion , devotion to the past , and the love for all accepted forms of discipline rise up horror-stricken against a contagious , manifold madness , which threatens all the altars of the nation 's gods . The France of the Directory is jeered at and vilified , slashed for the Revolu- 1798 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 1009 tion whose fundamental ideas she has inherited , and no less for the new order which she painfully tries to build up . Her English partisans are scourged and dishonoured . Never has hatred , nourished by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and instinct , by national passion and social fear , given vent to so terrible a denunciation . And feeding on those deep roots , the inspiration has an easy , telling verve . The wit in that collection of lampoons is very rarely delicate ; the tone is every way brutal . Yet in the sneering and insulting attitude it adopts there is evidence of an often happy , at times superior talent . The burlesque vein which it has tapped furnishes it ? as in the case of Erasmus Darwin and The Loves of the Plants ? with parodies of extreme ingenuity , of great value as verbal achievements ; and when the satirical impulse gives way before the serious passion which lurks in those violent pleasantries , and which bursts out in a heart-felt call to the genius of England , that poetry , still classical in form , reaches a sinewy and simple eloquence . As an incentive , not only against the menace from abroad , but against the more dangerous madness which is creeping into the national consciousness of England , and awakens a belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples , the AntiJacobin cites the name and work of Burke . ' And of the thought of Burke , indeed , it is full . Burke is first an orator , or rather an oratorical writer , for the texts which have been handed down to us owe nothing to // improvisation ; and neither his voice nor his delivery was such as to heighten in any way the effect of those writings . His eloquence , studied as it is and self-conscious , preserves its sincerity through the genuine power of a naturally fervid thought , which has an end in view , advances towards it , and discovers itself gradually , as it develops , through its own motion . His impassioned arguments are enough controlled by his will to be orderly ; but the logical plan which they seem to follow is not really the deepest and innermost ; we feel that , when present , such a plan is superadded , and serves only to lend more accuracy to the progress of a demonstration , the successive parts of which organically grow one from another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not free from pomposity ; but the natural loftiness of a mind which raises all that it touches , the breadth of an outlook which can cope with the vastest subjects , and calls up wide prospects , are such that the garment of form , with all its majesty , does not sit ill upon the body which it clothes . While the style of Burke can be compact in its precision , direct and compelling , it is most often vehement , ironical , or pathetic . His numerous images do not always testify to a perfect taste ; but they are always striking . The language is cadenced , obeying a desire for proportion , dignity and harmony , which instinctively tends to regular measures and periodic sentences , but submits at will to the necessary variety of effect , turning then to short , sharp-edged statements ; and thus the rhythm admits of all the irregularities which are called for by the living flow of the speaker 's voice . The public speeches of Burke , and the treatises which he wrote to support various causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall under the category of political eloquence . Now this kind of oratory shone with particular brilliance during the last thirty years of the eighteenth century . Hardly has Junius become silent when the conflict with America opens in Parliament and before the country at large ; a prolonged struggle , in which the voice of Burke still sounds to us more audibly than all , but where many other voices commanded the attention of the time . Once this quarrel has been settled , the strong bearing of the Pitt Administration arouses intense opposition ; the mental weakness of the king raises the question of a regency ; 1788 sees the commencement of the trial of Warren Hastings , which only 1798 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION iori ends in 1795 ; and lastly , with the fall of the Bastille , the French Revolution becomes a daily problem , rousing the antagonism of parties to a pitch of excitement . If during these troubled times the discussion of important matters of State takes on a new aspect , the change is traceable as well to other reasons . A broadening oligarchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the middle classes , enriched by industry , now openly claim a share in the government of the country . Then the publicity given to parliamentary debates is no longer opposed . Finally , English classical prose , now fully developed , is a subtle instrument which lends itself both to ordinary discussions of facts , and to the more ambitious efforts required of it by an age of oratory ? an age of sentiment , when reason retains all its prestige ; and when , from one end of Europe to the other , a uniform culture inspires a common confidence in discussion , in words , in the power of conviction , and in the goodwill of all thinking minds . ' But Burke 's thought is too vigorous to remain inseparable from the form in which he expressed it . It has its own intrinsic value , whether it told on the course of historical events , or it was creative in the sphere of ideas . More than an orator , Burke is a statesman , capable of the shrewdest and deepest views ; he owes this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his varied culture , to his remembrance of the past , but above all , to his knowledge of mankind , and to the instinct he possesses of the complex reactions through which various social interests clash , adapt themselves , and are reconciled . His political insight is made of concrete perception and accurate psychology . His exact judgment as to the possible issues of the American revolt comes from his ability to understand the indomitable motives which prompted the defiant attitude of the colonists . If , as time goes on , he tends to change certain of his ideas , it is not due to any unprincipled fluctuations in character , but rather to the progress which is inevitable if ' personality has to keep abreast of life . First a Whig , then a Tory ; at one time the defender of constitutional liberties , at another the sworn enemy of the iota THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 French Revolution , all are complementary attitudes of one and the same mind . Undoubtedly , with Burke as with so many politicians in England and elsewhere , there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , towards the preference for order , even if it entail the sacrifice of the search for improvement . But his intuition of the deepest roots of order did not undergo a substantial change . In 1775 he traces them to the free agreement and union of minds which cling with equal energy to a just tradition ; in 1790 he no longer distinguishes them from tradition itself , which has established its right to live by living and lasting . In this sense it may be said that the doctrine of Burke really represents a central point in the history of modern English thought . Through the activity of consciousness and analysis , the social and moral creations in which from the time of the Renascence the original genius of the English people had revealed itself , are now one after another being defined . The theories of experimental philosophy and utilitarianism had already been formulated ; political liberalism after 1688 , and after Locke , had been given the matter-of-fact expression which it required . British conservatism is taken by Burke out of the dim regions of ' preconceived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A supreme consecration , and perhaps inevitable , but nevertheless dangerous ; for there are religions ? and a fervent belief in the superiority of life over intelligence is undoubtedly one of these ? which gain nothing by being explained or defined in principle . However it may be , the strongest group of instincts at the core of the original British genius has been more solidly massed together , and endowed with a more distinct existence , from the time when Burke described it ; at the same time , that body of moral forces has ever since more clearly revealed its bold defiance of reason . All the political ideas of the Conservatives and the Traditionalists originate in the teaching of Burke . Disraeli 's real master was Burke , and no other . His systematic hostility to the French Revolution denies and destroys the effort of the mind to build up a better world in accordance with its own requirements . He will not grant more intelligence or more justice to human things than the proportion which Nature allows ; and in the evaluation of that quantity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1798 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 1013 What has been will be , not because progress and change are impossible , but for the reason that the laws of life govern all our desires , and that these laws are all embodied within the societies that at present exist and live . Any lasting growth is essentially organic ; and the delicate organism of the social body can not bear the sharp edge of intellectual thought , without perishing from , its contact . The sacred majesty of an irrational order of things is thus given its genuine foundation , a mystical one ; it is based on the mysterious decisions of a Providence who , having created evil and inseparably bound it up with good , has thereby intended to refuse man any hope to seriously reduce the sum of the former , without grievously impairing that of the latter . In its deepest implications , the doctrine of Burke is at one with the Christian spirit of pessimism . CHAPTER VII PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY i . Mason , Beattie , Bowles. ? There is a significant gradation between the poets whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and new artistic methods . A decisive step is taken when we pass from Mason and Beattie to Blake . The first two poets , standing upon the threshold of this period , inherit the achievement of their predecessors . In the very atmosphere around them , they find as floating suggestions the feeling for nature , melancholy , musing , the haunting love of ruins and the past . Out of those elements they make up a temporary synthesis . But their inspiration lacks the necessary strength and sincerity ; they fail completely to realise the emancipation of poetical style . In one way they are the most representative of the pre-Romanticists , for with them tradition and the future are closely intermingled . To the reader of to-day , they still preserve some living interest ; but the stamp of artificiality is upon all their work . With Burns and Blake , the vigour of personality at last triumphs over literary convention . The one rediscovers the spontaneous truth of the heart ; the other spiritualises language , melting its hardened crust , and so restores its former purity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Wordsworth . His quite exceptional destiny , his temperament , did not permit of his founding a school , of his opening up in the eyes of all the broad direct avenue towards a new poetry . But in the full sense of the term , he was the first of the Romanticists . Mason cuts a mediocre figure beside Gray , of whom he is , as it were , a subdued copy . He is a scholar , or at least has 1770 ? 1798 PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY 1015 scholarly pretensions ; he is diligent and painstaking ; his polished style and pathos suggest the leisure , the refinement of university life . But if he has the full conscience and methods of his friend , he has not the gift of his inspiration . His tragedies , prompted at once by a scrupulous classicism and by a lively historical imagination , are interesting efforts , but entirely artificial . The English Garden is not without its appeal ; a feeling of tenderness , a true taste for simplicity and for Nature in her freedom , strive with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a descriptive rhetoric as cold as it is ornate . Certain of the deeper preferences of English sensibility are expressed in it ; but they are voiced in a borrowed language , and there is no sign that the writer finds such a style inadequate . Beattie 1 obeys a kind of vague instinct that the poetic medium requires being renovated . Venturing upon a great subject , he turns to the Spenserian stanza for an ample and beautiful rhythm . He handles it clumsily enough but not without some pleasant effects . His other poems can be passed over , except a short meditation , Retirement , where there is a note of sincerity . The Minstrel is a work of vast conception , still didactic in theme , but with the added interest that it seeks to portray the inner life of the mind , and thus affords even in the matter itself the possibility of a lyricism which will be new and psychological , Beattie proposes as his subject the development of a past : Wordsworth 's idea in The Prelude will be no other . But Beattie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduces in a medieval setting the wandering singer whom Macpherson and Percy had already endeared to their readers ' imaginations . His craving for personal expression tends to give both his subject , and the metrical mould into which he has chosen to cast it , a note of meditative tenderness which is at times pleasing ; while the artificial elements of the poem ? its false archaism , its moralising theme , its still conventional style ? fail to spoil the charm to be found in the true appreciation of the poet for the // wild aspects of Scottish scenery . In the landscapes called up , in the emotion , and in the music of the language , the mind as well as the senses finds a spirit of harmony and a wealth of romantic suggestion . At other times , the abstractions are predominant . The second canto , which recalls The Excursion as the first does The Prelude , tends to be drily philosophical . The work as a whole has its beauties , and , if compared with that of ' Wordsworth , seems surprisingly prophetical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ features of the style , do not altogether blot out some very commendable intentions ? as , for example , the striving after a deep-felt and serious simplicity ? which , taken up again by other writers , and much more fully realised , will prove to be creative . This progress can be seen to a certain extent in the work of Bowles . ' With him the quiet melancholy awakened by the contemplation of nature is expressed in words of moving simplicity . His Sonnets often speak the language of the heart ; and although their inspiration tends to flag , and they do not reach , either , the unalloyed quality of a perfectly pure style , yet it is no wonder that such souls as thirsted for the freshness of genuine poetry should have found a relief in them ; nor that the Lake poets should have hailed Bowles as their immediate predecessor . ' 2 . Burns. ? Burns brings an element of complication into 1798 PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY 1017 what is otherwise the relatively simple evolution of English poetry . The influence of a half-foreign nationality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil , quicken in him the germ of an unexpected originality . He is an innovator , but not after the manner of his English contemporaries . The eighteenth century in Scotland sees the development of a literary renascence . The most noteworthy figure after Allan Ramsay , ' in a long and uninterrupted line of gifted writers , is Robert Fergusson , who died at an early age , leaving part of his work in the original Scots dialect . ' Burns pondered over and assimilated that tradition and those examples . He felt the exceptional value of a truly instinctive expression , born of experience , and steeped in the direct , sincere quality which words acquire when they are part and parcel of the everyday life of a people . Moreover , in those models he could find the first faint trace or outline of a national art : realism , humour , a lyricism which never loses sight of reality , and whose emotion is barely free from a strain of malice . He has proclaimed his indebtedness to those predecessors . Every historical outlook is wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their line , the last and greatest of all . But his debt also extends to poetry south of the Border ; he read Pope , Thomson , Gray and Young , and found in their school the discipline so necessary to check and direct the spontaneity of his style . A number of his poems are written in normal English ; and these are certainly not all of an inferior order , though many are artificial . It is difficult , therefore , to define exactly the position of Burns as regards the literature of his time . The language he employs is for the most part simple , full of a power of expression that is as yet undiminished ; his inspiration , traceable to his immediate environment ? country life , nature , love , the scenes and manners of village society ? has all the freshness of spon- ioi8 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 taneous creation . And besides , this artistic matter has already been given definite shape ; the Scots dialect is a literary instrument ; Burns draws from a wealth of themes and rhythms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the personal gift of an exceptionally precise , clean style ; his mind combines the clearness which comes of understanding , with the easy turn of thought and language which is the reward of just and concrete impressions . From these converging influences is born an art that is supremely strong and restrained in tone , and which attains to an absolute purity of form without the least effort . The example of English classical poetry had probably some share in that achievement ; but the gift which it implies is a natural product , and all artificial influences had but little to do with it . The quality of the work of Burns is that of a superior " classicism , " in the aesthetic sense of the term ; a classicism which is independent both of school and of precept , being in itself allsufficing . The logic , balance , measure , economy and perfect propriety of his terms can not be considered apart from the straightforward truth which is the soul of his expression . Dryden at times had this " inevitable " style ; but in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when compared with the simple vigour of that of Burns . The art of Burns is comprehensive , welcoming and uniting all sorts of tendencies . This is not to say that it is psychologically neutral ; it has as it were its centre of gravity , and is more an art of the intellect than of the emotions . Yet it is in close touch with all the human element in life . Compared with it , the rational poetry of a Pope is dry reading . In the work of Burns are to be found the inner elements of Romanticism : personal effusion , sensibility , a keen love for nature , a wealth of imaginative fancy , a sympathetic interest in the poor and in animals . But he is immune from all feverishness of the heart or of the head ; his moments of absolute melancholy are few ; his soul is healthily robust , too strong to be mortally wounded by the pangs of life , too sane to be overcome by any ecstasy . A manly sense of liberty is the animating force of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of greatness , and makes allowance for all other kinds with courtesy or , as the case may be , with irony . Burns is deeply aware of the 1798 PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY 1019 dignity and the equality of men . Before the fall of the Bastille he was by instinct a Republican ; after this event he was so in principle and confessedly , even to the point of entering into conflict with those around him ; until the day when England was threatened with invasion , and then his patriotism was fired , so that he felt again at one with his friends . His poetry breathes a spirit of irreverence ; he spares neither church nor clergy ; his independent beliefs do not feel bound by orthodox faith . With an almost Gallic verve he pokes fun at the devil , makes free with the theme of eternal damnation , and laughs at the secret troubles which beset the Puritan conscience . He opposes a goodnatured frankness to the outward show of austere demeanour , and maintains that true virtue lies in generosity . His private life , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his paternal feelings , are all reflected in his poetry , the faithful mirror of an existence which has made a full and open confession of itself . His work is of a mixed nature . A great part is composed of occasional verse , short poems , mere sketches one might say , jotted down from day to day , in most cases without any great depth of meaning , although the touch of a master is evident ; or again , circumstantial poems , lacking in real inspiration . What remains is almost entirely of the first order ; whether it be that realistic imaginative verve , so lively and yet so sympathetically human , which evokes the truculence of the Jolly Beggars and the wondrous adventure of Tam o ' Shanter ; or the still inoffensive mockery which gibes at Doctor hornbook ; or that which penetrates with keener irony the secret grudges harboured up in Holy Willie 's Prayer ; or again , the sterling strength and frankness cast into the ballad form of John Barleycorn ; or lastly , the fresh and graceful simplicity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tenderness or one of sad regret . Nothing could be more varied than Burns 's inspiration , destined as it was to spread only over a few fruitful years . To the foreigner , and even to the uninitiated Englishman , the language of Burns 's Scots poems offers some difficulty . The reader finds a glossary indispensable ; but when once the linguistic obstacles have been surmounted , the use of dialect will lend greater charm to the work . It breathes a spirit of naivety , and 1020 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 at the same time has a strain of lurking slyness ; it conjures up a peasant-like atmosphere of shrewd observation and genial goodnature . Such dialectal forms imply and suggest a ' power of perception which is essentially concrete ; they reveal a keen sense of character and of ridicule , while at the same time they have a canniness and an impassibility pregnant ' with mockery . Not only do they favour the introduction of the humorous element , but they are themselves already part and parcel of humour . Indeed there is nothing more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of quiet mirth , of a gaiety which brings with it into almost everything a touch of fine irony ; it is the expression and the playful revenge of a personality , which judges life without embittered rancour , and loves it without illusions . Burns has been as successful with the metre of his poems as with the language . He can not be termed a creator in this sense , because he has borrowed from his predecessors , and is in no small way indebted to national popular song . The simplest of the metres , and those in which he shows the greatest skill , are of a light , quick movement , whether it be to convey the sprightly thrust of some satirical impulse , or the vigorous notations of the poet 's descriptive talent . Many of the best poems are written in the traditional six-lined stanza ? four long interlaced with two short ? which appears in each instance to end in a pirouette , a sly comment , or the brief avowal of some bestirring emotion . ' 3 . Blake. ? The psychological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soul . When its efforts to realise art , truth or virtue have become artificial and sterile through their automatic working , the result of a prolonged strain , it finds a new fecundity by renouncing what have proved to be exhausting and fruitless ambitions ; by returning , through simplicity , to its own deeper powers ; by resuming contact with the elementary energy of the subconscious . That rule which holds in the case of individuals is no less binding in that of collective minds . English literature at the close of the eighteenth century is preg- 1798 PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY 1021 nant with a new intuition , which it seeks laboriously to discover by means of a ' parallel and forced heightening of the tone in style and in feeling . It is then that with Blake , just as with Wordsworth a short time later , an absolute sincerity , a mystic renunciation , the boldness of a self that offers itself in its nakedness , reveal the treasure of a yet untapped spirituality , which , inward and secret as it was , still lay within easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh sources is rejuvenated and renewed . If the theory of periodic revivifications in art is something other than a mere suggestive image , its exigencies are still better answered by Blake 1 than by Wordsworth . As a writer he is much less occupied with theory , and shows less self-consciousness ; his new departures follow no set programme . No reformer ever was more thoroughly ruled by instinct . This is why in certain directions , and at the very first attempt , he goes farther than Wordsworth . But if he surpasses the latter in the wealth of his prophetic gospel , as in the simple purity of his inspiration , he lacks his sense of balance . For the working out of a literary technique , and the application of a doctrine to the rules which preside over the art of words , what is wanted is a cool judgment . However unique and exceptional the part played by Wordsworth may have been in reality , he is still in our eyes the leader of a 1022 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 school . Blake , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme originality kept him apart from the general public , and official recognition . Only a small group knew his genius or dimly felt his greatness ; and he pursued his indefatigable labour in relative obscurity . Never did a temperament show greater individuality . He felt some influences ; but in his mode of thinking , in his imagination , and in his artistic tastes , all his main decisions are solely his own . He invented or re-created for himself all that he set his hand to . His drawings bear the stamp of a characteristic and inimitable vision . His poetry deals in the subtlest kind of symbolism with a skill that can not be matched . His philosophy is a series of intuitive flights into the realm of the Absolute , soaring with tranquil and imperious assurance ; to our minds they are presented as a group of strange , complicated symbols , which to Blake are the clearest , the most familiar realities . His mind works in open defiance of all the normal laws of logic ; the language which he speaks , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His thought , powerfully creative and free from all commonplace forms , has shaken itself loose as well from the most necessary conventions . It moves and has its being on the extreme edge of the thinkable , or even beyond , just as his eager expression will cross the bounds of the inexpressible . The first poems of Blake , together with lyrical fragments which he wrote at intervals throughout his life , and which are not of a very different nature , form in themselves a realm of poetry apart from every other . It is a domain of purely spontaneous effort , creative through its power of spiritual realisation . The working of an inner light , and mysticism , are already in evidence ; but a youthfulness of heart will not allow the poet to entertain their exuberant fancies ; the predominant , almost exclusive theme of his poetry is the feelings of a child 's impassioned soul ; and the natural tone of its language is a moving simplicity , while its emotions possess a pure ardour . The essence of Romanticism is here in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happiness , as in the Poetical Sketches and the Songs of Innocence , or the note of grief and rebellion against a world given over to evil be more pronounced , as in the Songs of Experience . The universe here is seen through the eyes of a child , I 1798 PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY 1023 felt through its senses , judged through its heart ; and this child is the symbol of the most delicate and courageous intuitions in the human mind , just like the soul of a peasant in those moments of sober exaltation which will be to Wordsworth the very source and inner substance of poetry . The elements of Romanticism are present , either actually or potentially ; some ? such as the sense of wonder , the contemplation of nature through fresh eyes , an intimate sympathy with the varieties of existence most distant from the reach of our clear intelligence ? whatever belongs , in one word , to a sensibility suffused with imagination-are found to the highest degree ; others , such as the obsession of the past or the absorbing sense of self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at times a hint of namby-pambiness , but that puerility is no less strong than it is graceful ; the clear eyes which questioningly look at nature , animals and man , are endowed with a singular acuity of vision . Still , everything they see is bathed in a halo of mystery and beauty ; there radiates from them meek pity no less than a holy anger . Blake 's first style is in a way a juvenile form of Romanticism ; and in those early songs English poetry , without being conscious of it , thoroughly undergoes the miraculous process of its rejuvenation . Here the words welded together by a pure inspiration are as smoothly joined as the molecules in a flowing stream ; they are perfectly adapted to the thought because they are as simple as possible , and the thought is itself simple . They do not strive after elegance , and yet they achieve it by means of their perfect adaptation . They do not aim at being intense , and yet are expressive because they are still soaked in the feeling from which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , each word joining the next in a rhythm whose measure is indistinguishable from the accent of the words , or from the modulation of the phrase . Here is the melody , somewhat thin but supremely spontaneous , of the soul in its moments of emotion . In the poetry of Blake the dried-up spring of Elizabethan lyricism may be said to well up again . ' These first poems , however , are not all of an equal quality . They are not-free from prosaic touches ; jarring or weak notes 1024 THE PRE-ROMANTIC PERIOD 1770 are heard , traceable to the over-impatient ardour of the poet . Here and there a painful feverishness invades and disturbs the quiet effusion of the thought . The " Prophetic Books " are the work of an unruly genius , of a mature thinker whose presence makes the artist in Blake still greater , but who changes the exquisite poet into an excited visionary . The doctrine of Blake is a confused assemblage of desires and impulses ; it may be likened to a vast gospel of liberty . In its daring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French Revolution , with their social consequences ; and even goes as far as the vague unlimited vistas of anarchic individualism , of free mysticism and of the modern criticism of moral values . All settled criteria and faiths are there upset at a single stroke . ' Whether it be the orthodox religion of Christ , or the traditional notions of good and evil , or again , rational and scientific beliefs , the same revolutionary spirit reverses the previous order of things with undoubting enthusiasm . On one hand , it reaches and even passes the religion of a Swedenborg and the unbending postulates of the mystics of the Puritan Republic ; on the other , it foretells all the work of liberation by which contemporary psychology has endeavoured to overthrow the control of moral prohibition and repression . Blake is the prince of spiritual revolt ; but his doctrinal ideas , harbouring within the confines of his own consciousness , and only perceptible in the pages of his magnificent though obscure work , have wielded no influence ; they linger in literature like some hidden explosive force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minds of scholarly adepts . England , at the time when she was bent upon a policy hostile to the French Revolution , did not even know of that vehement and sweeping denial of all her cherished idols . A manifold and yet coherent symbolism expresses these ideas , uniting them and at the same time emphasising their relationship one with another . The mythical vision of Blake creates an original cosmogony ; the metaphysical or religious concepts are imbued with life , given a form , and clothed in a kind of gigantic humanity which recalls to mind the imaginative creations of Michael Angelo and Dante . These personages , once become the familiar guests of his thought , live , meet , or oppose each other in the far-stretching fields of time and space , and the 1798 PRE-ROMANTIC POETRY 1025 destiny of the spheres depends on their cosmic interplay . The artist , the seer , spellbound by symbolical images , and the thinker haunted by intellectual entities , are now one and the same person ; the work of Blake , a maze of intermingling forms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realm of darkness peopled by supernatural beings , where one and the same idea develops throughout a continued series of signs and conventional equivalents , but where any attempt at a precise interpretation would be hazardous . Only perhaps in some of the creations of Hugo would it be possible for a Frenchman to glean an idea of the strange world of Blake 's symbolic thought . It can not be said that Blake in the " Prophetic Books " conforms to any of the normal conditions of literary or picturesque expression . To find a close connectedness between the successive terms is well-nigh impossible . The style has often a biblical grandeur ; the rhythm of the verse is ample , free , rugged , but sometimes instinct with unequalled majesty ; and magnificent intervals are scattered through vast stretches of arid or obscure vaticination . The voice of the poet is still to be heard in passages of powerful evocation , just as his touch can be seen in frescoes whose broad sweep is as vast as the mind of the visionary who by now has taken his place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sight practised and trained in deciphering it ; and for a century the " Prophetic Books " ? whose full wealth of content was revealed only at a recent date ? have had no influence except on a small group of faithful admirers . BOOK V // CHAPTER I THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1 . Romanticism in Itself , and in Its Relation to Society ; the Two Phases. ? The first thirty years of the nineteenth century form a natural period . Certain characteristics , which have long been growing more definite , now acquire an extreme intensity . We witness the realisation in all its plenitude of a type of emotional and imaginative literature that has escaped from the constraining forces of sovereign Reason , as even from those incorporated in the expression itself . This consummation is brought about by an inner progress , but at the same time it is favoured by the general influences of the social and moral surroundings . After the great upheaval caused by the transformation of industry , after the religious awakening of Methodism and evangelism , the decisive shock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate enough to date , as is often done , the beginning of the new age in literature from the publication of the anonymous work which united the young talents of Wordsworth and Coleridge ( 1798 ) . With the one as with the other , the ardour of a generosity which may change its object , but never changes its nature , is the main origin of the poetic idealism ; and the revolutionary faith which had hitherto animated them is the source of their artistic and human vocation . They are indebted to it for the assurance and authority of their doctrine , for what establishes them as the long expected theorists and prophets . The spiritual quality of the eminent poets who thus appear on the very threshold of English Romanticism helps us to gain some ideas as to its inner nature and the mental forces governing it . Romanticism can be defined only in terms of pure psychology . Any other formula alters or limits arbitrarily its very essence . IO26 1798-1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1027 English Romanticism is not one artistic principle in conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a brief moment a controversial doctrine , their agreement very quickly gives way before their temperamental differences ; and none of the writers whom posterity classes with them or among their immediate successors follows their example on this point . Romanticism in England is much less clearly than in France the affirmation of an innovatory aesthetic creed , as opposed to an orthodox art . English literature , of a less codified and disciplined nature than that of France , was less subservient to an explicit system of rules which had been , so to speak , officially registered by enlightened opinion , incorporated in manners , observed by learned bodies and upheld by an Academy . The general public in England is in no way impassioned over the quarrels of different schools ; indeed a battle such as that fought over Hugo 's drama , Hernani , is unknown in that country . A new type of poetic creation , which for long has been in a state of obscure growth , now takes definite shape in certain pronounced traits , and declares its independence towards the past with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the initiative shown by Wordsworth is merely an episode ? . though of a very full significance ? in a whole movement which on all sides is of even broader importance . And if one examines only the conscious principles at issue , one is forced to admit the presence of embarrassing exceptions . The cult of former values , and that of Pope , are still to be found in Byron ; while the effort of Keats and Shelley is directed along lines which have little in common with the doctrine of Wordsworth and Coleridge . English Romanticism does not consist in the triumph of " self . " The personality of the writer has a characteristic place in it , because sensibility and imagination are of the very essence of individuality , whilst intelligence tends to the general . Everything considered , classicism laid stress upon the impersonal aspects of the life of the mind ; the new literature , on the other hand , openly shifts the centre of art , bringing it back towards what is most proper and particular in each individual . This is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English Romanticism primarily consist in a return to a national tradition , although in a real and deep sense it is that very thing . The idea of restoring the broken continuity of a 1028 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 formerly normal inspiration , which the attraction of a different art ? an attraction enhanced by the spontaneous transformation in taste ? had dried at its source , is only partially and at intervals present in the conscious thought of those poets who realise it . And when they do dream of reanimating the past , it is not altogether for its national and familiar quality , but on account of its intrinsic virtues , and of the moral attributes they see in it . This is equivalent to saying , on the other hand , that English Romanticism is not the outcome of foreign influences either . The part played by such a contagion , at this date , is much less significant in England than in France . The stimulating effect of certain themes which have emanated from Germany , or of which Germany supplied the most typical forms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature from 1790 to 1830.1 English Romanticism , in itself , is the active reawakening , in the larger number of writers , of a creative impulse of a type formerly current , which for many years had tended to become rare , and almost to disappear ; but which during the last fifty years , in fact , had shown signs of a growing revival . To speak in this connection of sensibility and , imagination as two distinct faculties would be misleading ; what one has to realise is the intimate fusion , the close reciprocal dependence of these two inner activities . The Romantic spirit can be defined as an accentuated predominance of emotional life , provoked or directed by the exercise of imaginative vision , and in its turn stimulating or directing such exercise . Intense emotion coupled with an intense display of imagery , such is the frame of mind which supports and feeds the new literature . The works of art which give the epoch its distinct character spring from a creative effort which has been prompted through the exaltation of these two groups of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may be dominant in relation to the other ; but as a rule they function as one , and in too compact a way to permit of analysis . The rather 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1029 primitive or derived part of emotion or imagery offers an interesting but difficult problem , the solution of which in each particular case does not affect the value of the general interpretation here put forth . This interpretation enables us to include and to connect together all those works customarily acknowledged as Romantic . No other , it seems , would permit us to include them all . It goes without saying that a formula of this kind does not exhaust the special properties of Romanticism as we have it in 182o ; it does not do justice to all that is particular and unique in this phase of the English moral rhythm . If epochs in literature are by their origin , and in their very substance , psychological moments , and if these moments obey a law of alternation which after a while brings them back , there remains to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subtle characteristics which give it its individual figure among the similar periods . The Elizabethan age had already been essentially an age of Romanticism . What are the traits which distinguish the later Romanticism from the earlier ? In the first place there are delicate differences due to the immediate happenings and to near historical influences . No one beating of the moral rhythm ever completely resembles another , be it for the reason that history never entirely repeats itself . The French Revolution , for instance , is a unique event . But the capital difference is of a more inner nature . The history of thought is less apt to repeat itself than any other sequence : the reason is that a new state of the mind could not possibly be identical with a former one which it recalls , since it adds to it the continuous experience gained in the interval of time , an experience inscribed in the very perception of its intrinsic newness . The looked-for difference lies precisely in this , that the Romanticism of 1820 knows and feels itself to be a second period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consciousness of itself is spontaneously turned to the past ; it is wholly permeated with an aspiration which exalts it : a zealous impulse carrying it towards earlier forms of existence . It is , so to say , under the haunting influence of feelings already experienced , of a moral life which has formerly been lived , and which memory would fain recapture . This subtle impression of regret mingled with the joy of a discovery , this recognition of a land at once strange and 1030 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 familiar , where the heart finds itself at home , as it proceeds to explore it , impregnates all the fibres of English Romanticism ; and the same spirit is perceptible in French Romanticism , although no doubt in a lesser degree . And it is much rather through a probing deeper into the self , than through the exercise of pure imagination , that the heart 's desire is attained . A feeling of nostalgic strangeness is essential to this literature , because consciousness is in quest of a certain mood which is a thing of the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality of the mood , and not a mere image . By an effort of spiritual will-power and intuition this form of life can be retrieved from its dormant state , and restored to the plenitude of being . Just as individual memory is a latent persistence of the thing remembered , so Romanticism was ever present in the background of the classical spirit . Its resurrection is really in the nature of an awakening . Thus the " wonder " of the Romanticists is the enthralling discovery , the progressive lighting-up of an inner horizon , which extends beyond the limits of clear consciousness ; it is the perception of objects in the magic garb with which our fresher vision invested them of yore , and which our tired eyes had forgotten . The obsession of distant centuries is the mysterious attraction of strong modes of feeling of which the collective memory has preserved a confused recollection , and which it naturally associates with remote phases of its experience . These tendencies in the Romanticism of 1820 are not mere elements of chance and accident , but inevitable and constitutive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the psychological attitude of the writers ; but the case is different with the general public . 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1031 No doubt , there exists a moral attitude common to the artists , to such at least as reflect the character of the age . This attitude is called forth and encouraged , broadly speaking , by the circumstances of the mental environment . It is very far , however , from standing in a simple relation to this environment ; from receiving only favourable impulses ; or from representing the actual tone of this environment , save by a distant approximation . At the time when Romanticism definitively makes its appearance , no sudden break is revealed in the movement of minds . As is ever the case , the passage from one epoch to another is effected by a silent and gradual transition . But moreover , it would be erroneous to believe that the Romantic period is marked by a general and common exaltation of souls . If one looks at society as a whole , this period does not coincide with a phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a secret want of balance . There is no noticeable increase in the public cult of emotion ; indeed , in certain respects , it would rather appear to be decreasing . Outwardly , at least , the sentimentalism inherited from the preceding age is contradicted by the elegant or cynical scepticism of contemporary manners . The court and the aristocracy , despite official decorum , set the example of loose frivolity . The English Regency recalls , after the lapse of a hundred years , that of the eighteenth century in France . The bulk of the nation , however , pursues the task of industrial and commercial expansion ; its practical standard is that of a utilitarianism which daily becomes more clearly defined . The mal du siecle does not possess in England the character of an almost universal epidemic ; in its serious form , it only affects exceptional types ; while in the average circles of cultivated society it only assumes the benign form of a moral disquietude , to which the unsettled condition of the political world contributes as much as if not more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completion of a new literature is here therefore a delayed effect ; or rather an organic and complex phenomenon , the fruit of a long preparation , in which the distant past plays a part not less important than that of the recent past or of present circumstances . The state of society from ' Soo to 183o is as unable to provide an explanation of Romanticism , as it is on the // other hand able to throw light on the detail , the accidents and even the internal divisions of the movement . For in the sphere of politics , this period has a strongly marked and clear outline , the relation of which to the course of literature is as definite as it is simple . English Romanticism is not a homogeneous group of tendencies and writers . One must distinguish in it two successive generations , the limit of which would roughly coincide with the final downfall of Napoleon . Until about 1 8 1 5 , England is concentrated in a national effort to combat the France of Revolutionary and Imperial times . This contracting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditions , while making it impervious to the direct radiation of the Revolutionary ideal . The first Romanticism , therefore , puts itself forth as a reaction against this ideal . The feelings , instincts and imagination which it brings into play , and which it exploits with audacious freedom , are linked up by it with the permanent fund of British originality . The mysticism upon which the poetical reform of Wordsworth and Coleridge is based thus seeks its justification and its encouraging precedents in a national idealism , where a sympathetic interest in the poor enters as an element , but where there is no place for a foreign gospel of the rights of man . And this sympathy is justified , according to these writers , by the moral dignity of a peasant race attached to the soil for years , whose spirit goes back , beyond the century of Reason and enlightenment , to the faith and patriotism of bygone ages . In the literary field , the Lake poets claim as their authority the examples of the Elizabethan Renascence ; in the social sphere , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which traditional virtues are still lingering . It is in this light that they view their relationship ? which is wholly one of hostility and defence ? with the great political turmoil , the shock of which has never , in fact , ceased to produce a fecund bestirring in their souls . About 1815 , the situation is reversed . The Tory reaction has no longer any object ; or if it outlives its original purpose , it must divest itself of the garb of disinterestedness with which the threatened security of a common patrimony had invested it . ( ) II the other hand , some economic and political forces are telling with added vigour in favour of an impatient liberalism . The middle-class business people and the citizens of the great indus1832 // trial centres demand a share in public affairs as in electoral rights . The victorious struggle with the French Empire leaves England impoverished , perturbed and preoccupied with internal problems . The financial and agricultural crisis neutralises the effect of commercial prosperity . Stimulated by these facts , the offensive waged by agitators and philosophers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the selfish system of the " Holy Alliance " in Europe is now faced with the growing hostility of the peoples . In an atmosphere such as this , the second generation of Romanticists breathes a spirit of moral revolt . Without abjuring the authority in art of the Elizabethan models , it refuses to recognize any prestige in tradition itself , and severely criticises a present that is overruled by the fear of progress , as by conventional privileges and lies . By way of direct transmission or derived influence , this generation receives the heritage of revolutionary thought ; it links up the impassioned intensity of its psychological tone with ideas of liberty and rebellion , with a keen determination to secure independence and realise justice , and with an exclusive cult of the beautiful . It is innovatory , critical , and readily places itself outside the pale of common obligations . The writers of the first group , even if they run counter to the orthodox habits of language and style , are nevertheless in moral harmony with a large majority of the public . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but are not in a state of open conflict with them . The Romanticism of the Lake poets is a kind of purification and deepening of normal existence ; it fronts society as an example and permanent solicitation . It takes its stand upon the emotions that are common to all , and only seeks , by stimulating them , to idealise them into poetry . The second generation , on the contrary , sets up a decided opposition between the artist and his surroundings . It carries the ardour of feeling and imagination to a degree at which the average temperament would seem to perceive an excess threatening the balance of personality ; and at the same time , it raises against the established order of things a manifold protestation instinct with generous passion , haughty sarcasm or aesthetic detachment . Thus Romanticism becomes a literature of social conflict . It appeals to the vital forces of the 1034 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 soul against the rule of interests and cold calculation ; it attracts to its banners the zealous and the young , but not without provoking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different plane , meanwhile , the theorists of philosophical radicalism are actively pursuing a somewhat similar aim ; but they employ a language that is more intelligible , while their reasoning stops far short of the enthusiasm or the irony of the poets . Despite this accord with an intellectual movement destined at least to a partial success , the Romanticism of 1820 deviates from the conditions necessary to ensure the durability of an artistic phase ; it exceeds the average powers of the public . Born of a long psychological development , and transposing , as it does , into the domain of art an agitation , an emotional bestirring which society was determined to put an end to , it requires from all minds a sympathy which only a morally liberated elite could grant it . At a very early stage , therefore , it was severed from the only roots that could nourish it . The literature of a small number , it never became really popular . To be more widely accepted , it had to wait until a reactionary movement towards balance had set in against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was effaced the danger with which it had seemed to threaten society ? a society which above all desired to live . 2 . Wordsworth. ? Wordsworth 's 1 creative originality among 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1035 English poets remains closely linked to his intimate contact with the revolutionary faith . A spiritual bond was thus formed never to be broken . The enthusiasm for the fraternity of mankind played the very part in his life that religious conversion has done on English soil towards the formation of so many active souls . From this glow was kindled the flame of an idealism which varied much in its expression , and even seemed to belie itself in belying its first forms , before it declined with age . But it was never completely extinguished , preserving as it did until the end a radiating power that was still effective . And although he had become the adversary of all reform ; Wordsworth remained none the less the apostle which the Revolution had made him . It is of little consequence that his poetic vocation and art should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a reaction against them . The essential initiative which he then takes in the order of art implies an inner certitude , a clearness of vision , which English poetry had been expecting for half a century , and which a writer could find only in the regenerating power of a great faith . In order to renew so thoroughly the inspiration and language of poetry , to destroy an imperious tradition and to break a spell , the utmost moral courage was required . Blake had possessed this courage , which he owed to his mysticism ; but he was not fully aware of what he did . Wordsworth has this knowledge , and the more certainly , as his literary reform is connected by a close analogy with his recent political zeal . It is impossible not to see that the doctrine of the Lyrical Ballads is an aesthetic application of sentimental democracy . In this collection of verse , where the contribution of Wordsworth is much greater than that of Coleridge , and in the shorter poems of the following period ( 1798-1805 ) , the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms , but all animated by persisting intentions . One feels that it has been prepared by a painstaking effort of critical thought , upon which successive prefaces and the disquisitions of Coleridge ( Biographia Literaria ) had thrown a strong light . Both poets are above all concerned with psychology . Carrying to its utmost limit the preoccupation which is already to be recognised in the work of their predecessors , from Cowper to Blake , they deliberately make the human soul the centre of art . In a sense , classicism had exactly the same intention ; it also found its favourite subject-matter in the study of . the mind . But the perception of what appertains to consciousness becomes with the Romanticists a much more vital and supple process ; and this more direct hold which the writer 's self now possesses upon its own working , a hold due to the intuitive quality of an inner life that has been stimulated by the revival of imaginative emotion , constitutes the principle as well as the originality of a transformed literature . So predominant is this psychological curiosity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the fact ? seems rather to be in search of truth than of poetry . Behind this scientific taste , however , there is revealed a deeper motive , the desire for such an experience as will be profitable to both feelings and conduct . The Lyrical Ballads and the poems of the same group are a series of moral analyses , of a rich intrinsic value , discreetly guided by an edifying and utilitarian purpose . The occasion for these analytical studies is provided by the everyday life , not of the elegant and refined classes , but of the people , and above all of the peasants . Wordsworth 's realism is a complex product in which , along with the desire for truth , a love of Nature and simplicity , and a reaction against false noble ness , commingle with a social faith in the dignity of the humbles lives . Here we recognise both his own memories of childhood and the lasting influence of his Revolutionary years . This realism , as often happens , is therefore pregnant with a virtual idealism , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sober means , spiritual beauty from fresh sources . And not only is the rustic austerity of the subjects wholly lit up by the brilliancy which a meditative mind imparts to whatever i touches , but in addition a halo of strangeness and mystery conk to glorify it . In the obscure stirrings of consciousness is hidden 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1037 a subtle artistic element , which the poet can turn to use for the most moving of effects . In accordance with the sharing of their common task , Wordsworth takes familiar reality as the object of his study , exalting it through the strength of a reflective sensibility ; Coleridge chooses the supernatural as his theme , and sets out to invest it with the semblance of truth as with the power to appeal to our feelings . By these inverse methods , the two writers tend towards the same end , the intimate fusion of the real with the ideal ; and the bond which unites these elements is here none other than the new perception of the ' possibilities of " wonderment " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ germ of which Wordsworth owed to the inward concentration of his thought upon itself , and Coleridge to his philosophical meditations and , later , to German transcendalism ; but which also could have been encouraged by the example which the novels of Mrs. Radcliffe afforded of a supernaturalness that was of a wholly inner nature . Thus the short tales of Wordsworth tend to stir up the emotions of a soul which opens itself freely to the mysterious reverberating echo of the simplest lessons of life . Suggestion is the real aim of this poetry , and the means it employs are at bottom of the same order as those which symbolism will utilise at a later date . In appearance , this poetry is summed up in an exact faithfulness to reality . With uncompromising bluntness in the Lyrical Ballads ? a manner that tends to soften later ? it throws up in a full light the meaner traits of a suffering humanity . Man is shown by it in the setting of Nature , in strict accordance with daily observation , and without a trace of exaggeration or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence upon man , there emanates from its brief and sober pictures a teaching of all the inexpressible lessons which the sky and the earth , the seasons and all living creatures , convey to a sensibility upright and sound enough to remain receptive . The very first poems of Wordsworth ( Descriptive Sketches , etc. ) , had borne testimony to the wealth of his sensory notations ; and from the publication of the Lyrical Ballads he draws upon these resources , which he uses with a severe self-command , for much more powerful effects . Psychological intensity ? the vibration of our consciousness in its contact with things ? is a relative quantity , and one which depends in a large measure upon ourselves . The deeper the 1038 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 attention we bring to bear upon facts , the richer will be our feelings in connection with them ; and it is to this depth of attention that Wordsworth would incite us . He constantly reminds us that nothing is indifferent to him who is able to see and feel . In the unlimited store of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preference of the mind as well as of the heart , falls upon that in which the humblest humanity is laid bare ; for the emotion which has its source in it is freer from all conventional alloy , and possesses at the same time a power of more moving appeal . His poems place themselves , and us , in a state of sensitive receptivity before the simple incidents of rural life . Meditation , tenderness , a philosophical and serious beauty , are born of the vast widening of the soul 's horizon , brought about by a moral shock which is in itself of no significance , but proceeds to grow and idealise itself . Never did poetry more nearly approach a character of pure spirituality . As for the properly sensual value of art , it has no place here . Being thus a collection of those intense and chosen moods which the world stirs in an attentive mind , whose imagination and reflection work up the rough data of sensibility , the poetry of Wordsworth searched , as it were , after a suitable form in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found by instinct , but was unable at once to define . One must not interpret too literally the successive formulae which Wordsworth puts forward for his poetic diction . The first goes beyond his thought ; he never seriously believed that a poet 's means of expression should coincide altogether with those of the most familiar speech . To him the Lyrical Ballads are little else than experiments , in which a new principle is applied with a vigour meant to remain exceptional . He has a very exact intuition of this principle , even if he gives it definite shape only by degrees . It is not to identify entirely the language of poetry with that of conversation among men of the people or of the middle class ; but that one should put the language of every day , that is to say the living and real language , to contribution for such elements as are most fitting towards the artistic suggestion one has in view . What will these elements be ? They will be of a kind which the sincere an direct ardour of the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of intense forcefulness , corresponding t intense states of consciousness ; but their intensity is of a whol ! 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1039 inner character , so that their distinctive feature is simplicity . Herein lies the truth at the core of the doctrine . Thus the theory of style again joins up with the moral and social idealism , and with the mysticism of Nature ; the elementary powers of being are subjacent , and therefore preferable , to the artificial products of intelligence ; in every sense , it is through simplicity that one returns to actual depth . The poetry of Wordsworth is based upon an effort to convey by simple means the impression of intensity . But the use of ordinary words does not suffice to create this impression ; one thing more is necessary , namely , the deep-felt tone which reveals their hidden tension , and brings into play their power of virtual suggestion . Music is possessed of adequate means by which the proper tone may be indicated ; Wordsworth makes up for them to a certain extent , thanks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the choice of verse as a medium , the prestige of poetry , the rhythm , and the effect of pieces which shed light on one another , and thus afford the reader a clue . He has also to allow for certain turns and expressions of a revealing nature , which imply by their very irregularity a superior degree of emotional tension , and the effect of which is to throw the whole tenor of the style on to the plane of full-meant intention and subdued eloquence . On the other hand , literary tradition offers a model to the innovators . In the Romanticism of Wordsworth and Coleridge there is the consciousness and the will of a return to national sources . The disease that is preying upon ' poetry is the artificiality of a language in which the external and explicit means of conveying intensity have been worn out by the deadening effect of custom , and have lost all their power of suggestion ; so that they crush inspiration itself and paralyse all effort towards a renewal of art . To shake off these chains , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to say , to seek the vigour of words only in the force of their emotional note , such a step will mean a return to the practice of the old masters . The terms they employed had not yet suffered from constant use ; therefore they could be satisfied with a moderate degree of outward intensity ; and their style , when compared with that of the eighteenth century at its close , is of a relatively simple quality , just as it is ever racy , frank and spontaneous . 1042 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 effort and without uneasiness , for he does not deem it possible that truth may be contrary to his moral optimism . Finally , a note of personal tenderness , an almost elegiac inclination to evoke the memories of his own childhood , makes The Prelude the most admirable record of a soul 's progress towards the full possession of self , which is implied in the apostolate of a poetic calling . The acuteness of the analyses which Wordsworth has thus given of subtle facts , and clothed in a language now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the present-day study of the mind . The second part of his career reveals an inspiration on the wane , a didactic purpose that grows too prominent , a petty concern for an orthodox fidelity to order . He has still moments of beautiful , grand utterance , as in his Sonnets , which rank among the most robust in the English language ; he retains to the end his nobility of thought and of form . But all that is exceptionally original in him belongs to the period of his first maturity . He is the psychological poet among all others ; and by consciously shifting the domain of art into the realm of the implicit , he has prepared the way for the supreme enrichment of modern literature . 3 . Coleridge. ? Coleridge 1 possesses the most vigorous mind 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1043 among the English Romanticists of the first generation ; in some of his pieces , he is their most exquisite poet . But his work , his life and even his thought are marked by an unhappy fate , which prevented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to cope with an intellectual and artistic ambition which in everything chose as its aim the greatest and the most exacting efforts . He scarcely carried through any of his undertakings . He became a slave to opium , and to a deep-set disease of his very personality , of which the former habit was as much the effect as the cause . Unlike Wordsworth , he never recovered his balance ; and while he taught the moral courage which culminates in victory , it was with the sense of defeat . The contrast is all the more striking , as at a decisive moment the two men were in close relationship with each other . Their development , until the time of their meeting , offers great analogies . Coleridge , like Wordsworth , went through a phase of revolutionary ardour ; his first poems , where we catch a partial glimpse of his temperament , do not as yet reveal the marvellous originality which welled up within him all at once . He begins by imitating the artificial style of the eighteenth century , and his themes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that of a fresh-created language , come to him at the same time ; and this is the hour when his social zeal , his hopes for mankind , freed from the hope of any immediate realisation , are transformed into a spiritual idealism . Wordsworth 's influence contributes to this result ; but Coleridge is indebted to no one but himself for the more philosophic and mystical character with which he invests their common doctrine . He goes directly to the supernatural . The other parts of the programme of the Lyrical Ballads have not the same hold over him , although he has a large share in their development . At a later date , and without any reserve , he will criticise Wordsworth 's theory of poetic language , and his practical application of it ; being more of an analyst , he will perceive the exaggeration of his friend 's formula ? , and will point out his happy inconsist- 1044 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 170g encies . He himself is not at pains to seek simplicity by way of principle ; it is already there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is without a flaw . Nothing more definitely conveys an impression of the inevitable word than the masterpieces of Coleridge , whether the quality of the style be conscious and laboured , as in The Ancient Mariner , or whether it would seem to follow closely an inner prompting , as in Kubla Khan . Both poems are visions ; in Christabel as in The Three Graves , reality plays an increasing part , but that of the invisible still remains paramount . The very centre of Coleridge 's art lies in his faculty of evoking the mystery of things , and making it actual , widespread , and obsessing . Even better than Wordsworth , because his is the more powerful imagination , and with him the haunting sense of the inexpressible is keener , less subservient to a strong moral purpose , he knows how to handle that species of the supernatural whose essence is entirely psychological . His somewhat wavering metaphysics , made up , above all , of desire , and only borrowing the fragments of a system from the German disciples of Kant , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our spirit and the divine . To descend to the depth of our consciousness ; is to discover the immanent being ; in this way we are able to penetrate beyond the plane of appearance and sense ; it is only in questioning ourselves that we can unravel the universe ; the true , the only events are those of the soul , and the special domain of poetry is this inner theatre . Here will be staged the episodes and reactions which it narrates ; and the feelings which it would arouse in us must be registered by our spiritual eyes . The supernatural element in The Ancient Mariner is a hallucination , the outcome of remorse ; by the most sober of methods Christabel suggests the terror of a vague menace . The vivid intensity of effects in the first poem , their subtlety and diffusion through the whole atmosphere of the second , are equally the work of a very great artist . Coleridge possesses as well a vein of intimate effusion , a homely , religious inspiration , and the direct utterance of emotional moods ; besides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he stamps with new characteristics . In such works the landscape is interwoven with the feelings , in accordance with an irresistible association , the wholly subjective quality of which he himself perceives and points out with sad clear1832 // sightedness ( Dejection , an Ode ) . He reaps a richer harvest through the senses than Wordsworth ; they invest his impressions of Nature with an extraordinary freshness and splendour , and at the same time with a shrewd , minute precision which reveals the analytical mind . The complex and original savour of his work is partly the result of this blending of keen intellectuality with the receptive emotionality of a lyric poet . Therefore the purest expressions of his genius possess an incomparable quality . But these supreme moments were of short duration . It would appear as though at an early stage the excessive ardour of his thought had dried up his poetic vein . The impoverished flow becomes intermittent , is broken and fragmentary , testifying more and more to . a pathetic incapacity for any sustained inspiration . An innovator in metre , he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his extreme keenness of perception , or the creative gift which he possessed in all he did ; but he consciously formulated the return of English verse to the principle of accentuation which is most suitable to its spontaneous rhythms . Christabel is written in lines of four accents , where the number of syllables varies on a very large scale , the pattern of the melody swelling or subsiding with the needs of the musical suggestion ; while the light , ample cadence of the anapaest is introduced with delicate felicity among the shorter measures . This example of judicious freedom is at the source of the vast development in prosody which accompanies the expansion of modern English lyricism . ' As a philosopher , Coleridge has also been a sower of gerrninal ideas . His indebtedness to German philosophy has probably been overrated . He became acquainted with it at a time when his moral personality had already been formed , and he never was thoroughly acquainted with it . The doctrine of Kant , interpreted inasmuch as it founded a new metaphysics , encouraged his own tendencies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to push it to conclusions very far removed from those of Kant . He borrowed from Schelling what in his intellectual absent-mindedness he failed to acknowledge . Taken as a whole , his work reveals a general parallelism with 1046 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 the intuitive , idealistic and historical movement of ideas which gives German Romanticism its essential character . But he himself declared that he was just as much the disciple of national tradition , and of Burke . He was not the master , but the immediate predecessor of Carlyle . John Stuart Mill saw in him the principal source of the reaction which an age animated with the will to believe , and basing its inner life upon the feeling of spiritual mystery , showed against the rationalism of mechanical explanations , and the extension of a scientific ideal to the things of the soul . Through the intermediary action of thinkers who were also believers ? as F. D. Maurice ? Coleridge 's influence helped to nurture the decisive revival of idealism in the time of Carlyle , and in adjoining circles of thought . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in vain ? many other subjects , such as religious philosophy , in which he attempted to establish Anglicanism upon a rational foundation ; ethics , which he tried to recapture from the utilitarian system in vogue ; politics , in which a passion for organic order and salutary authority led him even further than Burke in his aversion to all progress , but where he , on the other hand , discerned certain vices born of a social individualism . It is , however , in literary criticism that his achievement is the most lasting . No one before him in England had brought such mental breadth to the discussion of aesthetic values . His judgments are all permeated by a trend of thought that is strongly under the influence of great doctrinal preconceptions ; even in this domain he is the metaphysician . The well-known differentiation between imagination and fancy , which Wordsworth interpreted after his own fashion , is a way to laying stress upon the creative activity of the mind , as opposed to the passive association of mental pictures ; but for Coleridge it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing between problems , together with this habit of intermingling , even perhaps of confounding them , by no means deprives him of a penetrating sharpness of vision on precise points . In Biographia Literaria certain intentions , as well as certain successes or failings of Wordsworth , are caught and illuminated to their depths ; so searching is the light , that it is even cruel . His remarks on Shakespeare show a sound intuition of the profound unity of dramatic art . Accustomed as he is to reach to the heart 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1047 of things , to find there the same vital impulse which animates his own thought , and to see this secret life produce what becomes the apparent world of the senses , Coleridge is thus able to discern with an unerring insight the paths along which a central impulse has radiated , so to speak , towards all the fundamental ideas , aspects and characteristics of a work . 4 . Southey. ? Competent critics were wont to class Southey 1 during his lifetime with Coleridge and Wordsworth . Since then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is the least read of the Lake poets . Almost the whole of his work is touched with the blight . It has lost its vitality , and there is no reason to expect that it will ever regain it . The cause of this inherent weakness lies : n the writer 's own personality . He has well-defined aims , a doctrine , and a consciously sustained nobility of subjects and themes ; but genius he lacks ; his is only a very estimable talent , and is not always even that . He deceived certain people because he shared the theories and the effort of the new school of poetry . Of the revolutionary sins of his early youth , on the other hand , he repents with an even more reassuring prudence than that of his companions ; to national sentiment , to the spirit of an age carried back instinct of self-preservation towards the traditional order of things , he gives more absolute ' pledges ; and being less original , he has a greater appeal for the average taste of his time . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he found himself without the support of a group of // writers , and lacking a political or social setting for his work , his own claims to recognition showed themselves to be inferior . He deserves to be remembered , but it would be vain to attempt to revive his glory . His longer poems are imposing structures , erected by meritorious labour , in which despite the brilliancy of certain details there reigns a monotonous tedium . Their conception is false . Southey is still unconsciously subservient to the aesthetic purposes of the eighteenth century ; and he writes , , not from a genuine need for self-expression , but in order to fulfil the programme traced out , as it were , by an obligation of the mind . He commits to verse a vague , exotic mythology , the visions and customs of Arabia , Mexico , and India , and so deprives himself of the advantage of a real humanity . His imagination , moreover , obedient to moral discipline , is unable to bring to this phantasmagoria the freedom which alone could give it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puritan preoccupations , find themselves strangely associated with the Oriental setting of the Arabian Nights . Thalaba is a vast epic allegory in which some beautiful episodes are enacted ; Kehama is still more arid ; the first part of Madoc , and above all Roderick , in which the surroundings and the subject make us feel more at home , and where the emotion is more sincere and natural , sustain well enough a tone which though austere is not without grandeur . Southey , like his friends , wished to acquire a pure and unadorned style ; and in this he has achieved a fair measure of success . He aims at a simple sobriety of expression , at the moving appeal of elementary emotions . But he has not the powerful . concentration of Wordsworth , the radiant force of his spiritual lyricism , nor Coleridge 's thrill of the supernatural . His modest and realistic notations look naive , while his precision is prosaic . Besides , he can not rid himself of abstractions . In quest of prosodiacal novelty , and eager for an independence which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he writes Thalaba in a singularly jejune metre , a sort of cadenced prose with lines of very unequal length , the idea for which he borrowed from an obscure poet ( Sayers ) , and which for a brief spell Shelley was to imitate . This form , no doubt , possesses great suppleness , 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1049 but it lacks any vestige of art ; the want of all perceptible regularity or symmetry stamps it with a wholly arbitrary character . Kehama adds rhyme to this scheme , but without permanence . After these unhappy attempts , we find a degree of comfort in Roderick and Madoc , where there is a frank return to blank verse of five beats . The shorter poems , of occasional or official character , fall too often into a painful mediocrity , which nothing relieves , not even an adventurous and interesting error . The best are those which have demanded least effort , and where rapid inspiration has been most directly expressed . Special mention must be made of the ode , full of a burning hatred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ execrating tones against Imperial France ; and chiefly of the ballads and tales in verse , where he displays an unsuspected gift of forcefulness and humour . Whether the vein be one of imaginative terror or of popular joviality , the language here shows a nervous strength which at times recalls Burns . These short pieces , by their themes as by their familiar and robust art , are related to the whole movement whose outcome is the Lyrical Ballads ; to this Southey 's receptive nature has added many and various influences ? those of Scott , of the novelists of terror , of the German Romanticists ? without the product losing in true originality . Widely quoted in anthologies , these ballads probably represent the only living part of his poetical output . In his very copious prose , there is one outstanding book , which every cultured Englishman has read , namely , The Life of Nelson , a fortunate volume , inasmuch as most of its value is derived from a subject of extraordinary quality . The moral biography testifies to limited powers of penetration , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infuses it too exclusively with the passion of nationality . But a great figure , a type of energy and ambition , is portrayed in all its striking distinctness ; the almost undeflected development of its epic career is accurately traced ; and the compact account of the many incidents in this life preserves all the interest of the most captivating tale of adventure . 5 . The Poetry of Scott. ? At first glance , one might be led into thinking that a similar fate had befallen the poems of 1050 THE ROMANTIC PERIOD 1788 Southey and those of Scott . ' The latter were very popular from the moment they appeared , being eclipsed only by Byron in the public favour ; their immediate and complete success marks the first official triumph of the new school . Neglected , however , after 1815 , by their author himself , who had found a vaster field of activity in the novel , and overshadowed by the daring efforts of the second generation of poets , they knew a gradual decline . At the present day , the general reader leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live ; and as this test of a whole century is probably decisive , everything points to a discreet survival . They assuredly embody the intentions and influences of Romanticism ; but they do not originate , as is the case with Southey 's epics , in an intellectual and theoretical source ; countless are the natural bonds linking them up with the Scottish soil , with a national past , with a wealth of memories and sentiments which the poet shares with his immediate compatriots , and which a spontaneous sympathy renders accessible to all British readers . The feudalism and medieval customs revived by Scott are not part of a very distant past ; the clan spirit , the rich local life of a people steeped in traditions still retain something of that age ; therefore the effort of imagination demanded of the reader is neither so great nor so artificial as with other writers . The Lay of the Last Minstrel is definitely placed at the end of that belated transition which joins up the Middle Ages with modern times . The atmosphere of the poem is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archaeology commingle , blended by the fervour of a warm literary patriotism . 1832 THE FIRST GENERATION OF POETS 1051 There is nothing , however , as yet of the atmosphere which belongs to the historical novels of Scott , with their humour , their colouring applied with a touch at once lavish and sure . The past is evoked in a spirit romantic before it is human . The choice of descriptive traits , the development of action and the characterisation are a trifle conventional . A secret complacency on the part of the author tends to incline everything towards picturesqueness , pathos , mystery , and even terror , as Scott indeed retains a trace of his youthful enthusiasm for the thrill of the German ballads and for the school of the supernatural . His romanticism is a synthesis of all the elements which two generations have set free : imaginative emotion , the lure of the past , the taste for chivalry , a sentimental respect for warlike and religious customs , the love of nature , all of which with Scott are strongly individualised through his close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the dominant characteristic of these poems is to be found in their sobriety of tone . They are subservient to an essential discipline and measure . The descriptive vein is always strongly controlled ; the pictures of nature , whether charming , delicate or powerful , are never luxuriant ; tragedy with Scott never reaches the stage of horror , nor is the fanciful element ever developed at the expense of an implicit logic . A faint suggestion of irony hovers at times like a smile over the narrative . The style , with its ease and liquid movement , has remarkable clarity and a striking economy of means . The verse , supple and modelled on the undulating flow of the sentiment , is of a very rhythmic quality . Scott recognised his indebtedness to the model of fluid freedom offered by the Christabel of Coleridge ; but he had too sure a touch not to be a born poet . Through all these traits , the indefinable atmosphere of simplicity , wholesomeness and truth which permeates these flights of the imagination , saving them from any extravagance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Scott is one of those semi-classicists by temperament who leave room for the continuity of tradition at the very heart of Romanticism . He is too conservative by instinct to be a thorough revolutionary in any sphere whatsoever . The persisting charm of his chivalric epics , their lasting hold upon us , thus arise from the fact that below what is but a pass1052 THE // ing fashion they link up with a balanced , normal art , which a fresh inspiration has revivified . Yet the close proximity of the novels will always do them harm , since they are too inferior to Scott 's prose in the study and development of characters . Beside them , on the other hand , one must not forget the shorter poems ? whose form is often that of the ballad ? in which Scott has shown a more intense , at times outstanding gift of lyricism . ' CHAPTER II THE NOVEL I. Walter Scott. ? The poems of Scott belonged to the first generation of Romanticists . His novels , ' in the order of chronology , belong to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of the first . There is no indication of their author having been influenced by the change in matters political and intellectual about 181 5 ; he retains his opinions , his temperament , and the natural bent of his imagination . His personality is henceforth too firmly moulded to alter , but develops with greater freedom in a field of wider horizon . While the poetry of this age enlists a great number of the most brilliant talents , Scott 's supremacy in the novel is sovereign . For nearly twenty years , everything is eclipsed by his work . His pages have kept an incomparable charm and youthfulness . Neither fashions nor the changes in taste have had any 1053 // serious effect upon them . Whether appraised or not by enlightened opinion and the critics , they have remained truly popular , and seem almost entirely to have become part of the treasure of permanent literature , and been added to the fund itself of the national heritage . It would be vain , however , to deny that the years have encroached upon this work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power ; and it was not given the careful labour which alone assures perfection . It has , no doubt , the happy touch , the divine facility , the wealth of a creation of genius . One feels that it wells up from a natural source ; it is the outcome of a full inspiration , that has been already prepared by the assimilative play of memory , the activity of thought , the continual exercising of the imagination during half a lifetime . Scott was intimately acquainted with the past of Scotland , which he had explored in documents , history and legend ; he had lived through it again by calling it up in its original setting , and had given it the reality of concrete form by discovering its latent presence in the manners , traditions and language , in all the existing originality of a people . This unconscious preparation had been so long and full , that from the day when the novelist and not the poet put it to contribution for pictures of a more ample scope , it appeared to be inexhaustible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history , and by investing them with the gift of life , which it has rendered possible , it supplies them with the atmosphere of a rich and flavoured humanity . But Scott certainly allowed himself to be led away too much by the ease of rapid invention ; and probably it is to this cause that must be traced , along with the few lapses in form , some more internal flaws , which time has brought into prominence . These are nearly all reducible to certain insufficiencies of the writer 's art , to devices which are too facile . In the century which has followed , both the technique of the novel and the requirements of the reader have come to be modified ; over and above the theories of the moment , a substantial agreement has been reached concerning some demands which might prove to be of a lasting character . We require sober truth , an objective outlook upon things , or if the writer 's fancy and sensibility become a law unto themselves , we are loath to let them have the benefit of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1832 THE NOVEL 1055 interesting . Fiction plays too important a part in the novel of Scott , and especially the fiction which does not wish to be treated as such . No one save the specialist suffers from the liberties he takes with the historical detail . The conception of truth , with him , has not yet acquired that scrupulous exactitude which the whole activity of thought in the nineteenth century will impart to it . But the cordial good-naturedness which lends so much winning charm to his work can not excuse the too easy complacency of his critical sense or artistic conscience . The author is too frequently butting in upon the story ; the monologues of the characters , the set conversation of those who rise above the ordinary rank , lose all semblance of reality . The creation of atmosphere in the novels is brought about by a series of conjunctures which too obviously reveal a common end . An aesthetic and moral Providence carries on the story , leading it towards a conclusion which flatters a sentimental and moral preconception no doubt quite worthy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more severe taste has gradually receded . The conventional treatment of the love themes , as of the characterisation of the young heroes and heroines , is in keeping with the fanciful tone of the plots , at least in some of their parts . There is in this whole series of effects a perspective such as that of the theatre , allowable , no doubt , as soon as the treatment of truth is only summarily and superficially faithful , but here at variance with the deep and exacting spirit of accuracy that in every other respect animates the realistic imagination of Scott . It must be recognised , however , that he benefits by the quality of his fault ; his art has about it a genuine simplicity , an unpretentiousness , that are restful after the strained objectivity of recent schools . And such blemishes are of slight import ; they set a date upon the art of Scott , without aging it . The only consequence is that the reader must more clearly and more consciously accept the part played by artifice , by one main fiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an illusion which can in fact never be complete . The essential point is that this illusion , in far the majority of cases , and if nothing intervenes to impair the normal elasticity of our sense of the real , is a wonderful success . Scott makes us live again in past centuries , and makes innumerable human beings of his invention visible , familiar and akin to our1Q56 THE // selves ; whether he entirely creates them , or recreates their souls and borrows their names from history . His work is one of the happiest attempts ever made to evoke what is no longer extant ; it owes this triumph to the imaginative intuition which Romanticism had stimulated , but also to a psychological truth that is sufficiently deep , and to a grasp of man 's nature that is broad enough , to satisfy needs of our minds more constant than a taste for purely historical truth . The novels form unequal groups according to their themes , varying in number as in value . Scott loses his force as he wanders from the solid ground of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of a durable enough nature to be looked upon as ancient ; it is through the present that he interprets and reconstructs the past . Therefore , the periods he chooses by preference are not very remote ; his favourite domain stretches from the Reformation to the last civil struggles of the eighteenth century . He organises his subjects round the great religious or political conflicts which during these two hundred years most seriously impaired the moral unity of the Scottish people ; and as the Romanticism of feeling and imagination is above all attracted by lost causes , it is to Puritanism and to the allegiance of the Jacobites that through the force of the tale the involuntary sympathies of the reader are often drawn ; a solid proof of the remarkable impartiality of Scott , who as a Tory and a friend of order retained some kindly feelings for the Stuarts , but who reproved fanaticism without reserve . It was his desire to keep the scales even , to grant to all parties and men the same kindly interest , and here he was almost always successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Continent , and abandon the opening years of the modern era for the Middle Ages , betray this effort more distinctly ; they reach their aim less completely : yet they accomplish some very fine feats ; although historians do not spare certain aspects of Ivanhoe , they praise the atmosphere of the work , while it is generally agreed that the light shed upon Louis XI . and his time by Quentin Durward is not to be disparaged . But still , when all is considered , there are no achievements in this kind which can come up to the scenes enacted in those lowland districts of Scotland , so beloved and cherished by Scott ; and for example , to the episodes whose setting is the capital ( The Heart of Midlothian , etc . ) . In the 1832 THE NOVEL 1057 same way , the landscape is evoked throughout with a poetic freshness , which is devoid of all impassioned ardour of exuberance ; the description of nature , within these limits , is more widely treated in Scott 's prose than in his verse ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valleys of Scotland are more accurately , more forcefully depicted than the vast forests of feudal England . Set thus in a framework of events largely fictitious , which , however , our sense of truth approves , and standing out against a background of nature and manners which are sufficiently rich in detail to be convincing , picturesque enough to be attractive , and the authority of which is chiefly derived from a national and intimate feeling of sympathetic familiarity , Scott 's personages win our full approbation ; there is no resisting their vitality . They offer a complete range of characterisation , from the most rapid sketches to the most carefully executed portraits ; their abundance and diversity astonish us . Their physical being , and the salient peculiarities of their moral being , are what always determine them . At times the analysis goes further , probing to the depths , and aiming at the most individual shades ; but Scott is not preoccupied with the psychology that penetrates ; he does not seek for complicated tangles of the soul , and consequently hardly ever comes upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In certain cases he has desired to make a more searching analysis of a character , and has done so ; but as a rule he sums up at one stroke the personality which interests him , grasps it with a vigorous hold , and draws its physiognomy with a broad , firm touch ; and having once animated it , he leaves it to radiate the life thus given it to the very end . In this way his characters do not change . His most unforgettable creations are those of episodic or simple personages , who are devoid of all mystery , and who reveal themselves wholly to us in one flash . Despite the attraction of some impressive figures of rebels , ruined noblemen and chieftains , it is the ordinary people , such as peasants , shopkeepers , housewives and servants , who constitute , by virtue of the artistic relief and intensity of touch with which they are painted , his richest and most attractive gallery of portraits . And this is because the humbler classes can best voice the humour of Scott . Higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ROMANTIC PERIOD 1798 imposes a restraint upon the freedom implied in the expression of that humour . It implies a realism of method , an openness in the display of originality , a conscious and discreet revelation of one 's self , an art of apparent naivety and secret roguishness , which scarcely harmonise with the circumspection and reserve of refined manners . In its very essence it savours of the people . It has its roots in a full sense of life , in the experience of all the illogicality which its complexity conceals , in an alert attention to all the perceptible elements through which the solution of its problems reveals itself , in a spontaneously concrete appreciation of the qualities and paradoxes of things . This deep fertilising force of the Scottish mind makes its presence felt in all Scott 's creations ; it is the sole support of whole scenes , episodes and characters , and is more or less intermingled with nearly all the other sources of interest . His pathos itself is rarely without an after-taste of it . Even the poet 's thought elaborates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his philosophy . This is the element which imparts to his work an all-pervading spirit of kindliness and light irony , and which tempers the satire with indulgence , the sympathy with amusement . At this degree of superior concentration , humour acts as a kind of twofold wisdom , blending , correcting , and especially relieving the one by means of the other , the bitterness of clear discernment and the sweetness of charity . This suppleness of a judgment which is ever conscious of what is relative becomes reflected in an expression intentionally transposed , which chooses indirect ways because the hearer derives an added pleasure from unravelling them , and because they better comply with the essential scepticism of a soul that refuses to be dogmatically absorbed in one set mode of feeling . Scott 's humour has a ring of Scottish shrewdness and kindliness about it . This note is to be heard throughout his work , and lends a character of unity to the vast comedy of existence ; it assumes a different key according to the environment , the age and the sex of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stronger affinity gives it all its clearness and charm in the language of simple folks ; and the dialect of Scotland , at various degrees of raciness and genuineness , is intimately associated with it in its effects of full-flavoured and sly rusticity . The passages in which this dialect predominates offer special difficulty to the uninitiated reader ; but this is easily overcome ; 1832 THE NOVEL 1059 and at once , one comes to prefer them . Here it is that the language of Scott enjoys all its advantages . Its easy manner harmonises with a familiar form of speech . In other places , it has great merits , and lends itself freely to lively or sustained narration , to description , to pathos , to reflections of a moralising nature ; but it does not keep up all these tones with an equal felicity , or rather there are some among these tones which are not happy in themselves . The edifying reflections , and interventions on the part of the author , imply at times a slightly artificial dignity ; one finds there , as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit of the eighteenth century , which impairs the otherwise sound quality of a simple , direct style . On the whole , the superficial flaws in form do not detract in any way from the deep merits of the work . Scott has the genius of the narrator ; but he has the corresponding talent no less , and his tale is carried on by a very supple and very steady art , which sets up , develops and works out to a final close , through a very varied series of moments , a symphonic composition of sovereign breadth . Incidents , pauses , picturesque evocations , and dia logues , are interwoven with an instinctive , sure sense of measure ; and the semblance of reality which characterises the various exchanges of talk , especially in the popular scenes , nearly always succeeds in at once convincing us . The novel of Scott represents the triumph of Romanticism in the imaginative re-creation of the past , associated with all the diverse emotions which the tragic or comic drama of life can awaken . It therefore takes the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period has produced no masterpieces . Certain of the inner tendencies of Romanticism are here exploited to the limit , such as the liking for bygone ages , the luring of the reader 's interest away from the present , the dramatic vision of life ; it has even its touch of the supernatural and the mysterious ( The Bride of Lammermoor , Redgauntlet , etc . ) . But by virtue of its humour , its sense of balance , the mental calm and selfpossession it implies , it can also claim kinship with the psychological characteristics of classicism . By bringing Romanticism so near to the real and complete life of every day as to confound the one with the other , even if that life be a vanished and miraculously restored one , Scott has given Romanticism an average and normal value , a soundness , an immunity from any feverishlobo THE // ness , that it does not possess even in the poetry of a Wordsworth . 2 . Realism ; Adventure and Terror in the Novel. ? Despite the illusion created by its superiority , Scott @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off from that of his contemporaries . He recognised his indebtedness to the Irish scenes of Miss Edgeworth . ' Amongst his numerous and mediocre imitators , one should make mention of Galt , ' who in the course of an uncertain career had himself conceived before Scott the idea of exploiting the picturesqueness of Scottish life , but to whom the Waverley novels came as an encouragement and example . His best studies are confined to ordinary and familiar aspects of life ; and by freeing this new form of literature from all the historical elements of Romanticism , they turn it in the direction of a minute , humorous and tenderly inspired realism . Among the diverse elements brought together in the work of Scott , it is indeed the realism which undoubtedly , after the history , proves the greatest force of attraction . Even in the success of imaginative fiction , literature retains its appreciation of concrete reality ; and the distinctive feature of the romantic novel , as a whole , lies in the boldness with which it adds new provinces to reality . The popularity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he resolutely brings a democratic and modern spirit to bear upon his atmosphere and subject-matter . Marryat 1 revives the tradition of Sterne and Smollett ; to the lively interest of his tale he adds a rich vein of humour , and by his painting of sea-faring folks and their life he has conquered a field in which he remains one of the masters . Miss Mitford , ' in her charming 1832 THE NOVEL io61 studies of village customs , her landscape descriptions , as exact as they are poetic , announces both the Cranford of Mrs. Gaskell and the work of Richard Jefferies . Lastly , the psychological realism of Jane Austen is handled with a much less delicate touch , and with some worldliness , but not without force , by Mrs. Gore . ' Meanwhile , the most characteristic , though not the most brilliant , type of the romantic novel , the model of which had been supplied by Mrs. Radcliffe and Lewis , continues to prosper . The supernatural with all its terror is still popular . This branch of literature , very fertile in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points in its development with the Melmoth of Maturin , " a work of striking intensity . The Frankenstein of Mrs. Shelley ' rises above the mere search after the common thrill of fear ; here terror is idealised by being fused with the scientific and philosophical anguish of thought . Through this intermediary we understand the link which exists between this ardour of sensitive imagination , and the cult of the emotions , common to the great lyrical poets of the period . Just as Southey , Coleridge and Scott had all contributed to the collective stimulation which gave us the Tales of Terror by Lewis ( 18o1 ) , we find in Mrs. Shelley 's fiction the passionate curiosity as to what lies beyond , the preoccupied interest in the marvellous and the morbid , which entered into Byron 's and Shelley 's daily life during their sojourn in Switzerland ( 1816 ) . CHAPTER III INTELLECTUALISM AND POLITICAL LITERATURE i . Romanticism and Intellectualism. ? The Romantic period is not simple and single in its tendencies . It is traversed by a strong current of intellectualism which continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with the scientific and critical age into which England gradually enters after 1830 . Nothing could be less Romantic , in all essential respects , than the philosophy of this epoch , as it is to be found in the works of the philosophers . This psychological opposition between the doctrines and the sensibilities would he abnormal , if it were as complete in fact as it seems to be at first sight . But a precise study of the period solves this paradox to a very large extent . From ' Soo to 1830 , the highest grade of original literature remains at a moral pitch at which the average mind can live only in exceptional moments . The Romanticism of the poets is not out of harmony with the general attitude of minds ; there is in these , towards an extreme intensity of imaginative emotion , a particular readiness and complacency , resulting from the long preparation represented by a half-century of avowed sentimentalism . This complacency remains passive , and does not broaden out into practical sympathy and imitation . The history of manners no doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exaltation , openly practised , together with acts which conform with the moral rules of Romanticism ; but such realisation is rare , and only concerns certain circles , certain ages , and very limited human groups . The literature which triumphs , and produces the richest fruits , finds itself through its every effort outside the habitual conditions of moral balance . It corresponds with the current phase of the psychological rhythm , but can do so only by outdistancing it . It allows for a certain reserve , a conscious difference , even in those people whose complicity makes its own success possible ; and thus such minds , in other respects , can tolerate moral Io62 1798 ? 1832 INTELLECTUALISM AND LITERATURE 1063 attitudes and movements of ideas which diverge from or are opposed to the prevailing ones . The character of the period is too strongly marked in one direction , by its principal element , not to be incompatible with a simple unity ; from its intrinsic nature it must be manifold and diverse . On the other hand , a moral synthesis in the opposite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is formed or rather develops under the stress of circumstances . It is by no means new ; it carries on a tradition of some standing : that of classicism and rational philosophy as we have them in the eighteenth century . But economic and social forces enter more than ever into co-operation with it . Until about the year 1815 , the pressure of the industrial classes and of commercial interests is held in check , without being annulled , by the conservative influences let loose in the struggle with France . Even then , and despite political disturbances , the nation does not cease to grow richer , while the new middle class pursues in secret its trend towards power . After 1815 , its impatience to attain power knows no bounds , and breaks away on all sides . Such is the main impulse which gathers , so to speak , round itself all analogous temperaments and tendencies , and which gives the features of this age so strong a trait of rational individualism . The movement is individualistic , in that economic activity has no end beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encounters on its way , as irritating obstacles , the inherited rules and customs of the governments of the past , founded on authority . It is rational , first , because in destroying the moral ties as well as the solidarity between men , it can not claim to do so out of sentiment , but must seek justification in a clear notion of realities ; secondly , because the practice of commerce and industry , by focussing all attention upon the reckoning of forces and tangible results , inclines the mind towards a lucid and positive perception , either of the facts , or of the laws which go to explain them . Mere chance can not explain the fact that utilitarian philosophy has largely recruited its disciples from the ranks of the business and moneyed middle class . From the day when this philosophy , which was originally disinterested , took the form of a programme of action , it felt the influence of the converging interests which bound up its cause with that of the bourgeoisie. // The alliance thus formed enabled it to actualise its theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat narrowed its horizon . With the advent of the second generation of Romanticists , the separation between rational doctrines and literature proper becomes greatly reduced . In its general trend , utilitarian thought is liberal and democratic ; it is therefore on a parallel plane with the revolt of the great writers against the order imposed by society upon the soul 's desires . Of a contrary psychological nature , but analogous in its political tendency , it finds itself confirming , at a distance , the effort of the rebellious artists in literature ; and certain affinities begin to reveal themselves between the theorists and the poets . These partial and momentary similarities allow the general spirit of opposition to subsist ; everything considered , Bentham , Malthus , Ricardo and James Mill form the most striking contrast with Keats and Shelley , no less than with Coleridge and Wordsworth . Their success , their typical and representative value , testify to the presence of a deep-rooted duality in the very texture of the needs and moral tendencies which go to constitute this age . 2 . The Utilitarians. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and utilitarian intellectualism . In its original form , with the philosophers , the doctrine is concentrated , strongly rational , and offers the aspect of a well connected system , which embraces the whole field of moral and social life . In the next stage , with the popularisers and publicists , temperaments that are different stamp it with another character . The pure theorists are not artists , and hardly deserve the name of writers . Yet they occupy too important a place in the history of ideas , for the historian of literature to overlook them . They have each his individual traits , which are not lacking in relief . So naturally do their theses link up one with another , that in a very brief summary there is a temptation to merge them together . It is necessary , however , to note the contribution of each , and to picture them in their real relationship . Born in 1748 , Bentham ' is a survivor of the eighteenth 1832 INTELLECTUALISM AND LITERATURE 1065 century ; while his mind has been moulded according to the rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to facts and circumstances . He brings into the realm of legislation and politics a fearless intellectuality , deducing from simple , clearly formulated principles the logical organisation of social welfare . He is the first of the " philosophical radicals . " His early writings are lively and sharp ; along with a reflective turn of mind , with self-control , and with a firm resolve to let analysis cut through all complexes , one can feel in them a still very close approximation to reality , the sense of the concrete , a shrewdness of moral perception . At a later date , the constant tension of an intellect that is absorbed by the theoretical application of ideas to things has a withering influence upon the mind , and divests the style of all inherent quality ; the language tends to become nothing else than a kind of algebra . Bentham is an indefatigable writer , and leaves to his disciples ? Dumont and Bowring ? the care of revising , publishing and translating his works . Cosmopolitan in his tastes and culture , he sometimes writes himself in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a group of initiated followers ; his influence makes itself felt indirectly , but so great is its radiating force , that democratic England of the nineteenth century bears its recognisable stamp , and that it can be traced very far abroad . Beside this austere but benignant sage , Malthus appears as the unbending , almost fanatical apostle . Some people associate with his name the merit , and many others the hateful work , of having unflinchingly proclaimed the cruel truth of the " principle of population . " His intellectual passion for the exact science of human development conceals a generosity of feeling , a soul that is essentially normal and sound ; but the general public views moral matters in the simplest of lights , and from now onwards ,                     