@@774198

txt  | history . While opportunities were not equal for all men , they were much more nearly equal than they had ever been before . With the removal of caste privileges , medieval and mercantilist restrictions , the diminution of class prejudice , opportunity was becoming more nearly equal . While competition was not perfect , it was much freer than it had been in former days under the chartered monopolies and licensed occupations . So the actual world did vaguely tend to approximate their imaginary world , and impressive evidence could be found to show that society was in fact progressing towards a higher standard of life and greater justice and enlightenment . The best of the classical economists knew that they had constructed an hypothetical social order . But they did not appreciate the immense scientific implications or the practical consequences of the particular hypothesis they adopted . For their science was not the mere creation of a wayward fancy or an idle speculation with meaningless abstractions . Ricardo was a man of genius , and one of the marks of genius is the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up fruitful inquiries . The imaginary social order of the classical economists was an act of creative imagination . It described an order in which the frictions and abuses of the actual world had been removed , in which the facilities , the adaptability , and the foresight that are actually lacking had by hypothesis been supplied . This imaginary order , let us note clearly , was not an impossible world such as a poet might construct by assuming that all labor was a pleasant exercise and that the necessities of life would be miraculously supplied . The imaginary order of the economists supposed a real world of the division of labor where men have to earn their living by the sweat of their brows . It supposed a real world in which men desire their own advantage . It was not the Garden of Eden before the curse fell upon Adam . Yet it was not the world they lived in . It was the  | world they lived in drastically purged and reformed and reconstructed . So what the political economists had conceived in their science was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of the world as it needs to be remade . They had imagined the kind of human society in which the social problems arising from the division of labor are solved . Thus inadvertently , in the act of trying to simplify the facts in order to understand them , they had been inspired to discover the criterion by which these social problems can be truly defined and the true solutions can be indicated . By making certain assumptions they had described a just society based on the division of labor ; then it followed that in the real world of injustice and maladjustment these assumptions were the proper objectives of policy . What they overlooked was that in order to imagine how the division of labor would work with perfect justice , it had been necessary to assume a reformed society of reformed individuals . It should have followed , then , that , in order to achieve the result in practice , it is necessary to make the reforms in practice . Instead of the classical economics being an apologetic explanation of the existing order , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . It is a theoretical measure which reveals how far short of the promise , how unadjusted to the needs of the division of the labor , is the actual society in which we live . Had the liberal economists realized this implication of their own hypothesis , they would have embarked at once upon the task of exploring the legal , psychological , and social circumstances which obstructed and perverted the actual society . They would not have left the criticism and the reform of society to those who did not understand , or were determined to abolish , the new mode of production . They would have seen that the mission of liberalism was to develop the principles by which mankind could readapt its habits and institutions to the  | industrial revolution . They would have carried on the tradition that Adam Smith founded , and , like him , they would have been the critics of the status quo and the intellectual leaders of its necessary reform . They did not do this . The liberal economists from Ricardo until recent times were obsessed by the deadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to research and reform but the delineation of an order to which the real world conformed approximately , and sufficiently . This error sterilized the scientific advance of liberal thought , paralyzed the practical energies of liberal statesmen , and destroyed the prestige of liberalism . So the economists were properly rebuked by Carlyle , who had his eyes on the real world , as the teachers of a Dismal Science la Footnote  | .1 . The Inexorable Law of the Industrial Revolution THE debacle of liberalism in the nineteenth century occurred when the thinking of liberals was arrested by their misunderstanding of laissez-faire and of the classical economics . It is a case of a great scientific movement suddenly inhibited by intellectual error , and it is by no means the first or the only instance of its kind in history . The progress of ancient science appears to have been halted in the fourth century B.C. by an analogous deflection of the Hellenic mind from a progressive examination of experience to circular , metaphysical speculation . Liberal thinking was inhibited in the metaphysics of laissez-faire , and the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negation , a general non possumus , and a complacent defense of the dominant classes . It was inhibited no less completely in the circular dialectics of the classical economics . The effect here was to shut off the minds of the liberals from the study of social readjustment , and to close their imaginations and their sympathies to the crying need for reform . There is no reason to suppose that as men they were peculiarly deficient in sensibility or in the feeling for justice . But they had gone up a dogmatic blind alley in which their doctrines forbade them to trust their sympathies or to entertain the notion that man 's lot could be improved . And it must be admitted that when liberalism had become frozen in its own errors , it attracted an undue proportion of mediocre place-hunters and time-servers , and repelled the generous , the brave , and the discerning .  | To the debacle of liberal science can be traced the moral schism of the modern world which so tragically divides enlightened men . For the liberals are the inheritors of the science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But they have been unable to carry forward their science ; they have not wrested from it a social philosophy which is humanly satisfactory . The collectivists , on the other hand , have the zest for progress , the sympathy for the poor , the burning sense of wrong , the impulse for great deeds , which have been lacking in latter-day liberalism . But their science is founded on a profound misunderstanding of the economy at the foundation of modern society , and their actions , therefore , are deeply destructive and reactionary . So men 's hearts are torn , their minds are divided , they are offered impossible choices . They are asked to choose between the liberals who came to a dead stop but stopped on the right road up to wealth and freedom and justice ? and the collectivists who are in furious movement ? but on a road that leads down to the abyss of tyranny , impoverishment , and general war . Yet this impossible choice exists only in the minds of men , in their doctrines and their prejudices , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which men find themselves is subjective . It is the consequence of human error and not of fate . There is no reason to think that the time has come when the social order can not adapt itself to the economy brought into being by the industrial revolution , and that , therefore , men must destroy the new economy . For that would mean that the industrial revolution itself had come to a dead end . It would mean that the new mode of production which underlies all social systems and all institutions and all public policies can no longer be tolerated by mankind . It would mean that men must dismantle and reverse the industrial revolution itself ? as the autarchists are doing in Germany ? and that by  | painful steps they must retrace the path back to isolated communities practising a relatively low degree of division of labor . That is why such momentous conclusions hang upon the question of whether the debacle of liberalism was due to the error of the liberals or , as the collectivists believe , to some kind of inescapable historic necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rehabilitate the word " liberalism , " which is now a battered ornament that evokes the most equivocal sentiments . But I am concerned with the substance . And that substance , as I see it , is that men can not undo the consequences of the industrial revolution , that they are committed to the new mode of production , to the division of labor among interdependent communities and individuals . This is the truly inexorable historic necessity . They can no more reverse the industrial revolution by an act of will and by political coercion than they could return from manufacture to handicraft , from settled agriculture to a pastoral economy . Nor do men wish to do this . Nor would they willingly consent . And so I insist that collectivism , which replaces the free market by coercive centralized authority , is reactionary in the exact sense of the word . Collectivism not only renders impossible the progressive division of labor , but requires , wherever it is attempted , a regression to a more primitive mode of production . We can see this amply demonstrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where there have been two attempts to establish socialism , and two retreats , one in 1921 and another in 1931 , from a planned and directed economy to an economy directed by the market Footnote  | The first of these retreats is usually ascribed by sincere communists to the practical genius of Lenin , and the second to the wicked ambitions of Stalin . But we may be reasonably sure that both were dictated by inexorable necessity : Russia , though it is primitive , is in the earlier stages of the industrial revolution . It is substituting the specialized division of labor for the autonomous village and isolated regional economy , and the new mode of production can not be made to operate , even by omnipotent dictators over a docile and terrorized people , without the reestablishment of at least relatively free markets . Marx , who was very fond of expounding the inexorable laws of history , had the misfortune not to discern what law it was that was so inexorable , and thus his disciples in Russia and elsewhere , after twenty years of communist supremacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true faith . The really inexorable law of modern society is the law of the industrial revolution , that nations must practise the division of labor in wide markets or sink into squalor and servitude . Those who do not practise this new economy , the so-called backward nations , will become the prey of those who do ; they must enter the new economy if they are to survive , and only by practising it can they hope to escape conquest or economic and cultural absorption . The advanced nations where the new economy is established must preserve it . In no other way can they maintain their large populations at the standard of life to which they have become habituated . So when advanced nations adopt collectivism , and its inevitable corollary , the self-contained economy , they are doomed to a descending standard of life and driven to unspeakable brutality in order to crush the ensuing discontent . A free choice between a liberal and a collectivist order does not exist in fact . That is to say , it does not exist for ordinary men who wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | There is no choice because men are committed to the division of labor , and it is as impossible for them to live by any other means as it was for their ancestors in the villages clustered around regional market towns to exist without a high degree of self-sufficiency . The apparent choice between a liberal and a collectivist order exists only in the mind , only until collectivism is put fully into practice , only in the realm of hopes and projects where men discuss what they think they would like to do . The choice does not exist when they come to find out what they can do . For there is no way of practising the division of labor , and of harvesting the fruits of it , except in a social order which preserves and strives to perfect the freedom of the market . This is the inexorable law of the industrial revolution , and while men may disobey that law , the price of their disobedience is the frustration of all their hopes . For that reason the debacle of nineteenth-century liberalism may confidently be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The renascence of liberalism may be regarded as assured . Behind the liberal philosophy is the whole force of man 's commitment to the economy of the division of labor , and that necessity must compel the invention of an appropriate social order . The name " liberal " may be forgotten , those who call themselves liberals may relapse into humiliated silence , but still the necessities of the mode of production will compel men to rediscover and to reestablish the essential principles of a liberal society . That is the lesson of the Russian experiment where we see a nation which has no liberal tradition , which has been indoctrinated with contempt for liberalism , and is nevertheless compelled by sheer economic necessity to rediscover by trial and error the rudiments of liberalism . So we may ascribe the eclipse of liberalism to errors that inhibited necessary reforms . The latter-day liberals became mired in statu quo by the political dogma of laissez-faire which  | held them to the idea that nothing should be done , by the confusion of the classical economics which held them to the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Adam Smith and Jeremy Bentham , ? from , say , 1776 to 1832 , ? liberalism was a philosophy which led the way in adapting the social order to the needs of the new industrial economy ; by the middle of the nineteenth century , liberalism had become a philosophy of neglect and refusal to proceed with social adaptation . The impasse to which liberalism had come may be studied in the later teachings of Herbert Spencer and in a line of decisions of the United States Supreme Court under the " due process " clause . But this need not have happened . The classical economics , properly understood , was not an apologetic description of the status quo ; it was a normative science which criticized the status quo , disclosing the points at which reform was necessary , and indicating the kind of reform that was desirable . Those points were recognized in the classical economics as the " frictions " and " disturbances " which caused the real world to behave differently from the theoretical system . But though the economists recognized the frictions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The choice of such colorless terms as " friction " and " disturbance " in itself reveals the insensibility of doctrinaire thinking . In the eyes of the victims the frictions and disturbances were cruel injustices , misery , defeat , and frustration . It was idle to tell the victims that on the whole , in the abstract , and in the long run , all was for the best in the best of all possible worlds . It was foolish to tell the victims that no relief or reform could be given and that none was needed ; that the system was just even though it seemed unjust to them . The maladjustments , which the economists called frictions and disturbances , which the victims called injustice and misery , were too numerous to be dismissed by the teaching of resignation to  | the masses . They should have been the primary concern of the liberals , the main subject of their inquiries , the constant care of their statesmanship . For the cumulative neglect of the abuses vitiated respect for the system . It led to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working classes and of the leading thinkers of all nations , that the existing order is radically unjust and intolerable . This conviction was humanly creditable . Yet the liberals were right in their initial assumption that the abuses were incidental rather than fundamental . They were right because the basic economy of the division of labor regulated in markets is a mode of production , like village agriculture or pastoral nomadism . Men may like it or dislike it . That is an aesthetic preference , such as preferring the life of a hunter or a shepherd to that of a farmer or a factory worker . But a mode of production can not be judged to be fundamentally just or unjust . Questions of justice can arise only out of the maladjustment of laws , institutions , education , and social custom to a particular mode of production . Present-day men can reform the social order by changing the laws . But by political means they can not revolutionize the mode of production . Until invention , which is as yet not even within the speculative possibilities , creates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mankind is committed to the division of labor in a market economy . The kind of revolution which would make obsolete the market economy would be a series of inventions which enabled men by their own self-sufficient effort to achieve a more satisfactory standard of life than they now aspire to . It might be done by a machine that would with a little muscular energy produce food , clothes , shelter , comforts , and luxuries out of any soil and a little sunshine ; or it might be done by a medicine which would make men cease to want the diversified products of modern industry .  | In the actual world and with the knowledge we now possess , it is beyond the power of the Lenins , Stalins , Hitlers , and Mussolinis to revolutionize the mode of production ; they can merely attack it , and impair it . In the end their peoples must return to the division of labor in an exchange economy as surely as the farmer must return to his land if he would harvest a crop . It is the social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth which the early liberals grasped when they were the persistent critics of the laws , the institutions , and the public policy of their day . This truth the latter-day liberals ignored when they became complacent and apologetic . This truth the collectivists have missed when , under the impression that they are striking at social injustices , they deliver their blow at the free market which regulates the division of labor . But the truth will prevail . When I say that the renascence of liberalism is assured , I do not mean , of course , that it must come in our own time , or that it will come before mankind has gone through the disaster which the descent into collectivism has prepared . I do not know whether the disaster is avoidable by intelligence and resolute action . But I do believe that there is no escape from the disaster and no way of restoring the civilization which it would shatter except by a social philosophy which obeys the law of the industrial revolution . Either men will find this social philosophy by their intelligence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in Russia , they have passed through ordeal by fire . But learn it they will . For they must . It is the condition of their survival as civilized men . 2 . The Social Problems I have suggested that the " frictions " and " disturbances " which the classical economists recognized ? only to neglect them ? were , in fact , the social problems which should have  | been , and in a society practising the division of labor must always be , the paramount concern of enlightened men . For the frictions and disturbances mark the points at which the social order is in conflict with the economy . They are the points where for one reason or another men fail to adapt themselves successfully to the way in which mankind earns its living . The causes of the maladaptation are numerous and mixed ; it is certain that they can not all be traced , as socialists think , to the single fact that the residual legal titles to property in the means of production are vested in private persons and not in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a revolution in the mode of production has occurred . Since it is proceeding among men who have inherited a radically different way of life , the readjustment required must necessarily take place throughout the social order . It must almost certainly continue as long as the industrial revolution itself continues . There can be no moment at which " the new order " is in being . A dynamic economy must in the nature of things inhabit a progressive social order . The real problems of modern societies arise where the social order is not consistent with the requirements of the division of labor . A survey of all the current problems would be a catalogue of these inconsistencies . The catalogue would begin with the pre-natal endowment of the human stock , would traverse all customs , laws , institutions , and policies , and would not be complete until it had included man 's conception of his destiny on earth and his valuation of his soul and of the souls of all other men . For where there is conflict between the social heritage and the manner in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disorder in their affairs and division in their spirits . When the social heritage and the economy do not form a seamless web , there must be rebellion against the Footnote  | world or renunciation of the world . That is why in epochs like our own , when society is at odds with the conditions of its existence , discontent drives some to active violence and some to asceticism and other-worldliness . When the times are out of joint some storm the barricades and others retire into a monastery . Thus it is that the greater part of the literature of our time is in one mood a literature of revolution and in another , often completely fused with it , a literature of escape . ' 3 . The Field of Reform This malaise of the spirit reflects , like the discomfort of a badly fitted shoe , the maladjustment of men to the way they must obtain a living . There are those who are born handicapped ; by the deterioration of the stock from which they spring they are without the capacity to make their way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malnutrition and neglect . Others are the casualties of a vicious or stupid family life , carrying with them forever the scars of inferiority and perversion . They do not adapt themselves easily . Then there are those who have been broken by the poverty and squalor of their youth , and who never do obtain an equal opportunity to develop their faculties . There is the whole unresolved task of educating great populations , of equipping men for a life in which they must specialize , yet be capable of changing their specialty . The economy of the division of labor requires , and the classical economics assumes , a population in which these eugenic and educational problems Footnote  | are effectively dealt with . But they are not yet dealt with . Nor do they settle themselves , as the dogma of laissez-faire supposes . And so they must take their place upon the agenda of liberal policy . The economy requires not only that the quality of the human stock , the equipment of men for life , shall be maintained at some minimum of efficiency , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully in a world of the increasing interdependence of specialized work requires a continual increase of adaptability , intelligence , and of enlightened understanding of the reciprocal rights and duties , benefits and opportunities , of such a way of life . But there is required no less , and again the classical economics takes this for granted , the conservation of the land and of all natural resources , and their progressive improvement by clearing , reclamation , and fertilization . The land and what is under it , the seas and the highways , are the patrimony of all the generations to come , and all rights of private property in this patrimony must , therefore , be subject to the condition that this natural inheritance will not be wasted or destroyed , that it will , on the contrary , be enriched . Since it would be as impossible for the new economy to produce wealth in an exhausted land as it is for a Chinese peasant to eke out a decent living on an eroded hillside , the conclusion is undeniable that conservation , in its broadest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a paramount obligation of a liberal state . That anyone who thought he was preserving the system of free enterprise should have persuaded himself to believe that the law must leave men free to destroy the patrimony of their children is one of the curiosities of human unreason . The system requires not only great adaptability in men , but an even higher degree of mobility in capital . On the whole ,  | the machines must come to the men rather than men to the machines . A civilized life is impossible for nomads who settle nowhere and do not put down deep roots in a particular place . For men who have just arrived and will soon depart tend to be crudely acquisitive . They are transients who have no permanent stake in any community , and there are no ties , other than the cash nexus , between them and their neighbors . They live only in the present , having no ancestral tradition fixed on any place and no care for posterity . The good life finds little encouragement where men do not feel themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future , where they live from day to day without deep associations and long memories and more than personal hopes . There is no doubt that the industrial revolution decivilized great masses of men when it drew them out of their ancestral homes and gathered them together in great , bleak , anonymous , congested slums . It follows that if the necessities of a civilized life are to be accommodated with the new economy , the stipulation of the classical economics , that labor and capital must both be perfectly mobile , has to be modified . Capital has to be more mobile than labor , sufficiently more mobile to compensate for the inevitable and desirable human resistance to a migratory existence . This is not to say that all the generations must remain forever rooted in the place where they happen to be . But it does mean that the tides of population must move slowly if old communities are not to be devitalized by emigration and new communities overwhelmed by unassimilable immigration . It should , therefore , be the aim of policy to mitigate this human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than living men to achieve high mobility . It should be the aim of educational policy to make most men versatile and adaptable in the place where they were born , and of economic policy to make capital mobile .  | In the early industrialism of the nineteenth century it was , perhaps , technically impossible to move capital and therefore it was necessary to uproot and move men . But the technical obstacles can be overcome . They are not nearly so formidable as they were a hundred years ago when the power to operate machines was generated by steam engines or waterfalls , when only products high in value as regards their bulk could be transported cheaply , when the capital available for investment was personal and under the personal direction of its owner . Modern inventions enable men to generate power almost anywhere and to transmit it long distances ; cheap transportation permits the movement of bulky raw materials ; the development of the limited-liability corporation has separated the ownership of capital from the management of enterprise . All these things make it feasible to use the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human need to live in settled communities . It is technically possible now , as it was not a hundred years ago , for capital to move to communities and thus to lift the curse of urban congestion and of ruthless migration . But if this is to be done , it must be the aim of law and social policy to facilitate and encourage the mobility of capital . Capital must be given security when it has moved to distant places and is under the control of remote managers . Thus there must be required stringent liability on the part of promoters for the worth and good faith of the securities they issue , and stringent liability on the part of managers for their stewardship of the shareholders ' capital . But that is not all . If capital is to achieve the necessary mobility , it must not become entrenched , uneconomically bottled up , in certain favored corporate structures . This is what happens when the managers are permitted to retain the profits , over and above sinking funds and working reserves , and to re-  | invest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital market . The effect of this is to aggrandize certain corporations beyond their true economic worth , and to cause a congestion of capital at the wrong places . No one who really believes in the principle of a free market as the regulator of the economy can , I think , fail to see that the limitedliability corporation must be deprived of the right to retain profits and invest them , not according to the judgment of the market but at the discretion of the managers . For the retention of the profits immobilizes capital , whereas the economy of the division of labor requires that capital shall move readily to the places and to the men who make the highest bids for it . Furthermore , although the separation of ownership from management is necessary to the operation of the economic order , the separation of control from management is not . The development of holding companies , that is to say , of corporations which own the control of the management of other corporations , is an exceedingly dubious innovation . They establish industrial empires within which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of enterprise . Their size is often mistaken for evidence of their economic success , but actually they suffer from the same vices which are inherent in any administered economy . There is no true ascertainment of costs and prices within the corporate empire . The constituent enterprises deliver goods to each other , not at the cost which would be set in a free market , but at a cost fixed by the supreme management . Thus the management of a giant corporation which dominates dozens of distinct industrial operations is , in the economic sense , irrational . It does not really know whether its rolling mills are subsidizing its captive coal mines or are being exploited by them . It has no true economic criterion to determine whether its investments in blast furnaces or in railroads should be in-  | creased or retarded . I am talking , of course , of big business , which is big because it controls many separate enterprises , and not of separate enterprises which have grown big . The two are often confused , though they are wholly distinct : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more of the product it makes is a success by the test of the market ; but the business which has been made big by use of the holding company , or by some other corporate device , or by community of financial control , is the result of a deliberate attempt to evade the test of the market . Big business of that sort is wholly inconsistent with the principles of a free economy , and is , in fact , the form which collectivism takes among businessmen . In this connection it should be remembered that the socialist movement is based on the notion that when big business has suppressed free enterprise and substituted administrative discretion for the market , the business is ripe for socialization and the transition will be easy : all that is required is to expropriate the shareholders and to make the managers civil servants . In practice it would not be so easy as that , as Lenin quickly discovered in 1918 . But it is true that if the collectivist tendency of big business is encouraged , the nationalization of big business will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective regulation of free markets can never remain long in private hands . Just as the East India Company was transformed into the government of India , so the giant corporations will , if they are allowed to continue , become in effect departments of the government . Big business of this sort is regarded alike by socialists and big businessmen as the result of the inevitable evolution of capitalism . On this point Karl Marx and Judge Gary were in complete agreement . But they were mistaken . The United States Steel Corporation did not grow . It was con-  | trived . It is a product not of a victory in the struggle to survive but of a bold and ingenious manipulation of the law governing corporations . The holding company could not have been created without exercising privileges that the law offered , and since those privileges of the law can be withdrawn or modified in accordance with public policy , it can not be true that the giant corporation represents the necessary evolution of modern industry . It is a fortuitous evolution from the condition of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law was maladjusted to the economy , and has perverted it . Thus the renovation of corporate law so as to prevent business from becoming any bigger than it can become in the test of the market is a necessary item on the agenda of liberalism . The reader will by this time have become aware of how far removed from laissez-faire are the requirements of liberalism . But even this cursory survey is by no means concluded . The economy of the division of labor in free markets depends upon the assumption , not only that men will save in order to invest in capital goods , but that the savings will in fact be invested , that the capital goods will in fact represent savings . The earlier economists preached the virtue of thrift , but they made the assumption that all savings were automatically invested , that all investments were necessarily savings . The assumption may have been substantially correct in an age when men invested their own savings in their own business , or borrowed directly the savings of some other person . But the assumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with bankers who finance investment with credit based on fractional reserves . Under this system saving and investment are widely separated and distinct operations , and it does not by any means follow that what is saved is invested or that what is invested has been saved . This is , it would now seem , one cause , perhaps  | a principal cause , of the business cycle . For when less is invested than is saved , there is deflation ? that is to say , an insufficient demand for goods ; where more is invested than is saved , there is inflation ? that is , an excessive demand for goods . In the deflation , purchasing power , which is merely goods and services available for exchange , is locked up ; in the inflation , artificial purchasing power , which represents no goods and services available for exchange , is enabled to bid for goods and services . The evil effects and the dangers of the business cycle need no elaboration . It is clear that social controls are required which will keep the real savings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . The development of these social controls was , until this generation , almost completely neglected by liberal economists and statesmen . They failed to realize that when saving and investment become distinct , the value of money becomes the accidental by-product of the transactions between bankers and their clients . The principal money of a modern society consists not of coin stamped in the government mint but of bank deposits that expand and contract with the creation of private credit . Thus the money which is the medium of the exchange economy , the standard in which are expressed the prices that regulate the division of labor , was until recent times dependent upon accident . ' The value of money has fluctuated violently during the century and a half in which the industrial revolution has been under way . Yet the intricate interdependence of mankind is inconceivable without money . For this interdependence consists in countless exchanges of an infinite variety of goods and services made Footnote  | every hour of every day in countless markets . These exchanges could not be made by direct barter : they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a common denominator . They are valued , not in relation to each other , say a bushel of wheat against a music lesson , but in relation to money . They have a price , and in so far as money is not neutral , prices will be unjust and all economic calculation impaired . The measures which would be effective to maintain a neutral value for money do not concern us here . We are engaged in staking out the field of required policy in an exchange economy , noting the main headings of the agenda of liberalism . It is enough to say here that the experience of more than a century has demonstrated that the automatic gold standard , if in fact such a standard ever existed , does not provide a sufficiently neutral money for a mode of production based on the world-wide division of labor . Monetary reform , and what is now called monetary management , are , therefore , necessary . We come next to the fact that the actual markets in which the economy is regulated are very far from being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buyers and sellers of goods and services are not equally aware of the real state of the market , are not equally able to make free , genuinely informed bargains . ' Those who can wait have a great advantage over those who must sell at once . Thus the farmer with a perishable crop has less bargaining power than one whose crop can be stored and will keep . The owner of the land can in general wait longer than his tenant . But the man with the least bargaining power is the man who has only his labor to sell . If he does not work to-day , the product of that day 's work is totally lost forever . The longer the seller Footnote  | can afford to wait , the more time and opportunity he has to study the market in order to obtain the maximum price . Thus there are enormous differences in the efficiency of the various markets . In some the price comes close to expressing the true equilibrium of supply and demand ; in others the price represents little more than the ignorance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other . Inequality of bargaining power afflicts particularly farmers dealing with middlemen , unskilled workingmen dealing with large employers , the poor in their purchases , and the investors of small savings . They can not wait . They do not know . They transact their affairs in exceedingly imperfect markets . Quite properly they distrust the markets and remember the many occasions where they have been outwitted , out-traded , and victimized . These wretched markets are an invitation to all the fraud and sharp dealing , the usury , jerrybuilding , and shoddiness , the quackery and shystering , of the capitalistic underworld . Obviously , it is the duty of a liberal society to see that its markets are efficient and honest . But under the laissez-faire delusion it was supposed that good markets would somehow organize themselves or , at any rate , that the markets are as good as they might be . That is not true . The improvement of the markets must be a subject of continual study in a liberal society . It is a vast field of necessary reform . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a principle universally accepted from earliest times , that it is the function of government to see that weights and measures are honest . Applied to the complexities of the modern exchange economy , where goods are made by technical processes which only experts understand , the principle of honest weights and measures must mean a drastic modification of the old rule , caveat emptor . The buyer is no longer able to judge the technological honesty of the  | goods he is offered in the market . He does not know whether they are what they are advertised to be . So it becomes necessary to make the seller liable for an untruthful presentation of his wares , to make it unlawful to sell harmful products , to stipulate that only goods of the same quality shall bear the same label , to provide the purchaser with effective means of finding out whether he is getting the best that can be had for the money . Along with measures to make the markets genuine it is necessary to take steps to reduce the evil of necessitous bargaining . Thus a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have too little bargaining power and those who have too much power . It must , by its own principles , encourage and protect the cooperative organization of producers , such as farmers and workingmen , who must sell at once , and at any price offered , and in ignorance of the true supply and demand if they bargain individually . Just as the state , by granting the privilege of incorporation with limited liability , has made possible the collective employment of individual savings , so it might well devise a form of incorporation which would create collective rights and corresponding duties for organizations of farmers , workingmen , and consumers . That such organizations would be under the temptation to become monopolies in restraint of trade is obvious . We know this from the fact that business corporations do so often yield to that very temptation . Thus an indispensable principle of liberal policy is to outlaw monopoly and the unfair trade practices which lead to monopoly . There is a rather general impression that all business tends towards a condition of monopoly , and that may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception of the nature of its own economy . But once men take seriously the idea that they are committed to a mode of production which can be regulated only in free markets , they  | will reexamine the laws under which monopoly flourishes . They will find , I am convinced , that few effective monopolies have ever been organized and that none can long endure except where there is a legal privilege . It may be a franchise , or the exclusive possession of a limited natural product , or a patent , or a tariff , or simply an exploitation of the corporate device . But if monopoly depends upon a privilege that the law concedes , then monopoly can be destroyed and prevented by changing the law . Still we have not come to the end of our survey of the fields in which liberal policy must operate in order to adapt the social order to the exchange economy . By its very nature the economy is dynamic ? that is to say , the technic and the localization of production is in continual change . Industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprises are growing and others declining . Industries which were established in one place are replaced by industries in another place , sometimes halfway around the world . In the long view this is industrial progress , but in the close view its human evil is tragic . At no point , perhaps , were the latter-day liberals more insensitively doctrinaire than in the complacency with which they accepted the human costs of industrial progress . Yet there is nothing whatever in the necessities of the new economy which compels society to be indifferent to the human costs . There is no reason whatever why some part of the wealth produced should not be taken by taxation and used to insure and indemnify human beings against their personal losses in the progress of industry . If technological improvement increases wealth , ? and , of course , it does , ? if society as a whole is richer when an industry moves from a place where costs are high to one where they are lower , then some part of that increased wealth can be used to relieve the victims of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them over while they are changing their occupations , to reeducate them for new occupations , to settle them in new places if they have to move . Not only is there no reason why a liberal state should not insure and indemnify against its own progressive development , but there is every reason why it should . For if it is properly devised , such a system of social insurance would , facilitate the necessary technological changes , and reduce the very human resistance which comes from those who now see themselves the appointed victims of progress . No one can blame a man for hating a machine that will place him in the bread line and unfit him for the only job he has learned to do . It is not only the industrial workers , however , who suffer from industrial progress . All producers are subject in some degree to the same risk when new processes are invented , when more efficient competitors arise , or when tastes change . To be sure , they can not all be insured and indemnified out of the public treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be done is a problem of great complexity which I would not pretend to be able to solve . But the character of a possible solution may be indicated by suggesting that business enterprise would be better able to face the risks of industrial progress if corporations were required to amortize their capital debts within the efficient life of the machines and processes that the capital has bought , and were required to obtain new capital in the money market rather than out of accumulated profits . This would no doubt make for smaller corporations . But smaller corporations are more mobile than big ones . They can dissolve more easily and new ones can be created more easily . Such corporations would be more efficiently adapted to a dynamic economy , and they would not raise the problems and the tragedies of semi-obsolete corporate leviathans that are unable to live and unable to die .  | It will be seen that the agenda of liberalism is long and yet I should make no claim that mine is complete . The adaptation of the social order to the division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the finding of a new way of life for mankind . In all its ramifications it must , therefore , transcend the understanding of any man who lives in the midst of it , or the programme of any party , or the reforming energies of any one generation . I have sought only to indicate the more urgent and obvious points at which modern society is maladjusted to its mode of production , and then to illustrate the unfinished mission of liberalism . The agenda refute the notion that liberalism is the sterile apologetic which it became during its subjection to the dogma of laissez-faire and to the misunderstanding of the classical economists . The agenda demonstrate , I believe , that liberalism is not the rationalization of the status quo , but the logic of the social readjustment required by the industrial revolution . If , now , we consider the agenda as a whole , we shall see , I think , that they imply a different distribution of incomes from that which now obtains in most organized societies . For one thing the effect of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money by necessitous bargains and by levying tolls through the exercise of legal privileges . These reforms strike at the source of the big incomes which arise from the various kinds of monopoly , from exclusive rights in land and natural resources , from bad markets in which the ignorant and the helpless are at a disadvantage . Income arising from these inequalities of opportunity and legal status are unearned by the criterion of the exchange economy . They are parasitical upon it , not integral with it , and if the actual world corresponded with the theory of the classical economists , these unearned incomes would not be obtained . They are not the wages of labor or management , the interest on capital , or  | the profits of enterprise , as determined in free and efficient markets , but tolls levied upon wages , interest , and profits by the subversion or the manipulation of the market price for goods and services . The reformers of liberalism must aim , therefore , at correcting the conditions under which such unearned incomes arise , and in so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not arise . Now the correction of the conditions involves , as we have seen , large social expenditure on eugenics and on education ; the conservation of the people 's patrimony in the land and natural resources ; the development of the people 's estate through public works which reclaim land , control floods and droughts , improve rivers and harbors and highways , develop water power , and establish the necessary facilities for transporting and exchanging goods and services ; providing the organization of markets by information , inspection , and other services ; insurance and indemnification against the risks and losses of technological and economic change ; and many other things , such as providing the opportunities for recreation which would not otherwise exist in specialized and congested communities . These public investments and social services are , of course , expensive , and the process of financing them is a redistribution of income . In a society in which there was no unearned income , the taxation to pay for them would be in effect a form of forced saving for investment in the people 's estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption to such forms of social consumption as schools , playgrounds , museums , and the like . But in society as it now is , where a progressive proportion of most of the larger incomes is unearned , the primary cost of the public investments and social services can be properly charged in a graduated scale against the larger incomes . If the science of taxation were highly developed , and the meth-  | ods of public budgeting were refined , the cost of reform , ' as distinguished from the support of government and of social consumption , could be fixed with a nice discrimination , not on the size of an income , ? but on the unearned portion of all incomes . And in the higher refinements of a just system of taxation , that part of an unearned income now spent for private consumption by the possessor would be completely expropriated . It would be recognized that while an unearned income which is reinvested replenishes the capital goods of the whole society , unearned income spent on consumable goods is sheer privilege . These refinements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of taxation , and above all beyond the present competence of officials to administer them . They indicate , however , the direction in which reformers can work . In the practical present a cruder policy is unavoidable : one which redistributes large incomes by drastic inheritance and steeply graduated income taxes . There need be no reluctance in the avowal that a greater equalization of incomes , if brought about in the way outlined here , is the necessary objective of a liberal policy . I stress the manner because a mere leveling of incomes by taking from the rich and giving doles to the poor would defeat itself and would merely paralyze and impoverish the whole economy . The equalization must be effected by measures which promote the efficiency of the markets as regulators of the division of labor ; they must strike , therefore , not at the profits of successful competition but at the tolls of monopoly . The taxes levied on the rich must be spent not on doles to Footnote  | the poor but on the reform of the conditions which made the poor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government directly to the poor , is a relief of , but not a remedy for , their poverty , whereas money spent on public health , education , conservation , public works , insurance , and indemnification is both a relief and a remedy . It improves the productive capacity both of the individual and of the national patrimony from which he must earn his living . By improving the marginal productivity of labor , it raises the minimum wage of all labor out of an increased national dividend . This is equivalent to saying that some portion of the national dividend must be invested , in order to conserve and improve the foundations of the economy , in the people and in the national estate from which they earn their living . The returns on these investments are real enough . But they are imponderable and deferred . Values created by the schools in educating the next generation , by public works to preserve the fertility of the soil , do not have a market price and would , therefore , not be undertaken by ordinary private enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which does not have to pay its way and show returns measured in money within a short span of time . For the most farsighted private investment can not look much beyond one generation ; only the exceptionally prudent plant trees for their children . But a society , as Burke so eloquently said , ' comprehends the dead , the living , and the unborn . And as the living inherited the national estate from their ancestors so they must transmit it to their posterity . This carries with it the obligation to plough back some portion of the current income into the foundations of the social economy . Footnote  | What proportion it is necessary and wise to plough back I should not pretend to say : the answer to that lies in the field of contemporary policy rather than of principle . But it is clear , I think , that the proportion increases with the increase of the national dividend per capita . For as more and more persons achieve a comfortable standard of life and still have income to spare , the urgency of the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain point men would rather work less than earn more . Beyond a certain point they would rather save than spend . So in the relatively richer societies there is a strong tendency for the supply of capital to become so large that the rate of interest falls to a level where there is little inducement to invest it in new enterprise . There is a strong preference for liquidity and security . " In a rich society the psychology of the rentier tends in some measure to supplant the psychology of the entrepreneur . Under these circumstances the use of the taxing power is indicated in order to pump the surplus funds of the rich out of the ordinary capital market and into public investments . The very fact that the rate of interest is so low that there is not sufficient inducement to attract capital to private enterprise would appear to be proof that unless the excess savings are publicly invested they will be hoarded and wasted . For these excess savings do not fructify industry ; on the contrary they represent wealth withheld from use , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is accompanied by the unemployment and the extreme poverty of the marginal workers . When these conditions obtain , wealth is maldistributed , and in so far as the maldistribution is not corrected at its source by the suppression of the unearned increments of monopoly and necessitous bargaining , it has to be corrected by taxation and Footnote  | public investment . To divert excess savings from the hoards of the rich and to plough them back into the improvement of the quality of the people and of their estate is , therefore , required not only by the long view of the imponderable national interest , not only as an expedient to allay discontent , not only as a matter of social justice , but as a requisite for preserving the equilibrium of the exchange economy itself . The earlier economists could not foresee this because in their time the private demand for capital was so urgent . They assumed that it would always be urgent . But they underestimated the productivity of the new economy and they overestimated the acquisitiveness of human nature . Gradually we have learned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth ad infinitum . When they attain a middle-class standard of life the wants of most men are sated ; they do not have the tastes for spending a lot more money . To earn it is not worth the trouble ; to spend it is more trouble than it seems when in the abstract they envy the very rich . To be sure , the middle-class standard of life rises . But it is not true , as someone has said , that wealth must go on increasing until the last Hottentot lives like a millionaire . At least it is not true that the last Hottentot would wish to work hard enough to be a millionaire , or would care to devise ways of spending a millionaire 's income . Long before that point is reached in the actual world the profit motive loses its incentive , and men prefer leisure , security , and intangible values to further economic gains . The acquisitive psychology of the nineteenth-century economic man is no longer the psychology of real men who have reached the slowly rising level of middleclass comfort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this maldistribution of wealth in modern society arises from two interacting causes : in brief , from unearned increments on the one hand and  | on the other from the capacity of the economy to produce more wealth than those who enjoy a middle-class standard care to consume or can profitably invest . The maldistribution due to unearned increments has to be corrected at the source ? by reforms which strike at monopoly , privilege , and necessitous bargains . In so far as these reforms are effective they will tend to equalize , though , of course , they will not level out the distribution of income . Under a regime of equal opportunity , there could not be any such gross inequality of income as obtains to-day in a country like the United States . There would not be the large inheritances ; under true competition only the successful pioneers would earn very large profits . In fair markets , with adequate mobility of capital and adaptability of labor , interest rates would be low . The disproportion of the highest salaries and the lowest wages would be greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion-picture stars , whose abilities have a unique value in the market , most successful men do not have such unique abilities . As equalized inheritance and education made opportunity more nearly equal , the increasing supply of able entrepreneurs and managers would reduce the salaries and bonuses they now command in the market . Correction of the maldistribution arising from unearned increments would , by equalizing incomes , tend to bring some men up and others down to a middle-class standard of life . At that standard , consumption would increase and excess savings would diminish . But the reforms would not in practice correct at their source all the injustices of monopoly , privilege , and necessitous bargains . In a wealthy society , there would still remain maldistribution , arising not from injustice , but from the accumulation of more wealth than its possessors need for the then prevailing middle-class standard of life or than they can effectively use in private enterprise . This  | maldistribution has to be corrected by public investment in the eugenic and educational improvement of the people , in the conservation and basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These public investments would draw upon the excess capital through the levying of taxes and through borrowing at the lowest possible rate of interest . Thus the two methods converge upon the same end , which is to equalize very considerably the distribution of income . This is greatly to be desired . Since the time of Aristotle it has been recognized by the wise that extremes of riches and poverty , that spectacular differentials of income , are dangerous and pernicious in any society . The enlargement of the middle class as against the poor and the rich must , therefore , be sought by anyone who wishes a society to live soundly and endure long . For the great inequalities do not represent the true inequalities in men 's native endowment , or in their characters and their diligence ; thus the inequalities obscure and distort the whole moral conception of income as the reward of useful work , of poverty as the punishment for laziness and imprudence . Because to-day it can not be said sincerely that wealth is the reward of virtue , the very notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is gravely discredited . And inasmuch as the maldistribution of income causes capital to accumulate excessively in the presence of destitution and want , we have the paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty which makes the whole economy appear irrational and unjust . 4 . The Radical Conservatism of Liberal Reform These agenda are not to be taken as a definitive and comprehensive outline of liberal social reform . If , as I am arguing , it is the mission of liberalism to discern the guiding principles of the transition from the primitive way of life in relatively  | self-contained communities to a way of life in a Great Society of interdependent specialists , then liberalism is concerned with nothing less than a readaptation of the human race to a new mode of existence . That this is no small enterprise we know from the experience of the Romans , who established , but could not maintain , a Great Society on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea . For nearly a thousand years after the decline and fall of that Great Society , western men followed once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living in an exchange economy was resumed , and , as a matter of course , men became interested once more in the classical philosophy which had reflected the needs and guided the policy of the men in the Great Society of the ancient world . This was the renascence of a highly civilized way of life after the long reaction to the primitive way of life in the Dark Ages . Naturally enough , the first centres of the renascence were the commercial cities , like Florence and Paris , and naturally enough England and the Netherlands , the first western countries to revive an extensive international commerce , were the first homelands of modern liberalism . For only a people living in an exchange economy needs , or can hope to conceive , a liberal philosophy . It is no coincidence that the very conception of equal rights under a common law to which all men , including rulers and sovereign states as well , are subject should have been formulated by men like Coke , Selden , Locke , and Grotius , who were members of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no coincidence that the expansion of English commerce under Queen Elizabeth was followed by the struggle for responsible government under the Stuart kings ; or that Adam Smith should have been moved to write The Wealth of Nations at the very time when the American and the French Revolutionists were proclaiming the Rights of Man .  | The modern phase of the readjustment of man to the division of labor reaches back at least to the beginnings of the seventeenth century in England . It is not completed . For long ages it will not be . Thus the agenda of liberal reforms which I have ventured to survey is intended to illustrate the character and the order of magnitude of the reforms which are obvious and urgent in our time . In so far as they are truly discerned they will be deeply consistent with the classical heritage and with the liberal tradition as it has been progressively discovered over this period of three hundred years ; they will be the continuation of , and not a reaction against , the work of men whom we properly revere as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that the agenda of liberalism would disturb many vested rights , there is no denying it . It has never been the true tradition of liberalism that its function is to defend the status quo ; on the contrary , its function has been to reform the status quo in order that laws and institutions may conform to the agricultural and industrial economy by which , since the close of the Middle Ages , men have had to live . If it is said that the liberal reforms recognize the same abuses as the collectivist reforms , that also is true . Are not the social maladjustments obvious ? Is not the discontent they provoke warranted ? Surely the question is how to cure the maladjustments , not how to suppress or ignore the discontent . It would be a sorry political philosophy which taught that blindness is insight , that indifference is wisdom , and that inertia is a policy . The collectivist reforms , as I see them , are a mistaken remedy for real abuses . The abuses are real , but the collectivist mentality belongs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideology of a more primitive , self-contained economy . That is why totalitarian collectivist states revert so quickly to the caste system at home and to depredations against their  | neighbors . For the collectivists are in rebellion against the interdependence of mankind arising from the division of labor . Their doctrine is based on a radical failure to understand the true nature of the exchange economy : so even partial collectivist measures paralyze the economy of production and engender indecisive and unending struggle among groups and classes and nations . I have called gradual collectivism the polity of pressure groups and I think the description is correct . But now that we have examined the maladjustment of the social order with the economy , I must add that the pressures of the groups are due to the pressure of genuine circumstance . They crystallize at those points where the social order is in fact humanly maladjusted to the economy . When men feel that their accustomed way of life is jeopardized by the dynamic changes resulting from the progressive division of labor , the pressure groups are defensive and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Aggressive pressure groups appear where inadequate social controls provide opportunities for exploitation . But almost always both are symptomatic of urgent practical difficulties arising from the frictions and disturbances of a revolutionary economy in an incompletely reformed social order 1Y Footnote  | I realize that since the existing rights of property and contract are greatly affected by the liberal agenda , many will regard such a disturbance of the status quo as socialism . But that is sheer obfuscation of the mind . It is true that liberalism recognizes the same social problems as does gradual collectivism , and that its reforms cut deep . How could it fail to recognize the problems and still pretend to guide human action ? It is true , also , that the liberal remedies require the liquidation of some , and the modification of many , vested rights . How can social maladjustment be cured except , by altering vested rights ? The status quo can not be reformed and yet preserved as it is . But , except to the prejudiced , it will be clear that liberal reforms differ radically from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the exchange economy whereas collectivism would abolish it . Liberalism is radical in relation to the social order but conservative in relation to the division of labor in a market economy . In the liberal philosophy the ideal regulator of the labor of mankind is the perfect market ; in the collectivist philosophy it is the perfect plan imposed by an omnipotent sovereign . Thus , while liberalism must seek to change laws and greatly to modify property and contract as they are now recognized by the laws , the object of liberal reforms is to preserve and facilitate the division of labor in the existing exchange economy . It is in order to fit men for their new way of life that the liberal would spend large sums of public money on education . This does not mean only the training of versatile specialists , though that is necessary . It means also that the whole population must be provided with the cultural equipment that men must have if they are to live effectively , and at ease with themselves , in an interdependent Great Society . The liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their development : the purpose of these  | reforms is to maintain the physical foundations of the division of labor . The liberal attack on monopoly , unfair competition , and necessitous bargaining has as its guiding purpose the maintenance of that equal opportunity which the exchange economy presupposes and a high degree of divided labor requires ; the method by which liberalism controls the economy is to police the markets , to provide in the broadest sense honest weights and measures , to make the bargains represent the exchange of true equivalents rather than the victory of superior strength , inside information , legal privileges , conspiracies , secret combinations , corruption , and legalized sharp practices . Necessarily the liberal reforms run counter to much that the law now tolerates or protects . This is inevitable because the law now tolerates and protects many practices which make it impossible for men to live successfully in the economy of the division of labor . But liberalism , unlike collectivism , is not a reaction against the industrial revolution . It is the philosophy of that industrial revolution . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to the new economy ; that end can be achieved only by continual and far-reaching reform of the social order . So however much they may re-Footnote  | semble each other superficially , the difference between the two philosophies is radical and irreconcilable . The collectivist uses the power of the state to direct , and in the last analysis to administer , the production and the consumption of wealth ; the liberal uses the power of the state to preserve and promote that freedom of exchange which is the essential principle of the new mode of production . If , as in the second half of the nineteenth century , the need for progressive readjustment is misunderstood , neglected , and resisted , the accumulated maladjustments must lead to illiberal reaction . In our time the liberal philosophy is engaged in a struggle to survive and to be reborn , and in this struggle its own failings are the chief strength of its opponents . Liberalism is the normal philosophy of men who live in a Great Society . But for the fact that the liberal philosophy became frozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the readaptation of the social order to the economy , it would never have been conceivable that men who had prospered in free countries should be tempted to regard the primitive tyrannies in Russia , Italy , or Germany as the beginnings of a better life for mankind . That incredible paradox , which causes men who have fought gallantly for the civil rights of cranks and fools in America to condone the suppression of all civil rights in Russia , " would never have infected the progressive movement Footnote  | had not the latter-day liberals gone up a blind alley and come to a dead end . So I am proceeding on the assumption that liberalism is a true but imperfectly developed insight into the real nature of the industrial revolution . I do not identify liberalism with the writings of Herbert Spencer or with the rulings of the Supreme Court under the due-process clause . No one feels it necessary to identify the science of chemistry with every theory that Davy or Faraday propounded , and there is no more reason for identifying liberalism with all that liberals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one time or another promulgated as the gospel . They may very easily have been mistaken , and , in so far as what they regarded as liberalism has produced illiberal consequences , they surely were mistaken . They must have been mistaken wherever the conclusions they arrived at contradict their original insight and defeat their aims . Thus if liberal thinkers adopted a theory of free contracts which in fact results in arbitrary compulsion , then there was an error in their theory . If , with a view to promoting the free exchange of goods and services by contracts in open markets , they adopted a theory which sanctioned monopoly and necessitous bargains , their theory must in some important respect have been wrong . If they adopted a theory of private property which results in the destruction of the soil , wastes limited natural resources , or creates slums which impair the vitality of the people and degrade their lives , then their theory of private property must have been gravely defective . If , with a view to promoting the capitalistic mode of production , they adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the market economy and the rise of collectivism in Big Business , then their theory of the corporation was , in some fundamental aspect , wrong . If they had a theory of the state which forces men to choose between anarchy and despot-  | ism , their theory of the state must have been wrong . If they had a theory of human rights which refused protection to many human interests , including those of posterity , then their theory of human rights was grossly inadequate . The development of the later liberalism led to all these self-defeating consequences , and the dogmatic temper of the later liberals prevented a thorough reexamination of their errors . But that reexamination is now under way by a new generation of liberal thinkers , who have been shaken out of their complacency by the debacle of liberalism and out of the easy acceptance of the collectivist alternative by the horrors of the collectivist reaction . It is evident to them that mankind can not stand pat with the aging Herbert Spencer or move on , except to its ruin , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PRINCIPLES OF LIBERALISM 1 . The Nature of the Problem IT would be beyond the scope of this book and of my own technical competence to attempt a detailed reexamination of what in its decadence passed for liberalism on the subject of property , contract , the corporation , the state , and individual rights . But I shall venture to make a general reexamination of certain fundamental ideas which must , I believe , be clarified , if liberalism is to be reborn . We may begin by recognizing that , as philosophers of the industrial revolution , liberal thinkers were greatly impressed with the need for the security of transactions and of property . If men are to exchange the products of specialized labor in distant markets , they must be able to count upon the delivery of what they have bargained for . They must be able to own things at a distance , when the things are out of sight , and to feel sure that the bird in the bush , if it is their bird , is as much theirs as if they had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sight , and can defend it with their own strength , when they go to a near-by market and barter face to face with their near neighbors , there is no great need to emphasize the sanctity of contracts and the inviolability of property . The exchange economy , however , is based on credit , not merely in the narrow sense of loans , but in the broad sense that it relies upon the good faith of multitudes all over the world . In inaugurating this credit economy , the pioneers of liberal-  | ism had to overcome not merely the primitive incapacity of men to feel bound by distant and impersonal obligations , but the immemorial habits of the marauder and of the predatory state . The ordinary man was far from having acquired the habit of dealing faithfully with men who could not hold him to his promise . " Naturally , " says Dean Pound , " contract loomed large in juristic thought " during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . Moreover , the highways were infested with brigands , the seas with pirates , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon merchants , particularly those from another locality , as their natural prey . From the year 1600 to about the year 1800 , a great part of the efforts of progressive men went into establishing the elementary security which was indispensable to an exchange economy . They tamed kings by decapitating them . By waging wars against pirates and predatory governments they cleared the seas . They imposed respect for property and contract by what seems to us savage punishment of thieves and defaulters ; and they sought by every possible means to make business transactions secure .2 So conscious were the pioneer liberals of the need for security in the transactions by which men earned their living that they sought to make them completely inviolable , not only as against thieves and defaulters and mobs , but as against kings , parliaments , and state officials . Remembering the historic circumstances , it is not difficult to appreciate the reasons which led the liberals to embrace the theory that the rights of contract Footnote  | and of property were " natural " and , therefore , beyond human interference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " vital lie , " a useful fiction in dealing with the practical necessities of a particular time . But though it served a good purpose temporarily , it was an untruth , and only the truth can in the end prevail . The pioneer liberals did not really mean that property and contract were beyond the jurisdiction of the state . On the contrary , they meant that the authority of the state should be consecrated to the security of property and the enforcement of contracts They developed their fiction at a time when the state did none of these things adequately ; and so when the merchants and manufacturers obtained control of the state , they used the government to make property secure and to enforce contracts . They made the law the guarantor of the new social needs , and they called the guarantee a natural right . Thus , as Roscoe Pound has said , the legal rights of eighteenth-century Englishmen came down to us as the rights of man . ' The pioneer liberals convinced themselves that the legal rights enforceable in the courts were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inalienable and , therefore , unalterable rights with which men had been endowed by their Creator , that the laws were not laws formulated by legislators and judges and the custom of the community , but were " the Laws of Nature and of Nature 's God . " By means of this great myth the pioneer liberals dissolved the ancient restrictions of caste and obstructed the interventions of authority . They used the myth to make possible the emergence of the new social order . But to their descendants they transmitted a collection of dogmas which obscured the problems of governments . For the legal rights which were actually en-Footnote  | forceable in the courts were not in fact the Laws of Nature and of Nature 's God . It was difficult to argue that there was a Law of Nature which required the eldest son to inherit all of his father 's property , or made it the unalterable rule of human societies that the bankrupt should go to jail . By placing legal rights on a superhuman foundation , the inquiry into the justice , the suitability , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to adapt the laws to the dynamic economy was driven underground and out of sight . It was removed from the realm of scientific inquiry and rational debate . Thus the convenient myth of the pioneer liberals became the dogmatic fundamentalism of the latterday liberals , and , in the guise of loyalty to unalterable principles , legislatures and courts shaped the laws to meet the pressures of interested groups . In their theory the law was already completed : but , in fact , the need for new law was brought home to them by popular agitation , by legislative lobbying , by the impressive briefs of the lawyers . They met the new need by improvisations , and reconciled the new laws with the unalterable law by employing an elaborate legal casuistry . Only by recognizing that legal rights are declared and enforced by the state is it possible to make a rational examination of the value of any particular right . The latter-day liberals did not see this . They fell into a deep and confusing error when they failed to see that property , contracts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts , are creatures of law , and have no existence except as bundles of enforceable rights and duties . A judge is only a man whose writs are effective and whose judgments are obeyed ; if the writ is not respected , the man is not really a judge in that cause . A voter is a person who is entitled to cast a ballot which has certain specified consequences ; to cast a vote if nobody has to pay any  | attention to the vote is to cast a straw vote . A corporation is an association of persons who have rights and duties which they would not have if they were not incorporated . A contract is an agreement which the courts will enforce ; an agreement which the courts will not enforce , say that John Smith is to jump over the moon , is not a contract . Property is a varying collection of enforceable rights to use in certain ways some of the things that are not provided in unlimited quantity and without effort . Thus the purse which the thief has just stolen is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the first thief can not persuade a court to return it to him . Property is an extremely intricate and subtly differentiated complex of rights . Landed property in the heart of New York City does not , for example , include the right to raise pigs on it . In some states landed property includes the ownership of everything down to the centre of the earth ; in others the landlord does not own the minerals that lie just under the surface . Until recently it was supposed that the landlord owned the air above him to the top of the sky . Now he owns it only up to the level where , by law , airplanes are permitted to fly . In some places a man 's eldest son must inherit all his property , in others it must be equally divided among his children ; in some he can designate his heirs , in others the law designates his heirs ; in almost all modern communities , the government takes some considerable part of the inheritance . It follows that these complicated and variable rights which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established by the law that the state recognizes , but that they may be , and that from time to time they must be , modified by the state . The problem that perplexed the liberals arose from the fact that they had very good reason for feeling that nobody ? no king , no parliament , no collection of voters , and no judge ? was  | good enough or wise enough to be trusted with the authority to modify the rights upon which the security of property and of transactions and of the person depended . This is the fundamental problem of the constitution of the liberal state , and , though we have about three hundred years of experience behind us , the problem is as yet only partially understood and imperfectly solved . 2 . The Ultimate Power of the People The development of constitutional theory for the liberal state began in England during the seventeenth century , although continental thinkers , such as Grotius , contributed greatly to it . England was the first large country to experience the industrial revolution ; it was in England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to the new economy first became urgent . But , though the debt of mankind to the English pioneer liberals is immeasurable , the historic circumstances in which English liberalism was formulated have tended to obscure the real issues for later epochs . What the English did was to adapt a feudal monarchy to the modern social economy , and their method was to convert " the feudal duties of the paramount lord toward his tenants into legal duties of the king toward his subjects . " In the course of their struggle against the Stuart kings , the English developed the conviction that the essential principle of a free government was to impose fundamental limitations upon the state and its rulers , that , as Chief Justice Coke told James I during their historic conference in 1612 , the King is " under God and the law . " 6 Footnote  | In this struggle against the prerogatives of an absolute king the theory of our liberties was forged . It is an incomplete theory . While we have learned from the English experience the great principle that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a law which is above them , the theory does not disclose how the supreme law itself is to be adapted to changing circumstances and new moral standards . For a variety of reasons the British people did not have to face that question during the formative period of modern liberalism . They achieved a reasonably workable compromise in their special circumstances ; they had a Parliament elected until recently by a limited franchise , and hedged in by an enlightened aristocracy , a civil service with strong traditions , and the deeply settled respect for the common law . Thus for a long time the balance of forces within British society maintained an equilibrium between security and change , between the supremacy of the established law and the emerging supremacy of the populace . But the fictions and compromises of the British system were effective only in the relatively homogeneous portions of the British Isles . They did not work at all in Ireland or very well in the rest of the British commonwealth , and in order to maintain their empire , and perhaps even to preserve a liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being compelled to consider the basic problem of constitutional government . It was this problem that the American Revolutionists had to face over a hundred and fifty years ago . They had disowned the monarchy and the whole aristocratic structure of the British state . They had no choice . There was nothing left but the irresistible power of the mass of men . What the American Revolutionists did with the constitutional problem is , therefore , incomparably the most significant political experi-  | ment undertaken in modern times . Fortunately , they happened to be men of extraordinary political genius , and they were able to discern , though they did not solve completely , the fundamental political problem of a liberal society . Their epoch-making contribution to the modern science of government lay in the discovery of the distinction between the people and the state . As inheritors of the English tradition , they were prepared for the discovery by the long struggle , going back to the Norman Conquest , between the common law of the people and the prerogatives of the king . In the English tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their king , and not that the people ruled the state . For the American Revolutionists the situation was reversed : the people were in power when the Constitutional Convention met . No one had lawful or effective authority which could prevail over the local governments and the direct action of lawless groups . So the task of the Americans was to organize popular rule , and not , as in England , to check the power of the king . Their discovery of the distinction between the people and the state was based not on hope , belief , or a doctrine , but on an observable fact . The ultimate power was in the hands of the people , and if there was to be a state it had to operate through powers delegated to it by the people ? that is to say , by consent of the governed . In recognizing this fact and formulating it as a theory of government , the Americans between 1776 and 1789 made a contribution to the science of government which is the necessary premise of all political thinking in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a caste society has dissolved , the power to rule is the formless power of the mass of the population . That power has always been potentially stronger than any government : the most absolute despot does not rule by virtue of his own strength but only by the loyalty of his guards and the servility of his subjects . It  | is not until the habit of subjection has been dissolved that the latent power of the people becomes a manifest and undeniable fact . It became manifest in the popular uprising which began in America in 1776 and spread to France . Though attempts were made after that to reassert the principle of legitimacy , they were vain . At the beginning of the nineteenth century all men who did not wish to deceive themselves understood that any government , despotic or liberal , is an organization of power drawn out of the reservoir of popular force ? In the rather confused writings of the totalitarian philosophers this fact is sometimes denied . But in practice even they must acknowledge it . They deny it when they assert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same , and when they pretend that the will of the dictator is simply the will of his people . But they acknowledge the difference between the people and the state when they set up concentration camps and ministries of propaganda . These instruments of deception and repression would not be needed if the rulers did not have to compel the assent of the people to the authority they have usurped . So we may say that since the revolutions of the eighteenth century , all governments have known that they rest on the consent of the governed . The ruling officialdom has known that it will fall when the troops refuse to march and the people rise up and rebel ; and that somehow or other , by hook or crook , all governments must obtain the consent of the people . Whether the officials obtain it by cajoling half the people into terrorizing the rest , or whether they obtain it surreptitiously by manufacturing opinion , or openly by discussion and debate , the fact remains that the state is not the people but that it derives its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the authors of the American Constitution undertook to organize a state in which Footnote  | this gross and formless power of the people would , as James Madison put it , be " refined . " For , of course , they did not fall into the error of supposing that the unorganized populace knew how to rule . They had recognized that the populace had the power to rule . They had acknowledged that it had the right to rule . They then knew that the problem was to enable the populace to rule . Undoubtedly that is what Madison had in mind when he spoke of the need for refining the will of the people . The devices which the Constitutional Convention adopted to achieve this end are well known . They are the checks and balances of the American Constitution . Whether these mechanical arrangements were the best possible is not the question here . The point is that the authors of the Constitution conceived of the people as subjecting themselves to a legal system in which their power to rule was carefully organized . They defined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule . This is the great conception of the American Constitution . It recognizes the irresistible power of the people as a fact , and acknowledges that power as the ultimate source of all authority . Then it raises the question of how this formless power can be organized for good government . The Constitution does not have the only possible answer to this question , nor a wholly satisfactory answer . For the mechanical checks and balances have many inconveniences . But the question which the Constitution seeks to answer is absolutely fundamental and can not be evaded . The authors of the Constitution themselves were by no means convinced that they had found the answer , and their contemporaries were even less certain . So deeply impressed were they all with the dangers of arbitrary government that they felt the need of additional guaranties . So to the basic conception of the Constitution , which is that the people must  | rule but that their will must be refined , there was added a Bill of Rights which was intended to limit drastically the scope of government action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original conception of popular rule . For it could be amended or repealed . It simply provided that certain essential liberties could not be impaired except by virtually the whole people after prolonged examination . Thus the Bill of Rights merely adds some more powerful checks and balances for refining the popular will . 3 . Representation of the People One of the hallmarks of genius , someone has said , is the faculty for asking the right questions . The leaders of the American Revolution proved their genius by going straight to the heart of the question to which any modern society must find the answer or perish . For as the progress of the industrial revolution destroys legitimacy , prescription , and habitual obedience to established authority , the fundamental question is how the formless power of the masses shall be organized , represented , and led . In the generation after the Revolutionary War , the American leaders faced this question . It is an even more urgent question to-day than it was a hundred and fifty years ago . For in the interval the acids of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have anticipated , the psychological bonds of the ancestral order . ' Since their time virtually the whole traditional social organization of Europe has decayed or has been uprooted , and even in the very depths of Asia and Africa the mass of men have begun to assert their power . The question which the American founders raised was how the inchoate mass of the people , Footnote  | as they assert their power , could be organized into a civil society . So , as in previous ages men had studied the personal history of kings , they studied the biography of the masses . From books and from their own observation they had learned that unless the people are successfully organized in a state , so they can act through officials who represent them under laws to which they have consented , the people 's power is mere ineffective , self-destroying violence . Without civil organization the people are at one time a helpless crowd , at another a horde trampling all before them ; then they are mobs which destroy each other ; then isolated individuals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " solitary , poor , nasty , brutish , and short " ; 9 until again , in the cycle of their impotent violence , they become a horde led by a master of the crowd . It has been said that the authors of the Constitution were not democrats , and their warnings against the irrational power of the formless mass are cited as evidence . But to credit this is to misunderstand their genius . They did not identify the power of the masses with democracy . They were able to see that the essential problem is to organize this power of the masses so that it may function as a democracy . That is why they made a lasting contribution to political thought and made so great a mark on the history of mankind . Had they been " democrats " in the sense which their confused critics have in mind , the ensuing turmoil and impotence would have made America , not the land of promise , but a gigantic Macedonia . The American founders saw that the problem was no longer what it had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : to obtain protection for the corn-Footnote  | mon man as against his masters . In their time the common man already had the power of his former masters ; the captains and the kings had departed . Their problem was how to organize the indubitable and inalienable power of the mass in order , that it might achieve its own best interests . And since it was obvious that no mass of men can as a mass make more than the simplest decisions of yes and no , 10 and is physically incapable of administering its affairs , the practical question was how a government could be made to represent the people . It was here that the founders set themselves apart forever from the naive theorists of democracy . They saw , in Burke 's phrase , that the constitution of a state is not a " problem of arithmetic . " So they refused to identify the will of the people with the transient plurality of the voters in one constituency . They did not say , for example , that if the whole mass of persons votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the votes and the other two have 33 per cent each , the winner in the contest is the true representative of the people . They thought of " the people " as having many dimensions in space , in time , in weight , in quality . They thought , as Burke did , that a society is " a partnership in all science ; a partnership in all art ; a partnership in every virtue , and in all perfection , " and " as the ends of such a partnership can not be obtained in many generations , " a civil society is " a partnership not only between those who are living , but between The American founders sought to represent this many-sided people and they thought of the people 's will as an equilibrium of its many elements . And so in their practical arrangement they sought to make Footnote  | the government as nearly representative as possible of the many facets of the popular will , of the people acting as citizens of local communities , acting as citizens of regions , of states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past , acting as they felt at the moment , acting as they would feel after fuller consideration . For they gave no credence to the idea that one periodic count of heads could elicit the real will of a large population . The founders sought to approximate a true representation of the people by providing many different ways of counting heads . For the national government , itself a federation of states with complex forms of representation , they provided a House elected for two years from fairly small constituencies of equal size ; a Senate in which one third only was elected every two years from the states ? that is , from constituencies of varying size ; a President , chosen , as they conceived it , by electors from the separate states , and for a term of four years , which did not correspond with that of any one group of the legislators ; a judiciary appointed for life after confirmation by the Senate . Thus no two branches of the government were chosen by the same constituency or for the same term of office . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houses and the President must concur , that a two-thirds majority may prevail over the President , that for treaties two thirds of the Senate must concur with the President . They then provided that all the powers exercised by the legislative and the executive branch were subject to the supreme law of the land , and that their specific acts would be invalid if contrary to the Constitution . They provided that the supreme law of the Constitution could be amended only by a complex vote which would ensure as nearly as possible that the decision had been fully considered , that all men had had a  | chance to hear the issues debated , and that many more than a mere majority had been convinced . How different is this conscientious attempt to ascertain the true will of the people from the cynical plebiscites conducted by dictators , where there is no choice , no opportunity to discuss the issues , and where the momentary , manufactured , majority opinion is treated as the will of the nation . Yet what the dictators do cynically , many who think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will of the transient majority with the people , and stake everything on its decisions . The logic of their ideal would call for the election of all officials in one universal ballot empowering these officials to do anything they chose as long as they were in office . If the naive democrats had the full courage of their convictions , they would break down all the complex and differentiated forms of representation and would remove all legal restraint upon the power of the representatives . This is sometimes described as pure democracy . But a little reflection will show that it emasculates the sovereignty of the people ; for if the supreme lawmaking power is entrusted to the representatives of a transient majority , they can at any time disfranchise not only the minority but the majority as well , and confirm themselves permanently in the seats of authority . A " pure " democracy , as the American Founders saw so prophetically , is really brute , inchoate democracy , and the certain foundation of absolutism . No doubt it is true that the mechanical devices of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Much more pertinently it may be said that all mechanical devices are necessarily inadequate to ensure true representation , and presently we must explore what I believe is the unrecognized corollary of popular rule . But before we come to that we must appreciate fully the deep wisdom of the original Con-  | stitution in its demonstration that the will of a people can only be refined and ascertained by a complex system of representation differentiated in time and space . The devices were only the means and have no universal importance : but the end , to which they were the means , has far greater importance to-day than when the Founders first discerned it . Its importance will increase . For with literacy general in the whole population , with inventions for communicating instantaneously with the population of the entire earth , a political system that will refine , rather than respond abjectly to , manufactured mass opinion is more than ever indispensable . The Founders of the American Republic realized that the demagogue is not a romantic fellow who appears now and then , but that he appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falsification of representative government , the cultivation of the transient and apparent rather than of the considered and real will of the people . James Madison would not have been astonished at Hitler . He had studied carefully the classical demagogues . That is why the Constitutional Convention attempted to set up truly representative government ; in order to protect the masses from the hypnosis of the moment , they invented devices for balancing the constituencies and delaying their decisions . They sought to make the people safe for democracy . What they meant to do every civilized people has to do , and if the checks and balances of the American Constitution are now antiquated , others will have to be devised to replace them . 4 . Distrust of the People Yet since the beginning of the American experiment there has existed always a feeling that the will of the people could  | not be refined successfully enough . Men have felt that something more was needed than mechanical checks and balances designed to elicit a truly representative public opinion . For after all the mass itself might become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite all the safeguards of debate , will the destruction of its own vital interests . At the outset , therefore , men insisted upon a Bill of Rights which would protect , as against mass action , their vital interests as individuals and as members of historic communities . After the Civil War they supplemented the Bill of Rights with a view to protecting the vital interests of the enfranchised Negro and of all other individuals against mass action in the states . And later they consented to a judicial interpretation of these individual rights which extended protection to the property not only of individuals but of corporations . Thus in the course of time the checks and balances were reenforced by dogmatic inhibitions . American jurisprudence and political theory adopted the idea of a supreme law more absolute than the Constitution itself . This super-law was never enacted . It was customary law which judges , lawyers , lawmakers , and publicists developed and imposed through judicial opinion and executive veto and legislative obstruction . In the case of Fletcher v. Peck , a statute of Georgia was set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular provisions in the Federal Constitution , but because it was contrary to the " general principles which are common to our institutions . " 12 This was the beginning of that supreme , yet unenacted , law above the Constitution itself which caused Mr. Justice Holmes to protest that the Fourteenth Amendment did not enact Herbert Spencer 's Social Statics , and has in our own day caused a collision between the courts and popular majorities . Footnote  | It was in the second half of the nineteenth century that American jurists in their efforts to adapt the enacted laws to changing circumstances found and enforced the details of this supreme law , and set it up as a barrier to the people 's will . These lawyers came every close to a judicial assertion of legislative incompetence to deal with ordinary legal relations . " " In a series of decisions the judges circumscribed the power of the states to regulate corporate bodies which the states had created , to control the franchises of monopolies which the states had granted , to set the terms of the contracts which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the legislature were not derived from the plain language of the Constitution . No one reading the Fourteenth Amendment , for example , and remembering that it was designed to protect the personal rights of the newly emancipated Negro , would reach the conclusion that the reference to due process of law meant that a corporation was a person and that the states could not freely fix the terms on which these legal creatures could do business . This superlaw was not ordained by that " refined " popular will which the original Constitution recognized as the sovereign power . It was supposed to be the law which all civilized men recognize as the obligation to deal justly with one another . In fact it was merely the status quo . This super-law , disguised as the higher law , was made by judges and lawyers who approved of the current purposes of the promoters of the corporate form of business enterprise ; they chose to regard existing , historic property rights as the reflection of supreme Footnote  | law based on absolute reason , valid everywhere and always . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state there was introduced the contradiction between popular sovereignty and the dogmatic absolutism of this counterfeit natural law ? which the judges made and then found . As the issues were raised in practice , the two notions were irreconcilable . For if the people have the right to exercise the power which in fact they possess , the highest law of the state must be the law which the people declare . The latter-day liberals had lost their understanding of the great political discovery which inspired the original Constitution . Instead of recognizing that the will of the people must prevail , arid that the function of a constitution is to refine that will , they sought to set up judicial dogma which inhibited the popular will . They reenforced the dogmas by appealing to the piety of the people , their reverence for the Constitution , and their respect for the courts . The latter-day liberals sought to obstruct , rather than to refine , the popular will . And in that enterprise they found themselves in some very bad company , protecting many predatory and antisocial interests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the electorate seeking to assert their power and the beneficiaries of the dogma who seek to restrain the people 's power . It is a dangerous conflict . For it jeopardizes not only the rights of property and the security of transactions Footnote  | but the popular sovereignty as well . The effect of persistent obstruction to the popular will is not to refine it but to degrade and to brutalize it . When at last the popular will prevails , it is capable of overthrowing the vested rights of property ; but it is incapable of exercising any rights of its own . The momentum of the rebellious mass , if dammed up at the obstruction , will finally overwhelm the obstruction and become an inchoate power . In breaking down the intolerable obstruction to the popular will , the defenses of all individual rights will collapse , and out of the common ruin of property and democracy a collectivist dictatorship will in all probability arise . Thus the latter-day liberals fell into a tragic error when they failed to hold fast to the original insight of the Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will that a progressive society must depend . In an unchanging world where men are habituated to a definite status , the status quo persists . Under such circumstances absolute dogmas merely make men feel that it is reasonable to do what they would never think of not doing . But after the industrial revolution and the political and social revolutions which it caused , the only conceivable source of authority is the power of the people and the only hope of good government is the progressive refinement of the people 's will . 5 . Social Control by the People We shall , however , misunderstand the real problem if we do not fully appreciate the fact that the American faith in democracy has always been accompanied by efforts to limit the action of the democracy . Distrust of popular rule has by no means been confined to the well-to-do . It has been general and continuous . At one time men fighting for liberty of  | conscience have defied the enacted will of the people ; at another men defending the privileges of business corporations have sought to circumvent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very same men who have defied the will of the people ? when it imposed national prohibition , outlawed revolutionists , censored books and the stage , prohibited the teaching of methods of birth control ? are enthusiasts for the national regulation , the more authoritative the better , of all phases of economic activity . The Democratic Party , which was the habitual defender of the sovereignty of the separate states , is to-day the advocate of a centralized nationalism which would have astonished Alexander Hamilton and John Marshall . Most of us are for the people when we think the people are for us , and against them when they are not . The Republicans , having for fifty years after the Civil War countenanced the impairment of state sovereignty under the due-process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment , had by 1936 become the ardent disciples of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison . It is evident that the American people as a whole have never consistently believed that all their interests could be placed unreservedly at the disposal of the people , however refined the representation , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have not believed whole-heartedly that democracy was safe for the world . This unbelief is , I believe , an intuition that there is something lacking in the theory of democracy , that somewhere the doctrine of popular sovereignty as conceived by its apostles is inconsistent with essential facts of human experience . Popular government has not worked out as promised , and all through the nineteenth century democrats speculated on the reasons for their disappointment . They had various answers to the riddle : if they were impressed with the evils of demagoguery , they said that in the  | long run popular education was the remedy and that the supremacy of a static law was the immediate defense . If they were impressed with the evils of plutocracy and of political corruption , they said that the cure for the evils of democracy was more democracy . They have tried all the remedies . They have spent immense sums on education . They have developed a popular press which is by and large the most informative in the world . They have also developed a technic of propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it , the most effective in all history . They have elaborated judicial restraint to a remarkable degree . And they have widened the electoral franchise and greatly facilitated the direct election of their officials . Though I regard the American passion for education as noble , and the technic of propaganda as pernicious , the superconstitutional law of the judges as untenable , and so-called " pure " democracy as a mistake , I mention these diverse things together at this point in the argument because they are all evidences of the same thing : the intuitive conviction of the people that democracy will not work merely by making it accurately representative . The propaganda , the pressure groups , the formulation of a law that is higher than the Constitution , and the breaking down of the checks and balances are evidences , it seems to me , of a radical defect in the conception of democracy . Thus the reliance upon education , in the sense of schools , and lectures for adults and popularized knowledge in books and magazines , is , it seems to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , that a people thoroughly educated in mind and character would find the answers to their problems . But it is a mere truism . For the question is how a democracy is to become so well educated , and we may be sure , I think , that the necessary education for popular government can not be ob  | tained in the schools and colleges , from books , newspapers , lectures , and the radio , alone . Popular education is indispensable , and I should be the last to decry it . But it is insufficient . The kind of self-education which a self-governing people must obtain can be had only through its daily experiences . In other words , a democracy must have a way of life which educates the people for the democratic way of life . The pioneers of democracy , particularly in America , dimly apprehended but never , I think , fully comprehended this truth . They had made the great discovery that henceforth the people would rule , that they have the right to rule , and that the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But what they did not master was the corollary of their discovery : that if the people do rule , they must rule in a particular way . I am not suggesting that they were altogether oblivious of the question : it would perhaps be accurate to say that they took the answer for granted and did not examine it . For during the formative period of democratic ideas , the assumption was general that any good government would remain consistent with the spirit of the English common law . The early democrats did not , it would seem , expect the people to legislate much or to legislate radically . So they did not recognize the urgency of the problem which arose later when radically new legislation was needed and desired . As a consequence they handed down to us a conception of democracy which is deeply discerning about the importance of truly representative government , but is without guiding principles as to how the people shall legislate . The lack of these guiding principles has caused the profoundest confusion . For in the absence of a well-defined conception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took to themselves the attributes of the kings whom  | they had deposed . It was supposed that the powers of the monarchy had passed to the people , that every man , as Senator Huey Long put it , was a king . " All that was necessary , " says Duguit , " was to substitute the nation for the king . The king was a person , a subject of right , the holder of sovereign power ; like him , the nation will be a person , a subject of right , the holder of sovereign power . " 16 Since the theorists of democracy had not come to grips with the problem of how the people can rule , they thought of the people as the inheritors of the kingly power.17 They did not fully appreciate the radical nature of the revolution in which they were engaged , and so they failed to realize that when the people rule they must rule in a radically different manner than a king . When the people 's representatives have sought to govern as if they had inherited the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men had complained about under royal government . Officialdom aggrandized itself and escaped accountability . It became corrupt , arbitrary , exacting , inefficient , parasitical , irresolute , and insensitive . Instead of hereditary rulers , there were political machines self-perpetuated at the expense of the taxpayers ; instead of courtiers there were place hunters . For the social order needed adjustment to the progressive economy . The representatives of the people had to legislate . Having no clear conception of how a democracy can legislate appropriately , they drew upon the ideas which they had inherited from the kings . They aggrandized the number and power of public officials . Footnote  | The effect was to cause confusion and disappointment in democratic societies . Those who saw the need of reform , or hoped to profit by it , knew no way of achieving reform except by inflating the executive and the administrative branches of the government ; those whose interests were threatened , as well as those who remembered the experience of the past , resisted reform by pointing to the perils of a powerful , ubiquitous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authoritarian state by the fiction that the state now belonged to the people : as a matter of fact , the official state has grown so large that the legislature has only the vaguest idea of what the officials are doing , and is wholly incapable of holding them to account . Conservatives justified their resistance by appealing to the indubitable lessons of history , that the aggrandized state becomes eventually a tyranny tempered only by its incompetence . Reformers made the unanswerable argument that the laws must change in a progressive economy , and the conservatives retorted that the remedy was worse than the disease . The reformers exalted the rights of the state , the conservatives the rights of the individual : the one doctrine became collectivism , which ends in militarized despotism , and the other doctrine became laissez-faire , which meant at last that no one must do anything . But this is a false issue . For it is not necessary to choose between social control administered by the aggrandized state and a self-assertive individualism subject to no social control . That supposedly exclusive choice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overlooks entirely one of the oldest , best established , and most successful methods of social control in human experience . It is social control , not by authority from above commanding this man to do this and that man to do that , but social control by a common law which defines the reciprocal rights and duties of persons and invites  | them to enforce the law by proving their case in a court of law . This method of social control is , I submit , the appropriate method for a self-governing people to use . The pioneers of liberalism fought successfully to vindicate this method of social control as against the prerogatives of the king . From the early days of the Norman Conquest they stood for the common law as against the commands from the king on high 18 This method of social control the founders of the American Constitution took for granted , like the air they breathed . So much did they take it for granted that they neglected to define it and fix it in the tradition of democracy . But in the debacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social control was unappreciated and then forgotten . The reformers forgot it when they multiplied officials instead of revising the rules of the game ; the conservatives forgot it when , in effect , they announced that the existing rules were immutable . 6 . The Passage to Political Maturity Truly conceived , a democracy is not the government of a people by elected representatives exercising the prerogatives of their former lords and masters . It is the government of the people by a common law which defines the reciprocal rights and duties of persons . This common law is defined , applied , and amended by the representatives of the people . Merely to enfranchise the voters , even to give them a true representation , will not in itself establish self-government : it may just as well lead , and in most countries has in fact led , to Footnote  | a new form of absolute state , a self-perpetuating oligarchy and an incontrollable bureaucracy which governs by courting , cajoling , corrupting , and coercing the sovereign but incompetent people . For the people can not govern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They can govern only when they understand how a democracy can govern itself ; when they have realized that it can not govern by issuing commands ; that it can govern only by appointing representatives to adjudicate , enforce , and revise laws which declare the rights , duties , privileges , and immunities of persons , associations , communities , and the officials themselves , each in respect to all the others . This is the constitution of a free state . Because democratic philosophers in the nineteenth century did not see clearly that the indispensable corollary of representative government is a particular mode of governing , they were perplexed by the supposed conflict between law and liberty , between social control and individual freedom . These conflicts do not exist where social control is achieved by a legal order in which reciprocal rights are enforced and adjusted . Thus in a free society the state does not administer the affairs of men . It administers justice among men who conduct their own affairs . This definition of popular rule is not an abstraction which I have invented because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe , a deduction from historic experience in the long struggle to disestablish the dominion of men over men . The idea must gradually crystallize in men 's minds as they deny that their kings , their lords and masters , and their leaders , are appointed by God to rule over them . For when they no longer think of government as the liege man thinks of his king , the slave of his lord , the servant of his master , then they must think of government as a legal order in which individuals have equal and reciprocal rights and duties .  | This change of mind marks the beginning of the manhood , the ending of the childhood of the race . Men do not accept this conception of government easily . For psychologically it calls for a profound change of attitude , and the change is accompanied by all the troubles of adolescence ; the individual is too grown-up to be treated as a child , he is too immature to bear the responsibilities of an adult . But those who grow up must grow up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations find the burden of self-government intolerable , and relapse for a moment , seeking to live securely once more as children , the manifest destiny of mankind is to become adult and to replace paternal authority with fraternal association . 7 . Social Control by Law Rather than by Commands In distinguishing between the regulation of affairs by reciprocal rights and duties on the one hand , by overhead administrative order on the other , we can , I believe , clarify what Burke called " one of the finest problems in legislation , " which is " What the state ought to take upon itself to direct by the public wisdom , and what it ought to leave , with as little interference as possible , to individual discretion . " 19 This problem baffled the influential thinkers and statesmen of the nineteenth century , and their failure to elucidate it successfully caused that popular bewilderment in which men came to think that they must make an exclusive choice between the anarchy of unrestrained property owners and the management of property by public officials . They thought they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those who wished to let things alone called themselves individualists and said they believed in liberty . Those Footnote  | who wished to direct the course of affairs became collectivists and appealed to the desire for security , order , and equality . The choice is not , I think , exclusive , and it has been posed only because of faulty observation and an insufficient analysis . There is no exclusive choice between direction by the state and noninterference with individual behavior , between state collectivism and laissez-faire as understood by the latter-day liberals . This supposed choice ignores the whole immense field occupied by the development of private rights and duties , and , therefore , it is not true that individuals must be left to do what they like or be told by officials what they must do . There is another way , the way of the common law , in which abuses are regulated and public policy is made effective by altering the private rights that are enforceable in the courts . This becomes self-evident when we remember what the laissez-faire theorists forgot : that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights that are enforced by the state.2 " The title to property is a construction of the law . Contracts are legal instruments . Corporations are legal creatures . It is , therefore , misleading to think of them as existing somehow outside the law and then to ask whether it is permissible to " interfere " with them . Thus the English law governing the inheritance of real property produced a different distribution of property from that produced by the French law . For in England the oldest son had different legal rights from those he had in France . Property of any kind , contracts of any kind , corporate organization of any kind , exist only because there are certain rights and immunities which can be enforced , when they have been legally established , by enlisting the coercive authority of the state . To speak of letting things alone is , therefore , to use a meaningless and a deceptive phrase . No one who Footnote  | asks to be let alone really wishes to be let completely alone : what he asks is that he be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he enjoys . But he expects the state to interfere promptly and effectively if anyone disturbs him . He insists that his rights shall be enforced . For some curious reason , the debate between individualists and collectivists has been carried on with both factions assuming that the existing system of private rights must either be left undisturbed or that it must be abolished ; that existing rights must be maintained absolutely or extinguished absolutely ; that either " property " must be what it happened to be when they were quarreling about it or the means of production must be administered by officials of the state . The dilemma is unreal and unnecessary . The system of private land tenure which happens to prevail at one moment in some country is not the only possible system of land tenure . The only possible alternative is not the nationalization of the land . The alternative may be any one of innumerable other systems of private land tenure . The only possible alternative to the existing system of private contract in industrial relations is not the replacement of private contracts by public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of changing the kinds of private contracts that the law will require the courts to enforce . The only alternative to the concentrated corporate control of industry is not a concentrated government control of business corporations . It may be any one of many possible modifications of the law of corporate rights . But in the nineteenth century individualists and collectivists alike persuaded themselves that the existing system of private rights could not be modified : that it had either to be maintained or to be superseded . Thus they created for themselves the fatal dilemma which has divided mankind into those who merely wish to preserve the status quo with all its abuses and those who wish  | to . make a new social order by the authoritarian power of the state . Collectivists and individualists had lost sight of one of the most obvious facts in human experience , that great and salutary changes in human relations can be and usually have been effected not by commands from on high but by amending the laws under which men deal with one another . Any student of history could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of history . Yet it was somehow assumed that laws were absolute , and therefore incapable of serious modification . So the debate has proceeded on the assumption that the choice lies between stubborn conservatism and complete revolution , that the rights of property as they stood in the nineteenth century have either to be confirmed and protected or that property owners have to be expropriated and their possessions administered by the state . The latter-day liberals , having committed themselves to the fallacy that existing rights are absolute , have been inhibited by their own fallacy from working out any programme to relieve the evils of modern society . The collectivists , believing in the same fallacy , merely drew an opposite conclusion . They turned to the state as deus ex machina , believing that the relief which could not be obtained by a readjustment of personal rights could be obtained by authoritative commands . The essential intellectual difficulty may be seen in Burke 's statement of the problem . He assumes that the state must either " direct " or must not " interfere . " But suppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that no one may use my invention during my lifetime without paying me the royalty I choose to charge . Is this direction or is it interference ? Now suppose the state amends the law , saying that I have an exclusive patent for five years only : after that anyone may copy my mousetrap without being liable to a suit for damages . That amendment of the law will radically alter the mousetrap  | situation . But is this act of social control to be called direction or is it to be called non-interference ? From my point of view I suppose I have been interfered with . But my neighbors might say that they have been released from an undue interference on my part with their right to catch mice more successfully ; that I was levying an unjust toll for an invention that was probably suggested to me , in part at least , by someone else 's invention . Is it not clear that the terms of the discussion do not really fit the facts , and that the debate could go on forever ? A change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not fit into either of Burke 's categories . Yet the change in the law causes a real change in the situation . Though the state has not undertaken to direct the invention or to administer the manufacture of mousetraps , it is not letting me " alone " without social control . The change is brought by a readjustment of the rights of my neighbors and of myself . Impressive social changes may have been effected ? the public health improved , a new industry brought into being , I prevented from becoming a millionaire , my neighbors relieved of a bitter grievance , good feeling promoted . But these things have been done without appointing new officials empowered to issue commands to anyone . There are not , then , as Burke and so many after him assumed , only two realms , one in which there is no regulation of men 's behavior , another in which men must obey the commands of their superiors . To state the problem in this fashion is to overlook the realm of private rights and duties where significant relations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not by commands issued by some men to other men . Except where a few solitary individuals subsist in a wilderness , the actual choice is between the regulation of social affairs by adjudicating and adjusting private  | rights on the one hand , by arbitrary sovereign commands on the other . The one is the method of a common law ; the other the method of the prerogatives of superior persons . The one is the system of democratic liberalism , the other of authoritarian collectivism 2 ' In the light of this distinction much unnecessary confusion is dissipated . We shall not , for example , fall into the error of regarding the existing law of property , of contracts , of corporations , as marking a realm in which the state does not or should not intervene . We shall recognize it for what it is , as a structure of rights and duties , immunities and privileges , built by custom , judicial interpretation , and statute , and maintained by the coercive authority of the state . We shall not think of all this as subsisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an empty debate as to whether the law may interfere with it . The whole of it , all property , and everything which we include in the general name of private enterprise , is the product of a legal development and can exist only by virtue of the law . This is evident enough in periods of social disorder when for want of law observance and law enforcement the whole private economy may collapse in a day . We shall not compound the error by thinking that the law of property contracts and corporations is immutable . 8 . The Regulation of Property It was , as we have already seen , at this point that nineteenthcentury liberalism came to a dead end : where it chose to treat property and the powers of the business corporation as in effect absolute and untouchable . Then it was that liberal states-Footnote  | men , being unable to regulate property and corporations effectively , had to give way to the collectivists . The latter-day liberals had a vague notion that they must regard private property as approximating , to use Blackstone 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man claims and exercises over the external things of the world , in total exclusion of the right of any other individual in the universe . " " But no such sole and despotic dominion exists or can be established , and it was a signal disservice to the maintenance of free enterprise when men attempted to claim and to exercise such a sole and despotic dominion . For the rights of property have no existence outside the law : they are simply the rights which courts of law will recognize . No man can hold or enjoy property openly and securely except by virtue of the readiness of the state to enforce his lawful right . Without a lawful title , he has no property ; he is merely a possessor without recourse against those who are strong enough to help themselves to his goods . Not only is all property a right established by law and enforceable at law : all property is a complex system of rights . This system is not the same system in respect to all kinds of things . It is not the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is not the same system in all places at the same time in respect to the same things . In other words there is no such thing as an absolute , immutable , and indefeasible system of property rights . Thus the system of private property is not uniform for urban land and for land at the frontier . The title to urban land may , for example , be subject to zoning ordinances which completely nullify any pretension that the owner exercises a sole and despotic dominion , " in total exclusion of the right of any other individual . " If , in defiance of the zoning ordinance , he Footnote  | attempts to establish a garage , his neighbors have rights which they can enforce . The landowner has no absolute rights in his property ; he has only conditional rights which vary from place to place . He can not put up a jerry-built structure on Broadway , but he can , if he likes , go out into the open country and build himself a house of wood and paper held together by safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject not only to the existing building laws but to future changes in those laws . And the same is true of his house in the country : if , for example , it were judged to be a fire hazard , his neighbors by a change in the law might be invested with the right to protect themselves by bringing suit or entering a complaint . The same property rights do not adhere to land which contains minerals , to land which controls water power , to land usable for bridgeheads , ferry landings , and highways , for railway tracks and conduits in city streets . The rights of property are not uniform in patents , in animals , in news gathered by reporters , in radio channels , in the air traversed by flying machines , in gold , silver , and platinum , in an author 's manuscript , in all inheritances and in all gifts . Though we think of all these rights as property , in fact property consists of an extremely varied collection of rights . What is more , the special rights which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before the appearance of the airplane the owner of a piece of land was held to have a title to a pyramid which had its apex at the centre of the earth and an infinitely wide base out in infinite space . Under a recent decision in an American court , his rights in the air extend no higher up than a safe distance above the roof of his house . The conditions on which the title to land can be enjoyed , acquired by sale , transmitted by gift or inheritance , have been profoundly modified again and again . Less than three hundred years ago , for example , the obligation of the English  | tenant to render personal services to the lord of the manor was commuted to the payment of a pecuniary rent . The right of the landlord to appropriate the monopoly rent of the land is by no means absolute , being subject to the power both of eminent domain and of taxation . If we ask ourselves whether in this bewildering complex of rights which men call property there is any clarifying principle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take as our premise the principle enunciated by Sir William Blackstone that " the earth . . . and all things therein are the general property of all mankind , exclusive of other beings , from the immediate gift of the Creator . " 23 This does not mean that the earth and all things therein should be administered by a central collectivist authority or that individuals should not or can not be made secure in the enjoyment of private rights . But it does mean that no individual can or should exercise a sole and despotic dominion over any portion of the earth or of the things therein . The earth is limited in size and its use is necessary to every man 's existence . Therefore , the rights of any man upon the earth must be reconciled with the equal rights of other men , not only of living men but of the unborn generations . No one in his senses can therefore believe in an absolute right of property which would permit the transient possessors of the land to destroy its fertility , to burn down forests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squander at will the minerals under the surface . These owners did not make these resources . They are unable to re-create them . What title have they then to claim that posterity has no rights which they must respect ? The true doctrine surely is that men hold property in limited and necessary natural resources , not as sovereigns , but as tenants ? who have rights and also duties ? of mankind . And likewise , no one believes in an absolute right of property Footnote  | which gives such exclusive possession that property owners can so monopolize the land and the resources that other men can live only by paying the price they choose to exact . Men may pretend to believe in such a theory of property . In practice it is unworkable . The dispossessed and the disinherited will haunt them and terrorize them . The desperate insecurity of all private property in the modern world is due to the fact that the propertied classes , in resisting a modification of their rights , have aroused the revolutionary impulse to abolish all their rights . Modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an absolute right . The real security of private property must rest not on a fatuous longing for a sole and despotic dominion over the necessities of all men 's existence but on a reconciliation of all men 's claims in a system of substantially equal rights . It is not loyalty to the cause of private property to confirm the monopolists in their privileges . To do that is to prepare the extinction of private property either by general disorder and pillage or by the establishment of an administered collectivism . The true principle is to be ready to liquidate these rights of possession which enable some men , by excluding all other men from access to land and to the resources of nature , to exact a tribute based not on their own labor but on mere legal possession . If all property is a complex of legal rights , the business corporation , with its privilege of limited liability and perpetual succession , is even more obviously a legal creation . It is no exaggeration to say that without the corporate device modern capitalism could not have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are incorporated , do things which they could not possibly do as separate individuals nor as an informal association of individuals . They can do these things only because of legal rights acquired in their charter . But for  | that charter they would have separate and unlimited liability for the acts done by their association ; when one of them died or resigned , the association would have been dissolved , like a marriage or a partnership . It is plain that a corporation enjoys great advantages as against unincorporated individuals . It can assemble the property of great masses of individuals , administer it collectively , and , though its directors or managers fall sick or die , the corporate organization goes on . Now all of these advantages are created and maintained by the law which says that under certain conditions individuals have the right to incorporate and as a corporation to enjoy certain privileges and immunities . How can such rights be regarded as inalienable and immutable ? Is it not evident that in granting the privilege of incorporation the state may fix the conditions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body are , that it may say that the privilege of limited liability and perpetual succession shall be enjoyed only in so far as the corporation meets certain specific obliga-tions ? Yet for reasons which it is not necessary for us to examine here , the ability to incorporate came to be regarded in the nineteenth century not as a privilege granted by law but as some sort of unquestionable right . The founders of the American Republic had no such notion and the liberals of the eighteenth century would have regarded it as preposterous . A charter of incorporation to use property for profit is a state-created privilege , particularly when it grants to its members the partial immunity of limited liability . There is , therefore , no reason why that charter should be vague and general : it can be made as specific in its definition of what rights the corporation may exercise and what duties it must perform as the lawmakers choose to make it . In the charter and in the statutes governing corporations they can stipulate any public  | policy they deem desirable . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy limited liability or perpetual succession if the courts find that they have violated the terms of the charter . The lawmakers can stipulate the grounds on which competitors , customers , employees , creditors , and debtors may sue for violations of the charter and the law . Moreover , the lawmakers may stipulate , if they deem it wise , how much land a corporation may own and no title in excess of that amount would be a good title . They may stipulate as to whether one corporation may own another , for how long and on what terms it may own patents , in what measure it may own natural resources , whether it shall be capitalized through the issue of bonds or equity shares , what shall be the rights of its security holders . They may stipulate the manner in which the accounts shall be kept , and what information must be made public and how often . Thus , without overhead direction , a very comprehensive regulation of corporate activity is feasible . It can be achieved by defining in the law the respective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transacts business . Yet such a system of regulation does not invest public officials with the authority to administer the affairs of the corporation or to issue commands and prohibitions to the corporate managers . It does not increase the power of officials over the life and labor of citizens . It merely readjusts , theoretically in any degree and in any manner , the rights of citizens with one another , and then relies upon individuals to put the law in motion when they believe they can prove in court that their rights have been violated . But though , theoretically , the lawmakers could set any conditions they chose upon the right to incorporate , in fact they could not legislate capriciously . For as they approached the point where they were converting the privileges of incorpora-  | tion into a risk and a burden , men would simply turn in their corporate charters and revert to some form of partnership . At that point the social advantages of the corporation would be lost , and the excessive rights against corporations granted to customers , employees , investors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus the system would have to be reasonable in order to be effective . It would have to represent a wise reconciliation of collaborating and competing interests . But that is one of the paramount virtues of the liberal method of regulating human affairs through the adjustment of private rights : that it is compelled to work , not by the compulsion of irresistible authority from on high but by conciliation , justice , and comity among persons . It has been a great illusion to think of the modern business corporation as a kind of autonomous principality with inherent power derived from some mysterious source that is independent of the state . The power of the business corporation is entirely a power granted by the state , dependent from day to day upon the continued enforcement of the law by the state which has invested it with its privileges and immunities . It can not be true , as so many lawyers have argued , that corporate rights are inalienable and immutable and indefeasible . Previous to about 1850 a special act of the legislature was needed in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have thought it conceivable that one corporation could own the stock of another . The business corporation , as we know it , is founded on the fact that legislatures and courts gradually invested incorporated associations with new rights , rights which did not exist a hundred years ago , rights which can , therefore , by no stretch of the imagination be regarded as anything but conditional and subject to alteration . By the same token it is no less untrue that modern corporate capitalism is a predestined development due to some mysterious  | necessity of the machine process , or to some inexorable tendency to the agglomeration of wealth and power . The promoters of the giant corporation were not giants to whom ordinary men had to yield . They were ordinarily enterprising men who made the most of legal privileges with which legislatures and courts had inadvertently endowed them . The essential elements out of which the giant corporations were assembled were titles to land and natural resources and patents , limited liability for debts and damages , perpetual succession , their chartered right to set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of these elements could have been and can at any time be redefined and subjected to new conditions . In short , their existing rights are not absolute . The development of private corporate collectivism is in no sense inevitable . The potentialities of regulation are as numerous and varied as the points at which the corporation has relations ? with its customers , its employees , its competitors , its providers of raw materials and transportation , its stockholders and bondholders , its neighbors in the places where it operates , and the tax collector . The field of the business corporation is not an immunized area which is sterile to the possibility of reform and regulation . The business corporation can be reformed and regulated by a readjustment of private rights , and there is no reason whatever for the assumption , made both by individualists and by collectivists , that corporations must either be allowed to enjoy all their present rights or be taken over and administered by the state .  | THE GOVERNMENT OF A LIBERAL STATE 1 . The Function of Officials THE prospects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the modern world can recover the intellectual habit of looking for a solution of social problems by the readjustment of private rights rather than by public administration . In the debacle of liberalism this habit was lost , and the art of free government has been almost forgotten . When contemporary men are confronted with a problem , they no longer inquire whether it can be solved by altering the reciprocal rights and duties of individuals : the preferred solution is almost invariably to invest officials with authority to enforce a solution . Intellectually , this is the easier way . For it requires no great genius , or even much thinking , to deal with an evil by advising someone to order it cured . Any fool , it has been said , can govern under martial law and any tyro can enjoy the delusion of having advanced the interest of mankind by establishing an armed official with a mandate to advance the general welfare . But it is only a delusion to think that the infinite complexity of human affairs has been put in order by calling in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relieve himself of his own perplexities by passing them on to the bureaucracy . He has solved no problem . He has merely appointed officials with a mandate to solve the problem for him .  | Officials can , for example , regulate the traffic on the roads : they can see to it that the ruthless and the reckless do not interfere with the other drivers . By progressive refinements of the rules , they can make it more and more possible for all the drivers to reach their destinations as safely and as conveniently as circumstances permit . But if , instead of defining the rights of all the drivers , the officials seek to prescribe the destination of each driver , telling him when he must start , by what route he must go , and when he must arrive , some few , those who have the ear of the authorities , will undoubtedly go just where they want to go , more swiftly , more pleasantly , than under a free system of equal rights . But the rest will be going where they do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambition to oust the existing traffic officers and install officers who will direct the traffic to their advantage . Yet many arguments can be advanced in favor of the authoritarian system . It can be said that by intelligent discrimination it might be arranged that those who have the most important errands shall not be held up by a clutter of cars full of persons who are merely out for a ride , or are on their way to some frivolous pastime , perhaps to an immoral one . It can be said that the biologically finer breeds , or those with the higher intelligence quotients , or those with the best moral character , ought to get to their destinations first . Much can be said , and has been said , about how an intelligently planned direction of the traffic would overcome the chaos of individuals going hither and yon , using up gas and oil , wearing out rubber and steel , indulging their taste for low amusements rather than dedicating themselves to high aesthetic , hygienic , intellectual , and spiritual aims . Though many think they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the occupations of all the people , in fact no one knows how to do that . There is no way of agreeing  | on what the destinations of all the drivers shall be . But it is possible to agree on traffic regulations which offer the same rights and the same obligations to all the drivers who choose to take to the road . That kind of government officials and motorists can understand . Its problems are problems which they can study and debate , and the solutions can be perfected progressively . To dispense the justice of equal rights is an intelligible , an objective , a human , criterion . But the other kind of government , by authoritative direction , is speculative and subjective in principle , and in practice it is almost certain to be predatory and acquisitive ? government by officials for their favorites . The conception of equal rights establishes a norm which fixes what ambitious politicians may promise , what individuals expect . But when officials are appointed to act as little tin gods over men , as Moses and C2esar rolled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even if well-intentioned ? human beings who have more authority than they know how to exercise . So we must ask ourselves what is the true function of the official . We have defined the liberal state as one in which social control is achieved mainly by administering justice among men rather than by administering men and their affairs by overhead authority . It follows that the temper of officialdom in a liberal society must be predominantly judicial : that holds not only for the judges themselves but for the legislators and executives as well , indeed for all who wish to serve the public interest . Except , of course , in emergencies when a community must temporarily renounce its freedom in order to defend itself against attack , upheaval , and disaster , the primary task of liberal statesmanship is to judge the claims of particular interests asking a revision of  | laws , and to endeavor amidst these conflicting claims to make equitable decisions . ' Owing to a rather artificial classification of the powers of government , we are not accustomed to think of legislators and executives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them as exercising not only separate but radically different functions . But this is a naive theory . It supposes that the legislature is a kind of Moses , which ascends Mt . Sinai at stated intervals , hears the voice of God in the voice of the People , and then descends bearing with it additional commandments to the executive ; as Cxsar , or perhaps I should say Joshua , the executive then leads his hosts to battle and into the Promised Land . For the ordinary and the enduring development of a modern society such images are quite misleading . If we observe closely how legislative and executive policies are arrived at , we find , I feel sure , that they are usually adopted by the official after he has weighed the claims of various conflicting interests . He listens to the advocates , some of whom actually appear before him , some of whom write him letters , many of whom shout at him through the newspapers and over the radio . In his own mind he holds a kind of court judging the claims by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly he understands what he is doing , that he is not there to impose his will but to judge among visible claimants and invisible interests , the more likely he is to set himself a sound and workable criterion of the public interest . For in thinking of himself as judge rather than as lawgiver or leader , he will come to see that the essential question for him Footnote  | is not what he personally may think is the best way but what is the fairest decision . Which of these parties is the aggressor seeking to obtain special advantages for himself ? If the official seeks justice , he will decide against the aggressor . What interests , for example , of posterity , are not represented in the controversy ? He will see that they are represented and properly heard . If , on the other hand , he fancies himself the contriver of the human destiny and its master , he will have no criterion for his decisions : he will be lost in confused subjective speculation as to which of the parties asking his support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haphazard notions of what that shape ought to be . In so far as there is any fundamental distinction between the functions of judge and of legislator , it is that , strictly speaking , the judges attempt to apply the law as they believe it to be , while legislators amend it to make it more equitable . But this distinction is a matter of practice rather than of principle . The earliest great representative assembly , the Anglo-Saxon Witenagemot , was " primarily judicial , in the first instance always judicial ; that is , it never made new laws . It got together to try the people for the breach of law ; and that incidentally brought up the validity of the old law , and then decided whether the old law was valid or not . " 2 Our modern distinction between the legislative and the judicial functions has a certain practical value in that it helps to preserve the judicial temper of at least one branch of the government . But by overemphasis we have obscured the real nature of lawmaking ; we have established a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessarily general in character , and the law which the courts enforce in specific cases ; in this twilight zone judges and legislatures have waged a struggle . But most Footnote  | of all we have invited the modern legislator to forget that the making of laws is no less a judicial function than the disposition of cases under the laws . For the enactment of a new law is a judgment rendered for certain interests and against certain others . If the new statute changes , let us say , the law of contracts or of real property or of the employer 's liability , it is a judgment rendered by the legislature among contending private interests . If the statute authorizes public officials to levy taxes and raise armies , it is a judgment rendered by the legislature as between the government and private interests . If the statute establishes a privilege , bestows a franchise or charters a corporation , or gives a patent of monopoly , it represents a judgment placing the state in partnership with certain private interests as against other private interests . But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are practical reasons for separating and specializing the legislative and judicial functions , they are morally and psychologically distinct . They are not . When the legislator ceases to think of himself as an impartial judge among contending interests , he soon adopts an imperial view of his function . He ceases to judge causes among the people : he issues commands to the people , and regards himself no longer as the representative of their true will but as the providential contriver of their destiny . Against this imperial view of the state , which comes down from the Byzantine emperors and was revived in Europe by the study of Roman law during the Renaissance , ' the liberal movement has always fought . The imperial view is that the official decrees the law according to his will rather than that the official finds the law by judging causes . This is the legal theory of absolutism . To that theory the modern collectivists and all Footnote  | the believers in legislative or executive supremacy have returned . The growing complaint of legislators that judges are legislating is the obverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Legislators have come to think of themselves as the lineal descendants of the Cmsars , and the heirs of their sovereignty . Against this revival of the absolute state , the courts have sought to provide a refuge . They have given refuge to many interests that probably ought not to have it . They have also given protection to many vital human interests against the tyranny and arbitrariness of legislative majorities . But their " judicial usurpation " would not have received so much popular assent had men not realized that its complement was the growing dictatorship of lawmakers . Yet two wrongs do not make a right . Both are perversions of the liberal state , arising from the failure to recognize that the legislative function is only a more generalized form of the judicial . The separation of the two functions is a question of expediency rather than of principle . In the United States the separation is supposed to be very sharp . In Britain it is much less sharp . In so far as the distinction can be defined it may be said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . When the amendments required are rather substantial , then judges , who are not directly responsive to the popular will , can not properly take the responsibility of amending the law . But in the nature of things the distinction between judicial and legislative development of the law is not sharp . For judges and parliaments deal with the same body of laws . These laws must change with changing circumstances . They must be adapted to the unforeseen details of human affairs . The changes are necessarily effected by judicial interpretation , by statute , and by administrative practice .  | 2 . The Enforcement of Law I return to the main line of the argument , which is that in a liberal democracy the law must seek primarily to regulate human affairs by a system of individual rights and duties rather than by administrative commands from the ruling officialdom . For the convenience of the argument I have called this the reciprocal method of social control as distinguished from the overhead method of regulating human relations . In broad terms we may then say that liberalism seeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereas authoritarianism governs primarily by the handing down of decrees . The liberal system seeks to define what one man may expect from all other men , including the officials of the state , and to guarantee that expectation . The authoritarian system permits the official to declare what he wishes other men to do and to enforce his will . In the liberal order the state exerts social control chiefly through the judicial hearing of individual complaints and the provision of individual remedies ? in legal parlance , through private suits for breach of contracts and private action based on torts ; and then finally through legislative action on complaints against the law itself . The aggrieved individual may go to law and may invoke the coercive power of the state if he can prove his case . But he does not have to go to law or into politics : he may , if he chooses , make a private settlement which on the whole seems more suitable in the circumstances , more advantageous all around , more productive of good will , than an appeal to the force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has developed legally out of the customary law of the people rather than out of the promulgated law of the sovereign , is true to its origins . It has a respectful prejudice in favor of the arrangements men arrive at by usage in their transactions with  | one another , and it permits customary law to grow by using a method of control in which men may , but need not always , invoke the authority of the state . It leaves them room to adjust their differences as well as to enforce their rights . ' In the authoritarian system , transactions are not among individuals but between the authorities and the individual . The law gets itself enforced not through suits between Smith and Jones but in suits between the Sovereign and Jones . The authoritarian prefers to translate torts into misdemeanors and felonies : his prejudice leads him to make private wrongs into public crimes and to characterize them as treason . In his view the injury is not done by Jones against Smith but by Jones against the majesty of the state . Thus in Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though a private murder is punished by ten years ' imprisonment . In the reciprocal system large allowances can be made for all manner of private compromise , of man-to-man conciliation . But in the overhead method of social control an offense is more than the offense itself : it is a defiance of the sovereign , an impairment of his majesty , and compromise by negotiation is a breach of discipline , a blow at the prestige of the state , a symptom of weakness and corruption . It will readily be seen why the authoritarian system is so suitable to crises , and particularly to the waging of war . In so far as large masses of men have to do unusual things promptly , they can be manoeuvred only if they are well regimented to obey commands from headquarters . The pattern is military and , as we have seen , all authoritarian societies become highly militarized . The liberal order , on the contrary , Footnote  | is intensely civilian in method and tendency : individuals transact their affairs with individuals , and the mass has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although the reciprocal system is obviously unsuited to the waging of war , and has to be suspended in all great social crises , it has very great advantages of its own . It does not , for one thing , require the recruitment of a great bureaucracy supported by an army of inspectors , detectives , policemen , and informers . Thus if the people wish to regulate a social evil , let us say excessive drinking , they can , if they wish to employ the reciprocal method , define the grounds on which a sober man can promptly get satisfaction against a drunkard who injures or annoys him . For liberals the problem of social control is to devise means by which the sober man can , without undue inconvenience and with some advantage to himself , bring the drunkard into court , and , having gotten him there , obtain reparation if the accusation can be proved . It is true that such a system is often cumbersome . For this method of social control has long been neglected by theorists and statesmen , and no great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's so much easier to pass a law and appoint some officials rather than to make it feasible , by mitigating the law 's delays and inconveniences , for a sober citizen to proceed against the drunkard . The authoritarian method looks less cumbersome . But it is really much more cumbersome . It involves an attempt to inspect the behavior of all men , the drunkard and the temperate alike , to have officials omnipresent , to endow them with an allseeing eye , and to pretend that they are remorselessly diligent . But such a great corps of officials continually inspecting everyone 's affairs is not only expensive ; its certain tendency is to become tyrannical if it is strong , or to become weak because it is corrupt . In theory authority ought to deal more effectively with drunkenness than a system which makes the drunkard  | liable to the neighbors whom he injures ; in practice , among a people habituated to freedom , the overhead system of social control is almost certain to be ineffective . For the sober citizen is likely to condone the drunkenness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English Bishop that he would rather have England free than sober . In relying wherever feasible upon private actions , the law tends to get itself enforced when the offense causes real damage rather than when it is a merely theoretical departure from an abstract rule . This is an advantage . It is better that the coercive power of the law should not be too persistently or pervasively employed , that petty offenses and minor irregularities should be forgiven , forgotten , or somehow expiated without involving the majesty of the state . Many a controversy is very satisfactorily settled when one man has received another 's apology and has accepted his invitation to lunch . But the inspector has to watch his step before accepting an apology , and , if he seals the settlement by accepting the invitation to lunch , he is likely to be suspected of corruption . When shall he prosecute , when shall he accept the apology ? Among individuals , once the presumption of good faith is established , this is no moral problem . ' But in controversies between the individual and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtues in private life , become suspicious opportunities for favoritism and bribery . Thus the safety valve of tyrannies has usually been their inefficiency and their corruption . They have been made tolerable only because men found ways of frustrating them , of opening up breaches in the iron organization through which the vital organic forces of social development could be carried on . When the initiative to law enforcement is in the injured party rather than in the government inspector , the government Footnote  | does not normally have to exercise much power in order to carry out the award made by the courts . The defeated litigant will rarely think of resisting : a constable or two can generally collect the damages . Thus there is in this method of social control the highest degree of economy in the use of coercion , and the greater the society the more necessary it is to economize in the exercise of coercion . The law rules easily , by disuniting those who might resist , by dealing not with masses but with individuals engaged in private controversies with other individuals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforced wholesale on multitudes , tends to consolidate men into refractory masses ; that is why the authoritarian state has then to mobilize an enormous official force and official propaganda to make itself effective . But when human affairs are regulated through the judicial determination of rights , there is so little display of force that many have been mystified by the spectacle of the nine elderly men in black robes on the Supreme Court of the United States exercising such undisputed authority . The secret of the mystery is that they decide only specific controversies , and their rulings stand only because all the lower courts will decide all similar controversies in the same way . If the highest court has ruled that Jones can collect from Smith , then the other courts will rule that in an analogous case Black can collect from White . White , advised as to what the decision will be , refrains from doing the thing which would allow Black to collect damages . The government does not have to maintain a perpetual inspection of White 's behavior and take action whether or not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done about it . The government allows Black and White to worry along as they see fit until Black thinks it important enough to bring the police into the matter . Then the government stands ready , if Black can prove  | his case in a court , to enforce his right , if necessary with the whole force of the army and navy . But until Black moves , the government is under no obligation to watch White , and with him the rest of the population . The government does not have to discover by its own inspection the occasions when it must intervene . It acts when it is called upon to act in a specific private controversy , and not because it has the people under constant official surveillance . And when the government acts it seeks rather to judge a dispute than to prescribe a course of action . 3 . Government Suited to Human Capacity Thus the questions presented to officials and to citizens in a liberal society are at once more intelligible and more objective than they are where officials are attempting to administer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether in their dealings with each other some men are artificially privileged and others artificially handicapped ; whether or not men are dealing with one another arbitrarily ; whether they are using fraud , violence , or corruption to obtain their ends . On such matters ordinary men are capable of reaching conclusions by listening to the advocates , and a public opinion representing the consensus of their sentiments can be achieved . ' But when legislatures and electorates are asked to settle , not more or less specific and present issues of justice , but the purposes , plans , and management of a social order in the future , they have no rational criterion for their opinions . They are adrift upon an uncharted sea of mere speculation . It is possible for ordinary men to decide whether individuals are dealing justly with each other ; it is even possible for them to take the long view and to say whether the rights that are being exercised , Footnote  | say in exploiting the land or employing child labor , injure the interests of posterity . But who can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order is better than that man 's ? No one can prove his case ; each can only make promises . Because none can be verified , the claims are then asserted all the more willfully . The result is to degrade the consensus of opinion into an irresolvable conflict of particular interests . But to aim at justice among the interests of individuals is to keep opinion wholesome by keeping it close to intelligible issues : to aim at a purposeful collectivism is to go off into the empty air and encourage a collective madness in which , for want of rational criteria , the darkest and most primitive lusts are churned up . The liberal conception of the state as conciliator and arbiter among the private interests of particular men is derived from experience . It was not formulated in the fantasies of Jean Jacques Rousseau and the fanaticism of the Jacobins : those were merely the loose verbalizations of men who seized upon , without having become habituated to , the ideas which had been wrought out empirically in the long centuries during which the English common law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democrats made a heady wine out of the grapes that had been patiently cultivated in an ancient vineyard ; and often they become so intoxicated by the wine that they forget to tend the vines ? or wantonly trample upon them . Had they understood the lessons of the experience in which their whole ideology must find its justification , the romantic democrats would not have fallen into the tragic error of thinking that once they had cut off the head of the king , they could give to the people his sovereign prerogatives . They would not have enticed mankind into the great reaction which has overwhelmed it ever since the collectivists persuaded the democracies to regard the state , not as judge and  | conciliator among them , but as the providential planner and giver of the abundant life . The business of the state must be based on an understanding of the limitations of coercive authority ; the art of governing must call for not more than the ordinarily available wisdom of average men . If government is to be carried on , it must be suited to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never been a succession of supermen . When , apart from making the community secure against attack and of meeting authoritatively the occasional emergencies and disasters which can not be prevented , the state sets up as the administrator of enterprises , the planner of the social order , and the director of the daily life and labor of the people , it attempts what only a god could do well . A state commanded by finite men can not afford to have a more grandiose purpose than to dispense justice . When it confines itself to that , the state will arouse no false expectations . It will be protected by a general recognition that though it does not dispense ideal justice , its judgments are guided by the intention to be fair , that they are arrived at after the parties have had their day in court , that they represent no capricious ipse dixit of authority , that they are human judgments which may be reconsidered and reversed . Such judgments can be accepted as the best under the circumstances : they do not tend to become issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state does not have to be supremely wise . That is more than a state can hope to be : the liberal state has only to create a sincere conviction that it means to be fair . To convince men of that is to provide a solvent of violent assertiveness , an emollient of the highest potency in protecting the state against the sense of irremediable wrongs . An authoritarian regime has no such protection . If it is not wise enough to be successful in its great purposes , it must repress  | discontent , distract it by adventures , or be overthrown . A judging and conciliatory state subjects itself to no such desperate test of its wisdom . The knowledge required for judging among rival claims , chiefly to determine which is the more equitable , which is the less arbitrary , is a wholly different kind of knowledge from that required to administer collectively the functions of all claimants . For in an administered order the officials must have all the wisdom of all the technicians and entrepreneurs and the greater wisdom needed to select and forecast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which leaves these decisions to the citizenry and judges rights and duties according to general rules , improving the rules as equity requires , needs officials whose chief intellectual equipment is a sense of the value of evidence . That is a practicable requirement . For it is proved by experience that men can render good decisions as judges in affairs which they would be entirely incapable of initiating and administering . 4 . Officialdom under Law While the liberal state must in general prefer the regulation of affairs by defining individual rights and duties and by adjudicating private controversies , it is obvious enough that this method is not universally applicable . The detection and prosecution of murder can not , for example , be left to private initiative . Moreover , in a modern community it is necessary to do much public work and to provide many social services 7 which , as Adam Smith said , " it can never be for the interest of any individual , or small number of individuals , to erect and maintain ; because the profit could never repay the expense to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may frequently do much more than repay it to a great so-Footnote  | ciety . " Thus any modern state is bound to recruit a large body of officials charged with the enforcement of public rights against individuals and with the furnishing of public services . The question then is whether such an expansion of government activity is to be regarded as an unavoidable departure from liberal principles . Herbert Spencer thought so and in his crabbed old age we find him denouncing public-health measures as an unwarranted interference with human liberty . If he was right , then liberalism would indeed be bankrupt because it would be unable to deal with the most obvious practical necessities . But we have taken no such view , and we have seen that the agenda of liberalism is a long one . I believe that it is precisely here , where the liberal agenda appear to be at odds with the liberal method of social control , that the political principles we have been examining are peculiarly indispensable and specially relevant . For if we consider the matter closely we must come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public enterprises which are undertaken , the more necessary it becomes that the ultimate sovereign power of the state should be employed as judge and conciliator in controversies between private interests and public enterprises and among the different public enterprises themselves . The question becomes clarified when we ask ourselves whether the officials who inspect , prosecute , and administer public enterprises are to be regarded as having the attributes of majesty or as exercising merely certain specific rights and duties . It is customary to speak of them as exercising delegated authority . But this term is ambiguous . At one time it may mean that the government department is specifically chartered to do certain things , its rights and duties stipulated and subject to challenge and review before a tribunal . Thus the charter Footnote  | itself can be challenged and reviewed , and any action by public officers can also be challenged and reviewed to determine whether it conforms to the charter . This is the liberal meaning of delegated power . But there is another meaning , if there has been delegated to the department the sovereign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the judge in controversies to which it is a party . This is authoritarianism . And between the two the distinction is radical . For the liberal conception holds fast to the supremacy of law , treating the official as invested with rights which may be different from , but are in no sense superior to , the rights with which the individual is invested . The official and the citizen are equals under the law . The fact that the official wears the government 's uniform , or has the insignia of the sovereign on his letterhead , does not mean that he inherits any of the royal prerogatives . He is simply a man among men , with certain lawful rights which he may not exceed and certain lawful duties which he may not neglect . The prejudice which liberals entertain against the multiplication of government enterprises has come not from their basic principles but from practical experience of how difficult it is to keep a powerful bureaucracy under the law , how great is its tendency to take to itself the attributes of a Byzantine emperor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world where so many men have an insatiable lust for power and are as yet so little habituated to respect the law rather than their own capricious impulses . But , nevertheless , in a modern society it is necessary to conduct large public enterprises , to rely in part on public initiative in enforcing laws , to provide many public works and social services . The essential safeguard against the tyranny of arbitrary officials is to be found in applying steadfastly the liberal conception of the official as a man with p 300 specific rights and duties rather than as a man touched with the divinity that hedges the King . 5 . The Regulation of Officials Additional difficulties would seem to arise from the fact that a representative legislature is often unable to formulate effective rules dealing with the intricate and technical concerns of the modern economy . Therefore , the statutes which contain the charter of the officials ' rights and duties are phrased in general terms rather than as specific rights and duties . " Congress , " says Mr. Herring , " has to an increasing extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under vague legislative mandates independent regulatory boards . " s No one can doubt that the development of adequate laws covering the whole range of a great civilization is beyond the capacity of any legislative body . It is beyond the capacity of ordinary judges . For the modern economy is regulated through many markets . The manager of a business enterprise is a buyer and seller in markets for funds , materials , labor , services , inventions , commodities , and his many transactions are correlated by the monetary standard . It is evident that these transactions can not be carried out intelligibly or justly if the monetary standard is not reliable , if the value of the currency is subject to sudden and arbitrary changes owing either to special manipulation or to impersonal circumstances which inflate or deflate it . It is equally true that these multitudinous transactions between sellers and buyers who rarely meet face to face can not be carried out intelligibly or fairly if there is no reliable standard of weights and measures . Nor can the bargains be intelligible and fair if the buyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the seller the truth about the demand . The perfecting of an adequate system of rights and duties for the modern exchange economy requires a degree of technical discrimination and expertness that no representative assembly can hope to possess . The management of the currency , the determination of weights and measures , the regulation of public markets , are not simple functions in the modern economy . Yet they have to be performed in order to make effective and to make equitable the system of individual rights and duties on which the division of labor depends . It would be mere confusion of mind to argue that these are not functions of the liberal state . They are inherent in its primary function , which is to adjust the social order to the economy . Yet it is obvious that these functions can be performed only by experts using specialized technical procedure . So it is as certain to-day as it was during the development of the law merchant that the perfecting of the markets can not be effected by the general legislature . Such a function has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more the power to legislate is delegated to boards and commissions and courts , the more necessary it becomes that the ultimate sovereign power should think of itself as the final court of appeal ? There must be some place where the actions of the commissions can be reviewed ; there must be tribunals where those who exercise delegated power can be called to account . It is , therefore , a misleading fiction to think of the commissioners as agents of the legislature automatically carrying out its implicit intentions , as invested with its sovereign authority in a particular jurisdiction . The commissioners may much more properly be looked upon as men entrusted with tentative legislative authority subject to review by the representatives of the people . Thus the more the legislature delegates its authority to  | specialized organs of government and the less it endeavors to define the precise law for complex human affairs , the more indispensable is it that the state , through the courts and through the legislature itself , should regard itself as a tribunal to review the conduct of these specialized lawmakers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state must not identify itself with them . For if it does identify itself with them , it has not delegated its authority ? it has abdicated its sovereignty . For these reasons the liberal conception of the state becomes increasingly appropriate as a social order becomes more complex . In so far as it is necessary or expedient to multiply commissions and boards , to set up additional government agencies , the ultimate authority of the state must become less and less concerned with detailed legislation and administration , more and more concerned with the conflicts of citizens with bureaus ? and of bureaus with one another . If the representative state renounces the function of judge and conciliator , it really has no function left : under the pretense of delegating its authority to its ministers , it will in reality have entrusted the control of affairs to an irresponsible and discordant bureaucracy . 6 . The Control of Public Works and Social Services The questions raised when it is deemed desirable to have the government undertake public works and provide social services involve the same fundamental principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as members of a public corporation chartered by the state , they will behave in one way ; if they regard themselves as viceroys with the unlimited prerogatives of the sovereign , they will behave in a very different way .  | The nature of the problem has been most clearly defined in the relations between the army and the civilian authorities in a constitutional state . There is no question that an army must be publicly administered . But in a constitutional regime the army commanders have none of the prerogatives of sovereignty . They can recruit only as many men as the civilian legislature authorizes . They can spend only as much money as it appropriates . They have no general powers to conscript men or money or goods . They can not determine the purposes for which the army shall be used . They can not declare war or make peace . Within defined boundaries the commanders have a certain authority under military law . But the military law itself is effective only after it has been reviewed and approved by a civilian authority . When an army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free society : when an army takes to itself general authority to conscript , to declare war , to determine the national policy , to make its own laws and enforce them as it sees fit , the condition known as militarism prevails . It means that the military have ceased , as Coke told King James , to be under God and the law . When a bureau of civilian officials does the same sort of thing , it is called a bureaucracy . Now the great difference between public works and social services undertaken in a liberal regime and those undertaken in an authoritarian is this : in the liberal regime the sovereign , that is to say the people through its representatives , thinks of itself as chartering public enterprises ; in an authoritarian regime the public enterprises are regarded as the right hand of the sovereign and filled with his majesty . A liberal society must , of course , provide schools , hospitals , recreation centres , and all manner of social services just as it must have a police force and an army . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school authorities or the managers of electric plants , perform  | specific chartered functions and are accountable under the law , like the army in a constitutional state . Obviously a liberal society can not dispense with officials , and under the complexity of modern industrial civilization it must employ many officials . But always the official under liberalism must be recognized as having an altogether different status from that which he enjoys in an authoritarian regime . " He is simply a citizen employed in a corporate body , which is authorized by law to do certain things , as the private owner of a piece of property is authorized to do only certain things , as the member of a business corporation is authorized to do only certain things . The acts that the official , the property owner , the corporation member , may do are set forth in the law which stipulates their rights and duties . They may be challenged if they appear to have exceeded their rights or neglected their duties . They may be haled into court . Moreover the stipulations in the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up that existing lawful rights are inequitable ? that is to say that they invest certain men with arbitrary powers , with special privileges , that they neglect the interests of others . Then the law may be haled before the legislature sitting as a kind of high court of equity , and at last before the court of public opinion . In advanced liberal societies the decisions of the legislature , the executive , and even of the people are themselves subject to challenge and review , and there is a final appeal from Philip drunk to Philip sober , from the transient opinions of the majority to the more thoroughly considered opinion of a still larger majority . Footnote  | 7 . Collective Agencies of a Liberal State We begin to see now , I think , that the distinction is thin between the business corporation , on the one hand , and the subordinate public agencies on the other . Both exist because of legal rights established and enforced by the state ? the business corporation by virtue of its charter and the laws of corporation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are two means of collective action and the sharp distinction between them is recent . It is , I think , untenable . If we examine the history of business corporations and of social agencies we see that the business enterprises were originally based on grants from the sovereign and that the social agencies , such as hospitals and schools , and even road commissions , were as often as not voluntary organizations which received the patronage of the sovereign . Thus most , if not all of the American colonies , were settled by chartered companies which later became governments ; the western part of America was opened to settlement by companies which built railroads and canals and highways under government patronage , and then later some of these enterprises became " private " and a few wholly " public . " The private profit-making business corporation soon loses , if it ever really had , its status as an enterprise subject to the uncontrolled will of its owners . If it operates a " public utility , " which is in fact any enterprise upon which the community is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the community . The owners of the telephone company can not decide suddenly that they choose not to provide telephone service to-morrow morning . They do not have the same sort of right to do what they like with their property as they have when they decide whether to wear their hats or throw them Footnote  | away . It is evident enough that the business corporation which operates an important enterprise , employs large numbers of workers , is indebted to a multitude of bondholders , is owned by a multitude of shareholders , is operated by salaried employees , is controlled by men who only in theory represent the shareholders ? that such an organization is no one 's private and personal enterprise . The organization is , in effect , an agency fostered by the state for the service of the community , and the only essential difference between a large business corporation and a public school is that the business corporation is operated for profit to meet the demands of the market , whereas the public school is supported by taxes to meet a recognized social need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this distinction is tenuous . For there are many business enterprises which would have to be perpetuated even if they were run at a loss . We can see that when the government is impelled to grant subsidies . And there are many public enterprises which are wholly or partially self-sustaining . So both the business corporation and the social service are in effect agencies created in order to conduct certain collective affairs of a community . They are not the only possible agencies . There is no reason for thinking that the field must be divided exclusively between profit-making business corporations and tax-supported social services . All manner of intermediate forms exist , and others could be invented . There are limited-dividend corporations . There are regulated corporations which , like the American railroads , are quasi-public . There are public corporations whose obligations are guaranteed by the taxing power of the state . There are public corporations whose capital is partly or wholly subscribed from tax revenues , but which are required to operate in the commercial market . There are privately endowed corporations , which , like some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public treasury . There is no reason why new types of corporation should not be created to facilitate and encourage producers ' and consumers ' cooperatives . There might well be , particularly in the field of education , publicly endowed colleges and institutes of research entrusted to the control , not of public officials or of the legislature , but of special constituencies , such as their faculties , their alumni , or professional guilds . Thus there is no ground for thinking that the liberal state is frozen in an inflexible formula . It is hospitable to all manner of concerted action . It can create and promote whatever agencies men may find expedient or desirable . But if it is to be a liberal state it must not regard these agencies as arms of the sovereign , endowed with the king 's prerogatives and above the law . It must resolutely regard them as creatures of the law invested with specific rights and duties which can be enforced and may be repealed or amended . The powers of these creatures came from the people acting through their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representative state recognizes ; and always the state which created them stands ready to judge among these its creatures and all who may challenge their conduct , or to judge the law itself upon which all rights of any kind depend . What the liberal state does not do is gather up all rights into the state and then exercise them through officials . That is authoritarian collectivism , and in that system only officials have rights . Then the state is not only the maker of the law ; under the law it is the only party and the sole judge of its own conduct . In the liberal theory the people through the state have created and maintain the rights which make up property , contract , business corporations , and social agencies . These rights the representative state enforces . These rights it can amend . It judges causes under its laws . It judges its laws . It appoints  | officials and it establishes collective enterprises . But both remain under a law by which they can be judged . The task of defining , adjudicating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individuals and corporations is the vocation of the representative state . There is no other way in which the people can govern . 8 . Natural Associations Though it is clear , I think , that the business corporation is a creature of the state , there are many other forms of human association which are born and flourish and yet do not depend for their existence upon a legal privilege . The family is such an association , and so is a community , a religious fellowship , a learned society , a clan , a guild . A business corporation and a bureau of public officials are organizations which could not be assembled without specially recognized enforceable rights bestowed by the state . In regard to government bureaus this is obvious enough ; in regard to the business corporation jurists and publicists have in the past two or three generations been divided . Yet it would seem to be plain enough that the modern business corporation could not be organized or operated without the legal privilege of limited liability , without the right of some proportion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the owners . Surely an organization like General Motors Corporation is a wholly different type of association from a family , a club , a church , a trade-union , a bar association , a medical society , or a political party . Though here , as in all human phenomena , there are borderline cases which it would be hard to classify , it would be doctrinaire not to recognize the practical difference between a business organization and a natural association . The one is  | held together by a cash nexus in a framework of legal rights ; the other is bound together by kinship or fellowship . So when in the year 1900 the great Maitland declared that " the age of corporations created by way of ' privilege ' is passing away , " 12 he was undoubtedly describing correctly the course of events during the second half of the nineteenth century ; it was true that legislatures and courts had combined in regarding the business corporation as no longer the subordinate creature of the state . But the question is whether this view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maitland apparently thought it was , and exclaimed that " it has become difficult to maintain that the state makes corporations in any other sense than that in which the state makes marriages when it declares that people who want to marry can do so by going , and can not do so without going , to church or registry . " I should , however , suppose that the state made business corporations in a radically different sense from that in which it makes marriages ; for no promoter could marry the capital of the half a million shareholders of the American Telephone Company without the legal rights contained in a corporate charter . But men and women will mate and found families whether they go to the registry office or not . No one , on the other hand , has ever suggested that the United States Steel Corporation was made in heaven . The associations into which men group themselves spontaneously , naturally , instinctively , voluntarily , present a very different problem of social control from those which are deliberately contrived and organized . In the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to define the purposes of the legal creature and to see that it conforms to them . This is the problem of regulating business corporations and government bureaus in the public interest . But in the case Footnote  | of natural associations the problem is not how the state shall regulate an organization it has created , but how it shall accommodate the smaller associations to each other and to the social order as a whole . This has been a perplexing problem throughout the development of the modern state . For if the natural associations are let entirely alone , a chaotic struggle for survival ensues in which certain groups , be they family clans , or churches , or guilds , or political parties , become dominant and tyrannical . This was so much the condition of affairs in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries that from the time of the civil wars in England to the French Revolution , from Hobbes to the Constituent Assembly of France which made the Declaration of the Rights of Man , there was a growing disposition to deny all autonomy to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all sovereignty ; nor can any individual or any body of men , be entitled to any authority which is not expressly derived from it . " 13 But it was soon evident that to deny to any body of men any authority which is not expressly derived from the nation ? that is to say , from the national legislature ? was to found what we now call a totalitarian state . 14 It was to bring the individual , the family , the local community , the church , and the guild directly under the centralized authority of the officials of the state . Thus , as Gierke pointed out , 15 the isolated individual was left confronting the absolute state with no " groups that mediated between the State and the Individual . " So the pioneer liberals felt that they were on the horns of a dilemma , compelled either to let clans , local communities , guilds , churches , fight it out and tyrannize over each other , or is Declaration of the Rights of Man . Footnote  | to suppress them all under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vivendi was arrived at . But liberalism has never had mature convictions on the principles which it requires for mastering this problem . Thus there has always been a latent conflict , which may now and then become overt , when , for example , the question is raised as to whether the state or the parents or the church shall control the education of youth , whether the state or private persons shall control scientific investigation , whether men working at the same trade may organize for their own advantage , to what extent professional guilds and labor unions may control their own callings . These are among the unsolved problems of liberalism and they indicate how much remains to be learned before men will have mastered the art of governing the Great Society . We must not in our turn fall into the error of the latter-day liberals who imagined that they had a complete and perfected doctrine . The liberal philosophy is the product of a long development : we are still in the midst of that development and we can not hope to see the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a satisfactory theory as to how the interests of society as a whole can be reconciled with the autonomy of natural associations , we can , I think , say that the road to a reconciliation is through definition , detailed adjudication , and revision of the reciprocal rights and duties of all groups . This method recognizes that all men in all their relations , whether they are acting alone or in combination with others , are under the law . That much it concedes to those who proclaimed that no body of men is entitled to any authority not expressly derived from the nation . But at the same time it insists that the nation shall not exercise its authority by treating the family , the local community , the church , the learned society , the guild , as government departments ; that it shall treat them as associations whose rights are defined and may be amended by a state  | which thinks of itself as a judge rather than as a dictator . Liberalism has no reason to deny that everyone is under the law . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public officials . Thus it is able to reconcile the freedom of religion with , let us say , the prohibition of burnt offerings ; it can recognize the autonomy of the family along with prohibitions against parental neglect , infanticide , incest , child marriages , and burning widows on the funeral pyre ; it can maintain the freedom of the press and still have laws against libel ; it can recognize guilds and labor unions and yet make it unlawful for them to practise discrimination and monopoly ; it can recognize the right of assembly and yet prohibit the assemblage of armed men in uniforms . The alternatives to liberalism are either to do nothing , which is in effect to abrogate civil society and return to a state of nature , or to treat individuals and groups as conscripts under official command , which is to institute a totalitarian state . The liberal method of social control by defining reciprocal rights and duties avoids both horns of the dilemma . While the practical application presents many difficulties , we may be reasonably certain that no other method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further and say that laissezfaire as understood in our times is mere social uncontrol , and that the new absolutisms do not seek to solve the problem but to suppress it .  | THE REGIME OF PEACE 1 . By Centralization of Power FOR want of a clear understanding of how a liberal state exercises social control , a whole series of dilemmas have risen to confuse and frustrate the progress ? so brilliant in the years before 1870 ? towards the peaceable union of free and peaceable communities . The dilemmas are known in public controversy as the choice between centralization and home rule , between national sovereignty and international order . It may be said , I think , that the dilemmas are insoluble by men who believe that the only way to exercise social control is through commands from a sovereign . For no one can imagine a sovereign ? be it a man , an oligarchy , or a ruling party in colored shirts ? powerful enough to command the whole human race . Nor is it conceivable that mankind would long submit to him if by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the master of mankind . Against social control by command nations will resist in. the name of their independence , regions will resist in the name of their autonomy , individuals will resist in the name of freedom . For the effective jurisdiction of government by the rule of commanding persons can never be extensive . It is impossible for an authoritarian government to inspect all the transactions of a large population , to issue enough orders to cover them all , to transmit its orders , and to see that its orders are carried out . Government by command from above can be efficient only in a small and  | simple society ; in a large one , it is impracticable except in brief emergencies and , when it is attempted , must soon become incompetent and corrupt , and in the end be overthrown by rebellion . The reductio ad absurdum of reforms which seek to achieve control by overhead planning and command is to be seen most clearly in the collectivist theory of world peace . Mr. H. J. Laski , for example , tells us in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? that is to say , land and capital used in production ? must be administered by the state . Up to this point Mr. Laski is a national collectivist . But that leaves him with the problem of maintaining peace among these highpowered states . So he goes on to call for " the subjection of the discretion of each individual state to the common good " of an " international system . " 2 This , then , is the way Mr. Laski , as a full-blown collectivist , envisages the prospect of peace : national governments administering the economic life of their peoples are to " subject " themselves to an international society which does " economic world-planning . " Presumably , if they do not subject themselves voluntarily , they are to be subjected by a planetary super-state . For unless the World Plan is enforced , it is merely a good resolution . This terrestrial sovereign is to be so powerful and so wise that it can decide how much cotton the planters in Georgia and in Brazil and in Egypt and in Turkestan shall raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oklahoma , which has oil , to provide Italy , which has no oil , with the oil that the world planners think Italy should have . It is a mystery to me how anyone can persuade himself that this is possible even if it were desirable : how any serious student of human affairs can be so wishful as to think that peoples living on rich lands will submit to " plans " of this sort , and that corn-Footnote  | pelling them to submit is the road to peace . As a matter of fact we know from the experience of our own time that administered economies are invariably self-contained and militarized , that socialist states are national socialist states , ' and that national socialist states find it excessively difficult to maintain peace within their frontiers or to live with each other in peace . We do not have to theorize about these matters : since 1914 we have seen authoritarian government in action on a large scale . One large region of the world from Germany and Italy in the west to Japan in the east is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authoritarian government . And in this region each government is at war with large masses of its own subjects and all the governments are in warlike postures vis-avis one another . How could it be otherwise ? The rulers of these states know of no method of establishing peace except by making themselves absolutely supreme over their peoples at home and over their neighbors abroad . 2 . By Uniform Law Yet there is no doubt that the great majority of enlightened and progressive men , though they abhor the methods and many of the consequences of absolutism , are deeply tempted to believe that there is no other way . They feel that these states do at least achieve some kind of law and order in place of the anarchy of private acquisitiveness , ' and that the liberal states of the Footnote  | nineteenth century could not do this . From the observation that a firmer social control is necessary , they are led on to the conclusion that small states and local communities can not exercise that control , and that a high degree of centralized authority is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But they are , I believe , confusing notions which need to be carefully distinguished . They have confused the aggrandizement of the executive power with the uniformity of the law . They have confused law which comes from the usages of the people with the governing power which comes from the prerogatives of conquerors and masters . Historically and practically they are wholly different things . The social control which is achieved through law is radically different from that which is achieved by official discretion and command . If , for example , the law regulating inheritances , contracts , corporations , property , bankruptcy , were made uniform throughout the United States , it would not mean that any public official had any more power than he has to-day to dispose of the lives and possessions of the people . It would mean that throughout the United States all individuals and associations transacted their affairs with one another under the same rules . There would be a high degree of uniformity in the law , but there would be no aggrandizement of the executive . If , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property , to make the contracts , to direct the corpora- then in place of uniform and equal laws there is centralized government for particular ends . But in ordinary debate uniformity of law is continually identified with centralization of government . It is very confusing . Men who really want the social control which adequate laws would provide find themselves agreeing to the aggrandizement of a centralized bureaucracy . And men who know the evils  | of absolutism find themselves opposing social control through more adequate laws . This is a false dilemma . It is necessary to have the same rules for all who wish to play whist . But it is not necessary that the Whist Club , which legislates on the subject , should tell every player what card to play . The pioneers of liberalism in England understood this distinction very well : they were the great promoters of national union under a common law and of international peace under international law . They believed that the same rules of justice should govern men 's transactions everywhere , and they broke down the particularism of petty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But their conception of uniform and equal laws caused them to resist not only the particularism of little sovereignties but the aggrandizement of big sovereigns . Thus they supported the king as against the feudal barons because they could get wider and more equal justice in the courts of the king . They did not mean , however , to invest the national king with all the vexatious prerogatives of the feudal barons . So they cut off one king 's head and exiled another king in order to make it plain that the business of the sovereign was to provide justice under the law and not to command his subjects by the exercise of the royal prerogative . The founders of the American Republic understood the distinction . When they came to enumerate the powers entrusted to the federal government and the powers denied to the separate states , they were guided by this principle . For though it is sometimes said that they reserved to the separate states all the authority which they did not specifically grant to the federal government , this is a misunderstanding of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authority to make laws which would interfere with the freedom of commerce within the nation , and by that proviso they showed that they intended that a common law  | should prevail . ' What they did not intend was that the federal government should administer many of the affairs of the people . They remembered that authority is voracious . And so they enumerated carefully the affairs that the government might administer . Being liberals , they were in favor of the extension of a common law and opposed to the aggrandizement of the government . They understood what their successors have forgotten , that the increasing uniformity of equal laws is not only not the same thing as the centralization of government , but is , in fact , its opposite . 3 . The Civil Society We have only to look about us to find the confirmation of this truth . In that part of the contemporary world where the authoritarian system has not yet been established , men living under separate national governments think of themselves as living under essentially the same rules of law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Norwegians , Swiss , Dutchmen , Argentinians , act on the assumption that they are members of the same civilized society : they transact their affairs under laws which are not identical but are fundamentally similar , and in important matters are administered impartially to citizens and aliens alike . But when they cross the frontiers of a totalitarian state , they leave the region of common laws and enter closed compartments where official discretion is the only rule . ' Here discrimination , administrative arbitrariness , Footnote  | and the absence of equality or certainty in the law are proudly proclaimed as a new dispensation . It is no accident that in the region of common law the separate nations live at peace with their neighbors , but that whenever the boundaries of this region run with the boundaries of authority , men arm themselves in a warlike mood . ' In the end no nation can fail to enter this system where common law prevails : if it is backward , unable or unwilling to make its portion of the earth secure for the new economy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquered 8 Unless it is as remote as Tibet , in one way or another it will be brought within the necessary jurisdiction of the Great Society . Nor can any portion of the earth permanently secede from the society of common law : in the end the rebellion will be overcome . For the necessity of common laws throughout the world economy is the necessity of all the multitudes of mankind in all their daily transactions , and its cumulative force is invincible . This necessity is , it seems to me , the true explanation of the rise and fall of modern empires . It is a phenomenon about which the nineteenth century was confused both in practice and in theory , and we have inherited the confusion . The promoters and the critics of imperialism have usually failed to distinguish between the movement which opened all the continents to a world-wide division of labor and the antagonistic and parasitical imperialism by which special interests within separate nations sought to preempt and exploit undeveloped regions of the earth . It is easy enough to see why these two contradicting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " For the movement to open the world and make it safe for trade and investment has been continually entangled with the con-Footnote  | trary movement to preempt opportunity by closing the doors . The concessionaires and bankers , the adventurers and exploiters , the militarists and bureaucrats , who took the lead in opening the door of backward countries were readily tempted to close the doors once they were inside . But while the two opposite movements have been confused and their differences obscured by hypocrisy , the course of modern history is not intelligible until they have been differentiated . Though their work has been stained with blood , cruelty , and injustice , the men who open the world to economic development are completing the work of the explorers who set forth at the end of the fifteenth century . Men like Andrew Jackson and Cecil Rhodes and Lord Cromer and Elihu Root carried on what Columbus and Magellan began . By advancing the regime of law and order throughout the globe , they have facilitated the world-wide division of labor and a stupendous improvement in the standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond all precedent the number of self-governing peoples . For while empires have been conquered by imperialists , though favored concessionaires collected the initial profits , there is no permanent empire in the Great Society . Within a relatively short time , as measured by the life of a people , the growing prosperity under law and order calls into being independent nations which cast off their subservience to the mother country and acquire the strength to resist exploitation . Thus British imperialists once held North America ; the legatees are the United States and the Dominion of Canada . They conquered South Africa , and within a short time their colony has become an autonomous nation . Spain conquered South and Central America : her empire is the seat of twenty Latin-American republics . The British conquered India and Egypt . The United States conquered the Philippines . These empires are in liquidation .  | Thus preemptive imperialism , the policy of the closed door , the attempt to make colonies a field of exploitation for special interests , must be regarded as a pathological disease , a reactionary but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open the planet to settlement and to a world-wide division of labor . It is perfectly true , as Marxian socialists contend , that the capitalist system had to expand all over the world ; it is true that it has accomplished its expansion by imperialism . But the socialists are demonstrably wrong in thinking that what capitalism needed was closed colonies to be exploited for huge profit by capitalists with excess savings . ' That is merely what some capitalists hoped . What capitalism as a whole has needed was security and equal opportunity for the division of labor . That this is the truth of the matter is evident from the fact that only a small fraction of the capital exported by the creditor empires has been invested in their subject territories . The greater bulk of it has gone to independent foreign countries and to self-governing dominions : it has gone not to the territories that could be exploited because the empire had political supremacy but to those where commerce flourished and property was secure . Thus there has indeed been enormous pressure from the capitalists to open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . But while this pressure may have been initiated by concession hunters , the sustaining motive to political expansion has been the need to overcome the disorder and insecurity which interrupt trade and imperil investments . Thus no one has planned the conquest of Holland or of Scandinavia , and Mexico has been in peril only when it was in disorder . Footnote  | The regime of peace is coterminous with the organized communities in which governments and individuals live under equal laws . The region of common law is the pacified region of the globe . Within it big states and little ones , creditor and debtor nations , " Haves " and " Have-Nots , " exist together in peace and are drawn together for the defense of their peace . The United Kingdom , for example , belong to the HaveNots ; it does not have the natural resources with which to feed its people or to supply its factories with raw materials . Does it obtain the food and materials it needs by the power of its navy and the might of its empire ? Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they need from " their " dominions and colonies at prices fixed in world markets . They do not take what they need as conquerors exact tribute . They are able to obtain their supplies because they can buy and sell in markets where there are common laws and usages regulating contracts , and promises to pay , and the media of payment , and weights and measures , and titles to property . It is utterly naive , the untutored delusion of a primitive mind , to suppose that the United Kingdom lives by exploiting its empire . There may be individual Britons who make fat profits from special privileges under the aegis of empire . But the British people live successfully in a condition of deep interdependence with the outer world only because in a large portion of the world the security of transactions is protected by law and can be relied upon . Among the nations that have entered into the regime of a common law there is peace . It does not depend upon their size , their navies , their forts , their diplomatic status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten times as great a military power as Canada but the frontier between the two nations is profoundly pacific . That is not because the two peoples speak the same language or are predominantly of the  | same ethnic stock : Germany and Austria speak the same language and are of the same ethnic stock . It is because Canada and the United States live under the same regime of law ? not under identical laws , but under the same conception of law as equal for all and above all equally . There is no problem of the relative size of armaments , no need for promises of nonaggression , as between Canada and the United States , or between Great Britain and the Netherlands , or France and Belgium , between Britain or America and France . These nations are positively at peace with one another . They are not merely restrained from waging war against one another . And the substance of that peace is that they have become , by the evolution of events over two centuries or more , members of the same civil society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where this civil society is not yet established . Thus the weak and disorderly states are vulnerable because they are unable as yet to participate in this world-wide civil society which maintains the world-wide division of labor . They have no real independence because the condition of independence is the capacity to provide the minimum standards of law and order which the Great Society requires . So the backward state is subject to continual foreign intervention , and to the risk of conquest . Whereas the weak and disorderly state is vulnerable , the strong but lawless state is predatory . It , too , has not acquired the habit of civilian life in a regime of law ; it has not yet reached that political maturity which the peaceable order requires . And just as the backwardness of weak states provokes intervention which continues until they have entered the civil society , so the backwardness of strong states provokes leagues of defense against their aggression . For by one means or another , as their interdependence increases , all the peoples of the earth are destined to come under a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as something to be im-  | posed by a supreme world authority operated by a Parliament of Man . It is to be conceived as the consequence of an increasing acceptance throughout the world of the inner principles of a common law which all the various parliaments representing the separate communities of mankind respect and adapt to the variety of their conditions . To conceive of peace as based on one identical statute book enacted for all the world by one supreme legislature is to imagine the impossible and to seek what no one would in fact desire . The inverse is the true conception . It is that all the statute books of all the parliaments shall have as their minor premise the diverse needs and notions of the separate peoples , but as their major premise the same conception of the supremacy of equal law . 4 . The Ideals of the Great Revolution The common law which the free and peaceable nations have partially achieved is not the product of noble sentiments about equal and certain laws . The sentiments are , indeed , noble . But they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noble , but because they express the highest promise of the deepest necessity of these times . For another age it may well be that other sentiments will be nobler because they are more appropriate : among the warring city-states of the ancient world , it may well be that Plato discerned the highest promise of their necessity in the rule of a privileged but self-denying caste . The ideal of equal and certain laws is hardly conceivable in an age of small , self-sufficient communities , and it would certainly have been unrealizable . The ideal has taken root gradually in the minds of men as they found the need of rational principles to express their real needs . It is in fact the necessary consequence of the industrial revolution . It reflects that revolution . It has developed with the progress of that revolution . It was formulated by men who have lived in the midst of it ,  | and has been applied by men who found that they had to apply it . For the conception of equal and certain laws is the political corollary of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defining , adjudicating , and amending reciprocal rights and duties , rather than by authoritative commandments , is the legal framework evolved by men who have become interdependent by exchanging specialized work in widening markets . Because they live by an economy which can be regulated only by markets , they are compelled to resist overhead direction by coercive political planners . They are compelled by their practical necessities to bring the sovereign government itself under equal and certain laws . They find they must have equal and certain laws so that men , though they never see each other , can count upon the behavior of others . So it is no accident that the division of labor , common laws , the ideals of equal justice , the restraint of prerogative and privilege , the conception of international law and of peace as the paramount policy of states , should all have evolved together in the same regions of the earth . They are merely different aspects of the same momentous change in which men have been passing out of their primitive self-sufficiency into the intricate interdependence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial revolution men have been advancing the frontiers of the region in which dependable law exists , making the world habitable for men who live by the division of labor . This movement , known to doctrine as liberalism , has behind it the irresistible energy developed by an immeasurably superior mode of obtaining a living from the earth , and no human power can long withstand it . Though men fall back into reaction , and have to fight their way out of it through bitter and bloody strife , yet at long last they will be free under equal laws because in no other way can they prosper , or even survive , in the economy by which they are destined to live .                     