@@773760

txt // Class IV . Labor requiring a lower grade of skill , where strength is usually essential . Class V. Unskilled labor . Street traders , etc . These five categories constitute an economic hierarchy or status-system , but when we turn to their numerous subdivi-sions there is no longer a definite order and they are arranged on a basis of function , without consideration of status . No doubt the subtler distinctions of social hierarchy can be traced inside the larger classes , say in Class I , with its sub-divisions of barristers , solicitors , navy and army officers , physicians , dentists , actors , clergymen of various churches , teachers , and so on . But the sole determinant of the sub-classifications has become economic function , whereas in the main groupings it was economic status . It may be noted that the aim of various forms of socialism is to substitute for a social order based largely on status an order in which function shall entirely dominate . In the classification just given it may be observed that farmers are included under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the class of skilled workers . In a country less industrialized than England the farmers would naturally constitute a whole class by themselves , and they reveal in a very interesting way the nexus between occupation and status . Formerly there were two great classes associated with the soil , the land-owner and the land-cultivator or peasant . Through the introduction of a money economy and other far-reaching social changes , and in North America through the parcelling out of the land into homesteads or small farms , an intermediate class of owner-cultivators rose into prominence . They differ from the free ' husbandmen and yeomen of earlier days in that they are no longer dominated by a land-owning aristocracy . This difference is accentuated in North America by the greater mobility of the farming class , as witnessed by the fact that in recent years one-tenth of the total farming population has migrated every year to the towns or back to the farms . ' Thus the land loses its old character as // family inheritance and becomes more nearly an investment capital , like any other . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own families , and their relation ? the hired worker , who is often a temporary or occasional 1per , is entirely different from that of the landlord to the asant . In fact the peasant in the old sense has dwindled with e decay of feudalism and in North America is practically ? n-existent . Consequently the social and economic difference tween the owner-farmer and the tenant-farmer has diminc ( l , and the two together form an agricultural class with mmon interests and common problems , with common charteristics arising from the nature of their occupation , with a re or less common standard of living , and a common classnsciousness . They form a social class as we have defined it , the factor of status is bound up with their mode of living , cir sense of proprietorship , their relatively low and inelastic coome , their economic solidarity set over against that of other ups , and their relative , though diminishing , segregation ? m the cultural influences which play upon urban popula.ns.2 Here we have in fact the whole complex of factors hich is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class principle is clearest when status is associated with c controlling factor around which the others cohere . This witnessed to by the fact that the commonest as well as the ( lest social classification is a dichotomous one . Its various rms distinguish the few and the many , the gentry and the ? mmonalty , the privileged and the disprivileged , the free d the servile , the rich and the poor , the ruling class and the led , the educated and the uneducated , the productive and e unproductive ( or leisure class ) and , in Marxist formula , , c bourgeoisie and the proletariat . A dominant factor is also bviously present in such tri-partite divisions as upper ' , iddle ' , and lower ' , or in the feudal distinction of nobily , burgher , and peasant . One of the most interesting expies of a class-system based on a single characteristic , in // this instance detached from the other factors usually assod ated with class , is the reversal of the historical hierarchy b the Soviet state , in the order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may be noted that in th simpler societies the various factors in the class complex c here more closely , so that the system is more compact an more stratified at the same time ; whereas in the mobile ca italistic societies of the modern world they tend to becom dissociated , so that class demarcations are blurred . Under th latter conditions wealth takes on a more determinative role , and wealth , though in degree associated with mode of living , cultural opportunity , occupational advantage , and political power , is of all attributes the most detachable from personality and from cultural attainment . Particularly in a democracy are the older bulwarks of a class-system undermined , so that whatever cohesion that system still possesses depends mainly on the influence of wealth . The older determinants may still modify or limit it , but they can hardly prevail against it . In America , for example , the descendants of the Mayflower or of the Fathers of the Constitution , the established families of New England or of the South , the Colonial Dames or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class distinction , but a study of even the " Social Register " shows with what limited success , particularly outside a few strongholds of old tradition , such as Boston or Richmond . Or a broader class distinction may be asserted in the name of the pride of race , such as that between the West European stocks and the new immigration ' , between the Gentile and the Jew . But these barriers do not create clearlydefined social classes , and in some measure they seem to be transitional lines , becoming less determinative in the degree in which cultural differences between groups are merged in the new environment . Only the racial barrier of color completely resists the triumphant claim of wealth to be at length the chief determinant of class , and this defeat is less decisive because of the general poverty of the colored people . When wealth is an important class principle , especially in a capitalist system where wealth may be acquired by individual // ingenuity or enterprise or cunning or by the turn of fortune 's wheel , classes themselves are less fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is seen in the contrast be-tween our own and the feudal class-system . Under the latter status was more rigid , being predetermined by birth . In mediaeval times a man was born to his estate in life , and the lance of a transition to another was small , though possible avenues of advance were provided by the army and the church ; to-day his personal aptitudes , and more especially his aptitude for money-making , decide the degree of probability that he ? and still more his children ? will rise in the world ' . Opportunity in this regard is still far more limited for the very poor , but it is never wholly closed . This relative fluidity of the modern class-system is correlated with other features of it . In feudal days a different costume marked off the lower classes , different modes of living , of recreation , and so forth . To-day all classes follow the same fashions and all view the same spectacles , plays , and so forth , the difference lying in the expensiveness , and therefore in the relative advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gradient , in feudal times it was a series of disconnected stages . In a word , the feudal order approximated to a caste-system . When status is wholly predetermined , so that men are born to their lot in life without hope of changing it , then class takes the extreme form of caste . This is the situation in Hindu society . " Every Hindu necessarily belongs to the caste of his parents , and in that caste he inevitably remains . No accumula tion of wealth and no exercise of talents can alter his caste status ; and marriage outside his caste is prohibited or severely discouraged . " Caste is a complete barrier to the mobility of class . In principle it involves an absolute and permanent stratification of the community . The levels or strata are kept apart by the exclusion of the lower from the more intimate forms of social intercourse with the higher , and especially by the ban of intermarriage , by the observances of obeisance due from the lower to the higher , and by the reservation of honor84 SOCIETY : ITS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the higher while certain despised offices are relegated to the lower . In India , with its multitudinous caste compartments , the higher caste groups , at the top the Brahmin and next in order the Kshatrya and the Vaishya , are thought of as beings of different clay from the low caste group of the Sudras , while beyond these again lie the outcasts ' , the untouchables ' , whose very presence is a defilement to the rest , who pollute food and water by their touch , and who in some regions may not even approach the neighborhood of the high caste Hindu . The idea of defilement is common in every caste-system and it reveals most clearly how caste prevents the common participation of the various groups in the communal life . Sometimes an outcast group is associated with one particular occupation , like the blacksmiths of the Masai tribes.4 A similar phenom-enon appeared in the middle ages , and has left traces even to our own day , in the relegation of money-lending and other financial operations to the Jews . The rigid demarcation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not for strong religious persuasions . It is only the hold of religious dogmatism over the mind , with its supernatural explanation of things otherwise unreasonable , with its doctrine of the elect and of the pale ' , with its attribution of a mystic cleanness and uncleanness , with its instillation of reverence and awe , and with its over-ruling conception of the sacred and the profane , which could maintain a social equilibrium on the disjunctive principle of caste . We know little of the origins of caste . We may con-jecture that it arose out of the subjection or enslavement incident to conquest and perhaps also out of the superposition of one endogamous community on another . But the power , prestige , and pride of race thus engendered could give rise to a caste-system , with its social separation of those who are not set apart by clear racial signs , only as the resulting situation was rationalized and eternized by religious myth . As Max Weber observes , caste signifies the enhancement and transCLASS // formation of social distance into a religious , or more strictly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Class-Consciousness We turn to the inner aspect of class , the sentiment which inspires the relations of men towards the members of their own and other classes , establishing that social distance which is the essential feature of class distinction . ' Class sentiment , as was suggested in the last chapter , exhibits striking contrasts with community sentiment . If the latter admits no grades , the former is founded on the principle of hierarchy . The sentiment of class is above all a sentiment of disparity . It does indeed unite those who feel distinct from other classes , but it unites them primarily because they feel distinct . Above all , it unites the superior ' against the inferior ' . It emanates from the belief in superiority , so that class-division is really imposed on the lower by the higher classes . Hence class sentiment involves entirely different attitudes , in respect of one another , of the various groups within the hierarchical system . In so far as tradition rules , the attitude of the lower to the higher is one of respect and subservience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower . ' Since intermediate classes look both ways , class feeling under such conditions differs most markedly at the two ends of the social scale . If on the other hand tradition weakens and class struggle emerges , the atti-tudes of the opposing classes , one conservative and striving to maintain , the other radical and striving to overthrow an order , cease to be complementary and become as different as the // social values for which they respectively strive . Class sentiment has thus no generic quality comparable with that of community sentiment . Moreover , class sentiment and community sentiment operate to limit and restrain one another . The one divides those whom the other integrates . In less mobile societies communal tradition , religion , custom are so strong and pervasive that the dividing influences of class or caste can not prevail against them . In more mobile societies the counter-active play of the two types of sentiment is particularly noticeable . For example , the competitive spirit of class expresses itself in the restlessness of fashion as against the stability of custom . This aspect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to deal with these phenomena . It is significant also that the sentiment of class may have a wide or a narrow range . We often think of class-consciousness as a sentiment uniting a whole group who occupy a similar social status , but there is a more personal form of class sentiment which frequently determines the conduct of individuals towards one another without involving on their part any express recognition of the whole groups to which they respectively belong . Class feeling in the latter sense is one thing , the feeling of class solidarity or corporate class-consciousness is quite another . When Mr. A blackballs Mr. B from membership in his club , he does not usually think of himself as thereby upholding the standards or the interests of a whole class of Mr. A 's ; when Mrs. A patronizes Mrs. B or refuses to call on her , she does not on that account feel her solidarity with a whole order of the superiors ' of Mrs. B. The response is immediate , specific , personalized . This quality of class sentiment is characteristic of the competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In modern western society class solidarity , as we shall see , arises chiefly under the spur of strong economic incentives , and it is most apt to gain strength at the extreme ends of the economic scale , in the struggle to maintain or to destroy a predetermined status . It is Society ' on the one hand and the low-paid wage-earning groups on the other who most clearly exhibit class-consciousness in this sense . // The sentiment of class , in fact , takes a different range as well as quality according to the degree in which the element of caste is present . When a man 's lot in life is fixed by anterior social conditions , he more readily identifies himself with the whole group of his fellows subject to the same conditions . If the mores of an authoritative religion hold sway , so that the members of the group accept the " duty " , in the language of the English Book of Common Prayer , " to order themselves lowly and reverently to all their betters , " then the class-consciousness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mores break , as they do in the process of industrial-ization , then this class-consciousness becomes a powerful engine of social change . In either event the solidarity of class-consciousness depends on the sense of a sharp cleavage and of a barrier under existing conditions insurmountable . The situation is very different where there is vertical mobility ' , more specifically , where the belief prevails , supported by in-stances , that a higher status may be individually acquired or that a present status may be lost . Such a situation breaks the solidarity at least of the socially subordinate classes . In North America particularly the man in overalls or the clerk has before his eyes the examples of those who from the same station have risen to social power and economic affluence , and the more ambitious and energetic members of these classes are buoyed by the prospects of a like success ! ' Conse-quently they do not feel that permanence of station which creates solidarity and stimulates class organization . Class sentiment may be even stronger than among groups with rigidly determined status , but it now becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but a continuous in-cline . ' Class struggle resolves itself into the ambitious striving of individuals and families to maintain their place and still more to rise in the world ' : Appearances consequently count for more , since class is judged by external signs . The standards // and modes of living of the higher prestige groups are imitated by those below them . The phenomena so caustically described by Veblen in his Theory of the Leisure Class are in evidence ? the emulation , competition , display , and the " conspicuous consumption of valuable goods " which signalize a class order dominated by the principle of wealth.9 As Veblen himself pointed out , somewhat similar phenomena may be observed in pre-capitalistic societies . The institution of the potlatch characteristic of certain Pacific Coast tribes offers a curious example . The potlatch is a distribution of gifts , by which a man of substance acquires renown within the tribe . The recip-ients are under customary obligation to return the gift two-fold at some later date , and if they can not they lose prestige . Often the potlatch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man seeks to outbid his rivals . Sometimes this rivalry is manifested in the deliberate destruction of property . " A chief will burn blankets , a canoe , or break a copper , thus indicating his disregard of the amount of property destroyed . " And if his competitor can not follow suit , " he is vanquished by his rival and his influence with his tribe is lost . " 10 This competitive class spirit is so distinct from corporate class-consciousness that the two are fundamentally antago-nistic . The contrast is excellently illustrated by the position taken by Karl Marx and his followers in their endeavor to accentuate in the working classes the consciousness of their corporate unity . While they professed as their final goal the abolition of social classes altogether , their immediate objective was the solidarity and consequent organization of the whole class which they called the proletariat . In seeking it they not only subordinated those sentiments which unite classes , and above all the sentiment of nationality , they also minimized the distinctions that exist within each class . They insisted on the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjection of one main class , and on its economic , social , and even cultural separation from the other main class , the bourgeoisie . To them the wage-earning class was essentially homogeneous , and the competitive struggle for position between its members was inimical alike to their general interest and to their solidarity . Hence the program summed up in the famous words of the Communist Manifesto : " proletarians of the world , unite . " But certainly in the countries of western civilization the Marxist dichotomy is too simple and sweeping to fit the facts of the class-system . So broad a division and so sharp a cleavage is more applicable to a feudal order , such as that of prerevolutionary Russia , than to a complex industrialized society . The Marxist class-philosophy became an historical factor of vast significance , the full outcome of which we can not foresee , but it became so because it gave a vision and a policy to propertyless and often exploited industrial groups . In Russia , a country industrially undeveloped and lacking the middle classes ' of industrial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disastrous war and an incompetent autocracy gave to a small group of very remarkable men the opportunity to rebuild a whole vast society on Marxist principles , but even under these conditions it meant and still means the rigorous suppression of the spontaneous forces which in every social order generate major and minor class distinctions . Under the more complex conditions of western society the Marxist system reveals its inadequacy as an interpretation of the social fact . On the one hand there are many influences uniting the classes which this system sets in stark opposition to one another . On the other hand there are many variant and intermediate forms of class sentiment which can not be fitted into the system . The cultural resemblances of social classes vary greatly in extent and intensity according to the conditions . We saw , however , that caste itself can exist only on the basis of a common culture in the form of a dominant religion . In the feudal world we can trace the expansion of common thought-forms , such as the official Christian conception of marriage and the // family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world the facilities of communication greatly increase the cultural homo-geneity of classes . This fact is indicated in a thousand ways . Even when certain cultural influences appear at first in the higher economic classes , such as the influences leading to the decline of the birth-rate , they permeate rather quickly to the lower economic classes.11 As Ross points out , cultural influ-ences radiate from the prestige groups until the whole society is leavened by them.12 The attempt therefore of the Marxist advocates to distinguish a bourgeois from a proletarian culture is more in the nature of propagandism than of an objective interpretation.13 Moreover , the scheme ignores the class sentiment as well as the social importance of all those who are grouped together as the middle classes ' . It is an unjustified simplification of the facts to group together , over against the proletariat ' , the classes of officials , the professions , the civil servants , the shopkeepers , the farmers , the technicians , the white-collar ' groups , as though they exhibited either the solidarity or the mentality of a single great class . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the large capitalists and financiers . If they are united , it is only in a negative position , as being generally anti-socialistic , but this is hardly enough to consti-tute them a social class . They differ widely in their social stations and ambitions . Their economic interests are diverse and often conflicting . Marx , centering his interest in one class , is led to group all the rest of the population as an opposing class , ignoring the fact that they lack the like attributes and the common station which class designates . On the other hand , even his proletariat ' class exhibits in a complex society such divergence of class attitudes that its unity is doubtful . In America , for example , the class distinction between skilled and unskilled wage-earners is so great as to frustrate the class solidarity which he sought to arouse . In many respects , as the history of the American Federation of Labor has shown , // the social attitudes of skilled labor resemble those of the petite bourgeoisie more nearly than they do those of the lower eco-nomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the big interests ' is another indication that the Marxist classification was too simple and too propagandist . Marx believed in a " law of the accumulation of capital " which would reduce an ever-larger portion of the population to the proletariat class.14 In other words , he thought of the middle classes as a merely temporary obstacle to his system . But , although he proved right in predicting the tendency to-wards a greater concentration of the control of capital , his prediction regarding the dissipation of the middle classes has not in any degree been confirmed by the course of recent his-tory . The evidences which we possess , in the form of income-tax returns , statistics as to the number of small investors , and so forth , resist any such conclusion . 3 . Class and the Social Structure The class-system at any time reflects and also profoundly influences the whole life of a community . Its relation to the whole social structure is apparent if we contrast briefly the character which it assumes in various countries . Thus in the United States we find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relative absence of cultural barriers between classes , and on the positive side , a high development of wealth prestige or plutocracy . In England , by contrast , we find still , in spite of the power of wealth on the one hand and of political democracy on the other , deep grooves of class superiority and inferiority , an established , if no longer unchallenged , aristocracy , supported by still prevalent tradi-tions and traditional attitudes , as witnessed by the subservi-ence of many groups towards their social betters ' . In France , since the Revolution , we find the social dominance of a middle or bourgeois class , with surviving localized aristocracies . In Germany we find the abrupt though long-prepared transi-tion from a feudal , military class structure , the collapse under military defeat of the social prestige of a land-owning aristoc92 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES racy giving free play to the social ferment of industrialism . In Russia , we find a class-system unparalleled in the history of mankind , a system under which prestige and privilege belong to the proletarian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ badge of honor in the land . " 15 This catalogue , showing the differences of class-system corresponding to general differ-ences in social structures , might be continued indefinitely , but we will conclude it with the remarkable contrast exhibited in this respect by India and China . In India we have a vast society deeply permeated by the immemorial tradition of caste , so that every aspect of life , religion , education , occupation , social intercourse , is governed by its rigid code of dis-tances , even though at length the growth of nationalism is showing some signs of undermining it . In China on the other hand we have the contrary spectacle of another vast society in which class distinctions play a very minor part ? so over-whelming has been the value attached to the family as such that loyalty to this organization , at once so universal and so limited , has outweighed other considerations in determining the respect which a man receives from his fellows . The character of a class-system , whether it be closed and rigid or open and mobile , whether it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural quality the main determinant of social distinction , has a profound influence on modes of living , on the ideals of the group , and on the whole process of social selection . It is obvious , for example , that a caste order discounts intrinsic merits and capacities and by denying opportunities for advancement to those who belong to the lower castes deprives itself of the potential contributions which might emanate from their ranks . We may reasonably infer that in so far as any society limits opportunity to privi-leged groups within it , that society is needlessly losing the aptitudes and talents which might otherwise be brought to light within the ranks of the unprivileged . The established fact that many more persons of personal distinction and high social achievement arise in the higher income groups in pro-portion to their numbers , while often used as an argument for // the intrinsic superiority of those groups , might with at least as much logic be made an argument for the expansion of opportunity.16 A further serious penalty of a system which limits the evocation of intrinsic merit is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false standards , in the privileged class . This penalty attaches not only to the caste-system but also to the competitive plutocratic system . Under the latter not only is a condition peculiarly detachable from personal quality ? the amount of one 's wealth ? made a ground of esteem , but also the keeping up of appearances becomes an end of life . Good form ' , the conventions and shibboleths of the prestige group , is apt to assume an importance superior to character . The gain sought by the social climber is a purely relative one , so that the satisfaction of success is speedily dimmed by the new comparisons which each new step on the ladder brings into view . In the middle classes particularly respectability ' is apt to become a fetish . It becomes the measure , for example , of a good marriage ' , and it sets stand-ards in the choice of mates which ignore the primary qualifica-tions of eugenic fitness . A good illustration of the opposition between class standards and intrinsic qualifications is also presented by the system of appointment and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ navy officers , espe-cially in countries with long-established traditions , are pecul-iarly apt to form something resembling a caste , in which ability is subordinated to considerations of status , so that there is little promotion from the ranks to the officer grades in times of peace . But the stern necessity created by warfare alters the situation , gives the man of military capacity some opportunity to rise to command , and reveals the initial weakness of a system which identified the officer with the gentleman ' . On the other hand , there is an argument on behalf of the social function of an upper class marked off by predetermined status . This type of class-system has been defended as a means of protecting and elevating culture standards , of devel-oping a mode of living which stimulates refinement and pre-vents the encroachment of vulgarity , and of evoking and // providing a market for artistic and intellectual abilities . The wonderful flowering of the artistic life in fifth century Athens and under the patronage of the Medici in fifteenth century Florence is cited as evidence of this function . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luxury and the arts that minister to it were the offspring of the courtly establishments of the middle ages.17 It is true that if a domi-nant class is itself cultured it will promote those cultural ex-pressions which are not out of accord with its interests . It will promote , for example , the arts of painting and of music and of architecture rather than that free intellectual activity which tends to question the social status quo . Moreover , the basis of a class-system is the possession of power , not of culture , and there is no historical evidence that power and cultural attain-ment must go together . Against the instances cited must be set many other examples of upper classes which did little to pro-mote the development of the arts . Patronage is a precarious stimulant of artistic endeavor . Even the music-loving aris-tocracies of Central Europe kept Mozart and Beethoven in poverty and allowed Schubert to die in destitution . Class power is a close neighbor of class intolerance , and a dominant caste is more apt to dictate cultural conditions than to permit their spontaneous development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poverty a dominant caste will certainly maintain a luxury otherwise impossible , and thus give an incentive to the finer arts and crafts , though it may involve further depression of the standards of living of the rest of the population . In countries enjoying a wider distribution of eco-nomic prosperity the social function attributed to ruling classes may be more freely performed by the special culture groups which a more complex society produces . As Catlin points out , these culture groups are not necessarily power groups . The same writer suggests that in the development of such groups , " as men become more fully conscious of themselves and more educated in their own gifts , " the future of the world would seem to lie.18 // The intimate relationship between the class-system and the whole structure of a society may finally be shown by the fact that in the historical process the transformation of classes has accompanied all great revolutionary movements . In ancient Athens for example , the reforms of Cleisthenes and of Solon , reducing the political control of the old families , were made in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome the status of the patricians was gradually undermined in correspondence with the conditions of an empire which ; as it grew in extent , profoundly changed the distribution of wealth and poverty . The conditions which trans-formed feudalism into our modern state-systems brought also , both as consequences and as causes of that transformation , the enfranchisement of the serf , the disintegration of old classes , the rise of the burghers , the greater importance of office and function as against predetermined status , and finally that new power of the capital-owning classes which overcome the aristocracy of land-ownership . The new status of the indus-trialist and the financier reflected the new social economy , a transformation which broke up old traditions and old thought-forms , and which affected every aspect of life ? morals , re-ligions , philosophies , no less than the modes of work and lei-sure.19 It brought with it also the phenomenon of a class to which the new conditions of industrial employment gave a cohesion and a degree of solidarity and of definite organization hitherto lacking , a class whose discontent with the economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This phenomenon may prove to be one of the most important factors in the further modification of the class-system of western civilization . In America the process of industrialization and the trans-formation of classes took a somewhat different form from the European . The period following the Civil War witnessed a vast and sudden access of industrialism , in which an agrarian economy with its farmers , traders , and small individual capital-ists yielded before a system of big business ' and centralized // finance , with its dominating magnates of steel and oil , of mine and railroad . The old traditions , whether of New England Puritan or of Southern gentleman , whether of the hardy pio-neer or the thrifty artizan extolled by Franklin , could not resist the tide which carried to power the political boss and the trust-builder . The old middle-class ' conceptions of democracy , of individualism , of Jeffersonian equality were undermined by the new concentration and distribution of economic power on the one hand and on the other by the new heterogeneity of a population to which successive waves of immigration added workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditions have not perished but they have lost vitality . And in the process the present competitive and confused class-system , with its strongly plutocratic tendencies , came into being . CHAPTER SIX THE HERD AND THE CROWD 1 . The Crowd Phenomenon The crowd is the most transitory and unstable of all social groups , yet it exhibits characteristics which not only are highly significant in themselves but also throw light on the very nature of the social bond . Consequently the study of the crowd has been a favorite meeting point of psychologists , sociologists , and political scientists . The crowd belongs to our category of unorganized groups . We mean by this not that the crowd exhibits no patterns , no characteristic modes , but that the units in it are not organized in relation to one another . It may be instigated into being , but it falls into no predetermined order . It may be led , but only whither its own impulses direct . It owes its peculiar qualities , as we shall see , to this fact that it arises only in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not distinguish it from the herd , but although the two have resemblances they differ in important respects . Strictly speaking , human societies are never herds , and when we apply the term to social manifesta-tions we are really imputing to them attributes which we find more simply and more clearly present in the behavior of those ranging aggregations of animals properly named herds . As Hocking remarks , the nearest approximation to a true herd in the modern world is that somewhat rare phenomenon of social disruption , the " aimless migration of refugees . " 1 The herd is , for certain gregarious animals , a permanent mode of life . The herd spirit , present even in civilized societies , is also a relatively permanent factor . But the crowd is ephemeral . It is not a mode of life but an incident , an eruption , a dis-turbance of a normal mode of life . Possibly it is what we name ( 18 S0 ( 1 ETV : ITS STI ( t1 ( " I'llIt I. : AND CHANGES the herd spirit which reveals itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if so it is under conditions which never occur in the normal life of the herd proper . We can understand the crowd only if we perceive it as an unorganized grouping occurring within , and in contrast with , a system of social organization . A brief description of the herd spirit will prepare us to see the difference and may serve as an approach to the distinctive character of the human crowd . The herd spirit is that type of imitative cohesion which prompts men when they conform blindly to the traditions and beliefs and ways of the group , when they approve of things because they are accepted and disapprove simply because they are divergent from the established norms , when they are moved by the slogans , the stereotypes , the conventions , the idols ' , of their tribe . The herd moves as one ? and we exhibit the herd spirit when our conduct is determined by the question ? What do others think and feel about this , what is the correct thing to do ? The herd spirit leads men to cast out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own shrines , including those who are more sensitive , more intelligent , more independent , than themselves . The herd spirit , in a word , identifies mores and morals , conformity and solidarity . All who differ from its opinions are undermining ' the social order , morality , the constitution , the church , or whatever the firmament be to which they cling against the menace of change . The herd spirit , however , is witnessed not only in the blind resistance to change but also in the gregarious pursuit of some superficial novelty . It operates in the acceptance of fashions no less than of mores . There are certain accredited leaders who can set the direction for the herd . Or again there is an apparently simultaneous discovery by the group that some new thing is the vogue , the craze ? some song , some password , some parlor game , or whatever it be . These crazes ' come and go , and while their origin may seem mysterious their departure is not difficult to explain , since the novelty on which their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the herd spirit is the emotional epidemic which sometimes sweeps through a country or even a wider cultureTIIE // area . These epidemics give vent to emotions which are in-herent in the beliefs or superstitions of the culture and which are roused to intensity by some accident , crisis , or conjuncture . They have frequently taken religious forms , as evangelistic revivals ' , where they occur under the stimulation of some leader who is either fanatical himself or else has learned the art of breaking the dams of religious emotion in his audience . Such epidemics conform to the prevalent tendencies of the communities and periods in which they occur , and are ac-centuated in the degree in which superstition is unchecked by science and intellectual discipline . The middle ages were characterized by the crusades , the persecutions of heretics , the wild obsessions of witchcraft , the flagellant manias ( in which people went about whipping one another ) . But perhaps no epidemic of that epoch rivalled in its strange release of fears and breakdown of inhibitions the dancing delirium which began in Europe late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were inspired by visions of the heavenly host , sometimes they took the form of demo-niacal possession , while in Italy the strange belief arose that these dances were the antidote to the deadly bite of the ta-rantula ( a harmless spider ) the fear of which became a general delusion.2 The herd terror of demons was prevalent in the centuries which followed , and no inhumanity , no torture , was too fiendish to be visited on those who were supposed to be possessed by evil spirits . In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries a very different type of epidemic developed , ex-pressive of a new social economy , the speculative contagions which were represented by the Dutch tulip mania , the South Sea Bubble , and the Mississippi Scheme . In modified forms , with the development of stock-markets , these speculative fevers have recurred down to the present . Observe that the types of herd manifestations we have just been discussing are inspired mainly by self-regarding fears and hopes ? individual fears of demons , hopes of individual salvation or of individual profits . They fall therefore in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category of like interest social phenomena cm1N ? eyed by suggestion , under appropriate social conditions , to whole groups .. From these we must next distinguish another very significant type of herd expression , through which is manifested the sense of common interest , the deep instinct ' of community . Any occasion which suddenly touches the sentiment of community is apt to stimulate an emotional impulse of an epidemic character . It is seen on a smaller scale in the fervor which seizes a group when their college or city team is victorious against a rival . It is displayed more broadly when a whole nation is aroused by a national triumph of some simple spectacular sort , or by a disaster , or by a supposed insult to its honor . The crisis of war , or of the menace of war , is peculiarly apt to evoke this tense communicable emotion , which engulfs each individual so that his individuality is lost while his egoism is enlarged . We ' have won , we ' have been insulted ? in this we ' he is emotionally absorbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and liberated from social pressures because its goal is now identified with that of all the rest . It is an immense simplification of thought and feeling , a sudden resolution of the problem of his relation to society . That his individuality is lost in the process , that deliberation and reasoning are overwhelmed , does not concern him while the fever lasts . His pride , his itch for power and glory , his desire to love and to hate , are given an unwonted social justification . At the same time that he feels one with his fellows he is free to indulge the passions which society under normal conditions holds most in check . This double release is correspondingly powerful . These various epidemics suggest the gregarious nature of human beings . In the herd , as Sidis points out , the sensitivity to common danger and the rapid communication of the sense of danger through the suggestible subconscious " mind is a factor of safety . These tendencies in civilized life may be survivals from a remote past , ill-adapted as they often are to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phenomenon of the crowd , but as we have seen they occur on a far broader scale . % , .1 . , .. I. The crowd proper we distinguish as a physically compact aggregation of human beings brought into direct , temporary , and unorganized contact one with another . It is quickly created and quickly dissolved . It is an unorganized manifestation w'curring in a world of organization . There are of course myriads of casual meetings of friends , acquaintances , or strangers tK curring at all times in every society , occurring on the street , un t he house-porch , on the pullman-car , in the business office , and so forth . These unorganized meetings differ from crowds In that they are face-to-face ' meetings and that they are on a much smaller scale . Numbers are necessary to make a crowd , and the numbers are randomly contiguous . In the latter respect the crowd differs from the organized group , such as the assembly , public meeting , reception , and so forth , where the participants fall into a predetermined order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The borderline case is that of the group which casually gathers to listen to an orator in a park or public square . Here the organization into which the group falls is reduced to a minimum , that of a circle of listeners around the focus of a speaker . In the crowd mere conjuncture takes the place of any definite order controlling the relation of each to each . We can now distinguish two main types of crowd , corresponding to our two types of herd manifestation . Compare , for example , the crowd that gathers to watch a fire or an accident with the crowd that participates in a popular celebration , in a strike demonstration , in a riot or a lynching . The former is a like-interest crowd . It is brought together by the curiosity of individuals who happen to be in the vicinity . It has no common purpose , Each person could satisfy his curiosity much better if he were not incommoded by the presence of the others . There is no doubt an enhancement of the curiosity of each from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being in a crowd as well as the thrill of watching the fire . But the immediate object of each does not need the presence of the rest . tThere is a common external focus of interest but not a common interest : 3 This character is still more obvious in crowds composed of persons seeking at the // same time , and to the inconvenience of one another , to board some means of transportation , to enter a theater or a stadium , and so forth . Uhe like-interest crowd can do nothing as a crowd . If it breaks out in protest against some inconvenience which it suffers , it is transformed into a common-interest crowd and its nature is radically changed . If it decides , say , to put out the fire which it is watching or to render aid in some accident , it at once undergoes organization , falls into an order , and ceases to be a crowd at all . From the sociological standpoint the common-interest crowd is far more significant . If all crowds arise in the interstices of organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existing machinery does not provide . The occasion may be a sudden need , a crisis , a spontaneous outburst of group joy or hatred , a festival , the death of a hero . Crowds of this sort are not necessarily antagonistic to the established order . But there are also crowds which break through the trammels of organization . Sometimes they merely manifest a desire to escape the discipline , the pressure of regimentation , seeking release through some common spontaneous activity , as college youths are apt to do under some incitement such as the victory of their team . But sometimes they arise to protest against , to defeat , even to destroy order itself . A lynching crowd is an example , or again the crowds which have signalized all revolutionary movements . Such outbursts offer the most remarkable revelations of the inner nature of the crowd . To this , the spirit of the crowd , we must now give more particular attention . 2 . The Spirit of the Crowd Crowds differ greatly in spirit according to the character of the interest which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like interest , such as that of the crowds who promenade the streets during intermissions of work or in the evening , most of the characteristics which are usually attributed to the crowd-phenomenon may be absent . Some occurrence may make the like interest of such a crowd more specific ? a parade , an accident , for example ? and at once an elemental // curiosity gives the crowd a focus of attention and thus evolves its particular attributes . There is the jostling , the excitement , the loss of poise , the simplification of purpose . If the occurrence touches more nearly the vital concerns of the assembled persons , the peculiar quality of crowd sentiment and crowd conduct reaches a height . There is a sudden communication and cumulation of emotion , a loss of the sense of responsibility , a breakdown of inhibitions , abrupt and unconsidered movements , violence and impetuosity . Under such conditions the crowd overthrows the standards and the habits which the education and discipline of civilized life had built up in its members . It lives at a more primitive level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child is in abeyance . How sudden and overwhelming this change from normal mentality may be the phenomenon of panic reveals . With appalling swiftness an orderly audience can , on an alarm of fire for instance , be transformed into a maddened crowd , heedless to every consideration beyond the blind impulse of flight . It is the stampede of the herd over again , but now demolishing all the reserves of reason and all the resistances of civilized habituation . This disastrous victory of primal instinct , in situations which demand the greatest resourcefulness of the trained reason , is what gives the crowd its peculiar and sinister fascination . But the full significance of the crowd spirit is seen most clearly in the behavior of the common-interest crowd . Now the crowd senses its own solidarity . In the like-interest crowd the presence of the others at least partially interferes with the desire of each constituent ? in the panic it is often fatal to these desires . But in the common-interest crowd the presence of the others supports the desire of each . Numbers give strength to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the destructive fury , the storming of Bastilles . In all crowds the close physical contacts , the multitudinous swaying motions , the gestures , the murmurs or shouts , are conditions of a characteristic excitement . In the common-interest crowd there is a further condition , the cause ' which leads each to identify himself with all the rest . The others are with // him , on his side . This participation brings an emotional re-lease , a social sanction for individual irresponsibility . The sense of absorption is intensified . The sentiment of com-munity , released from the bonds of organization , runs wild . Without organization , its emotion heightened while the capacity to reflect is lowered , the common-interest crowd can do nothing constructive . It may express tumultuous admira-tion of its heroes , it can cheer and wave its banners . But its impulse to action is most liable to find a destructive outlet . To destroy requires neither system nor deliberation . It is easy to cast stones , to trample a man down , to maim and kill . Perhaps too , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more easily stimulated than love and admira-tion , though Martin seems to go too far when he speaks of the crowd as always " a creature of hate . " 3 Certainly the crowd easily finds a victim or an enemy , and is very open to suggestions of punishment or vengeance . This spirit of the crowd seems to communicate itself to the guardians of order who oppose its excess , so that they are frequently accused on such occasions of needless cruelty and violence . The mere sug-gestion of a victim not infrequently turns a peaceful crowd into a raging mob , offering a vent to the restless undirected energies let loose within it.4 And since in organized society the impulse to hate and to destroy is that which is most held in check , the release is all the more violent as well as the more con-genial to the primitive and no longer restrained spirit of the crowd . Perhaps it is a similar release which accounts for the thrill aroused by rumors of war in some normally peaceful and otherwise reasonable persons . Various attempts have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers hold that the removal of inhibitions which characterizes it brings into play not only the consciously repressed desires of men but also those hidden and unconscious desires which the discipline of normal life has buried . The suggestibility , the exaltation , the lack of self-consciousness , the egoistic expansion , which the members of // the crowd exhibit , are phenomena susceptible of this kind of Freudian explanation . The censor ' within man is set aside , and the primitive or infantile nature , the dream life , comes to the surface . ' Others maintain that in the crowd , with the loss of individuality , a form of group-consciousness develops , a fusion of mind with mind , a sympathetic participation of each with each on the emotional level which is common to them all . The crowd becomes so attuned that it responds only to the appeals , the slogans , the ideas which are conformable to this de-individualized mentality . ' The Freudian explanation , it should be observed , does not need this postulate of a group-consciousness , nor does there seem any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the influence of crowd excitement as implying anything that could properly be termed a single controlling collective mind ' or collective representation ' .7 A study of the actual conditions under which the peculiar mentality of the crowd develops is illuminating . Always there is something which touches some strong elemental emotion . ( In the common-interest crowd a blinding emotion suffuses the militant sense of solidarity . ) In the panic it is the emotion which the threat to self-preservation evokes . In the crowd which makes a run on the bank ' and in the crowds which assemble in a stock-market crisis it is the sudden dread of impoverishment . In the harvest festivals and other dance celebrations of primitive peoples the emotions associated with sex are stimulated , as also in various carnivals ' among our-selves . Sex-emotion seems also to be prominent in crowd phenomena which ostensibly arise from quite different motiva-tions , such as certain types of religious revival ' or those lynching outbreaks which " uphold the honor of white woman116 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES hood . " The fierce vindication of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of crowd may be regarded as a mode in which repressed sex tendencies take their revenge . Given the emotion-evoking occasions , various devices may be deliberately employed by leaders or agitators ' to enhance the crowd spirit . The skilful politician , the evangelist , the fiery patriot ' , the advocate of class-war , the tribal witch doctor , all use similar methods , on the one hand the tricks of mannerism , gesture , and voice which rivet attention on the speaker and on the other the reiteration and cumulation of images and ideas which present reality in the colors of the dominant emotion . The spell ' of the orator lies in this , that he enlists on the side of the prevalent state of feeling the reason-ing power which previously was resistant and critical of it , but he usually achieves this end by dulling or as it were hypnotizing the reasoning power itself . The crowd is persuaded by argu-ments that addressed to its individuals in isolation would fail to convince , and is credulous of statements that in the normal mood of its members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credence in a crowd in proportion as its excitement grows , and in turn they increase its excitement . A similar condition , apart from the physical crowd , occurs in herd manifestations in time of war . The crowd , like the nation in war-time , is so attuned that it accepts as truth every cal-umny cast at its enemies while convinced of the splendid righteousness of its own cause . Aside from the factitious stimulation of emotion by the arts of the leader there is a spontaneous accumulation of excitement within the crowd once assembled . There is what McDougall calls " sympathetic induction , " the symptoms and expressions of emotion coming to each constituent as a mass influence and heightening the fever in each . ' As the mood of each grows into conformity with that of the others they all tend to exhibit simultaneous and rhythmic gestures . ' The group sways and // surges in unison . It is significant in this regard that primitive peoples often employ the reiterated monotonous beat of a drum or other percussion instrument to evoke an orgiastic spirit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious emotion which characterize the assemblies of the Shakers or the Holy Rollers ' , and the wakes ' and revivals ' of negro communities . These reveal in an extreme manner the hypnotic quality which Le Bon and others have attributed to the crowd . By the religious devotees , as of old by the followers of Orpheus or Dionysus , it is felt that the Spirit ' or the God ' has taken possession . The manifestations of crowd feeling deserve study not only because they reveal the significance of this transitory form of aggregation , but also because they throw light on other social phenomena . Some element of crowd contagion is often present in the more ordered assemblies of men , even though the fact of organization hinders its free expression and development . The audience that listens to a public address , the spectators who watch a game or other spectacle , the members who take part in a parade , are all liable to the influence of the crowd spirit ; and if anything occurs which suddenly arouses them above the normal pitch they may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the moment become a mere crowd . ! Moreover , the study of the crowd illuminates the principle of solidarity itself . For the crowd exhibits the social impulse as it overflows the channels of custom and habit , and thereby exhibits the undifferentiated gregarious sense which in more limited , refined , and specialized forms animates our social contacts. ? In the crowd we return to the primitive feeling of society , at once simple and profound , wherein differences are submerged , where all act as one man . But it acts as no one man would act in his ordinary senses , for the crowd , waving its banner or shouting its slogan , is under a spell . It is back to the world of magic , where things happen unaccountably . Thus though it often means well , it can rarely act well . The very law of its being renders it unthinking in its love and ruthless in its hate . In conclusion , the crowd offers a special opportunity for the // emergence of the herd spirit . But that same spirit has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These avenues of communication are increased by the technical facilities of communication . The press , for example , is often an agency for its transmission and development . It may suggest that a foreign people or an opposing political party or any group , religious , racial , economic , which can be distinguished in some simple way from the group to which it appeals , is essentially inferior , suspicious , evil , designing . The herd emotion coheres around the consciousness of kind ' when the kind ' to which we belong is set in sharp contrast with some other . This primaeval emotion , based on one simple distinction , refuses to make any other , for that would threaten its sway . Intelligence is the ability to make distinctions , and this ability is in abeyance . Hence the prejudicial quality of this undiscerning herd emotion in a modern society , where groups of all kinds are in necessary contact . Hence the peculiar danger of its manifestation in international relations , where it deludes peoples into destructive antagonisms though their interests are interdependent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which calls on us to resist those herd emotions based on simple unreal dichotomies of good and evil , by which our individual discernment is liable to be overthrown . CHAPTER SEVEN THE FAMILY 1 . The Nature and Sociological Significance of the Family In our study of the social structure the family serves as a bridge between the community and the association . It satisfies this role in a twofold manner . In the historical process the family grouping has been transformed from a more or less self-contained and self-sustained unity into a definite and limited organization of its adult members , and especially of the original contracting parties . On the other hand the family , even in the most differentiated societies , serves as a community for the lives born within it , gradually relinquishing this character as they grow towards adulthood . The family , more profoundly than any other organization , exists only as a process , and we can understand it only through a study of its changes , the changes it has undergone in the history of the race and the changes which occur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In our treatment of the family we must therefore anticipate the subject of the last division of this work , where we take up the general theme of social change . Of all the organizations , large or small , which society unfolds none transcends the family in the intensity of its sociological significance . It influences the whole life of society in a myriad ways , and its changes , as we shall see , reverberate through the whole social structure . It is capable of endless variation and yet reveals a remarkable continuity and persistence through change . It is the nuclear organization of the larger society , the most universal of all forms , found in every range of life from that of animals quite low in the evolutionary scale up to that of civilized mankind . It can adapt itself to the most different environments . It is of necessity a group very limited in size , for it is defined by natural or biological 109 // conditions which it can not transcend without losing its identity . It is based on a complex of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , procreation , maternal devotion , and parental care , and is fortified in man by a highly significant and close-knit group of secondary emotions , from romantic love to the pride of race , from the affection of mates to the desire for the economic security of a home , from the jealousy of personal possession to the baffled yearning for perpetuity . It presents the first social environment and the profoundest formative influences of the awakening lives of which it is the source . It is the stimulant of and the compensation for the most arduous toils , sustained from adolescence to the end of life . At the same time it is the focus of the most perplexing social problems . Guarded though it is , more than other associations , by social taboos and by legal regulations which rigidly prescribe its form , it changes greatly from age to age , while the taboos and the regulations are themselves most variant for different peoples . Among civilized peoples , though now there are some exceptions to this rule , it is the only association which the consenting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The marriage contract on which it is based has thus a peculiar character . Moreover , the legal or contractual aspect of marriage is entirely inadequate to explain the nature of the association or to reveal the inner bonds which hold it together . The family has another peculiarity which demands our special attention . Although as a social form it is enduring , each individual instance is bound up and ends ( if it lasts so long ) with the life of the original partners . What we often speak of as an old-established family is really a succession of families bearing the same name and in some degree perpetuating the same stock . During this life-history the family is recruited from within itself , and in this process the association undergoes the greatest , most inevitable , and most difficult transitions . It involves a continuous change alike in its interests and in its emotional foundations , a constant transformation in the relations of its members , old and new , to one another . So far as the original partners are concerned we can // distinguish in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so clearly marked by external signs , the following four ? the formative pre-nuptial stage , the nuptial stage be-fore the arrival of offspring , the stage of child-raising , and the stage in which , the children no longer requiring parental care , the biological functions of the parents have been fulfilled . It is of course true that all families do not pass through all these stages . Perhaps as many as one in five or six families are childless . Perhaps in as many as one out of five the progression is interrupted by death or separation or divorce before the final stage is reached . ' But these stages form an inevitable time-succession wherever the family endures and fulfils its primary social function . The length of each varies with the social conditions . Thus in modern civilized society the fourth and sometimes the second stage tends to be lengthened while the third stage tends to become a shorter span . The first or preparatory stage is marked by an increasing intimacy of man and woman , an exploration or revelation by each of the personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of personality which a growing sex attraction emphasizes and heightens . This is generally the case even where economic or other social considerations are determinants of marriage , but it is particularly true where the sentiment of romantic love prevails . The second stage is the beginning of the family proper , the living together of mates , creating the environment of the home , evoking new experiences , initiating new attitudes of the partners towards society and of society towards the partnership , subtly establishing new habituations between the man and the woman . The third stage fulfils the family proper , linking the partners to one another by the vital link of their own children , the fruits of the sex union , introducing new sentiments which can fortify and in a measure replace the initial ones , bringing new interests and also growing responsi-bilities . The fourth stage comes with the liberation of the partners from these responsibilities , so that again , especially in these days of the limited family , new interests and new // activities must take the place of old ones , more particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and child-raising had fallen . It would take volumes to describe the significant variations of human relationship which occur during this endlessly repeated process . In fact a very large part of modern literature is devoted to this subject , which in its detailed interest seems inexhaustible . The psychological adjustment of the members of the family to one another in the course of its inexorable changes creates perhaps the most important series of the numerous problems , personal and social , engendered by an association which affects so intimately and in such incalculable ways , which more than any other en-grosses , expresses , and circumscribes , the personality of man . Men and women are generically like , unlike , and comple-mentary in divers respects.2 Thus the stage is set by nature for the innumerable complex situations , so rich in possibilities of harmony and disharmony , which , according to their cir-cumstances and their individual characters , unfold for the members of the family partnership from its initiation to its close . At the outset , in view not only of the varying forms which the family assumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger kin-group , the sib or clan , it is important to explain the sense in which we use the term family . Its essential components are husband and wife , but the relationship expressed by these terms implies , normally , the further relationship of parents and children . The family then is a group defined by a sex relationship sufficiently pre-cise and enduring to provide for the procreation and upbring-ing of children . It may include collateral or subsidiary rela-tionships , but it is constituted by the living together of mates , forming with their offspring a distinctive unity . This unity has certain common social characteristics wherever it is found , of which the following five are particularly significant : ( 1 ) a mating relationship , ( 2 ) a form of marriage or other insti-tutional arrangement in accordance with which the mating relation is established and maintained , ( 3 ) a system of nomen-clature , involving also a mode of reckoning descent , ( 4 ) some // economic provision shared by the members of the group but having especial reference to the economic needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) a common habitation , home , or household , which however may not be exclusive to the family group . While these five conditions are so universal as to seem essential to the very nature of the family , they may be met in extremely different ways . Every possible variety of way is found somewhere in the map of human society . The mating relation may be lifelong or of shorter duration . It may take the institutional form of monogamy , which may be strict or modified by subsidiary sex relationships , socially accepted or otherwise , or it may be polygamous , involving either polygyny or polyandry . Even a form of group marriage is sometimes found . It may be socially compulsory to marry within a group to which one belongs ( endogamy ) or else to marry into another group ( exogamy ) . Different societies have differing prescriptions as to the prohibited degrees of relationship within which a man or woman may not marry . Descent may be reckoned through the male or through the female line . The husband may in accordance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may join her husband 's . The rights of the parties in respect of the ownership , control , use , and transmission of property take many forms . Various customs qualify the main distinctions here outlined , such as the admission of concubines in some forms of the patriarchal family or the practice of wife-lending in guest hospitality as found in American Indian and numerous other tribes . The varieties of the family are endless , and the range of its functions , no less than the mode in which it performs them , varies enormously . In this welter of variations students of society have naturally raised the question , Which was the original form of the family , the type of which the others are derivatives ? They have thought that an answer to this question would throw light not only on the evolution of the family but also on its essential character and its roots in human nature . It may be that the question is unanswerable , perhaps that it is wrongly put , but in view of the importance of the whole subject we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempts to answer it . Thence we shall pro-ceed to trace the lines of its historical evolution in western society . 2 . Early Forms of the Family It seems established that so far back as we can penetrate into the conditions of the primitive human world we nowhere find a group in which some form of the family does not exist . Always we discover some form of mating , some degree of social regulation over sex relationships . It is in fact hard to conceive any order of society , and especially of primitive society , in which such regulation could be entirely absent . Although at one time it was held that the original condition of mankind ' was one of sexual promiscuity , that doctrine has been weakened by the weight of anthropological evidence.3 It is true that there are many primitive peoples among which practical promiscuity exists prior to mating , but always there is a mating or marriage system and often its rigorous regulation stands in sharp contrast to the pre-mating license . It has sometimes been supposed that the so-called classificatory system of re-lationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age-group are indiscriminately called fathers ' or mothers ' , of a co-aeval age-group brothers ' and sisters ' , while the children of that group are all sons ' and daughters ' , and so on ? points back to a primitive sex-communism , but closer investigation shows that this extension of the terms of kinship is a conven-tional device for social purposes , particularly the regulation of exogamy . Thus a man will distinguish his actual wife by some term signifying own ' while still applying the equivalent of wife ' to all the women from whom it is permissible for him to choose a wife , in contrast to those women , his sisters ' , with whom marriage is prohibited under the rules of exogamy . This naming device is perfectly intelligible without any assumption of a prior promiscuity . Various attempts have been made to discover the origin ' of the family . It has been held that it arose in consequence of // some particular trait or instinct ' of human nature and that consequently there was one original form of which the others are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the expression of some one particular attribute of humanity is a very dubious one and is very apt to involve an undue simplification into the problem of origins . In his History of Human Marriage Westermarck supported the theory of Darwin that the family took shape from the operation of male possessiveness and jealousy , the dominant male claiming monopolistic rights and guarding them by force until they were secured by custom . Hence he regarded pair-marriage as the normal form which the jealous assertion of property rights took and traces the origin of monogamous marriage back to the sub-human world , maintaining that it prevails among the higher apes . While the traits to which Westermarck points have certainly been important factors , any theory which lays exclusive stress upon them is inadequate . This has been shown by Briffault among others , in his severe and well-documented criticism of Westermarck 's position.4 He illustrates abundantly the prevalence of matrilocal and ma-trilineal institutions throughout primitive society and the fact that in various primitive communities women hold a social position equal to and sometimes superior to that of men . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibited by some primitive peoples . He shows the absence of jealousy and the absence of the love-sentiment , from which it often springs , under primitive social conditions , maintaining that these and other feelings , such as sexual modesty and the esteem for chastity , are not aboriginal but acquired in the course of social development . He concludes that the family arose out of the insistent need of the mother for the economic and social protection of herself and her children , that in following the profoundest instincts of her nature she won out against the more casual and merely sexual interest of the male and thus brought the family into being . Consequently it is part of his argument that the earliest form of the family was matriarchal and that only with the development of higher agriculture and // the concomitant economic dominance of men did the patri-archal type succeed it . Again we must acknowledge the importance of the facts to which Briffault points and the weight of the argument based on the insistence of maternal need and maternal instinct . But as an explanation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Westermarck , that it lays too exclusive stress on a single factor in a complex situation . The idea that this factor was the original determinant of the family , and that mankind has passed from a system of mother-right ' to one of father-right ' , is by no means established and is in fact discomfited by the variety of conflicting evidences . For example , some of the most primitive groups have patrilineal institutions , such as the Central Australians and the Philippine negritos , while some highly developed groups , including two of the most advanced societies among the American Indians , the Iroquois and the Pueblo , are matrilineal . ' Nor is there any clear correlation between matrilineal institutions and a high social status of women , as Lowie has pointed out in his Primitive Society . ' Briffault has rightly emphasized a factor which has often been neglected , but it would nevertheless seem to be only one of the converging factors of which the family is a resultant . While it is not possible here to elaborate the argument we may state the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence . The family has no origin , in the sense that there ever existed a stage of human life from which the family was absent or another stage in which it came into being . The family has no one origin , in the sense that it is explained by any single trait or attribute of human nature . The family has no one original form , in the sense of a specific primal type of which all the others are later varieties . A complex of human desires and conscious needs , finding some-what different expression in different environments , every-where gave birth to some form of family system . Of the condi-tions on which the institutions of the family have depended and still depend , the following are of universal importance . // There is in the first place the sex instinct , seeking to establish a basis for its satisfaction , to find some safeguard against the precariousness of unlimited competition , revealing various degrees of sensitiveness and discrimination , gradually attaching to itself certain secondary sentiments , and thereby creating customs which define its expression and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reproductive or philoprogenitive urge , strongly manifested in the mother but reinforced in the male by such social considerations as the pride of race , the desire to transmit property or a name to his descendants , the desire to have offspring to work with or for him and to support his old age , and so forth . Even apart from such considerations the consequences of the sexual act create a problem of which the obvious solution is the family . There is in the third place the economic need or group of needs which in the complementary life of man and woman combine with the biological factors to create a system of sex relationships . Beyond the functions directly dependent on sex there are economic functions which the woman fulfils in relation to the man and to the family group , just as there are economic functions which the man similarly undertakes . These three factors are the chief variables from the particular combination of which the forms of the family arise . Even if we call the sexual and the reproductive impulses by the name of instincts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover the biological conditions under which they operate , such as the natural ' proportions of the sexes , are not themselves constant , and they are further modified by social practices , such as infanticide and war . Still more variable are the economic conditions with which they are associated . It is obvious , for example , that the life of the hunter or the nomad gives the woman different functions and consequently a different status from that allotted to her in an agricultural economy . It is also obvious that her position is affected by such other conditions as the presence in the community of inferior or slave classes , the war-like or pacific character of the group , the vicissitudes of conflict and conquest , the contact of peoples and the mingling of traditions , and so forth . // Customs and institutions controlling sex relationships are socially created and are certainly not the sheer expression of original instincts ' . Anthropologists have shown that many of the sentiments of sex , involving taboos and inhibitions , grew out of the interpretation which primitive man gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his perennial task of accommodating his desires to his necessities . The various forms of the family so created can be divided into two broad types , the patriarchal and the so-called matri archal . Strictly defined , the matriarchate means a form of family in which the headship belongs to the wife or mother . There are grave doubts whether such a system has ever existed in primitive society . It is true that Briffault , reasserting the older view of Bachofen , offers evidences that women , especially the old women , were sometimes dominant in primitive groups , such as the Eskimos , the Iroquois Indians , and various African tribes. ? But these instances are certainly exceptions to the rule , and the fact that women appear as queens or rulers no more establishes the claim than the instance of Queen Elizabeth proves that a matriarchate existed in the England of the six-teenth century . The term matriarchal family ' is more loosely applied to the system under which status , name , and some-times inheritance are transmitted through the female line . The matrilineal ( or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is sometimes associated with actual ignorance of the physiological fact of paternity . Malinowski gives evidences to show that among the Trobriand Islanders the curious view prevails that although a virgin can not con-ceive yet pregnancy is caused by the entry of spirits ' . $ At the same time the matrilineal system is found among peoples who are perfectly aware of the fact of paternity , and it is only a guess that it goes back to an earlier stage in which that fact was unknown.9 Sometimes inheritance is transmitted through the father while descent is reckoned through the mother . Sometimes the matrilocal principle is combined with // matrilineal descent and sometimes the former exists apart from the latter . A main distinction of matriarchal ' society is that authority over the children belongs to some mem-ber of the wife 's family , most frequently to the maternal uncle . In main contrast to the matriarchal ' stands the patriarchal family . As the latter characterized not only the greater civ-ilizations of antiquity but also the feudal civilization from which our own has evolved , it demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of agriculture , the concentration of authority , and the specializa-tion of function , which characterize the more advanced so-cieties , were more in harmony with the patriarchal principle , and may in many cases have led to its victory over the matri-archal . Moreover , the patriarchal principle permitted the family to serve as a compact unit of society . Here there is no division of functions between the father and some relative by marriage , such as the matriarchal principle involved . Un-der the patriarchal principle a society generally takes the form of a system of exogamous groups ; under the patriarchal , it becomes a system of family units consolidated into larger kin-groups . It should be understood that the patriarchal and the matriarchal types are not the only alternatives . Some-times , even among primitive peoples , we find the patrilineal system without patriarchal authority , as among the Bedouin tribes described by Robertson Smith in Kinship and Marriage in Early Arabia.10 The patriarchal family itself assumes a variety of forms but it is a type realized in various degrees throughout the history of civilization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which all au-thority belongs to the paternal side . The family is the social unit in the widest sense . Sometimes it is part of a joint-family ' , the whole forming one household . Among the Kabyli , for example , the individual family households are ranged round a common courtyard with a single entrance , they use a common well and have property in common , and the whole // group is subject in certain respects to the patriarchal author-ity of the grandfather or the eldest male.1 ' With the inclusive functions of the patriarchal family go the inclusive powers of its head . He presides over the religious rites of the household , he is the guardian of the family gods ' , of the sacred hearth ; and where , as in China , the an-cestors of the family are themselves the object of religious devotion , the entire maintenance of the traditional religion is under the charge of the paterfamilias . In China , woman was subject to the three successive obediences prescribed in Li Ki , the ancient Chinese book of the law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband , and last , if a widow , to her son . In the patriarchal system the head of a household is also a representative of the state , and the political council is com-posed of the fathers , the patres . Our language testifies to this fact , for the word senate ' means the meeting of the old men and we still speak of the city fathers ' . The power of the patriarch over his children , even when grown up , was often almost unlimited . In ancient Palestine he could sell his daugh-ter into servitude.12 In ancient Rome the patria potestas meant the power of life and death . The position of the wife was one of complete social subordination . She could not own prop-erty in her own right , she had in fact no standing before the law over against her husband . Among the Jews , as among the Romans of earlier republican times , she could be divorced on certain grounds at the will of her husband , though of course she had no reciprocal right . It is significant that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flour-ished women took practically no share in public life and re-ceived no general education aside from training in the arts of the household . At Athens the wife and the daughters were secluded in the women 's apartments ' and not expected to go out of doors except with the husband 's permission . In fact the only women who possessed any freedom were the hetairai or companions ' ? who were frequently foreigners and as such were not subject to the moral restrictions of the patriarchal // system . These conditions broke down in the later period of classical civilization , through influences similar to those which , as we shall see , dissolved within our own civilization the patriarchal regime . In our western civilization the patriarchal family , descend-ing from the feudal age , has succumbed to the onset of new economic forces . Many features of it survived into the nine-teenth century , and traces of it still remain . In eighteenth century England scarcely any career or any public position was open to women ? unless they were queens . A woman had few property rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband 's death . On her marriage her property vested in her husband , and even such earnings as she might acquire by her own labors belonged to her husband . At law she was treated as a minor ' or a ward ' . The family was still an economic unit , owned and managed by the husband . In the households of poor and rich alike the women co-operated in economic tasks that have now almost everywhere been transferred to other agencies . In America the same conditions generally pre-vailed . The law of colonial days enforced the principle that it was the duty of women to serve and obey their husbands . While in the South the position of women was rather higher owing to their scarcity in the earlier settlements and owing to the relegation of household work to the slaves , in Puritan New England the rigor of the Mosaic law was reaffirmed . The codes of Connecticut and Massachusetts contained enact-ments which recalled the patria potestas of Rome or the stern judgment of Palestine , a statute of Connecticut even going so far as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 13 The elders of the church , as in the Geneva of Calvin , exer-cised a formidable inquisition over the life of the family , and the penalty of adultery might be death . While no doubt a study of the letter of the law may lead to an exaggeration of the severity of the prevailing mores , it is still indicative of the general temper of the age . There were significant mitigations of that severity long before the end of the eighteenth century , and New England in particular sought to protect the wife // against ill-usage by the husband , but patriarchal rule , with its subordination of women , still flourished until the nine-teenth century felt the impact of the new economic forces which the eighteenth had brought to birth . With changes in the social structure go changes in social at-titudes . Nothing illustrates better the remarkable trans-formation which since the end of the eighteenth century the family has undergone than the contrast between the atti-tudes towards the place of women in society current then and now . In the year 1791 Mary Wollstonecraft published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a work regarded at that time as bold or even dangerous , though to us its most extreme demands are accepted commonplaces . It was the time when the scientist Erasmus Darwin could still sum up the patriarchal attitude in these characteristic words : The female character should possess the mild and retiring virtues rather than the bold and dazzling ones ; great eminence in almost everything is sometimes injurious to a young lady ; whose temper and disposition should appear to be pliant rather than robust ; to be ready to take impressions rather than to be decidedly marked , as great apparent strength of character , however excellent , is liable to alarm both her own and the other sex , and to create admiration rather than affection.14 Mary Wollstonecraft demanded that women be given a broader education for the business of life . Her argument was in part directed against the views of Rousseau , who in his treatise on education , Emile , wrote that " the education of women should always be relative to that of men , " for they " are specially made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied the great radical theorist of the eight-eenth century is itself a revelation of the change which the following century was to accomplish . 3 . The Evolution of the Modern Family Long before the days of the Industrial Revolution the pa-triarchal family began , especially within the civilization of // the cities , to lose the self-containedness which belonged to its typical form , to surrender certain of its inclusive functions to other agencies of society . The state was undermining its political functions , gradually divorcing citizenship from kin-ship.13 Wherever democracy grew , citizenship ceased to be an exclusive right of the established or patrician ' families . The state curbed the domination of the paterfamilias over his wife and children and appointed its own courts to decide issues over which the head of the family had once been supreme . The right to vote , which at first belonged to a man in virtue of his being a propertied householder , became by degrees an individual right . The religious functions of the family diminished . The idea that the family was of divine ordinance and its laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a religious connotation to familial loyalty or obedience ? like the word pious ? changed their meaning . The growth of markets supplemented the inadequate and toilsome self-sufficiency of the home . These slowly accumulating changes received a vast impetus from the eighteenth century inventions which substituted the power-machine for the manual tool . More and more , as the development and the application of the new techniques advanced , they stripped the family of its economic functions and in so doing profoundly affected the whole character and the social significance of the family . They took increasingly both the work and the workers out of the home . Above all , they drew ever larger numbers of women into workshops and factories and offices . They broke down the age-old doctrine ? " man for the field and woman for the hearth . " They gave wives and daughters some earning power independent of the jurisdiction of husbands and fathers . For the first time in history the work of women began to be specialized like that of men instead of being devoted to the promiscuous tasks of the household @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery began to penetrate within the home , not only in the substitution of bought for home-made commod-ities but also in the application of labor-saving devices . The // net consequence was the gradual reduction of the amount of energy and time involved in the economic tasks of the family , in the business of home-keeping . These processes are still going on before our eyes . The transference of women from domestic to gainful ' employments has advanced rapidly since the beginning of the twentieth century . It was of course peculiarly marked during the war years , but the 1920 census showed that in the United States 23 per cent of all married women were so employed and almost 40 per cent of all young women between the ages of seventeen and twenty-four . The very large proportion of young women drawn temporarily into industry is significant for a variety of reasons . It shows that economic occupation is rather a condition of than an alternative to marriage and family life . It shows also that the woman 's relation to the family is , as in some respects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , and that the difference places her at a competitive disadvantage in the economic field . Economic change has deeply affected the form and character of the family but it does not affect the basic biological facts and the social needs which create the essential functions of the family . We may in fact look upon these changes as an aspect of the great evolutionary process of society , later to be discussed , in which its organizations have become specialized to perform more limited and more exclusive functions . In this process the family has been gradually stripped of functions irrelevant to its peculiar character as a system of more or less enduring social relationships based on the fact of sex . Let us see how these changes have affected the mode in which the family is to-day fulfilling what we here call its essential functions . We shall limit ourselves for the present to the consideration of one primary function , the perpetuation of the race , understanding thereby not merely the procreation of children but also the early nurture of the home , the initial adjustments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes which have more recently occurred in this regard are the following . ( 1 ) Various social organizations have been developed to aid the family in the fulfilment of its function . These include the // maternity hospital , the baby clinic , the creche , the kindergarten , and other pre-school agencies . Here the problem to be met has been twofold . On the one hand there is the situation of the mother whose economic work lies outside the home and who can neither leave her children behind nor bring them with her to factory or office . On the other hand there is the more general problem of bringing to the home the benefits of modern hygiene , sanitation , and preventive medicine , and the techniques of child welfare . ( 2 ) Various systems of economic aid from public or private funds have been devised in order that the family , no longer upheld by the larger kin-group , may be able to fulfil its function in the competitive life of a largescale society . Public aid is tending here to take the place of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are three main forms in which this public aid is provided in modern states . One is the system of mothers ' pensions , developed in New Zealand , Denmark , Canada , and most of the states of the union . Another is the similar provision made in countries which have national systems of social insurance , as in Germany , Austria , Great Britain , and other European countries . The third is the system of family allowances ' , characteristic of France , under which , through an industrial pooling system encouraged by the state , additional wage payments are made to workers in proportion to the number of the children whom they have to support . " We should note that none of these policies aim to take away from the family its primary function but on the contrary seek to make it more capable of performing it efficiently . Even in Soviet Russia , where the system of day nurseries for the children of factory workers has been much developed , the idea of the substitution of a public institution for the private family has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have to mention is of a very different order from the other two and has a more profound significance for the future of the family . It is the decreasing rate of procreation , the lessening of the fertility of marriage . // Since the seventies of the nineteenth century the birth-rate has been falling in the countries of western civilization . The decline has been more marked and more rapid in some coun-tries than in others , but they have all , sooner or later , revealed it . It has been more conspicuous in some classes than in others , being greatest for the most prosperous economic groups , for the more highly educated groups , for city-dwellers , and for those occupational groups in which the largest percentage of married women are gainfully employed ' ; but it is exhibited so widely throughout the population as to be a phenomenon of our civilization itself . In a later chapter we shall dwell on the great evolutionary significance of this phenomenon . ' ? Here we are merely concerned to point out that this change has not involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertake its primary task , but that on the con-trary it has been accompanied by a tendency for the reduc-tion of the percentage of births outside the family ' . More-over , the decline of the birth-rate has been associated with a decline of the death-rate , and especially of the infant death-rate . In so far at least as the two processes have been concomitant they represent a vital economy of a new and pro-foundly important character , diminishing the waste and sacri-fice of human life , health , energy , and efficiency in the family 's task of maintaining the generations of men . This result is in harmony with the working of those other processes of change which , as we have shown , have brought about a diminution of the expenditure of energy by the members of the family in the sheer task of its maintenance . The resulting social economy means the liberation of the members , especially the women members , of the family for other activities . No doubt this new liberty , like every other , creates new problems which society must seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the family have gone changes in its form , institutional changes affecting the marriage contract and the relation of the members to one another . In the first place the contract is entered into more autonomously by the contracting parties . People are less // subject to parental control and other forms of social pressure in respect of whom and when they shall marry . The social pressure is lightened particularly for women , on whom it weighed most heavily . The term old maid has fallen into relative disuse and has lost much of its old connotation of contempt . Women have attained a new legal status and more recently a new political status , in which there is little or no discrimination between their position and that of men . What is even more important , they have attained a degree of economic independence , in the more prosperous classes as propertyowners , in the general population as actual or potential wageearners or professional workers . They are still far from possessing , on the whole , an equal economic status to that of men . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all the heavier claims on women of the life of the family increase their competitive disadvantage before as well as after marriage . Nevertheless the movement has been towards equality and there are still great possibilities of its advance , whether under a capitalistic or under a more collectivistic regime . The degree of economic independence already achieved has had significant results . In old days the young woman had no alternatives beyond an early marriage or continued dependence upon and subjection to the parental home . Now she can earn her own living and thus gain a sense of immediate independence which affects her whole attitude , gives her more power to choose when and whom she shall marry and even to decide in terms of her own life whether she shall marry or not . There are relatively few women who regard an economic occupation as a permanent alternative to marriage , but the fact that it is a temporary alternative is enough greatly to alter a situation which was bound up with her economic helplessness . The new situation is revealed by many signs . To begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , more perhaps in fact than in form . The traditional marriage ceremony in western civilization was based on the principle of male dominance and female obedience . The wife promised to obey ' , but even where this word remains in the ritual of the // marriage ceremony it is obsolescent , for the most part a meaningless relic of the past . In this connection we may mention also the general decline of ecclesiastical control over marriage . Marriage has become essentially a civil contract though it is often attended by religious rites . It is true that in New England , in early colonial days , the civil character of the marriage contract was insisted upon , but this was due , as in other Calvinistic communities of that age , to the struggle of non-conformist religion against an established church and did not prevent a strong religious determination of the whole system of marriage . This control is now greatly relaxed . For a considerable portion of the population religious rites , when not omitted altogether , assume a secondary importance , and in any event they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes of the law . There are exceptions to the tendency , as in present-day Italy , but on the whole , the authority of the church over the conditions of marriage , including also the conditions under which it may be dissolved , has markedly declined . This is a factor of great importance for the understanding of the present situation . For the church has always been much concerned with marriage and with sex , and the influence of the Christian church in particular , reinforced by the explicit teaching of St. Paul ( see I Cor . VII ) , was towards sexual asceticism , on the theory that sex itself was impure ' , a theory easily associated with the subjection of women . Not only economic change and religious change but the whole process of modern civilization within which they fall has worked towards giving women a new position in society and especially in their relations to men . The reduction of the functions of the family , the lightening of the tasks of the home , bringing more leisure to large numbers of women , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the interval between the arrival of successive children , these and other conditions presently to be discussed , have transformed the family into a new kind of partnership and created new and most interesting problems for the family of the present and of the future . One evidence of the freer or less authoritarian character of // marriage is found in the increasing frequency of divorce . In many primitive communities custom permitted the husband to divorce the wife on stated grounds ? it might be for witchcraft or even for bad cooking ? though the wife much more rarely had a similar privilege . Among the ancient Hebrews the husband could likewise give his wife a " bill of divorcement " , and the patria potestas of the Romans of the earlier republican times included also this right , while the later Roman law extended it rather liberally to the wife . But the patriarchal family of Christendom rested on social and religious beliefs and was bound up with economic conditions which made divorce a rare phenomenon when it was admitted at all , and so it is only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious practical importance . Although there has been a general increase in the divorce-rate , it differs remarkably for different countries . The extreme disparity is seen if we compare two countries that until recently were closely bound within the same system of traditions , England and the United States . In England , in 1928 , the total number of divorces granted ( " decrees nisi made absolute " ) was 4018 , and this figure represented such an increase over previous years that many English newspapers referred to it as a " national scandal " . In the United States for the same year the total number of divorces granted was 195,939 . Other countries exhibit figures falling between these extremes . Thus the rate is relatively low for Norway , Sweden , and Belgium , being for the year 1927 respectively 21 , 32 , and 30 per hundred thousand of the total population . It is higher for Germany , France , Austria , and Switzerland , with 58 , 45 , 81 ( 1925 ) , and 63 respectively . Nearest to the United States come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate of 83 per hundred thousand and Russia 167 ( 1925 ) compared with 163 ( 1928 ) for the United States . Perhaps the most interesting aspect of these figures is that the frequency of divorce does not conform to the degree of industrial and urban growth , and thus it presents a different problem of interpretation from that involved in most of the changes we have so far been considering . The divergence // is seen still more clearly when we compare the rates for vari-ous regions of the United States . The divorce-rate is lowest in the Middle Atlantic states , next in order being the South Atlantic states and New England ; the East South Central and West North Central states occupy an intermediate posi-tion , with the East North Central states a little higher ; while the Mountain , West South Central , and Pacific states , in ascending order , head the list.18 Why should the West be so much more prolific in divorces than the East ? Why should a rather sparsely settled state like Oregon have a rate of one divorce to every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are 8.5 marriages for every divorce ? 19 Many of the explanations offered seem inadequate . Re-ligious differences , such as the proportion of Catholics , are no doubt involved , but some non-Catholic countries , like England , have a very low rate . Racial differences complicate the problem , but the rate is distinctly higher for native whites than for foreign-born whites , so that it is essentially an indigenous development . Differences in state laws afford secondary explanations ? obviously they explain why South Carolina has no divorces and why Nevada , as the haven of divorce seekers , has more divorces than marriages . But the laws themselves presumably reflect in some degree the temper of the different communities , and in any event they can not explain the fact that divorces throughout the whole country have increased nearly 500 per cent since 1880 . The inadequacy of the legal explanation is further revealed when we look at the situation in other lands . In general , there are three broad legal attitudes towards divorce . There is the attitude some-what cryptically expressed in the saying , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " as this is interpreted by the Catholic church ( though it permits itself on occasion to discover grounds for nullity ) . This principle is written into the law of Fascist Italy and is found in its most extreme form in // the law of South Carolina . There is the attitude that marriage is normally indissoluble but that divorce is permissible on the suit of either partner when certain grave offenses are committed by the other . This attitude is the basis of the laws of many European countries and of all English-speaking countries except the Irish Free State , which inclines to the Catholic attitude . Lastly , there is the attitude that , with certain safeguards , marriage should be regarded as any other contractual partnership and should be terminable by mutual consent . It is in one respect the exact counterpart of the second attitude . In the United States or in England if both parties want a divorce or contrive together to get it , they thereby commit the crime of collusion . Whereas in Norway , Sweden and Denmark , and a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Japan , the mutual consent of the two partners is a valid and sufficient ground . ( In Soviet Russia marriage is terminable on the demand of either party . ) But here we see the danger of a legalistic interpretation of divorce , for under the free system of the Scandinavian countries or of China the rate is relatively low , and vastly lower than in the United States . The whole subject of the causation of divorce requires far more study than it has so far received . In the absence of such investigation we can merely hazard the following suggestions to explain why its increase does not conform to the main trends of the changing family , why it is most prevalent in the United States , with Russia and Japan coming next , and why as we proceed westward in the United States we encounter higher rates . Divorce appears most prevalent in the modern world wherever the entrance of women into the economic life is associated with an abrupt break in old traditions , as in Russia and Japan , or with a general individualistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . The family has been the rallying-point for the sense of social continuity , with its perpetuation of the name as well as of the race . The same home sheltered its successive generations . But the mobility of life so characteristic of the United States and particularly of the West , has weakened this sense of con132 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES tinuity . It weakens also the external pressure of public opinion . It is well recognized by students of society that physical mobility , such as the tendency to move from one residence to another within a city , is apt to release individuals from group control . That it has its influence on family life is brought out by such a study as that of Professor Mowrer , in which he gives evidence that within the city of Chicago there is a " close relationship between family disorganization and mobility . " 20 Under these circumstances difficulties and grievances which in other countries such as England or France would be ad-justed or tolerated are consequently sufficient to disrupt the family . Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this result . One is the legacy of puritanism with its insistence that any infidelity is destructive of the marriage partnership . The other is the growth of the idea that romantic love is the only proper foundation of marriage . This is a modern development which was alien to the spirit of the patriarchal family . It is in harmony with the character of our present-day civilization , as is evidenced by the great stress laid upon it in the modern novel and drama . If , as some observers maintain , " in America the romantic view of marriage has been taken more seriously than anywhere else , " it might help to explain the prevalence of divorce.21 For a sentiment so individualized , so responsive to the happy con-juncture of the harmony of moods in a changeful world , is more calculated to heighten the quality of living than to be the basis of a permanent institution . Leaving for later consideration the problem of divorce we may observe that the other important changes dealt with in this section have all a decidedly evolutionary character . The family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great many functions which were not essential to its nature . These functions have been taken over by other social agencies which in turn have become specialized to perform them , and which // perform them with more economy and with greater efficiency . The workshop and the office can fulfil their economic tasks in a complex world more effectively than the family ever could . The school can provide many kinds of education which the home could never provide . The hospital can offer medical service which the family has neither the skill nor the equipment to maintain for itself . And so with a large number of other agencies . In the cities many traditional tasks of the household , such as laundrying , preserving , and baking , and in some measure even cooking and cleaning , are becoming specialized . The process may advance still further . Some critics of the day are pointing out how uneconomical it is to have a hundred householders in the same block all tending their individual furnaces which they no longer do in apartment houses or to have a hundred housewives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do it for the lot ? and no doubt it is , always provided the housewives can find some job in which they too can specialize . But whatever further changes take place , the process we have described is , as we shall see in the last division of this book , the way of social evolution . So at last we are brought face to face with the question , What are the essential functions of the family ? In other words , what are the functions which it is peculiarly fitted to perform and which give it its justification in a world of specialized agencies and institutions ? The sex partnership of the family has a different basis and has different purposes and different consequences from those of any other partnership . Its social claims and social responsibilities are correspondingly different . The process in which irrelevant functions have been stripped from the family has also made clear its essential nature . The peculiar claim of the family is not that it alone fulfils any one function ; it is that it alone provides a way of combining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it provides this common basis are at the minimum three in number : ( 1 ) the perpetuation of the race ? this is the broader social aspect , but from the point of view of the partners in marriage it includes the satisfaction of philoprogenitive desires , in134 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES volving not only procreation but also the care and nurture of the young . ( 2 ) the more stable satisfaction of the sex instinct . ( 3 ) the provision of the home , with its combination of material , cultural , and affectional satisfactions . In a successful family , and in it alone , these functions are so united that each of them reinforces and enriches the satisfaction of the others . Sex becomes not a detached phenomenon but part of a larger experience of comradeship in work and in life . And the nurture of children is given the setting of the home which , as much experience seems to show , is a far more favorable environment for them than that of the state nursery or other public or private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its ancient socio-economic functions , stands ( or falls ) on its claim to harmonize those needs and satisfactions we have just described . In conclusion , we should observe that the evolution of the family has meant more than the process which has in the main limited it to certain specific functions ; there has also been in some degree an evolution of these functions themselves , and it is obviously in respect of these alone that any further evolution can take place . The shedding of irrelevant functions prepares the way for the development of relevant ones . Let us consider from this standpoint each of the three abovementioned aspects . The task of race perpetuation is to-day as much the function of the family as it ever was . In fact , it is more exclusively a function of the family than it has been in most periods of history , since the number of illegitimate ' births has greatly fallen in most civilized communities . Moreover , that task is , on the whole , being much better fulfilled by the family than ever in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is devoted to the care of the new-born and the young child . The objective witness to this fact is the marked decline of the infant death-rate and the greater control over infantile diseases . It is true that in the achievement of this result other agencies have come to the aid of the family , but the responsiTHE // bility for calling in their aid still belongs largely with the family . On the whole , with the increasing knowledge of child hygiene and the increasing study of child education , the duties devolving on parents have increased also . In general , though much remains to be done , the importance and complexity of the problem of the upbringing of children , of fitting them not only to survive within but to adapt themselves to the conditions of.modern society , is becoming more fully realized . The only offset to this advance is that through the practice of birth control married people are enabled as never before to avoid the responsibility of having a family . Like all beneficent forms of human control this also is liable to abuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceed so far as to strike at the very existence of society . But such prophetic fears may well be vain , since mankind usually learns to adapt to the general necessities of its continued existence the powers which its own ingenuity has devised . The satisfaction of the sex instinct is a second function of the family . The degree in which the partnership of marriage suffices to satisfy this instinct is , when we think in terms of human experience and not of ethical dictates , highly variable and subject to perplexing differences of temperament and of the union of temperaments which marriage involves . Moreover , the satisfaction involved may vary from the mere release of physical appetite to the profound sense of total renewal in mutual love . It holds so many aspects that dogmatic and sweeping assertions on the subject , so common in sociological literature , are peculiarly futile . But this much seems clear , that , in contrast with the patriarchal family the modern family is built on a more intimate sense of personal relationship . The choice involved in marriage is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the man for the woman as well as of the woman for the man , count for more . This personal basis for marriage , while it has the danger already pointed out , can not but affect the degree in which normally , so long as that basis lasts , the satisfaction of the sex instinct is attained within the family . Inevitably , when the economic bonds of the family were weakened under the onset of indus136 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES trialism , the demand that it should satisfy within it the per-sonal life of the partners grew stronger . The family was thus called upon to fulfil a more difficult task but one which arises out of its very nature . This task has been partly aided , but also much complicated , by the modern practice of birth con-trol . This practice has introduced within the family the dis-tinction between the sexual and the reproductive functions . In the unlimited patriarchal family the two were necessarily combined . The independent satisfaction of sexual desire was commonly associated with extra-marital practices , such as concubinage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permits a greater reconciliation within it of the two functions . This however is but one of the many social consequences of the development of birth control . It must be remembered that the use of contraceptives removes one of the most important determinants of the mores relating to sex in our society , the fear of pregnancy as a result of inter-course between the unmarried . With this powerful incentive in large measure removed , it is to be expected ? and signs are already evident ? that these mores themselves will for large groups be subject to change.22 The third function of the family is the provision of the satisfactions of the home . At all times , for men as well as for women , the desire for a home , an abiding-place personally created , a congenial hearth ' , the shelter or focus of life 's activities , has been a powerful incentive to marriage . It is true that in all complex civilizations there are other agencies , such as , in our own , the club and the hotel , which in part com-pete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family provides them in a more intimate form and in that setting of the conjoint life of man and woman and of parents and children with which they are so naturally associated and so readily combined . In this respect also it may be main-tained that the change from the patriarchal to the modern family has liberated its potentialities for the fulfilment of its peculiar functions . For the patriarchal family the household // was both workshop and home , and the aspect of the workshop , within which the wife was often devoted to the drudgery of incessant labor in addition to the continual bearing of children , was not conducive to the finer quality of the home . If the home has lost some of its former unity because other agencies compete with it there is the corresponding gain that it has become more liberated from conditions , both of drudgery and of male dominance , which prevented it from being , in the full sense , a home . Now that the members of the family pursue their economic tasks outside its walls , now that they go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well , the demands which they make on the home are different but not less essential , in some respects narrower but more exclusively directed to those satisfactions which spring from its very constitution . The position of the family at the present day is both a result and a stage of the great evolutionary process we have been tracing . It is only in the light of that process that we can attempt to understand , as we shall now seek to do , its present character and some of the social problems which it creates . 4 . The Family of To-day Throughout the whole range of western civilization the pa-triarchal family system has dissolved . In the earlier part of the nineteenth century Le Play could point the contrast be-tween the evolving family of Western Europe and the rigid patriarchate of Russia and Eastern Europe.23 But the latter also has crumbled before the onset of the new forces . The patriarchal family was upheld by authority , buttressed by the religious and the political traditions conformable to an agri-cultural economy . The authority has departed , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been undermined or revolutionized . The modern family has emerged , itself no doubt transitional but in its stage presenting problems of profound interest and social import . Since the time of Le Play it has been customary to contrast // the stability of the patriarchal family with the instability of its modern successor . Undoubtedly that contrast exists . The patriarchal system was so deeply embedded in the social structure of feudal times that the voluntary dissolution of the individual family was rarely thought of and was rarely possible . For the woman particularly there was no refuge outside the family except the nunnery . The contrast between then and now is largely a contrast between social status and social mobility . Social status was essentially the status of the family , and the identification of the two was confirmed by such legal-economic principles as primogeniture and entail and , for the poorer classes , the family-inherited craft or the rights of the peasant family in the land it cultivated . For these reasons and others already mentioned the family faced the world as a unit , toiled and enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor and the concomitant increase of specific social agencies have greatly diminished the range of direct family partnership in the various interests of life , whether in work or in play . The process is still going on before our eyes . Thus the authors of Middletown observe that in the city of their study " accompanying this incipient decline in home parties is the almost total disappearance of whole-family parties before the specialized parties for each age group and the self-sufficient social system of the high school . " 24 The members of the family , children as well as parents , establish more individual contacts with the world outside the home . The family , in the urban areas , is a less inclusive system of social relationships than perhaps it ever has been before . This fact has made possible the instability which is charged against it . Let us then examine this modern instability of the family , as it is revealed by the frequency of divorce , separation , desertion , and the other evidences of disharmony or lack of 24 R. S. and H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ch . XIX . The authors add the following illustration : " Almost unknown to-day is such a list of guests as appeared frequently in the papers of the nineties : Among the many present at the surprise party were Grandma Walker , Mrs. C. P and family , S. C ? and family , John W ? and family , Isaac B ? and family , James W ? and family and S. H ? and family ... " // cohesion which come to light particularly in the courts . Our survey of the evolution of the family has prepared us to discover two main causes . It was pointed out in the first section that the individual family passes through more drastic psychological transitions than any other grouping . In the patriarchal family the adjustment of the partners to one another through the tensions and crises of these transitions was imposed , if not otherwise attained , by economic necessity and social pressure . To-day the necessity and the pressure are lessened , and the family , no longer strongly if rudely cemented by extraneous functions , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own cohesion . These tests are intensified by the second great cause affecting the stability of the family . The family has become not only a more limited union but one which depends on the harmony of two wills , no ' longer on the dominance of one . The importance in this regard of the greater personal and social independence of women is very great . It has developed new attitudes which stand in marked contrast to those engendered by the patriarchal regime . It was only at the close of the eighteenth century that the first important manifesto against the social subservience of women , Mary Wollstonecraft 's Vindication of the Rights of Women ( 1791 ) , was published , making claims which at that time were regarded by many with abhorrence but which now are commonplace . The prevalent spirit of that closing age might be summed up in the words of its greatest radical , Rousseau , when he declared that " women are specially made to please men . " No doubt the acceptance of this doctrine made for a more stable family . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real partnership , in fact ? is apt to be less stable ' than an autocracy of one , and this is peculiarly true of the intensely personal and subtly changeful relationship of sex . The unity is more experimental , more variable , and more liable to disturbance . The two causes we have mentioned obviously go hand in hand . The less inclusive and the less onerous the tasks which the family performs as a unit , the more possible it becomes for the members to develop and express their personalities , each // in relation to the other . Economic conditions in the past made of the family , for the most part , a forced union so far as the woman was concerned . For the great majority of women their condition of at least partial economic dependence is a determining factor in their attitude towards the family . But this dependence is more relative , more mitigated , than it formerly was , and for the more prosperous classes it practically does not exist . It is very possible that the process which has brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of instability will become more urgent . Before we deal with this problem we must observe that this instability is not a phenomenon which can be detached ( and perhaps evaluated ) apart from the whole complex of conditions in which it occurs . The contrast between the patriarchal and the modern family is not simply or mainly a contrast between stability and instabilty . It is also a contrast between a more coercive and a freer union . It is not a contrast between a type of family which presented no social problems and one which presents many . It is a contrast of different ideals , different advantages and disadvantages . While the sex life of our age reveals a grave array of problems and maladjustments it also provides an approach towards the solution of some of the most serious problems which the patriarchal system either created or could not solve . Its attitude towards sex is more intelligent and clear-eyed , less clouded by those taboos and dogmas and fears which forbid any rational endeavor to adjust social systems to human needs . Perhaps the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dispersal of the unclean superstition of the uncleanness of sex , the atavism of ancient priestly hatred of life . But the new situation has brought with it more measurable gains . The rigor of the patriarchal system has generally had for its concomitant that institution which brought peculiar degradation to an economically defenceless class of women ? prostitution with its train of sexual disease . And this at least can be said for the freer sex relations of the present age , that where they exist prostitution is diminishing . Its legacy of disease still remains and is in fact guarded // by another inheritance of the former order , the refusal to apply here the medical knowledge of prevention which has practically abolished all other forms of contagious disease from the world of civilization . The more open-minded at-titude towards the facts of sex has still this victory to gain over those who look on disease , no matter though it affects the innocent as well , no matter though it attacks the vitality of the race itself , as a punishment for sin ' . Another concomi-tant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the unmarried woman , reaching its extreme in the social repulsion of the unmarried mother . The latter attitude might be socially justified in so far as its basis was solicitude for the parental care of children , but the treatment of the bastard ' child , still visible in the fact that the mortality rate for illegitimate children in cities of the United States is nearly four times as great as for other children , is hard to reconcile with that interpretation.25 The practice of birth control which is one of the cardinal facts within the modern family , is affecting also , and is likely to affect more greatly , the rate of illegitimacy . We may expect it likewise to affect the resort of abortion which , made more perilous because practised under the ban of the criminal code , has neverthe-less been far more common than is usually realized . One extremely significant aspect of the situation which has brought with it the instability of the family is the manner in which it reconciles the old opposition between individua-tion and perpetuation . These were the terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the in-dividual life and the maintenance of the species . As he pointed out , the costs of reproduction are heavier when the birth-rate and the death-rate are high and they fall when the birth-rate and the death-rate fall together . The evolution of the modern family has brought close to its limit a process which is operative throughout the whole course of organic evolution . In the lowest forms of life the excess of reproduc-tion over survival is enormous . It diminishes as we mount the scale of evolution , and it is least in the societies of civilized // man . A point has now been reached such that in countries with a low death-rate an average of between two and three children per marriage is sufficient to maintain the level of the population.26 Although there are problems connected with this development which we shall examine later , it is hard to exaggerate the gain in social economy , the reduction of the waste and the suffering of human life , and the emancipation of the personality of women which it represents . The life of woman is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the inadequate care of numerous offspring , with its attendant mortality , with the perpetual poverty which accompanied it . The responsibility and devotion of the family in the upbringing of children is more fully compensated by the satisfactions which they add to the life of the parents . Thus the demands of sex and the demands of procreation are both more fully harmonized with the whole complex of interests and needs which make up the existence of civilized man . This is the larger situation within which the instability of the family falls . It is sometimes thought that the development of this situation means the breakdown or even the disappearance of the family altogether . The present evidences give little support to this prediction . We have seen that the tendency is for the frequency of marriage to rise rather than to fall . We have shown that the frequency of divorce , though increasing , is not strongly correlated with the trend of our industrial and urban civilization . We have shown also that the reproductive function is being more exclusively fulfilled within the family than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no other agency is taking the place of the family , and as the fulfilment of this function is the first condition of the survival of society it seems very unlikely , apart from a complete revolution of the present mores , that the family will disappear . Within the life of the family are found the chief motives for offspring and the chief compensations for the responsibilities they entail . Even if the taboo on 26 Cf. Havelock Ellis , The Family , in Whither Mankind ( ed . Charles A. Beard , New York , 1930 ) . See also the author 's Community , Bk . III , ch . VI , section I , // the illegitimate child were removed , the increasing knowledge of methods of birth control would tend to make its advent more rare . This fact might well furnish an argument for the breaking of that taboo , but nevertheless the woman with strong maternal desires would still have important inducements to seek her satisfaction through marriage if at all possible . It may further be doubted whether the facility of divorce offers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of the marriage partnership . There are of course certain conditions which make the marriage relationship intolerable to one or both of the partners , and where such conditions exist , where the family is no longer fulfilling its social function , it seems unreasonable to compel the partners , in the name of some traditional dogma , to remain together . What special justification has the state when it refuses to admit as a ground of divorce the insanity of either partner or continued desertion or such a degree of incompatibility that the intimate relationship of sex is utterly distasteful or abhorrent ? It may be said that the state can never know the inner facts and that therefore if it admits the lastmentioned ground it is opening the doors to easy divorce and to the shirking of marital responsibility . This is precisely true , but all the state can effectively insist upon is the fulfilment of external obligations , which is a very different thing from enforcing a union whose true foundations have dissolved . If it is agreed in respect of other social arrangements that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiarly strong reasons why this should hold of so intimate a union as the family . Consequently there is much to be said in favor of the position taken by countries like Norway and Sweden , where divorce is relatively easy and relatively infrequent . If the family is to serve its most important functions under the conditions of modern society , what is needed is not more divorce and certainly not more compulsion , but new mores adapted to the new situation . Like that of all other great social agencies the sphere of the family has in the course of evolution become more defined and more limited . It is not a universal partnership , for that would destroy the // autonomy of the partners and bind each for life to the possessive will of the other unless liberation is sought through divorce . If the only alternatives presented were unlimited possession or divorce , then divorce would become much more frequent and seriously threaten the family itself . The way out would seem to be the recognition , which is already more apparent in some countries of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in North America , that every disturbance of the marital relation is not a reasonable ground for the dissolution of the family . The family exists for other purposes than the mere satisfaction of sexual desires and in no stage of civilization has the monogamous family been able to persuade men to seek that satisfaction always within its bounds . What Muller-Lyer calls " sexual neophily " characterizes at least a considerable portion of mankind . Certain conditions which suppressed it , such as strong religious beliefs or social fears , have lost some of their power . This is a situation which must be admitted and faced if the family is not to suffer disorganization . How it should be met is a difficult problem , for which no hard and fast prescription can be offered . The adjustment to one another of two personalties admits of endless variations in individual cases . The point here made is simply that divorce is no solution of a problem which society must somehow solve , how to retain within the changing order the essential functions and services of the family . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress put upon romantic love as the true bond of marriage . The flowering of this sentiment is one of the great experiences of life . It involves an integration of sex with the whole personality of the individual . Nevertheless by itself it can not normally sustain the family through the changes which it inevitably undergoes . In the course of time it has to be supplemented in part , and in part replaced , by other sentiments . The relation of lovers to one another is one thing , the relation of parents to children is another , and from the standpoint of society at large the latter is the more important relationship . The prevalent literature of romantic love and perhaps most of all the screen presentation of it are concerned almost // exclusively with the initial stages of the family and inculcate the idea that the later stages are merely a continuation of these into the future . These simplifications are seriously misleading and constitute a false preparation for the life of the family . Thus romance turns into illusion and the marriage partners embark on experiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they are unprepared and often totally untrained . They stumble , for example , against differences in the emotional nature of man and woman and against biologically determined differences in their parental responsibilities which the glow of romantic love tends to conceal . In old days social conditions and economic pressure made it imperative for the family to hold together in spite of such difficulties . In our day it must depend far more on its in- , irinsic strength . Hence the importance of an education which is based on facts and not on illusions . Hence the importance of a new set of mores which is adapted to the conditions of the age and which therefore represents the discipline of knowledge . ' l'his education should include not only an adequate knowledge of the facts of sex , but also an understanding of the role of the family in society . It is , for example , a fact of great social significance , however we interpret it , that there is considerably less crime , less insanity , and less pauperism exhibited by the married than by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not for women , the death-rate for the age-groups from 30 to 50 years is in the United States more than twice as great for the unmarried as for the married.27 If , as is strongly suggested , the marital condition itself is an important factor in the causation of these differences , it would indicate that , beyond its direct services , the family is one of the conditions of social solidarity and social strength . 5 . The Family and the State One peculiarity of the marriage partnership is that the state exercises over it a more stringent control than it is apt to exercise over any other partnership or association . It does not leave the form of the contract to the will of the members . " Groves and Ogburn , op. cit. , ch . X. // They can not prescribe for themselves its conditions or its duration . It fixes a minimum age of marriage . It determines degrees of relationship within which people must not marry . It treats certain violations of the contract ( bigamy , for ex-ample ) as criminal offences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards his wife and of the parents towards the children . It treats the property of the partners as , in some degree , not individual but family pos-sessions , limiting in the name of the family the freedom of bequest . These regulations vary considerably in different states , but everywhere the state is an important determinant of the form and character of the family . When , for example , the French state after the Revolution prescribed , with cer-tain limitations , the equal division of the patrimony among the children of the family , abrogating thereby such old customs as primogeniture , it accelerated the break-up of the joint family and gave an impetus to the process of family limitation.28 On what grounds does the state control the family so much more rigorously than other associations ? One answer at least is evident . The family performs one function of ex-treme importance to society , the function of race perpetuation . The union brings new lives into being and therefore involves responsibilities utterly unlike and more profound than those of any other voluntary relationship . Because of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all contracts , is not simply the personal concern of the contracting parties . The state , as the agent of society , is also deeply interested . The ground we have mentioned , the relation of marriage to procreation , is sufficient , and alone sufficient , to justify a peculiar control of the state over the family . The state has in fact regulated the family on other grounds of much more doubtful validity . It has exercised control on religious grounds which modern political theory regards as beyond its corn-petence.28 Nor does it justify the coercion of the state to claim ? even if the claim could be established ? that it is for the good of the partners themselves that they should remain , // against their will , in the bonds of matrimony ' . That is a claim which social experience and education , not political compulsion , should ratify . In his suggestive book , The Social Good , Professor E. J. Urwick puts forward the argument that married persons can not derive the ultimate satisfaction of marriage , " the consciousness of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a normally unbreakable contract.30 But such an argument can not with-out grave danger be made a ground of legal coercion . It is not simply that the claim may be attacked on psychological principles , though the fact that there are relatively few divorces under the mutual consent system of Norway and Sweden reveals its weakness . It might also be claimed on the other hand that enforcement in matters where personality is in-timately concerned is often a means of destroying the good ' it would enforce . But there is a broader objection . History shows how perilous it is to force people to do or endure things for what others believe to be their good . If the state says , ad-dressing its adult citizens , " you must do this because a ma-jority thinks it good for you " , it is asserting a principle which would justify any tyranny , over morals , over religion , even over opinion . It is a quite different affair when the state says , " you must do this because if you fail others will suffer a definite hurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , the safeguarding of its future citizens , affords the only clear ground on which the state can reasonably claim to regulate marriage beyond all other contracts . If this principle is accepted it leads to important conclusions regarding the policy of the state . It would follow , for example , that the state has no particular concern with childless mar-riages , which in fact are the most fruitful of divorce . It has very little concern with the period of marriage after it has fulfilled its primary function , when the children no longer need the special guardianship of the family . If the welfare of the race is its chief interest it should seek to protect most those children , including illegitimate children , who most need its aid . Generally , it should regulate marriage just in so far // as by that regulation it can serve the cause of the young and the helpless . If a condition arises under which a marriage fails to realize its primary social purpose , it should not , on moralistic grounds , insist on its maintenance unless it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that its continuance is demanded by the interest of the children of the marriage . Where the failure is deep-seated , where the probability is that , on account of extreme or long-established incompatibility of the partners or because of cruelty , insanity , venereal disease , or other serious evil , the marriage is actually harmful to the welfare of the children or of the race , the duty of the state is rather to dissolve the partnership than blindly to insist that it be maintained . No other environment has proved as favorable for the upbringing of children as the home which the parents create , if that home is even relatively harmonious ; but if the home is utterly inharmonious or positively harmful , the state can not by compulsion end the trouble and must seek to protect the children in some other way . The future of the family does not depend on state coercion but on human experience of its benefits , in the last resort on the recognition of its superiority , as a means of satisfying certain human needs , over any alternative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy has been in the direction we have indicated . Social experience shows that there are some matters which it is competent to control and others over which its control fails . As social conditions change the character of its control must correspondingly change . The state , for example , has tried to make adultery a crime , but even where such a law remains on the statute book its enforcement has proved so impracticable or inexpedient that the law is generally a dead letter . The state has tried to prohibit the knowledge of birth control but , with consequences which it did not foresee , has succeeded only in keeping it from the very poor and the very ignorant . On the whole , the traditional policy of the state , now gradually breaking down , has been aimed at the preservation of the status quo ante . But no social institution can stand eternally remote from change in a changing age . And no institution can or should stand in its own sanctity , immune // from the process of experiment . Force can not in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That there is much actual experimentation in sex relationships is beyond dispute . The advocates of what is named companionate marriage ' propose that the state give its official seal to one form of experiment , but such action is also , on our principle , beyond the competence of the state . Since the arrangement in question does not contemplate offspring , there seems no strong reason why the state should either recognize it or , directly or indirectly , prevent it . It is rather a question of social approval or disapproval , according to the standards of different groups . It is meant to solve , without hypocrisy and without disguise , certain undoubted problems of sex life under the conditions of modern society ? to make possible an honorable sex relationship for those who are not in an economic position to establish a family or to institute a period of trial and adjustment before the partners are committed to the bonds and parental responsibilities of marriage proper . As such , it has advantages and disadvantages . Its chief disadvantage , that instead of being a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significance of that institution and the sense of social responsibility which it demands , would be increased by legal recognition . We see no reason here to make an exception to the general principle which is becoming in some other respects accepted by the modern state , that its right to control marriage fundamentally rests upon the fact that marriage is the avenue to the life of the family , to the procreation of children , whose welfare , being the welfare of the race , must always remain a primary consideration of the state . We have spoken so far only of the regulative or coercive function of the state , but it should be recognized that the state has another and more constructive function , that of bringing positive aid and support to the family . The state can , apart from compulsion , uphold the family in many ways . This is in large measure a modern and a growing task for the state , and one in the fulfilment of which , instead of opposing the processes of social change , it is endeavoring to make fruitful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the child requires the // provision of manifold services which the state can stimulate or supply , which above all it can make available to those families which through poverty are unable to supply them for them-selves or through ignorance are unaware of the need for them . The equipment of the child to take his place in society , the equipment of mind and body through appropriate training in an environment made healthy , is an immense task the nature and extent of which is gradually being recognized . Without the aid of the state the vast social heritage can not be made available to the majority of families . In a previous section we referred to another new task of the state , the financial support of parenthood under modern competitive conditions . A further task , which is still very experimental and rather poorly de-veloped , is the institution of juvenile courts , child-welfare clinics , and other agencies to meet those maladjustments of child life which arise under the conditions of modern society and which the family fails to overcome.31 An interesting ex-periment of another kind is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities . Such a court , if presided over by persons of wide social experience and understanding who offer friendly counsel instead of laying down compulsory law , can not infrequently prevent a temporary discord from leading to permanent disruption . This too is an entirely different service from the traditional coercive function of the state . There remains nevertheless , if the state is to fulfil its func-tion as already defined , a place for coercive control . The pre-vention of controllable conditions which are clearly inimical to the welfare of the race becomes a definite obligation of the state . For example , in the United States the statutory mini-mum age of marriage for girls ranges , with one exception , between twelve and sixteen years , there being still twelve states which retain the lower of these limits.32 There is suffi-ciently clear evidence of a physiological nature that these minima are set too low . Again , the state still sanctions marTHE // riages which , on account of some grave and deep-seated taint , hereditary or acquired , in either partner are beyond doubt dysgenic . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pos-sible to prevent such marriages . This is attempted under the well-known Wisconsin law , which requires medical certifica-tion for marriage , especially to prevent the mating of those affected with venereal disease . The law in question has not proved an entire success , partly because inadequate provision was made under it for the medical services which it involves , partly because its demands can be evaded in various ways.33 But there can be no objection in principle to a law of this kind , though experience shows.that it can achieve its end only if backed up by social education . It should , however , be pointed out that if the state is in earnest in its attempt to combat venereal disease it must not only permit but encour-age the application of medical knowledge for prophylaxis. as well as for treatment . Another aspect of the danger of con-fusing moral and medical problems is seen in the law of Idaho which permits the sterilization of " mental defectives , epilep-tics , habitual criminals , moral degenerates , and sex perverts . " Only in respect of the first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the name of the welfare of the race . As Bertrand Russell observes , " the law of Idaho would have justified the sterilization of Socrates , Plato , Julius Caesar , and St. Paul . " 34 A recent law of Okla-homa actually provides for the sterilization of third-term criminals ! Compulsion can not , without serious risk , do more than obviate the more extreme social dangers . Beyond that , it is necessary to rely on social education . It is important to remember that marriage itself is the most significant of all forms of social selection . It is a form of selection which has become intensely personal , but that fact makes it all the more important that the younger generation should receive a training for parenthood and be taught the responsibilities of mar-riage . By its policy the state , if it avoid the dangers of propa-gandism , can lead the way . CHAPTER EIGHT THE ORGANIZED GROUP OR ASSOCIATION 1 . Interests and Associations We dealt first with communal and quasi-communal groups , the spontaneous groups which are prior to organization . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its younger members a community and for its adults an association . Now we turn to purely associational forms . The difference is not hard to discern . It is seen in the contrast between the crowd and the assembly , between the class and the party , between the nation and the state . The association establishes a specific and limited relationship between the members . We are members of it by virtue of specific attributes or qualifications , corresponding to the specific objects for which it is organized . As pointed out in chapter IV , it is in terms of interests rather than of attitudes that we can explain the formation and maintenance of associations . Attitudes encourage or discourage , but they do not create organizations . Associations come into being as means or modes of attaining interests . An association is liable to be formed wherever people recognize a like , complementary , or common interest sufficiently enduring and sufficiently distinct to be capable of more effective promotion through collective action , provided their differences outside the field of this interest are not so strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is obvious that a heterogeneous specialized community affords more opportunity for the creation of organized groups than a simple or primitive community . The former is more able to distinguish particular interests from the general one and more tolerant of differences which are irrelevant to the pursuit of any particular interest . The constant changes which occur in a specialized community precipitate occasions favorable to the emergence of new groups . Nothing is more char-152 // acteristic of modern societies than the multiplicity of organizations which they contain . The recognition of an interest which can be promoted by organization is not of itself sufficient to bring an association into being . There are inertias , prejudices , problems of ways and means , still to be overcome . Here is where the service of leadership is most manifest . Usually it is the initiative , enthusiasm , and energy of one or a small number which prepare the ground . The leaders , whether from sheer devotion to the cause or from the sense of incidental advantages to themselves in the form of place or power or prestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ df these motives ? accentuate the advantage of organization and seek to establish attitudes in the potential members favorable to its formation . Often some precipitant , some crisis or conjuncture of events , stimulates the leaders themselves to action . The psychology of leadership in the formation and development of groups is an interesting theme which we can not here pursue . The tasks of the leader in the nascent stage are to create or intensify the consciousness of the need for the new organization , or in other words the sense of the interest around which it is organized , to instil confidence in themselves and thus in the efficiency of the organization they propose , and to harness this heightened sense of need to the practical necessities of financial or other co-operation on the part of the members . In order to organize an interest , it must first be presented in a certain detachment from others , and then , in its organized form , it must be brought into harmony with the complex of interests of the members . The nature of the interest to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is obviously different where the interest is of an economic nature from what it is when a cultural interest is in question . It is different where the interest is general and vague and where the interest possesses an intimate and limited appeal . Let us take one example . For multitudes the promotion of international peace is an interest , though an indefinite one . A peace organization arises and at once gives it some definition , offering a practical // goal , a specific way of focussing and furthering the interest . The particular obstacles which in this instance the leaders must overcome in the potential members are the sense of remoteness from the controlling factors in the situation and thus of the futility of the nascent organization , the danger of cleavages over policy which a project so general and so ideal ' is apt to engender , and the resistance of traditions which associate the advocacy of peace with a lack of patriotism , with something dysphemistically named pacifism ' . This last barrier exemplifies a problem which often arises in the promotion of cultural organizations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likenesses or unlikenesses which disturb their social attitudes , which break what Lippmann has named their stereotypes ' , confounding their established complacencies regarding social values and unsettling that sense of unity and difference which confirms limited solidarities and social distances ' . A pacifist ' is such a stereotype to many , belonging to the same order as the stereotypes which represent the Catholic to the Protestant and vice-versa , the Jew to the Gentile , and so forth . A new organization which evokes these stereotypes , such as the Ku Klux Klan , is likely to grow more rapidly though its foundations may be less secure than one which opposes them . Since interests are determinant of the form and character of associations we shall proceed to classify associations in terms of interests . First however we must classify interests themselves . In the next section we shall classify them in respect of their intrinsic character or content . Here we are concerned simply with the modes of relationships which the interests of different individuals exhibit . In accordance with the usage established in chapter II , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severally or distributively pursue a like object , each for himself . The means of satisfying the primary appetites constitute a like interest for all individuals . We have a like interest in gaining a livelihood , in food and drink , in health , and so forth . When on the other hand two or more persons pursue an aim or object which remains a unity for them all , which they seek as a whole , each // seeking it for all , we call it a common interest . A family , a neighborhood , a city , a nation , a custom , a code , the relief of the destitute , scientific advance , cultural standards ? these are types of common interest . They evoke in us the desire to maintain or establish them for others as well as for ourselves . They evoke loyalties which unite us with one another in an inclusive quest which is not resolvable into a simple aggregate of individual quests . ' An association may be formed primarily to promote either a like interest or a common interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like interest . Its main function is usually to provide wages or salaries or profits or dividends for those who belong to it . A cultural association is generally organized around a common interest , though this does not imply that the common interest contains the main motive which inspires the adherence or devotion of its mem-bers , but only that apart from the common interest it could not come into existence or be maintained . Moreover , in spite of this initial difference between these two types of association it is an essential truth that , once in being , nearly all organized groups represent , for at least some of its members , both a like and a common interest . This double character of the interest which an association sustains is so important for the under-standing of the social structure that we must illustrate and explain it more fully . Let us take first a college society , a team , say , or a fraternity . Obviously the members get an individual or private satisfac-tion through belonging to it . Membership in the team , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps brings some distinction with it ; it also satis-lies the like and the complementary interest of companionship . But it has a further interest for its members . They want the team to succeed not simply because it redounds to their credit as individuals . They want it to succeed also for the credit of the team or for the credit of the college . Their individual interests merge in this inclusive interest . If a player does badly // he is still gratified that the team wins ; if he shines , he is still distressed that the team loses . Each has in degree the sense of the whole . Each shares a common interest . Or take again a family group . Again it satisfies certain like and complementary interests of the members . But the family itself is normally an interest to each , a common interest . Each has some concern for the well-being of the others , not merely because their well-being is a means to his own , but because also he cares directly for his family . When one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be resolved merely into a sense of reflected glory . When one member disgraces himself the others are downcast not simply because it affects their own reputations or because it makes the family a less desirable or less efficient agency for the fulfilment of their self-centered interests . The family itself is an interest to each , so that like interest and common interest are for each inextricably combined . In the pride and sorrow which the members share , in their attachment to common traditions and common achievements , in their struggles and sacrifices for the welfare of the whole , in their memory of its past and their hope for its future , they reveal in varying degrees that social solidarity which marks the presence of a common interest . If this fact be challenged , it is enough to adduce in proof the anxiety of members of the family to provide for others in a future beyond their own lives . This sense of responsibility for others can arise only in the presence of a common interest . Finally , let us take an instance in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a business firm . It is established to provide dividends or profits , but if it endures it tends to mean someth:ng more in the lives of the partners or directors . This does not mean merely that in addition to profits they find it the source of power or personal prestige . It is likely to appear in their eyes as a co-operative enterprise , perhaps also as a service to the community . They find some satisfaction in its success , in its tradition , in its institutions , apart from their personal advantage . They will spend money , not wholly for its advertising value , in erecting a beautiful // building , a model factory , a temple-like bank . A common interest has developed out of a like interest.2 We shall fail to appreciate the social significance of the association unless we realize that it is held together by the twofold interest of its members in it , by the subtly interwoven bonds of like and common interest . When an association of the economic order brings like interests into co-operative harmony it is at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest and thus enlarging the sphere of common interest . In this way , within the limits of membership , each association sends a taproot down to the deep sources of society . The more enduring the association the stronger this taproot is likely to grow . Within every association there arises also the conflict of dividing interests , of the competitive desires for place and power . These are normally kept within limits be-cause the existence of the association itself becomes a primary condition on which their satisfaction depends . In other words , the like interests must be accommodated to the common interest . It is worth observing that every organized group , seeking its own preservation or expansion , endeavors in various ways to cultivate the common interest . For example , it devises symbols of its unity and keeps them before the attention of its members . There is a multitude of ways in which the common interest is emphasized ? slogans , appella-tions of brotherhood , emblems , flags , festivals , parades , pro-cessions , initiation rites , rallies , inter-group competitions , and // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ esprit de corps of the members , to make them feel their solidarity . The student will find it worth while to compare the various ways in which different associations , according to their kind , trade-unions , business firms , churches , schools and colleges , rotary clubs , mystic brotherhoods , political parties , make appeal directly or indirectly , through symbols or through exhortations , to the common interest . 2 . Associations Classified in Terms of Interest In a complex society associations tend to be specialized so that each stands for a particular type of interest or interestcomplex . In primitive society , where there is less division of labor and where change is slower , there are few associations and they are more inclusive . They are communal or semi-communal in the range of their interest . A new-developed interest does not create , as with us , a new association , but is incorporated in the general body of interests pursued by the existing organization . Thus in primitive life associations lack the specific limited functional character which our own possess . They take such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than the economic or professional or political or cultural varieties familiar to ourselves . This contrast will be shown more fully when we come to the subject of social evolution . Meantime , it may suffice to note that the functional differentiation of modern organized groups makes it possible for us to classify them according to the characteristic interests they severally pursue . Certain cautions should , however , be kept in mind when we seek after this fashion to classify associations . One is that the ostensible interest is not always determinant . The professed or formulated aims of an association do not necessarily reveal the full or even the true character of the object which it chiefly seeks . But at least a part of this difficulty disappears when we take as the basis of classification the immediate field of interest rather than the remote objectives or purposes , when in particular we avoid the confusion of interests and motivations . It would indeed be a hazardous // task to classify associations in terms of professed objectives or ulterior aims . For one thing , a disparity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes , clings traditionally to older formulations ? as religious bodies are particularly apt to do ? or because the leaders idealize its aims , in the desire to broaden its appeal , to strengthen its public position , to secure funds , and so forth . Such idealization is seen not only in the platforms of political parties but also in the pronouncements of many other organizations . Often an organization will stress the more altruistic of the objects which lie within the field of its interest . A department store will proclaim that it exists to serve the community . A professional organization will emphasize the necessity of rigid qualifications for membership on the ground that the service of the public must be safeguarded while it is more or less silent on the competitive advantage thereby gained . We should also observe that we are far from expressing the distinctive character of any individual association when we have placed it in its interest category . The character of an individual association is often very subtle and it is only in the light of a considerable study of its activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , in every case the interest it pursues is colored or modified by the character of the constituents and the character of the community in which it functions . There are elements in the nature of many organizations which are not brought into the focus of consciousness by the members or even by the leaders . For example , an organization which has gradually abandoned a traditional basis of solidarity may gropingly move in a new direction and gain a new kind of solidarity , related to but different from that which its leaders believe and certainly state that it possesses . This situation is illustrated in the history of certain semi-religious organizations such as the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A. Shall we classify them as religious or recreational or generally educational or in a broad sense as social clubs ? What element is focal or dominant in the interest-complex ? For reasons just suggested // it is hard to answer . The Y.M.C.A. or the Y.W.C.A. is a characteristic association , a certain kind ' of association with its own social flavor ' . But it is a different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a metropolitan area . In each region it has responded to certain social exigencies , seeking in the face of competing social agencies still to represent something , something in some way different from the rest , for when an organization loses its specific identity it loses its reason for existence in our much-organized society . Another problem of classification , arising out of the changing relation of associations to interests , is revealed in the struggle to survive of those which have fulfilled their original raison d'etre . Organizations too are tenacious of life . They refuse to die when their day is past . They seek new interests , a justification of their life in a continuing purpose beyond the one that is dead . The will to live centers in the officials of the organization . A political association comes into being to achieve some piece of legislation . It is attained , and the association lingers on . Thus a league for the enfranchisement of women turns into a party organization when women are enfranchised . An ancient guild is rendered obsolete by industrial change . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perpetuate ancient ceremonies at annual dinners . Once an economic organization it has passed over into another category . A more important obstacle to a satisfactory classification is presented by those organizations which stand for a variety of different interests in such a way that it is hard to designate any one as dominant . Shall we classify a denominational college as a religious organization ? Sometimes religion is the primary interest , sometimes merely the historical matrix . Shall we assign an organization for workers ' education as economic or as cultural ? It may exist to train trade-union leaders or to inculcate the principles of Marx or to provide a general education ? and it may combine all these interests in one . Shall we call a business men 's club an association for social intercourse or an economic association ? One aspect may be dominant at one time , the other at another . These are examples of the difficulty which frequently occurs when // we seek to place associations in the categories described below . And this difficulty leads up to our final caution . We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondence of interest and association is not , even in our specialized society , a simple one . There are some strong interests , such as the interest of power and of distinction , which do not normally create specific associations but ramify through associations of every kind . The dynastic state might be termed a power-organization , but the quest of power in some form invades every political system , underlies the interest of wealth which is the direct object of economic association , and in fact is found wherever organization of any kind exists . We might call certain kinds of club prestige-organizations , but as the interest of prestige is fostered no less in many other kinds of association , and particularly as men do not pursue prestige except through the medium of other interests , such an attribution would only confuse our classification . Again , the interest of companionship or of social intercourse is so pervasive that it is in some degree satisfied by every association and thus it is often dubious whether or not it is the main determinant . We take the club as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercourse is not the focus of all bodies called clubs and on the other hand there are various groups ostensibly established for other objects , from library associations to spelling-bees , from charity leagues to sewing-meetings , which are sustained mainly by this interest . The main interest of a group can not be inferred from the name we apply to it . A gang , for example , may be little more than a boys ' brotherhood , or it may be essentially an economic organization , exploiting a neighborhood by illegal means for economic ends . Turning now to our actual classification , we first divide associations into unspecialized and specialized , according as they stand for the total interests of a group or class or on the other hand represent either a particular interest or a particular mode of pursuing interests . We include the state among specialized associations , because in spite of the vast // range of its interests it works through the particular agencies of law and government . As has been pointed out , unspecialized associations are less characteristic of modern society ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter are classified in terms of the distinction between primary and secondary interests . By the latter we mean those inter-ests which by their very nature are means to other interests . It is true that any object we seek can become the very goal of our search , so that we look for no utility beyond it . We may seek wealth merely to possess it and not for its ulterior services ; we may construct mechanisms , perhaps even social organizations , because we enjoy doing so and not because they will aid us to achieve other objects . Nevertheless the economic system would not exist but for the interests which underlie it , and mechanisms would be idle and soon-forgotten toys but for the necessity which makes them our instruments . We divide these secondary or utilitarian interests into three classes , the economic , the political , and the technological . Another large group of interests , the edu-cational , may perhaps be placed as intermediate between secondary and primary , since they are both utilitarian and cultural . It may be held that all genuine education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , in its degree , at the same time essentially an equipment for living and a mode of the fulfilment of life . Set over against the secondary interests are the cultural interests , the objects which we pursue apart from external pressure or necessity . Here again it is true that they may serve us merely as means , but their utilitarian serv-ice is incidental to the fact that we , or some of us , pursue them for their own sakes , because , that is , they bring us some direct satisfaction . The significance of this distinction and its justification will be seen more fully in later parts of this work . ' It will reappear in the distinction between civilization and culture . // Table // Table The foregoing classification is meant to serve as an intro-duction to the study of the social structure . Our task in this study is to reveal the distinctive types of association which enter into the social structure ? distinctive in respect of the kinds of social relationship which they exhibit ? and at the same time to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one another and to the whole . We shall see that the nature of the interest is the main determinant of the character of the association , though complicated by the pecul-iar circumstances of each group . Within the broad fields of interest specified in Table I there are of course a great many varieties . An economic interest , for example , may have a wide or a narrow range , may be limited to the gain of the members // or extend far beyond it or be essentially altruistic , may be a temporary or an enduring objective . It is not then simply the interest as a type but the interest in its variety which serves as a clue to the structural character of the association . Asso-ciations within the same field may be transient , rapidly suc-cessive , or permanent . They may be permanent as established forms of social organization like the family , though the individual instances are mortal , or they may be long-lived , poten-tially immortal , as individual structures , like the corporation . In the following table we neglect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction just men-tioned . Table // Table Finally , there is one very simple division of associations which is very helpful as an introduction to the study of the social structure . It is based on the structural distinction be-tween the unit or uni-cellular groups , called by Cooley face-to-face groups , and the complex or multi-cellular organizations which establish the main lines of order in a large-scale society . In the face-to-face group the relation of the members to one another is direct and personal . It needs little internal organization , and on that very account its study gives us a more intimate understanding of the nature of the social bond and of the primary social processes that occur in the life of the group . Traditionally all large-scale associations have begun as face-to-face groups , and they still retain , though in a modified form , these personal groups within them , as necessary // nuclei of their more elaborate structure . We shall therefore consider first the character of the face-to-face group , before we pass on to the complex associations . 3 . Conflicts of Interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primary ground of its unity , the basis of its particular cohesion . This unity is reinforced by other bonds , by the shared tradition and prestige of the association or the associates , by the sustenance of the general need of society which it may provide , by the incidental life-habits which it supports , by the other common interests which the members share in whole or in part . But at the same time there are forces generated or revealed within the association which cause tensions and strains in its solidarity . There are conflicts in the field of the particular interest and there are conflicts arising from oppositions between that interest and the other interests of the members . Like the greater communal types of cohesion , that of the association is imperfect , unstable , representing , while it endures , the victory of integrative over disintegrative elements . A study of the conflicts and harmonies of interest which appear within the life of an association might be in fact a preparation for the study of that greater unstable equilibrium which is society itself . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur persistently in the history of associations . The first arises from the lack of harmony between the objectives which fall within the interest-complex . An obvious illustration is frequently presented within professional or occupational associations . The economic interest , the maintenance or enhancement of the emoluments of the service they render , is not at all points reconciled with the professional interest proper , the quality and extent of the service . The medical profession offers a peculiarly interesting situation . If it could achieve its professional ideal , it would thereby reduce to a minimum the need for its therapeutic service while enlarging greatly its preventive service . The former is mainly private practice , the latter is largely socialized , provided through // clinics , hospitals , state departments , public and semi-public institutions of various kinds . Here a dilemma is apt to arise not only because private practice is more in accord with the traditions of the profession but also because it tends , under prevailing conditions , to be more remunerative . If economic interest alone determined the policy of a professional organ-ization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict between the associational interest and the public interest . But the medical association , like other professional groups , is concerned with the efficacy of the service which it represents.tt Hence there arises a conflict of interests within the association itself , in the attempt to work out a policy which will reconcile or adjust the economic interest and the pro-fessional ideal . It would be easy to show that similar problems of the adjustment of interests arise within bar associations , educational associations , business firms , trade-unions , and other bodies . The conflict is seen very clearly also in political groups . It is only in extreme exploitative organizations , such as that centering round a political boss , that the economic in-terest entirely drives out the professional interest , that of the standard of service ? and when this happens the organization becomes simply and solely an enemy of society . The second type of conflict arises where the specific interest of the association demands a course of action which is opposed to some other interests not relevant to the association as such but also entertained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negro , let us say , seeks admission to a university . He possesses the requisite qualifications , for racial difference // is no bar to scholarship . But other considerations which have nothing to do with the express purpose of the association enter in and create within the association a conflict concerning policy . In one form or another such conflicts are constantly occurring . Outside interests prevent the association from pur-suing with single-mindedness its proper objectives . Group prejudices modify the devotion of the association to its avowed objective . Individual jealousies and predilections thwart the interest which is the raison d'etre of the organization . Thus confusion and disharmony appear within its councils . We may include in the same general category the conflict which arises owing to the fact that the interests of the officials or leaders are not identical with those of the other members . The officials are anxious to enhance their authority , though this may lead to policies detrimental to the general interest . Or they have an economic interest which is at variance with the interest , economic or other , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the personalities involved , but also with the nature of the interest . A particularly signifi-cant illustration is furnished by groups founded on principles of equality . It has been maintained that because leaders , as soon as they acquire power , are driven by the logic of their position to anti-democratic attitudes , no democratic or social-ist organization can ever translate its principles into effective practice.12 The argument may be too sweeping , but the numer-ous instances adduced by the proponent of this " iron law of oligarchy " sufficiently illustrate the serious conflicts and con-fusions created by the dilemma of leadership . A third source of conflict is found in the constant necessity of the new adaptation of means to ends . By the end we under-stand the provisional basis of agreement regarding the interest of the association , which has to be translated into action by means of a policy . A group meets to decide a course of action in a given situation . The group-interest has already been de-fined and redefined by past decisions , has been canalized in the series of adjustments which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a routine following of the // channel . Being different , it demands a fresh decision , a new expression of policy . The members meet on the assumption that all are agreed regarding the end ? the problem is the appropriate means . A business must decide how to deal with a new competitive threat . A club must raise funds to meet a deficit . A church must decide how to act in face of a declining membership . A settlement house must adapt itself to a chang-ing neighborhood . The agreement on ends is implicit , taken for granted , but the agreement on means must be explicit . The necessity for it is a touchstone to evoke the differences of temperament and viewpoint within the group . Shall the club raise the necessary funds by an extension of membership or by a levy on its present members ? Shall the church popularize its regular services or undertake additional social activities ? Shall the settlement house go further afield to find its old clientele or modify its program to meet the needs of the newcomers ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another . The interplay of divergent personal factors is in reality very complex . Normally the sense of solidarity prevails , an adjustment is reached , and a policy framed , but in the process acute differences may emerge.13 Where the association stands for a broad cultural interest or one strongly charged with emotional elements there is greater danger that difference will lead to schism . A main reason is that differences on matters of policy are apt to extend down into differences regarding the implicit end which the policy is meant to serve . The interest of a business firm is relatively simple . The end to which its policy must be adapted is ac-cepted and understood without dispute . But it is otherwise with the interest of a church , of an artist group , or perhaps of a political party . Dissension over means may here reveal the inadequacy of the more basic agreement over ends . The end itself , at some level , is brought into the arena of conflict , and thus the solidarity of the organization may be shaken . When a church faces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further question concerning its proper mission . When the // business faces declining sales , its endeavor to restore profits raises no ulterior question regarding the appropriate definition of its quest . Such considerations help to explain the tendency to schism exhibited by churches which do not adhere strongly to authoritative interpretations , by left-wing parties generally , by artistic and other bodies united around some cultural creed . The ways in which various types of association deal with the differences which arise within them are of such significance for the understanding of the nature of society that we shall return to the subject in the next chapter . CHAPTER NINE THE PRIMARY GROUP AND THE GREAT ASSOCIATION 1 . The Face-to-face Group The simplest , the first , the most universal of all forms of association is that in which a small number of persons meet face-to-face ' for companionship , mutual aid , the discussion of some question that concerns then all or the discovery and execution of some common policy . ' ( The face-to-face group is the nucleus of all organization , remaining , in a modified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as it were , the unit-cell of the social structure . It is the group which , in the form of the family , initiates us into the secrets of society . It is the group through which , as comrades and playmates , we first give creative expression to our social impulses. f In primitive society , and still often among ourselves , it is found as a free or un-attached unit , such as a tribal council , a local brotherhood , a partnership , a gang , an independent study-group . From this free form we may distinguish groups which are part of a larger organization . These may be loosely affiliated , such as the clubs , recreational groups , teams , and so on , whose members are connected with some business firm , church , college , or other large-scale organization . Or they may be functioning units of the larger whole , such as a committee , departmental organiza-tion , college class . But the nature of the face-to-face group is revealed most adequately in the detached form where the members freely come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and limited to allotted tasks by a predetermined interest , but spontaneously and apart from // executive direction . A group which of its own initiative comes together for debate or study or conference meets this requirement more fully than , say , the class that assembles in a college lecture room . In the former instance the group principle is more directly and convincingly revealed , and the group process more untrammelled . Our attention therefore will be directed first to the primary group , the uni-cellular association . Let us take our independent study-group as an illustration . Why does such a group come together ? What do its members gain from association which they could not achieve by isolated study ? Certain external advantages are sometimes an inducement . For example , the group as a whole can afford to hire a teacher which each member might not be able to hire for himself . But obviously there are other advantages of a different sort . The presence of the others is , within limits , a stimulus to each . Most pursuits are enhanced , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shared by a congenial group . This is one reason why the true university can never be , as one sage claimed , a " collection of books . " Association affects alike the nature of our interests and the manner in which we pursue them . Association changes the quality of our interests . We see them as they appear to others , from new angles . Through participation the interest gains a new objectivity . We see it through the eyes of others and thus it is in some measure freed from irrelevant personal implications . It is defined more closely for each of us , for being now both mine and yours it must have a common meaning for us . Before we can effectively pursue it together we must learn to perceive it together . Each seeing it from his own viewpoint seeks to convey that aspect to his associates . Thus the character of the interest is enlarged and enriched , as each contributes something different to the understanding of it . Our study-group , for example , soon discovers that the problem it is discussing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play of different minds is directed upon it . But the same illustration shows us also that there are decided limits to this process of definition , concentration , and // enrichment of interests . In the first place effective participation is possible only for quite limited numbers . There is always a point , though varying for different kinds of group , at which increase of numbers means dispersion instead of concentration , dilution instead of reinforcement of the common interest . In the second place the members must be not only congenial but also on approximate levels of experience and understanding . Each must have something to contribute , to give as well as to take , or his presence encumbers the group . There is thus a level on which every group must dwell , and he who is too far above it , while he may teach , no less than he who is too far below it , though he can learn , disturbs the true process of group participation already described . Here we see also the necessity for the third proviso , that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quality of its members , these must come together in a participant co-operative spirit . In other words the constitutive interest of the group must be dominant in their minds . The interest must be stronger than the self-assertive impulses which are exhibited in the attempt to impress others , in the rejection of openmindedness , in the love of argument for its own sake , in the obstinate reiteration of one 's own opinions , in short , in all those tricks and devices which distinguish eristic and oratory from the process of co-operative thinking . And we must always remember that the result of association is relative to the purpose of association . If people meet in order to confirm each other 's prejudices , they will probably succeed in doing precisely that . If they meet to study a subject together , they will on the other hand enlarge their vision and reduce their prejudices . The fulfilment of these conditions is in certain ways promoted by the ease and extent of communication which modern society provides . The freedom of association and the improved means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Groups dependent merely on locality or neighborhood tend to give place to groups brought together from a wider area on the basis of a common interest . People devoted to , say , modern music or ancient philosophy or international affairs or mystic cults or butterfly-hunting or // any of a myriad human interests come together , not from the same street ? unless the street itself is highly selective ? but from the whole area of a city and its borders . The passing of neighborhood life brings at least this compensation . Under the conditions just described , the nature of any interest becomes focussed and enriched in the group process . And now we can add a further reason for this result . Not only does the presence of others contribute directly to the interpretation of the common interest which each acquires , it contributes also indirectly , since through association each acquires a stimulation , a heightening of the emotional significance of the interest . " As iron sharpeneth iron , so doth a man the countenance of his friend . " Each is spurred on in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . When his own energy and devotion flag , for there is ebb and flow in all human endeavor , he is sustained by the energy and devotion of his fellows . It is partly the evocation of the competitive spirit , but it goes deeper than that . The interest , by being shared , acquires a new significance , a new emphasis , a new valuation . It has a breadth of support which it formerly lacked . The interest is thus maintained for the group more nearly at one level of intensity than would be possible for the isolated individual . That it is generally a higher level is seen in the fact that people are ready to pursue interests in association which they would find too arduous or too uninspiring to pursue in isolation . A study-group again offers an illustration , since for some members of nearly every such group the choice does not lie between studying in isolation and studying in association but between co-operative study and none at all . To take another illustration , there are people who find gymnastic exercises too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practise them in company . It may be said that this is because another interest , that of companionship , is added , but the latter is reflected in the enhanced value of the pursuit itself . Not only the character of an interest , but also the method f its pursuit , is changed by association . In the face-to-face oup we have the clearest illustration of simple or direct co176 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES operation , where men do the same thing together , in contrast with complex or indirect co-operation , where men do different things interdependently , in other words specialize . Direct co-operation is as characteristic of the face-to-face group as specialization is of the large-scale association . The members of a group discussing the same problem make different contributions , but they do not have separate functions ; all participate in the same process . In complex co-operation , the so-called division of labor , all contribute to the same result , but not in the same process . On the other hand the face-toface group , though it admits of subsidiary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharing a common experience . A play-group involves a certain division of labor ' , but the pitcher , the batter , and the fielders must all play together if they play at all . The members of a study-group may undertake separate tasks in preparation for the activity of the group , but they must bring their results into a common process at the point where the group-activity begins . They can not , if they are engaged , say , in learning a foreign tongue , so specialize that one learns the nouns , another the adjectives , a third the irregular verbs , and so forth . In short , the group is a unity in the performance of its function . Being thus united in the process , and not merely in the product , the face-to-face group has a peculiar social significance . It serves a function which no other kind of organization can fulfil , a function additional to , and in the last resort more necessary than , the increment of economy , convenience , and efficacy which comes from co-operation . It satisfies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have said that the process of the face-to-face group is a sharing or communicating of experience . How then is experience shared ? How from being mine or yours does it become ours ? We shall examine but one aspect , though a crucial one , of this intricate and searching question . How does a group achieve a consensus , a harmony , in respect of the differences of opinion which appear within it ? To what extent are the differences which the members bring to the group harmonized within it ? If we assume that the degree in which consensus // it attained is a measure of the degree in which experience is shared , here would be a test question for the reality of the social process within the primary group . Let us then examine it . We should first observe that all groups do not need to seek consensus . There are some which can function as well , per-haps better , when the members do not agree on the issues raised by the group . A debating society is an obvious example , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of neigh-borly gossips or for a discussion group . The salt of friendly difference gives to such groups their savor . But all policy-determining groups are compelled by their function to reach a group decision . It is clear that this decision may be arrived at in various ways and represent various degrees or levels of agreement . The minimum of group participation is found where the decision comes from the dominance of authority , involving no more than the acquiescence or assent of the subordinate members . In this case the potential contributions of these members to the process of decision are wholly or largely suppressed . Or again the decision may represent a compromise , in which , while the agreement is formally unan-the contending parties yield some portion of their respective claims or waive in part their differing opinions in order that a unified policy , giving all some measure of what they desire , may be carried through . This type of decision is distinct from the authoritarian one , both in the mode and in the content . The differences of the members here affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of give-and-take , and therefore they remain unreconciled . A third type of decision is expressed through voting . This differs from the former two in that there is not even formal unanimity in the registration of policy . It is determination by majority ( whether of persons , of voting shares , or other units ) . The differences of the members remain in stark opposition . The necessary basis of agreement is not found on the level of the issue determined by voting but lies further back , perhaps merely in willingness of the members to abide by the result of the poll . No one of the three types of determination just described is // the expression of a complete harmony within the group . No one reveals the group as a unity with one mind and one will . If then we conceive of a group as potentially such a unity we must seek for a further type of decision , in which the differences of the members are neither suppressed nor compromised but instead harmonized or synthesized , transmuted , without loss but rather with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some writers put this principle forward as expressing the only effective and finally desirable type of agreement . Its relation to the others can be most importance for our understanding of that social nature which finds its home within the group . Should we regard it as an ideal type to which the reality of group agreement never fully attains , or is it as verifiable in experience as any of the others ? Does the character of our interests on the one hand or the character of our minds on the other admit of this comprehensive integration ? Is it , in short , a dream or an actuality ? The exponents of the principle reject the first three types as contrary to the spirit of group participation . The group idea , says Miss Follett , is not compromise , for " just in so far as people think that the basis of working together is compromise , just // so far they do not understand the first principles of working together . " Nor is it the majority idea . Nor is it the consensus derived from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more right to get our own way by persuading people than by bullying or bribing them . " The group idea is a " composite idea , " evolved through the free admission of difference . In fact " the only use for my difference is to join it with other differences . " So we begin with individual thinking and we end with " joint thinking . " 2 The differences are not lost in the result , they are " integrated " . There results from the process " a mutual appreciation and conservation of all the values which all the groups to the conflict hold as vitally significant . " 3 Now integration so understood may be regarded either as an ethical ideal or as a social-psychological process . If taken under the former aspect , we do not claim that it expresses the actuality of group life . It is not , as such , a principle we can demonstrate . All we could demonstrate would be the conse-quences which follow from its acceptance , as revealed in such approximations to its realization as we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do its exponents , that its acceptance would create a new harmony of society , a new joy of co-operative living . We can claim that it is a principle of peculiar importance in the complex societies of our age , where people of very diverse types must get along together and to do so must overcome the prejudices of class , religion , and race . We can claim that it has a special appeal in a democratic society , where the ground of authoritarian decision is undermined so that another basis of solidarity must be found . But an ideal can be realized only as it is brought into relation to the experience of living . We must therefore consider in-tegration in its other aspect , as a social-psychological process . We must then ask how far , under what conditions , with what mitations , does it actually occur ? We must observe that the // principle of integration not only makes certain demands on the members of a group to which they may or may not respond but also that it makes certain assumptions regarding the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modified in group activity . In particular it assumes that the differences of attitude and belief are such that they can be harmonized , and that in the process of open-minded discussion this harmonization is or can be effected . But these assumptions are certainly not of universal validity . In so far as differences of attitude are dependent on mere misunderstanding or on sheer prejudice , they can hardly be harmonized , though they may be cancelled in the light of fuller knowledge . In so far as differences of . attitudes are due to variant disposition and temperament , the assumption that they can be integrated ' seems to underestimate the quality and permanence of individual character . In so far as differences arise from variant experience , they offer the best hope of integration through a sharing of experiences , but there are also differences of insight , and here again integration in a full sense is questionable . Finally , there are differences which arise from economic and social disparities , differences dependent on situations lying beyond the activity of the group , and so long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Workers and employees meet around a table ? they may thus come to understand , to appreciate , each what the other side stands for ; they may come to an agreement ; they may even reach a subjectively harmonious conclusion , but if so is it not rather because each side makes allowance for the difference of attitude of the other than because these differences are joined together ' ? Certainly it is hard to find examples of the latter result , hard even to know what it would mean . Furthermore this principle of unity makes certain demands on the group . It demands that they meet in a certain spirit , not merely that they be open-minded but that their objective be the very attainment of harmony . The former is a reasonable demand , however hard to secure . But open-mindedly we may be seeking something other than harmony . A group of // scientists meet to discuss a problem ? their primary aim is truth , not harmony . In so far as they are scientists it must be . People in all kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmony . Moreover , the demand of open-mindedness does not imply that we should hold every belief as merely provisional . If all the evidences we honestly discover point that way for us , we should lack character not to hold to it , not to try to persuade others of its truth , not to prefer difference to an agreement which did not accept it . The integrationists at times demand a degree of plasticity which is not attainable and which , it might well be claimed , is not even desirable  --  for sometimes it is the higher loyalty that a man stand firmly on his conviction , that he stand , if need be , Athanasius contra mundum . Even unanimity is no criterion of truth , of rightness . It may in conclusion be suggested that the principle we have been examining combines and even confuses two quite differ-ent forms of unity which are better kept apart.4 We should distinguish between subjective harmony and objective har-mony , between harmony of attitudes and harmony of ideas . There is a social unity within which people feel at one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been dis-cussing it , demands a unity on the intellectual level . We come together thinking differently and end thinking alike . We evolve a composite idea in which all the different viewpoints of the members are harmonized ? as though the group itself became a mind with an idea of its own ? and the result is " a way of joint action which will appeal to everyone con-cerned " , because it comprehends the desires of all . But we have seen that this program makes excessive demands on hu-man nature , and that there are many differences which , psychologically , are not amenable to such integration . We might add that the history of the various attempts to secure unanimity on this level , down to our present-day jury systems , reveals the impossibility of the demand . It is more reasonable // to seek the harmony of the group spirit than of the group idea . In the sense of community with our fellows we can find those sympathetic relations in which differences cease to divide , in which they stimulate and evoke our individuality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common . 2 . From the Face-to-face Group to the Great Association Where life is simple , as in a primitive community or in a frontier settlement , or where for any reason the area of effective communication is small , as in the highly civilized cities of ancient Greece , the face-to-face group suffices for most purposes . But where society expands another kind of association grows necessary , the large-scale association with its impersonal relationships and its specialization of functions . Interests become differentiated . The service of experts is required . Techniques are elaborated , and the average member has neither the time nor the energy nor the skill to attend to them . The new range of the interest demands a complex organization . It is no longer localized and no longer controllable by the local group . The members are too numerous and too scattered to conduct their business through personal relationships . Specially selected persons must act on behalf of the whole , a hierarchy of officials arises , and the executive or controlling group becomes distinct from the mass of the members . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups remain in a modified form , as directorates , as committees , and so forth , but their character and function have changed . Their members have become agents , delegates , leaders ; they have become authorities or experts . As for the lay members , they are now reduced to a more passive role , and while their relationships to one another and to the whole may become more complicated , they are for the most part less engrossing . Everything is more formal , more mechanically regulated . There is concentration of direction as well as division of labor . Thus in the largescale association the average member occupies both a passive and an active role , and the two are not always easy to reconcile . As in the state he is both citizen and subject , so in degree // he is in every great association . The passive role bulks more largely the greater the association grows and thus the mem-bers are apt to feel that its elaborate machinery lies wholly outside themselves , beyond the area of their control . This feeling exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps even more among the shareholders of the great economic corporations . In the preceding paragraph we have suggested three main distinctions between the face-to-face group and the great as-sociation . In the first place , as the scale increases , indirect co-operation dominates over direct . In the small group the members work together , listen together , play together , wor-ship together , discuss together , decide together . In the large organization it is only the objective , no longer also the process , that binds the members together . One works for the other , not with him ; they do different tasks towards a common product ; they have not only different functions but different powers , different degrees of participation , different rights and obligations . Consequently , in the second place , the transi-t ion from the small to the large association involves a move-ment from status to contract . In a famous sentence Maine characterized this movement as the direction of " progressive societies . " b If we substitute the word complex for progressive , the statement can scarcely be challenged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the duties and func-tions of the various members must be defined , made specific , and thus explicitly or implicitly contractual . The working of a complex system can not be entrusted to the spontaneous adjustments which occur in the face-to-face group . Another aspect of the same principle is the substitution of formal for informal regulation . Every large-scale organization becomes an administrative mechanism . Not only is its structure in-tricate in itself but it must be fitted into a complex social order . This adjustment demands formal rules , a formal authority with designated powers , a precise delimitation of interests and benefits , a clear-cut division of labor in which the function of each is specified in relation to the functions // of all the rest . Hence also , in the third place , there is a substitution of impersonal for personal relationships . The faceto-face group depends upon the congeniality of the members . The large association puts other requirements first . The faceto-face group demands a social qualification for membership because it must satisfy ? or otherwise must baulk ? the need of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this interest and therefore generally makes no such demand . It is an agency and as such is more indifferent to the personal qualities of its members , provided they contribute to the associational interest . This is a main reason why , in a complex society , the members are more liberated or more detached from group control over their intimate life , though at the same time they are subject to a system of meticulous regulation proceeding from sources felt to be remote from themselves . Consequently , in the large association , the world-old problem of liberty and authority presents a new aspect . If the forms of control are less intimate , less indefinite , perhaps less arbitrary , they are also less spontaneous , less visible , less personal . In the small group , as in the patriarchal family for example , a custom-sustained authority expresses itself in commands ; in the large association a constitutional authority operates through formal regulations or laws . Each kind has its menace as well as its necessity . The menace of the second kind arises particularly from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that its inner working is hidden from him . Explicit standing rules are necessary in every complex organization . Without them it could not achieve its peculiar services of order , efficiency , and economy . But there is the danger that an established order may stand in the way of that flexibility which responds both to changing situations and to individual needs . The official is apt to prefer the routine , the uniformity of the smooth-running machine . It saves energy and trouble for himself . Vested interests grow within the organization which are opposed to adaptive changes . The power of the official lies in his enforcement of rules , and the urge of power persuades him that they should be rigorous . // The rules thus tend to grow sacrosanct in his mind , and the permanence of the institutions through which he acts impresses a like sentiment in the minds of the lay members . In short , the danger of elaborate organization is that it tends to grow stereotyped . This tendency is so prevalent that it scarcely needs illustration , but peculiarly striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which began as liberating movements . In the sphere of religion the history of the Christian churches reveals the constant tendency of organization to stereotype a system in defiance of its initial principle . A newer illustration may be cited from the short history of the Bahai religion , a humanistic faith whose founder was profoundly opposed to dogmatic creeds and formal organization . It spread with remarkable rapidity , and on the death of the founder exhibited a distinct trend towards an established orthodoxy . In a recent report its paid secretary declared that " the individual must be subordinated to the decisions of the spiritual assembly . " 6 Faced with this problem of retaining liberty while securing order and efficiency , of making authority an agent instead of an exploiter , large-scale associations have experimented with two principles of organization . One we may call the federative principle . It seeks to build up an order on the basis of local or regional units , possessed of as much autonomy as is compatible with the ends of the association . In the political sphere it appears in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also in the devolution of authority to municipalities , counties , and other administrative areas . In so far as it means that local interests are determined locally , it is a workable and salutary principle . Its range , however , is limited by the fact that in a complex society few interests remain purely local , though they retain peculiar local aspects . What is needed , therefore , is the adjustment of the local to the wider interest , a balance of centralization and of decentralization . In a pioneer economy people drew water by handpumps from wells sunk on their respective properties ; in a // metropolitan area they depend on an elaborate common sys-tem by which their water-supply is derived from an area covering fifty or a hundred miles or more . This is a simple example of a process which signalizes the growth of civiliza-tion . The interests of a locality cease to be localized and in so far local representation must be substituted for local con-trol . What applies to particular interests applies also to the com-plex of interests formerly characteristic of a neighborhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community centers ' and settlement houses in an expanding community . With the delocalization of many interests the locality becomes less and less a neighborhood , and the functions of such or-ganizations as the settlement house must change accordingly . In other words , they too must specialize to succeed , must serve diversified interests in particular ways , generally seeking from a less limited area those who share these interests . " Green-wich House , " writes the director of one of these organiza-tions , " is a neighborhood house . But what is a neighborhood nowadays ? With rapid transit , with city-wide policies , with the rapid change in population , with new standards of living , the neighborhood has become not so much a separate self-enclosed entity as a sample cross-section of the city 's life . " ' A cross-section is no longer a unit , and can no longer be organized as such . The attempt to integrate the social life of an area through a community center when the interests of the inhabitants are no longer centered within the area can hardly be expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed . It is reasonable to hold that the small group is necessary to mediate between the individual and the large association . " In various ways , " writes Pro-fessor Dewey , " and on diverse subjects there have been grow-ing up small groups devoted to securing a clearing house of facts and ideas by conjoint discussion with a view to attaining a common mind , that might be put into effective action . It may well be that the historian of the future will find that one of the most significant features of present social life is manifest // in the rapidity with which the word group ' has come into general use , and will discover that the pooling of experiences by groups in order to reach genuinely co-operative decision and action is their characteristic that reaches furthest . " 8 But such groups are likely to be special-interest groups in a local setting rather than neighborhood groups in the old significance of that term . It may further be pointed out that the degree of effective localization varies with the nature of the interest . The general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully localized than those which pursue civiliza-tional interests . A college , for example , must be in essentials localized . A fellowship organization , such as that of the rotary club , must be composed of local groups . A church , no matter how highly centralized in respect of its government , depends for its life on the local assembling of its members . The reason is that the cultural interest must be directly or personally communicated.9 Technical advances may change the size of the local unit . The radio , for example , makes the local musical assembly the home instead of the concert hall . But no technical advances can substitute , for cultural purposes , the central organization for the local unit . A central organiza-tion can make treaties or tariffs or currency regulations for a whole country ? or for a whole civilization . There are uni-versal aspects of order and efficiency which are best provided by a highly centralized control . But culture belongs to another kind of reality . The agency can here never be a substitute for the direct activity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaningless apart from the unit-groups . Consequently the federative principle has greater play . It might be similarly shown that , in the sphere of civilization , the local unit has a more important role the more personal // the service which the organization renders . An automobile plant or a steel factory can from one center provide effective service for a whole country . A retail store has a much narrower range , and therefore a combination of units takes the form , not of a single central plant , but of a chain-store system . The less standardized the service the more the local unit resists absorption . Thus at the end of the scale the luxury shop , the fashionable tailoring , dressmaking , or millinery establishment flourishes as a purely local concern . The same principle may be illustrated from the political organization . We can do without local legislatures , but we can not do without local courts . All the great associations must achieve some equilibrium of centralization and decentralization , varying in accordance with the iature of their functions . Since some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or standardized services , such as insurance or electricity or political order , lend themselves to a high degree of centralization , we must resort to some other principle than the federative in the attempt to solve the problem of control , to save efficiency while resisting domination . Here is where our second principle , that of responsibility , enters in . It is of peculiar importance in respect of the most powerful and comprehensive of all organizations , the state , especially as a state in which the principle of responsibility is assured can thereby prevent the undue encroachments of other organizations . It is the essential principle of the democratic state , though its full realization is beset by many difficulties . In so far as it is achieved , arbitrary authority , authority acting in its own right , yields to functional authority . In other words , it turns governments into public agencies and officials into delegates or representatives , acting on behalf of and subject to the control of those whom they govern . The earlier champions of democracy too readily concluded that in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the mechanics of popular election , but we have realized through experience that it is possible only in so far as a people is enlightened and public-spirited . The business of government , like all other // large-scale business , needs the service of experts . The people In general can not understand its intricacies nor adjudge the qualities requisite for the conduct of this business . The relics of direct popular administration , such as the jury-system , re cumbrous and perhaps moribund . But experience also shows us that a politically intelligent people can establish and maintain a system of government which on the whole is subrvient to the wishes of the majority . In spite of the praccal difficulties and problems involved , the principle of responbility is formally and to a considerable extent substantially ttained in many modern states , and is liable to be overrown only in times of grave crisis . Outside the two main principles we have mentioned there another influence ? we shall call it the principle of automatic ) ntrol ? which tends to keep the great organizations in some easure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve . It has less application to the compulsive organLion of the state or to monopolistic corporations , but it werfully affects such organizations as are fully competitive . department store , for example , is not maintained just to rve the public , but unless it does serve the public as they ant to be served it will cease to exist . Likewise any associan the members of which are free to leave it at will is bound consult continuously the wishes of those members . A club hich was not responsive to the majority of its members uld suffer a decline . So would a trade-union or a church or y of the numerous free organizations of a complex society . e efficacy of this principle in modern societies has increased respect of cultural organizations , since these have been so rgely liberated from the compulsions of a politico-religious thority , but it has serious limitations in the economic sphere , i ng to the growth of vast combinations restricting the play competition . In conclusion we may point out that the increase of largele associations does not and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The latter renders one ntial service which the former can never satisfy ? the tisfaction of the primal need for society itself . This satisfac190 SOCIETY : ITS STRUCTURE AND CHANGES tion demands the personal participative union , within which , no matter what other services it may render , the deeplyembedded need of man for the sustaining presence of his fellows is liberated and fulfilled . Even under the most auspicious conditions the specialized order and routine of the great association involves some degree of impersonal constraint , against which the human spirit is apt to chafe and from which it seeks refuge in the more spontaneous grouping . Perhaps that is why there are so many clubs and coteries ? and so many joiners ' ? in our large-scale civilization . If in this process of civilization the old face-to-face groups , those of family and kin and church and neighborhood group , are less inclusive and less absorbing , men seem impelled to devise others through which they seek to save , against the pressure of organization , the insistent impulse towards free personal relationships . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Within it each man has his specialized function , his delimited calling . His work confines him within the routines and techniques of a smaller and smaller portion of the social order within which he lives . For the greater that order the smaller is the part which a man 's work directly reveals to him . The engrossment in this limited task , imposed in the first instance by economic necessity , is often thought of as a peril to the realization of the fuller life of man , of his essential humanity . Doubtless the danger exists , and it is probably impossible to balance gain and loss . But specialism is only one aspect of this greater order , and the same conditions which impose it bring also certain means of possible deliverance from its perils ? vastly greater intercommunication , a much extended period of general education in which the foundations of a broader culture may be laid , and new potentialities of leisure which , wisely directed , may liberate the mind from the dominance of the narrow task . CHAPTER TEN THE GREAT ASSOCIATIONS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state is the object of the science of government , or political science . Our concern as sociologists is not with constitutions and forms of government , nor with the modes in which states fulfil their various functions . In this chapter we are seeking to discern the character of the state as a distinctive form of association , to discover its sociological type , so to speak , and thereafter to show its typical relationships to the other parts of the social system . We shall proceed in a similar way in the two succeeding chapters . The great associations have brought into being their own distinctive sciences . Sociology can neither be inclusive of the subject-matter of these sciences nor be a substitute for them . To offer a smattering of them would be foolish . But the great associations exhibit significant differences of type , and they are interwrought in the whole structure of a society . For these reasons they are of profound interest to the sociologist . In all the more complex societies the organizations of the political and economic order become the comprehensive framework of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever wider and ever more intricate scheme of relationships . They link land with land over all the earth , often outstripping In their advance the associations of the cultural order . They link the savage to the civilized man . They ignore in large treasure differences of creed or nationality or color . This condition arises out of the peculiar character of political and economic interests . We have already classified them as secondary Interests ' , being as it were neutral means to which all other interests of men are related and through which all other interests niay be pursued . Consequently , given the technological basis of communication , they are capable of unlimited expansion . 191 // Together they constitute the great mechanism which men must use to obtain the objects of their desire . In their develop-ment they establish great forms of social order which both liberate and limit the expression of all our primary interests . The political interest creates the state and also the nu-merous associations whose purpose is to determine or influence the policy of the state . We pointed out in chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since this conception is of cardinal importance for the understanding of its nature we must here return to it . When we call the state an associa-tion we mean that it is a specific organization of society . We distinguish it thereby from the country or the nation on the one hand , from the unity of the social structure on the other . The confusion is still a prevalent one . It is encouraged by language , since we use the same terms , the United States , England , Germany , and so forth , to denote both the country and its people or the state and its government . We say the United States makes a treaty ' ? and here we mean the state ? or we say the United States has a standard of living ' ? and here we mean the people . It is fostered by the tradition of old theories which regarded the state , contrary to definite evi-dences , as a universal partnership . It is a mistaken inference from the fact that the state does actually control or regulate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is constitutionally competent to control a still greater part . It is consequently maintained that if the state lets other aspects of social life alone " it is none the less dealing with them ? it only lets them alone in a certain way and on certain terms . " ' But even if we accepted this position it does not follow that the regulator is to be identified with that which is regulated . Moreover , there are , as we have seen , various social codes which are distinct from and only in small part controlled by the code of the state . And there are many associations to which we belong which are in no sense merely divisions or branches of the great association of the state . As social beings , we are more than merely citizens of a state . The real problem , // that df the relation of the state to the whole social structure , is only obscured if we begin by identifying the two . Every modern constitution sets limits to the things the state can do . Generally , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any religion of its citizens or to discriminate between citizens in respect of their religion . We say it forbids the state and not simply the government . For it proclaims ? or rather the people proclaim through it ? that laws of a certain nature shall not be passed and that certain liberties shall not be abrogated , and to this end it usually provides that a mere majority shall not suffice to alter these constitutional guarantees . Whatever practical difficulties may arise from such provisions they surely bear witness to the intention of the people ' or the community to set limits to the place and power of the state itself . The state then is an essential part , but never the whole , of the social structure . It is best conceived of as an agency of the community with very broad and important functions , but nevertheless limited . It does not , and can not , take the place of other agencies ; these have their own functions , which they alone are fitted to perform . The family has its place , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far the state should regulate other associations is a question admitting vast experimentation ; how far the state can take over the functions of certain associations , particularly of the economic order , is another question of great significance . But under no conditions which we can conceive of , and certainly under no conditions which exist anywhere in the civilized world , is the state all-sufficing . If the communistic state , for example , absorbs into itself nearly the whole system of economic organization , it leaves the family more uncontrolled than do capitalistic states . The state can effectively supervise only the external aspects of life . Beyond all else , it can not , under any conditions , be a substitute for those cultural organizations which express the variant beliefs , opinions , interests , and ideals of the diversified groups of a modern society . The reason for this limitation , historically revealed through many a painful struggle and most of all in the great conflicts of // church and state , depends on the peculiar nature of the state . The state is an organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What primarily distinguishes it from all other associations is its instrument of political law . We have already seen that this kind of law differs from all other social laws in two ways , first , that there is attached to it the peculiar sanction of socialized and unconditional compulsion , second ? a corollary from the first ? that it applies without exception to everyone within a geographical area . In these respects the legal code has an advantage over all other codes , but it must pay a price for it . Because it applies to everyone , it can apply only where uniformity of control is felt to be desirable by those who uphold the state ? it can not apply to matters where its members claim the right to differ from one another . Because its sanction is force , its power of appeal is limited . Other associations , to which men freely belong , can on that very ground use means of persuasion with greater efficacy than can the state . They appeal to the free will which is automatically secured by voluntary membership . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens in that way . In other associations the malcontents have the alternative of leaving ; if grave differences arise within them , the association itself can dissolve or split . But obviously these alternatives are for practical purposes ruled out in the case of the state . In earlier stages of civilization a group which disapproved the policy of the state might , with hardship and peril , secede and establish a new one , as did the Roman plebeians or the Pilgrim Fathers , but in the modern world this recourse is practically impossible . The state has thus a compulsive aspect which very definitely limits its control over the spirit of its people . In an earlier chapter we pointed out the grave limitations of sheer compulsion . It follows that there are certain things which the state can do well , others it can do less well than the free associations , and others which it can not do at all . What actions fall in these various categories depends in part on the particular conditions of individual states . The functions of the state vary greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been // mainly an exploitative power , controlling the rest of the population in the interest of a dominant class . As the basis of citizenship broadened , it assumed to a larger extent protective functions , and these must always remain an important aspect of its task . In quite recent times another aspect has begun to ussume significance , that of the state as a positive agency of social welfare . Thus in some countries of Europe we see old strongholds , the seats of a former exploitative nobility , turned into employment offices and health insurance bureaux . The three aspects of the state exist together , with varying em-phasis , in present-day democracy . Thus we are introduced to our next question , that of the functions of the state in modern society . 2 . The Functions of the State in a Complex Society Perennial controversy rages around the functions of the state . They are the issues of party warfare . They vary from state to state , from period to period , even from year to year . The capitalistic and the communistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . The liberal state and t he fascist state give contradictory answers . One is tempted to think that the functions of the state are whatever functions the controlling power within any state cares to assume . And this view is supported by the traditional doctrine of state sovereignty . " The sovereign , " said a characteristic exponent of this tradition , " has the complete disposal of the life , rights , and duties of the individual . " 2 The sovereign , said the jurist Blackstone , is " a supreme , irresistible , uncontrollable author-ity . " But in reality , whatever the legal or constitutional form may be , the state has limits to what it can do . It is limited by the instruments and means which it must use . It is limited also by the resistance offered to political action by the mores of the community . And it is limited by the existence , in any complex society , of other organizations which exercise func-tions of their own . Practically everyone agrees that there are social functions which the state alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more qualified to perform than any other // association , that there are others for which it is less qualified , and finally that there are functions which the state is wholly incapable of performing . There are wide divergences of opinion concerning the items that fall in these various categories , but if we examine the categories themselves in the light of the practice of modern states we shall discover that there is nevertheless a substantial amount of agreement . Let us take these categories in order , premising that there is no way of determining what the functions of the state are or what they should be other than the test of experience . In other words , the business of the state is to do what it is capable of doing well , provided the citizens of the state want it done . Men differ regarding what the state can do well as they differ regarding what needs doing at all . But social experience has already laid down certain broad lines of the state . Social experience led the state to take over , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and political experience has confirmed the state in the exercise of these functions . As new social situations arise they create new problems regarding the functions of the state . Thus the development of international finance , of industrial monopoly , of inventions such as the radio , and so forth , raises constantly new problems of state regulation . Above all , th vast economic and technological changes associated with car italistic methods of production and distribution have creat profound and still largely unsolved political issues . Differen states attempt to meet them in very different ways . Ti soviet state presents the extreme instance of centraliz political control over the whole area of economic activity , It accepts the principle of the unified planning of a country 's economic development . Other states though animated by social philosophies of an entirely opposite character , have assumed considerable control over economic policies , as did mercantilist France and as does Fascist Italy . Here remains the greatest of all political problems , still in the region of controversy and experiment . The success or failure of these experiments will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state , though these must always be // subject to variation in accordance with the social and economic development of different communities and the traditions and attitudes which prevail within them . First then , there are social functions which the state alone can perform . The state alone can establish an effective and basic order in a complex society . The state can maintain such an order because of the peculiar attributes which we saw that it and it alone possesses . On the one hand its law is binding on all who live within an entire geographical area ; on the other hand it possesses the ultimate right of enforcement . The establishment and maintenance of a universal order is thus an essential function of the state , its function par excellence . The state alone can make rules of universal application . It alone can guarantee facilities which shall be equally available to all the members of a community . It alone can establish rights and obligations which admit of no exemptions . It alone can establish conditions of equal opportunity . It alone can ensure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight , quality , and value . It alone can set up minimum standards requisite for decent living with the assurance that none shall be allowed to fall below them . It alone can define the areas and limits of subordinate powers . It alone can co-ordinate within one great social framework the various organizations of a society . The state , in short , is the guarantor and the guardian of the public order . The immensity of this service , at least in every complex society , is hard to realize . A momentary glimpse of it is provided in the rare crisis of revolution when all legal safeguards are in abeyance and the machinery of society is paralyzed . In a simple society community-guarded custom suffices to maintain order ; in a complex society order is impossible apart from the state . For here it is necessary to prevent not only the encroachment of individual on individual but also the encroachment of group over group . And these groups in the complex society are not only very diverse but vary endlessly in their range and in their power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social and economic conflict between them would lead to chaos . But for this influence ruthless // organizations would exercise an intolerable tyranny broken only by equally ruthless uprisings against them . Even within the order of the state lawless organizations sometimes emerge , where government is corrupt or ineffective . The so-called racket in our present American cities is an example . More-over , the state is necessary not only to prevent the usurpations of power but also to maintain the vast and elaborate contrac-tual system which a modern society requires . Unless this system is guaranteed under the civil code the business of the community would be utterly disrupted . Order is the first requirement of the diverse specialized interdependent activity of modern man , and this order the state alone can maintain . But the state can not be content with the mere establishment of order . The order maintained by a tyranny or by a slave-state or by an empire differs vastly from the order of a free ' or democratic state . Order is always based on some principle , and the state is vitally concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the expression . Order may rest on privilege and status or it may be guided by the ideal of equal opportunity . It may be designed to keep the weak in sub-jection to the strong or to prevent the strong from encroach-ment on the weak . Some principle of justice is inevitably involved , and the attainment of justice is a far more difficult and more controversial function than the attainment of order . It is obviously not secured by the simple rule of law ' which makes everyone equally subject to its dictates , which , as Anatole France remarked , " in its majestic equality forbids the rich as well as the poor to sleep in the streets and to beg bread . " 3 One of the fundamentals of any order is a system of property rights , and since such rights are not given by na-ture ' they must be determined by authority . Justice , in the old phrase , is " to give every man his own " ( suum cuique tri-buere ) , but how to decide what a man 's own may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , translated into modern economic terms in the labor theory of value ' , // that men gain legitimate titles to goods in terms of the toil they expend in transforming them from their natural state , becomes meaningless in the world of economic and social interdependence . Yet the state can not fulfil its clear and inevitable function of maintaining order without involving itself in the further and infinitely harder task of securing justice . And in the last resort , so far as this end can be achieved it can be achieved only through the instrumentality of the state . Alone possessing jurisdiction over all the members of a community it alone can represent the interests common to all of them as against the interests which divide them . We turn next to those functions which the state , in virtue of the means at its command , is more fitted to perform than any other organization . In this category comes the conservation of natural resources . Against the competitive interests which seek immediate economic gain the state can uphold the interest of the whole and the interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had to intervene to prevent the wasteful consumption of the community 's resources , its forests , its fisheries , its wild life , its irreplacable mineral assets . The squandering of the oil resources in various lands , and particularly in the United States , offers one of the most recent as well as of the most remarkable instances of the need for the state in respect of the safeguarding of the economic basis of society against reckless individualistic exploitation . And if the state is needed to control the social dangers of competition it is also needed to check the domination of private monopoly . Wherever particular interests manifestly infringe the common interest , the state is called upon to uphold the latter , though often the political pressure exerted by those particular interests prevent or even pervert its function . It is not possible within our limits to specify the magnitude and the variety of this task . Only recently has the state come at all to realize its significance . All so-called social legislation , the establishment by law of various forms of industrial protection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     