@@774119

txt  | lapse into the plain , is commonly the seat of cities which are likely to be placed at the ends of the principal roads that traverse the mountains . The break here is between the vehicles and seasons peculiarly suited to mountain transportation and those suited to the level and open country . ' Again , it would seem that in the east , particularly in former times when caravan transportation flourished , the border line between the desert or arid plains and the fertile agricultural regions was often the site of cities . ' Some place not very far from this line must be the place where caravans are organized and merchandise collected and distributed . Thus Professor Robertson Smith ' explains the situation of Mecca as the place where the most important routes from the arid interior of the country come down through the mountains and meet the arable plain . Looking at this matter from a slightly different standpoint , it appears that the interruption is not necessarily due to a change in the natural features of the earth 's surface , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small and scattered movement to those of a large and unified movement . Breaks of this sort are exceedingly important in land transportation , and exist wherever a number of small local movements come together and form by their junction a single large movement , or go to swell a large movement formed elsewhere . They correspond to the fact that the raw material of all commerce comes originally from the soil and must be collected at central points by the vehicles and at the convenient seasons of local transportation . So also whatever of local produce is consumed by the scattered population must be distributed by similar means . This sort of movement naturally takes on a radial form , ' the small local movements drawing together to a common point and contributing to the larger movement that takes  | place between that point and others at a distance . At the point of junction of the larger and better equipped and organized long-distance transportation with the crude vehicles of local conveyance , there is necessarily an interruption of the movement . If the conditions are in every respect uniform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collection and distribution at the center of the tributary plain . The location of many towns and cities seems to be fixed by this requirement alone . ' Leaving the study of purely physical conditions and taking with us our hypothesis that a break in transportation is the indispensable condition to the formation of a commercial city , we see that the interruption may be due to political forces . The obstacles to trade arising out of the non-industrial organization of many societies and particularly of international relations , often render it impracticable for merchants to extend their operations far into other countries than their own . Trade is carried on through the medium of fairs , marts , staples , emporia , to which the merchants of both countries resort to exchange their wares . The national line , especially if it also divides different races , acts very much like the line between sea and land , or other natural separation . Both the means of transportation and the ownership of goods must be changed , and we have the essential conditions of a commercial break . Among barbarous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early development , this is a cause of the first importance . At the present time its operation is not very obvious , partly because the practice of shipping goods to the interior under bond tends to prevent the action of existing restrictions from being localized at national boundaries . Before concluding this subject it is worth while to emphasize the fact that , contrary to a somewhat general impression , the mere intersection of lines of transportation has no necessary tendency to cause the growth of a commercial city . What is required is a break ? transfer , storage and change of ownership ? and if the break exists , no intersection is necessary . There are many points in this country where two railroads , each  | doing an immense business , intersect without the slightest tendency to cause the growth of a city . Even if a large amount of freight and many passengers are interchanged , an insignificant " junction " and a restaurant are all that is necessary . In that case we have a mechanical break of a very simple sort . More perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like , tend constantly to make intersections , as such , of less importance . Indeed we have here one reason for the continual aggrandizement of the large towns at the expense of the smaller , by the removal to them of the mechanism of transfer and commercial exchange . From one point of view the number of breaks represents the expense of transportation , and the tendency to dispense with the smaller ones by means of interchange of vehicles , consolidation of lines , etc. , is a part of the progress of the division of labor . The question whether the result is not , for other reasons , undesirable hardly enters here . What has been offered regarding the theory of urban location may be summed up as follows : Non-economic causes , as military and political , have a notable influence , especially in the earlier history of societies . Of economic causes of cities the most general is pressure toward greater division of labor : the efficient use of natural forces is inseparable from the concentration of population and wealth . This cause acts independently of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixing location . Two influences chiefly determine the location of cities : local facilities for production and local relations to transportation . The former of these acts mostly through the coarser and primary manufacturing industries . The finer manufactures seek the most convenient centers of distribution , that is , of transportation . Transportation , itself guided in its course chiefly by the physical diversity of the earth 's surface , is the main cause of the location of cities in an industrial society . The mode of its action is that population and wealth tend to collect at a break in transportation ; the reason being in the first place the necessity for the material and symbolic machinery of transfer at  | breaks , and in the second the tendency of other economic activities to collect where that machinery exists . XI . THE RELATION OF TRANSPORTATION TO MARKETS , PRICES , COMPETITION , ETC . Transportation , in the measure of its efficiency , strikes from economic forces the chains of time and place . We should cover most of what needs to be said in this connection in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficiently wide construction to the word . Free movement extends the scope and application of agriculture , mechanical labor , directive talent , inventions , capital , ? of all economic factors whatsoever . One can best understand this matter by approaching it from several points of view , as those of supply and demand , of markets , of prices and of competition . In just the measure that the difficulty of movement is overcome , that transportation becomes quick and cheap , is the reach of effective demand extended . Where crude means of conveyance prevent the movement of goods the demand of the people of a single place is limited in its working to the close vicinity of that place , while the needs of other places are not felt as a demand . Facility of movement , by extending the scope of demand , tends also , other things equal , to make it uniform and to give it a more varied character . It becomes more uniform , because not so much affected by accidental local changes . If demand in modern markets is more fickle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not because of better transportation , which of itself always tends to uniformity , but because of the contrary action of forces that transportation has been unable to overcome . The character of demand is diversified because things that become accessible become desired ; witness the degree in which oranges and other southern fruit have recently 1 become necessary to the people of the north . Supply tends to become more uniform in different times and places . This is very obvious in the necessaries of life . The great famines of former times are now almost unknown be-  | cause of the ease with which a local scarcity can be remedied by importation . Though the interdependence of nations as to these necessaries is increased , it has also become generalized ; thus , while the dependence of England upon the rest of the world for grain is greater than ever before , it is less than ever a dependence upon any particular grain-growing country . The supply may come from America , Australia , India , the Black Sea . The general result , therefore , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quick transportation diminishes the need for holding large stocks of goods . With railroads dealers are far less compelled than formerly to anticipate the demands of their customers a long time ahead . In many lines of trade the stock held is hardly more than samples , the railroad and the telegraph being trusted to for the filling of large orders . This is particularly the case in the wholesale trade , where goods are commonly shipped from the factories after the order is taken . The factories , in turn , adopt the same plan with raw materials ; they hold as little as they can and prefer to buy only for immediate needs . The outcome of this is that the whole economic process is greatly hastened . The holding of a stock involves the lengthening of the time between production and consumption . Under present methods that time is so much reduced that the materials , in the iron trade for example , are frequently in their crude state when the order for the finished product is taken . ' It is of course obvious that many forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexity of production and exchange tends to lengthen the time between the extraction of the raw materials and consumption . But transportation has primarily and of itself the action stated , and is so far effectual that the contrast between present and past trade in the need for anticipating demand is probably less than commonly imagined . Were all other conditions stationary efficient transportation would tend , for the reasons given , to diminish the need for capital in production and exchange . One use of capital , as  | every one knows , is to tide over the period between production and consumption . In so far as facility of movement shortens this period it does away with the need for capital . Something of this is seen in the ease with which many sorts of business , as the sale of agricultural implements , are carried on through agents , who are either in the employ of the manufacturer or else local dealers with little or no capital . Only the promptness with which each order can be filled from the factory , does away here with the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investment . We see the same facts from a somewhat different point of view when we look at markets . A market is the area over which competition extends , and though it has no sharp boundaries it is clearly determined by facility of transportation and communication . The means of quick movement enable things distributed over a wide area to be offered simultaneously in one place ; or they enable things collected in one place to be offered simultaneously in many places . This is competition on its material side . Communication is the symbolic or psychical mechanism and permits the competitive bidding that must accompany the transactions of the market . If the retail dealers over a circle of a hundred miles ' radius are connected by telephone with the wholesale dealers of a single large city , and can have their purchases sent thence in two or three hours , the competition is almost as perfect as among the dealers of a single place . As the distance becomes greater , the time of movement longer , and communication more difficult , competition becomes imperfect ; but in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action over whole countries , continents , or even the world . The market for the precious metals embraces the whole earth in pretty effective competition . The reasons which make a difference in the extent of the markets for different commodities are aside from the question ; it is enough to note that this extent varies in the case of any one with the facilities for transportation and communication . The normal effect of more efficient transportation upon prices is to make them lower and to lessen the variations of t lie prices of any particular commodity in different times or places . After what has already been said these effects need  | little further discussion . The cost of movement enters into the price of all that has to be moved ; and for this reason alone , without regarding more indirect results , prices fall with cheaper conveyance . A tendency to equality of price at different times and places follows from the action upon supply and demand already spoken of . It may be added that the substitution of one commodity for another that serves a similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meal when wheat flour is dear , is much facilitated by cheap and rapid conveyance . In general , then , transportation makes for that free interaction of industrial forces which is the ideal of a competitive society . Of course in all that has been said it has been taken for granted that the opportunities of transport are equal to every one . The fact that the means of transportation have been and are used for creating inequalities among persons is a deformity upon their normal beneficence . About these discriminations there can be no question but that of the speediest and most effectual means of doing away with them . They strike at the very root of freedom . That a policy of noninterference with them could find advocates is a strange perversion of the principle of laissez-faire , the original intent and only justification of which is that it favors economic liberty . Free competition is altogether dependent upon the just performance of the function of transportation . Though no one will deny justice as a principle , many difficulties arise in its application . To show what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . XII . THE GENERAL THEORY OF RATES In discussing this question it is natural to regard chiefly that form of transportation in which it is most conspicuous and important ? railways . The standpoint taken is that of the interests of a society chiefly competitive which depends for its progress principally , though by no means exclusively , upon the enterprise of individuals and of private associations . A primary inquiry is that of the relation of the public interest to that of the institutions of transportation , of society to the  | railroad corporation ; the social and the private economies of the matter . The chief interest in rates from the private point of view is in the revenue resulting from an excess of receipts over expenditures . That system of rates is best which results in the greatest net revenue . Any particular rate is to be judged in the light of a careful study of the increase or decrease of movement that would be caused by lowering or raising it . A lower charge is preferable if it will stimulate movement sufficiently to make the receipts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hinder movement to have the same desired result . ' What is wanted is a rate of maximum return . As regards the adjustment of rates among persons , commodities and places , the private theory works out in the principle of " charging what the traffic will bear " ; that is , the charges must be so distributed as to render the movement of goods as large as possible . The private interest also fixes , theoretically , a minimum rate that represents the immediate cost of handling a particular part of traffic , the cost that could be avoided by not handling it . If this is not covered there is a direct loss . But , as all familiar with railway questions are aware , this immediate cost is small compared to that cost that is not immediate , not the result of any particular movement , but the general expense of the mechanism as a whole ? the cost that must be borne somewhere but not anywhere in particular . The private theory of rates often permits , and indeed requires , their adjustment without much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not proposed to work out in detail the theory of rates from the private standpoint , nor to inquire how far an adjustment according to that theory would consist with public policy . It is simpler to discuss the matter from the public point of view , qualifying our conclusions by such deference to the private aspect as justice seems to require . There are only two considerations suggested by the private theory of rates which , it seems to me , need to be borne in mind ( luring the further discussion of the question . These are , first , that rates as a whole should be such as to afford a reasonable  | return to investment , and , second , that particular rates , though they may be adjusted within a wide range , may not be reduced below a certain minimum representing the immediate cost of movement spoken of above . The first can not be neglected without something resembling confiscation ; the second seems required by a common-sense regard for the mechanical conditions of movement . Having admitted these qualifications we may , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Four principles are here advanced as fundamental to the theory of railway rates . I. They should do justice among persons . II . They should permit the utilization of special facilities for production arising from soil , climate , mines , or other immovable natural agents . III . As to the distribution of manufacturing and commercial industries , they should favor decentralization rather than concentration . IV . In other respects they should give the greatest possible freedom to the action of economic forces . As these four propositions are unfolded it will appear , I hope , that they form the groundwork of a comprehensive theory of rates . It may be worth repeating that in this part of our inquiry the question is not of the practicability of adjusting rates to a theory , but solely of what they ought to be , supposing we had the power to make them what we would . The first principle , that requiring that there be no discrimination among individuals in the rates of transportation , is so self-evident as to be of little interest from the theoretical standpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every man , is the very breath of a competitive society . Without equal rates among persons there is not a fair chance . The application of this principle is as difficult as its justice is plain . Personal discriminations continue to exist and to threaten industrial freedom in spite of all measures hitherto employed to prevent them . The redress of this evil is perhaps the most important of the practical questions connected with railway rates . The principle plainly requires that rates be equal among persons in the same place and dealing in the same or equiva- lent commodities . Precisely in what this equality consists is often a difficult question , as appears by the numerous cases in which it is not clear whether a discrimination has or has not been made . One question of this sort may be mentioned as involving a principle of so general application as to require consideration in any inquiry into the theory of transportation . Should large quantities be carried proportionately cheaper than small quantities ? Or , to state the question in the practical form it often takes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? From the point of view of public industrial policy it is not clear that this distinction is admissible . It has plainly a tendency , by giving advantages to the shipper of large quantities of goods , to make large dealings more profitable than small , and so hasten the concentration of industrial power . This concentration has already forces enough behind it and tends to become so great as to threaten the existence of competition . If competition is to continue to be the ruling principle , concentration requires rather to be checked than encouraged . Wherever a question of this sort arises it would seem that the small shipper should have the benefit of the doubt . The most plausible ground on which to rest the defence of carload rates appears to be the claim that in their absence small shipments would be so greatly and unnecessarily multiplied as to increase the general cost of transportation to a degree that would more than counterbalance the advantage of encouraging the small dealer . That any such result would follow the abolition of carload rates appears doubtful . The question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the present . The second principle means that , wherever a region is found peculiarly adapted by its soil and climate to the raising of a certain product , it should be enabled to raise that product . Thus , to permit the development of the fruit-growing of Florida and California , the wheat-raising of the northwest , the rearing of cattle on the southwestern plains , low rates should be made if necessary . The principle applies not only to these conspicuous examples of natural aptitudes , but also to less obvious instances . Every agricultural district may be supposed to have in some degree peculiar natural capacities . With  | a given amount of labor each can produce a greater value in certain commodities than in any others . The use of these special powers is indispensable to the efficiency of industry as a whole , and rates should not be such as to prohibit it . It will readily be seen that this second proposition is closely related to the theory of the territorial distribution of persons and wealth already put forth . Two fundamental causes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the conditions of transportation . What is here asserted is that the latter should , so far as practicable , favor the operation of the former . This , however , is very far from being identical with the theory of " charging what the traffic will bear , " as that is generally understood . What is here advanced concerns only industries that rest upon immovable natural agents , notably agriculture . The question what relation transportation rates should bear to manufacturing and commercial businesses , which are not , for the most part , determined in locality by immovable natural conditions , but by transportation itself , is quite a different matter . The second proposition may be held by one who does not admit the validity of " charging what the traffic will bear " as a principle of general beneficence . This second principle is already recognized , in a general way , by the making of very low rates upon coal , lumber , wheat and the like heavy commodities , for the production of which particular regions are peculiarly suited . It is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle that great areas of specialized productive facilities should be encouraged while the smaller ones are neglected . Rates from the northwest should be low enough to enable the development of the great wheat regions in that quarter , but the wheat regions further east should also receive such rates as to enable them to ship to the same market . In so far as rates can determine the matter they should permit each district in the country to raise that to which its soil is best adapted . That there are great diffi-  | culties in the way of obtaining the statistical data requisite for the detailed application of this principle may readily be admitted . But these difficulties are met on every hand and impede the application of any principle whatever that takes account of the complex conditions of economic life . They are no more conspicuous here than elsewhere . This principle makes one legitimate basis for the classification of freight , for differences in rates among commodities . To utilize local facilities for the production of things having little value in proportion to their weight and bulk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minimum of immediate cost of movement , ' by which , of course , a portion of the general cost is shifted upon something better able to bear it . It is clear , however , that since the principle relates only to the immediate products of the land and of other immovable natural agents , it can afford no complete theory of the classification of freight . It can not be too clearly pointed out that the logical basis of the second proposition is the immovability of the natural facilities for production to which it relates ? the fact that if these facilities can not be improved where they are , through the aid of transportation , they can not be improved at all . On the other hand manufacturing and mercantile industries are as a rule not fixed to the soil , and may be developed almost anywhere if the conditions of transportation are sufficiently favorable . We come then to the third proposition . The third principle put forward is that with respect to manufacturing and commercial industries rates should favor distribution , decentralization , rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readily be grasped by any one who has followed that detailed inquiry into the place relations of society in which it was held that the conditions of transportation are a chief cause of the manner in which population and wealth are distributed over the face of a country . The size , location and character of cities , and all kinds of territorial development , are dependent both in general and in detail upon transportation . In discussing railway rates we treat of one of the most important elements of transporta- tion , in whose adjustment all of these momentous consequences are in a great measure involved ; an element , moreover , that is not determined by any automatic process whatever ; but one that must be consciously determined , and should be determined upon considerations of public expediency . There is no avoiding this question of rates ; it has no tendency whatever to settle itself . We have before us the question of the relation that rates should bear to places ; whether and in what manner and degree they should vary with the distance that things are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on other grounds than that of distance . And indirectly the question of the classification of commodities is involved , since different places deal in different commodities . Distinctions among places in the matter of rates may , in fact , be divided into two classes : those effected directly by different rates on the same things , and those effected indirectly by the way in which rates are adjusted among different things . There are several causes operating in practice to give lower rates to some places than to others , which are here held to be distinctly of evil tendency . Among these are competition among railroads , and a favoring of the larger towns for no other reason than that , because they are larger and more opulent , their merchants are able in various ways to influence the policy of the railroads . That large towns should be able to secure lower rates than small ones otherwise similarly circumstanced , plainly operates as a discrimination against the merchants of the latter , and tends artificially to hasten that concentration of population and wealth which of itself proceeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the same character ; they are differences in favor of the larger towns due to the fact that these are competing points , ? places , that is , where there is a choice among rival routes of shipment . That very great differences in rates due solely to this cause exist in all quarters is a well known and a pernicious fact . From the point of view of public policy these differences are altogether inexpedient . They tend artificially and with enormous force to aggrandize the great centers of population at the expense of the smaller . It is impossible to know how  | much they have to do with the fact that large cities are growing so fast compared with the country as a whole , but it may well be believed that they have a great deal to do with it . ' We may say of discriminations among places made upon these grounds , as we said of discriminations among persons , that there can be no question save of the speediest and most effectual way of doing away with them . A great difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from this cause and when from better . As to this I hold that competition in railroad rates is opposed to the general interest and ought to be replaced by union under public control . ' Active at comparatively few points , it tends to enrich these at the expense of all the rest . Because it is confined to a small field its operation in that field is altogether abnormal and unhealthy . The public feeling in favor of railroad competition is loyalty to an idea that has here no practical application . The disappearance of competition would be one step toward the adjustment of rates on other and better grounds . Supposing it granted that differences made for these reasons are inexpedient , we come to the question , what is a proper basis for the adjustment of rates among places ? It will be convenient at this point to take up the fourth principle , that requiring that rates should give the greatest possible freedom to the action of economic forces , and ask what adjustment of rates would be required by the unconditional application of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see what ground there is for limiting its application and how this limitation bears on the theory of rates . The leading idea of the fourth or greatest-freedom principle is that transportation , in so far as it can , should set economic forces absolutely free , and that rates should be adjusted with this aim . Facility of movement has had this operation in the past ; let it continue it to the maximum point attainable . In so far as freedom from physical restrictions is attained society is enabled , by the maximum of specialization , to get the greatest  | possible result from the division of labor . Under the normal operation of economic laws , freed from the trammels of distance and from the unjust discriminations now prevailing , cities will locate themselves at such points as offer special facilities for manufacturing production , and grow to such size as is advantageous , and no larger . If they become very large it will be because that is necessary and expedient . To conform to the greatest-freedom theory rates should , it appears to me , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based as nearly as practicable , upon value ; that is , the more valuable commodities should pay rates in proportion to their value in order that it may be possible to give the cheaper ones rates low enough to move them . Or , looking at the matter somewhat differently , it may be said that by charging for value rather than bulk or weight , these mechanical and , so to speak , accidental elements , are in so far eliminated from among economic forces . Economic forces are freed in the degree that those that are social in character are enabled to supersede those that are merely physical . And value is the social measure of commodities as opposed to the purely material measures , bulk and weight . The theoretical effect of basing rates upon value is that the movement of useful things is promoted in the highest possible degree , and that the cost of transportation enters as a uniform percentage into the cost of all commodities . Movement is promoted because its cost is distributed equally and not made to fall harder upon heavy things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , that the value of a thing and not its weight is the measure of its ability to pay for transportation ; and that in distributing cost of movement according to value we are distributing it according to the ability to bear it . The statement that such a distribution would also make the cost of transportation enter everywhere as a uniform percentage of the cost of the commodities is sufficiently accurate for our present purpose , though perhaps inexact . It is clear that if it cost everywhere five cents to move a dollar 's worth of goods to market ,  | that five cents will , in general , raise the total cost at the point of delivery to one dollar and five cents . I accept the greatest-freedom principle in so far as it relates to a classification of commodities based upon value . Its unconditional application requires , however , an adjustment of rates to places that appears to me inexpedient . Rates upon the same commodity should , under the greatestfreedom theory , be everywhere uniform , without regard to distance . Classification would remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular kind of freight the postal system of a uniform rate would prevail . Distance , by being rendered a uniform cost to all competitors , would be as nearly abolished as it can be by the adjustment of rates . This element no longer entering , all other forces would have full scope . No dealers would be shut out of any market because it cost too much to reach it . A difference in time in traversing different distances would of course remain , but that is something over which rates are powerless . Markets , the areas of competition , would be indefinitely enlarged , and no set of dealers or manufacturers could be secure of the exclusive possession of any particular field . If we accept unconditionally the greatest-freedom principle there is no reason why distance should be recognized in the making of rates ; no reason , that is , from the public standpoint . It would require a certain recognition in so far as a longer haul is actually and necessarily more costly to the railroad than the shorter . ' This difference would demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as coal , where the rate itself has to be so low that the differences in cost due to distance become important in comparison with it . In such cases if rates were uniform for all distances they must either be so high as to prevent shipment or , if low , the longer movements must take place at an actual loss to the railroad . But to a great degree differences in actual cost might be altogether neglected , as they are in the postal service . In so far as it aims to eliminate the effect of distance this would be a concentrating and specializing principle . It is so in theory and it would be even more so in practice . In eliminating ' Compare pp. 88-g.  | distance as an economic element it would remove that which has acted and still acts as a chief obstacle to the advance of the territorial division of labor in all its forms . Freer scope would be given to those forces that tend to the building up of great cities and the concentration of manufactures in particular districts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length , ' a pressure toward centralization arising from the economy of force associated with it . The friction of movement over the earth 's surface is a chief resistance to this pressure , and uniform rates aim at the removal of this friction . It remains , to be sure , as a mechanical factor , but its relation to places and distances is taken away and it becomes simply a uniform charge upon the movement of values . Such is the theoretical working of this principle in a country , if any such is conceivable , where it operates from the first instead of being applied , as must be the case in practice , after a considerable industrial development has been reached . In this latter case the effect must be , I think , to fix and perpetuate the existing distribution of persons and goods . Cities would become larger and industries more specialized , but would remain in the same places . To be more specific , this principle , applied to the United States at the present time , would stimulate the growth of existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east , but would prevent the rise of new cities and discourage all attempts to move manufactures and large mercantile enterprises westward . What motive is there for these changes except convenience of situation ? And is not the difference in the cost of transportation the chief element in this convenience ? Why locate manufactures near the raw material when it costs no more to move the raw material a long distance than a short one ? Here it is pertinent to ask , why indeed ? Why should manufactures be near the raw material ? Is it not quite as well that they should be somewhere else , especially if thereby we gain the saving of force due to a maximum concentration and specialization of industry ? This inquiry raises a number of questions too wide in their scope and too far removed from our immediate purpose to be examined in detail . There is , first , the  | question what is the maximum economical limit of the concentration of industries ? If there is a limit to the law of increasing returns in its application to manufactures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of great industries and of territorial specialization in manufactures go if allowed free scope ? And again , supposing that the economical gain of this process is far from exhausted , how much is it offset or overbalanced by undesirable social conditions that accompany it ? overcrowding , narrowness of individual life and the like ? Without answering these questions it is sufficient to say that I share the common opinion that the concentration of population and wealth tends to excess . Accordingly I prefer the decentralizing principle in the making of rates . This principle as stated on page 88 is negative in form , involving no more than a denial of that just discussed . There are indeed many ways and many degrees in which the adjustment of rates can be made to work against an extreme industrial concentration . What is wanted is a moderate plan , one that shall not prevent society from realizing in large measure the benefits of industrial concentration and the territorial division of labor ; and a simple plan , one that can be understood and applied . So far as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which to work , in adjusting rates upon any particular manufactured commodity , is this : that rates should be proportional to distance , provided only that the rates for short distances do not fall below a certain minimum representing the actual and immediate cost of hauling the freight . The theory of rates advanced in the preceding pages may be summed up in the following propositions : a . Personal discrimination must not exist . b . Differences in the rates given to different places , arising from railroad competition or the favoring of large cities , must not exist . c . Rates must be such as to permit the utilization to the public benefit of local facilities for mining and agricultural production .  | d . Rates on any particular commodity , not among the raw products of immovable natural agents , are to be proportional to distance , except that for short distances a minimum may be fixed sufficient to cover the immediate expense of handling the freight . The classification of commodities , other than raw products , is to be such as to make rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be thought of these propositions it is claimed that they constitute , when taken together , a comprehensive general theory of rates . General principles of this sort are to be used as a basis upon which to build up a complex structure of detailed practical reasoning . Beside the question of their truth there is the farther question whether , if true , they form an adequate basis for the practical structure . Rates may vary with persons , with places , with commodities . A sufficient theory of rates , however general , should indicate their relation to these three possible causes of variation . It seems to me that the propositions above answer this requirement . Thus a declares that so far as persons are concerned there should be no differences on this account . The relation of rates to places is determined by d modified by c . It is not denied that c is indefinite , but only with that indefiniteness inseparable from a general proposition relating to so complex a subject . As a principle it is clear enough . And in like manner the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ e , modified by c . Any practical effort to conform railway rates to the requirements of public policy must of course encounter formidable difficulties whose detailed discussion is beyond the scope of the present inquiry . The question whether and in what manner they should be regulated by government will presently come up in connection with the theory of the relation of transportation to the state . The chief difficulties in the way of rational change , from any quarter , may be classed as statistical difficulties and those arising from the existence of competitive conditions which it is troublesome to disturb . The lack of information , of a sufficient body of trustworthy , comprehensive and well-arranged facts , is alone an insuperable  | obstacle to the efficient public or private regulation of railway rates . ' The application of any theory of rates would disturb existing conditions of competition , and the question just how much this disturbance ought to be admitted as a reason against changes otherwise desirable , is a practical inquiry of considerable importance . The merchants of a given city may have been enabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be shut out were rates what they should be ; or industries may have been established in places where they could no longer maintain themselves . In answer to such objections , however , it is pertinent to inquire whether an unsettled and planless state of things is not continually working wrongs of this character , and whether anything looking toward a rational and permanent adjustment is not preferable to chaos . XIII . TRANSPORTATION AND RENT The relations of transportation to the distribution of product among industrial classes ? to wages , interest and the questions of labor and capital associated with these , are for the most part too remote and indirect to enter into our inquiry . This , however , is not the case with rent . Rent is closely connected with transportation because it is a matter of areas and distances , of place relations . I said at the beginning of the present division of the subject that the study of the economic relations of transportation was nearly equivalent to the study of society in its place relations ; and this notion holds good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of transportation alone , were there no differences in the fertility of soils . That is to *ay , varying productivity , a fundamental conception of the Ricardian theory , is not indispensable to the existence of rent . Nor is it necessary that the supply of land be limited . In the case of an unlimited area of uniform soil rent would exist , and its law would be as follows : Rent arises from differences in the cost of getting commodities to market , and is measured by the difference between this  | cost in any given case and that in the case of the most remote land which it pays to cultivate . There is of course nothing new in this proposition , but it emphasizes the fact , perhaps imperfectly realized , that the conditions of movement are an independent cause of rent , coordinate with fertility and the margin of cultivation . Transportation is , accordingly , an element entering into all rent , and changes in transportation change rents . It is the tendency of progressing facility of movement , other things remaining equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of reaching markets . A familiar example is the fall of agricultural rents in England , due to that development of steamships and railroads which gave American wheat fields access to English markets . Something of the same sort has also taken place between the eastern and western states of this country . Agricultural rents in many parts of the east have gone down and farms ceased to be cultivated because the cheapening of railway movement has decreased the advantage of their situation . This principle has an application to ground rents in cities that is important in view of the economic problems connected with such rents , and of the surprising progress of urban transportation . Street , elevated and underground railways , in proportion to their efficiency , tend to diminish ground rents by distributing city population and business over a wider area . This is particularly true in the matter of dwelling sites , which commonly seek as great a distance from the center as the means of getting back and forth will permit . As already pointed out , ' it is the function of urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spreading them out it reduces the rent , per unit of area , that they have to pay . It does this by enlarging the area of ground available for residence , increasing the supply of land in proportion to the demand . The area of available land increases not simply with the efficiency of transportation , but in a much greater ratio : Suppose , for example , we consider simply the matter of speed in street railways . It is approximately true that the area available for residence increases as the square of the speed . Thus if by the  | construction of a system of underground railways with four tracks , permitting the running of express trains , the speed of travel in a given city becomes three times as great as before , the space over which population may be distributed becomes nearly nine times as great ; or the city may have nine times as many people as before without becoming more crowded . On this far greater area the total ground rent would be no greater than on the original area of the city ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-ninth of what they were before . ' The reason for such a relation between speed and area is found in the fact that quicker transportation , by increasing the distance at which people can live , increases the radius of the habitable circle , while the area of the circle , according to a familiar geometrical rule , increases as the square of the radius . Thus if a man can afford to spend half an hour in riding to his business at the center of the city , and the speed of cars is six miles an hour , he can live three miles from the center . The area of a circle whose radius is three miles is about twentyeight square miles . If the speed is doubled , becomes twelve miles an hour , he can live six miles from the center . But the area of a six mile circle is about 112 square miles , just four times as great as before . To analyze more closely the theoretical effect of improvements in transportation upon advantages of position , a simple diagram will be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reduced to its lowest possible terms by the elimination of everything except the element of situation , and that a simplicity is given to it far removed from actual conditions . The theory is applicable not only to cities but to agricultural rents , in so far as they are determined by transportation . Let 0 be the center of a city ; AC its original diameter , and or its diameter after the speed of transportation has been doubled . If other conditions remain unchanged , the total of rent ( conceived as due solely to relative position ) can not be affected , only its local distribution . ' If in the first instance , it  | was greatest at the center and diminished uniformly toward the circumference , ? the simplest supposition , ? its total may he represented by the volume of a cone , whose section would be the area of a triangle , as ABC ; that is BO would represent the rent of a unit area of ground at the center , while at A and C rent would become nothing . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is extended to a and c the total of rent is the same , but its different distribution is indicated by the shape of a triangle abc , the section of a cone whose volume is the same as that of the cone ABC . ( Since the circle that forms the base of this second cone has four times the area of that of the first cone , equality between the volumes of the cones requires that the height of the second be only one-fourth that of the first . ) At the center , then , rent per unit area ( represented by the height of the cone ) is reduced to one-fourth of what it was before . Thence the change diminishes until at the intersections X and Y we have points where rents remain unchanged . Beyond X and Y they are higher than they were , while from A to a and from C to c rents are now paid where none were paid before . This illustration may be more concretely grasped if one will imagine a conical lump of lead that is first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hammer into the shape abc ; the lead is rent , the hammer improved transportation . So far speed has been the only element of efficiency spoken of , but the same analysis is applicable to cheapness . Thus if we are considering the relation of an agricultural area to an  | industrial center , and desire to examine the effect upon rents of a cheapening of movement , substitute in the foregoing " halving the cost " for " doubling the speed " and " area available for profitable cultivation " for " habitable area . " The margin of cultivation corresponds to the outskirts of the city . Precisely the same geometrical relations hold . This may be stated as follows : In so far as rents depend directly upon facility of access to a given center ( whether facility be measured in time or in cost ) , they vary near the center inversely as the square of the efficiency of transportation ( that is inversely as the square of speed , directly as the square of cost ) . The area of the rent-yielding circle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the efficiency of transportation . XIV . THE POLITICAL RELATIONS OF TRANSPORTATION FURTHER CONSIDERED I shall not consider in much detail those problems of the public regulation or control of transportation that are of so notch present importance . ' What I propose is only such a discussion as will show in outline their relation to the general theory of transportation . The wise practical solution of these problems depends principally , perhaps , on a minute and yet comprehensive statistical study of actual conditions ; but it also depends on the formulation and acceptance of right general principles concerning the degree and manner in which political authority can and should change those conditions . My standpoint as to the general theory of the relation of governments to industry will be that which appears , in fact , to prevail at the present time ; namely , that competition is the best available regulating force in most kinds of industrial activity , but that it is not necessarily nor always good , and may require either to be altogether suppressed in certain cases or more or less stringently regulated for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for progress , and those who propose to substitute government control for it must show  | a probability of benefit from the change ; but when the probability is tolerably clear it ought to be acted upon . As economic organization becomes more complicated and the various parts more interdependent , it constantly happens that the securing of general freedom demands particular regulation . The subject will naturally divide itself into two parts . In the first I shall try to show that transportation is a highly organic activity , requiring to be conducted according to a comprehensive plan and by unified instruments and methods . For this reason it is and must be effected through associations , public or private , whose size and degree of organization correspond , in a general way , to the magnitude and degree of organization in the means of transportation . In the second I shall briefly consider the expedient division of transportation functions between the state and private associations at the present time . Much confused thought about transportation arises from the failure adequately to grasp the fact that it is a distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor trade ; it is something having a distinct character of its own , quite apart from these . The unconscious assumption that it is an industry essentially like other industries should be got rid of . Such an assumption implies a failure to get to the social point of view , from which it appears that this is one of several fundamental social processes . ' It is an agency by which every part of society is brought into relation with every other , and interdependence , specialization , in a word , organization , made possible . It is not merely an industry larger than others , but it is quite a different sort of thing . Not only does transportation hold this peculiar position as the physical basis and instrument of social organization , but it is itself , from one point of view , the highest example of that organization . As the political state is the most conspicuous instance of social unification in its higher or moral form , so transportation is the most conspicuous instance of it in the lower or physical form . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of For its sociological character , in general see  | those military roads of the Romans or the ancient Peruvians . Such a road is , in its simplest aspect , a long strip of ground devoted to a public end , namely , social consolidation through military power . It is a unified instrument ; that is , it is continuous and laid out upon a definite plan . Any one part of it is nothing without all the rest . If a single mile is impassable there might as well be no road at all . And to get the most good out of it , it must be used by uniform methods , that is , by vehicles peculiarly suited to it , perhaps by a regular military post . Uniformity in vehicles and methods , however , comes more to the fore in the later development of transportation . A uniform way is the earliest , always the most obvious , example of the general or organic character of transportation . Pass now to the present and consider a railroad , or better a system of railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been developed an elaborate strip of uniform structure . The gauge of the tracks must be everywhere the same , and the curves , grades , strength of bridges , height of tunnels and the like , must be adjusted to the same general requirements of traffic . Uniformity of structure extends to the vehicles . These must all couple with one another , and so must have couplers in the same position . The air brakes and the continuous heating arrangements must also be uniform in their appliances . So with the signalling arrangements of all sorts . ey should be uniform in order that they may be generally and readily understood . A still more elaborate adjustment is necessary in methods ? arrangements for the interchange of cars and freight , for the connection of passenger trains and the issue of through tickets . rid the widest unity , the most advantageous and economical organization , requires that rates over a whole country be determined in accordance with some wise and comprehensive plan , to the common end of the efficient performance of the social function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a notable difference between movement by sea and by land . In the latter the earliest and most conspicuous instance of physical unity is the way ? a uniform and continuous strip of land devoted to this purpose . This unified way is the basis of much of the  | need of unity in a farther development ; because the way must be uniform , the vehicles and arrangements must be so likewise . By sea , as already pointed out , there is , as a rule , no way in the sense of a specialized or artificial path . It is chiefly for this reason that maritime transportation never required that minute and detailed organization , on the physical side , that is characteristic of railroads . It is for this reason , also , that competition in maritime conveyance is more practicable than on railroads . These remarks apply in a much less degree to inland than to maritime waters , to canals hardly at all ( from the present point of view these are rather to be regarded as a form of land conveyance ) , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a different function from that of land transportation . In so far as they serve the same purpose , are capable of competing with it , they are part of the same system and should be treated on like principles . From this organic character of transportation as a physical agency necessarily follows an organic character in the means of carrying it on . It must be accomplished by associated power and wealth , public or private , of the state or of voluntary associations . Throughout history it has been one of the principal concerns of government , ? extremely important , indeed , both as cause and effect of the existence of governments . It has been equally important as a motive for private organization , particularly in the present century , when the largest and most complex development of private corporations takes place in connection with transportation . This statement will hardly be disputed by one who has followed the discussion to this point , but some illustrations may make its meaning clearer . The question of constructing a local earth road is typical . A road is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade of 1,000 persons . It passes through ten farms . Strict application of the individual principle would require that each farmer make , or refuse to make , the road upon his own premises . Two facts are evident : that though he will have to build one-tenth of the road he may get only one-thousandth the good of it ; and that even were he so public-spirited as to do  | this , his work would be useless unless the other nine farmers were of the same mind . As an individual he lacks both the motive and the ability to do anything about the matter . It must be and is done through associated action . This example sets forth a principle that operates not only between the individual and a small community , but between small communities and large , between the general and local governments of a federated nation , between private corporations and the state , between small private corporations and large ones . We note its operation in the case of the more important country roads . It is a fact of familiar experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is of importance to a whole county or even to a whole state , will not be maintained in a manner corresponding to its importance if its maintenance is left to the townships or other small political divisions . These last , like the farmers in the previous case , have neither interest nor power adequately to meet the general need for a costly highway . No one of them will or should bear more than its share of the general expense ; and even if disposed to do this , it can not unless all the others through which the road passes consent to do likewise , and do it in accordance with some plan agreed upon . These conditions of unity and uniformity require , as a matter of fact , that the construction of roads whose importance is general should be undertaken by the general authority , the county or the state . Just so between the states and the federal government of our union . No question in connection with the public control of railways is more fundamental than that of the proper boundaries between federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in all those matters in which railroads are or should be a unified and interdependent whole , an organization , their control must be unified and general . In those matters that are local in the sense that uniformity in them is of no great importance , the control may properly be left to the local authority . The tendency of the control of railroads to pass from state to federal authorities is the natural and necessary consequence of increasing organization in the railroads themselves . Turning to private corporations we notice here also the general operation of the principle that increasing organization  | in transportation requires a corresponding extension of the agencies that undertake and direct it . The rapid progress of consolidation , of the superseding of small corporations by great ones , is the necessary accompaniment of greater unity in the conduct of railways , and rests primarily upon the fact that transportation is something that requires a general organization . A small corporation owning and operating a short piece of some great highway of railway traffic , is situated very much like a farmer through whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are quite inadequate to the carrying out of those large and uniform operations required for the economical conduct of a great through traffic . A similar relation holds between private corporations , large or small , and the state or nation . Representing only a small part of the citizens ( and them , perhaps , very imperfectly , since it is not uncommon for officers to misuse the confidence of stockholders ) , the largest of them controlling only a small fraction of the total means of transportation , it is always possible that private corporations may be conducted in a manner hostile to public policy . This hostility may arise either from imperfect organization , or from organization to a wrong purpose . It may consist in a lack of unity , uniformity and subordination to right general principles of operation and ratemaking which obstructs the efficient performance of the function of transportation , and is injurious not only to the public but to the stockholders ; or it may consist in the misuse of efficient means in such a manner as to make the public suffer to benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impression , the chief evils actually arising are of the former character . They are such as injure both the public and the general interests of transportation as a business . Particular corporations benefit , or try to benefit , at the expense of others , with the general result that all suffer . The difficulty is in imperfect organization . The results of the analysis , to this point , may be summed up as follows : The development of transportation requires general agencies , ? associations , political or private , rather than individuals ; great associations rather than small ones . This is a reflection NI ,  | of the fact that transportation , being a fundamental and general process , pertaining to society as a whole rather than to any particular part of it , must have a high degree of organization ; that is , must be carried on with general aims , by unified instruments and uniform methods . So much for the organic character of transportation and the requirement of associated control . We now reach the question whether private associations or the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided between them . This is eminently a question whose answer must be relative to political character and development . There is no general solution ; different times and countries require a different policy . In the form that the problem takes in the nineteenth century it is entirely new , since nothing corresponding to the present development of private industrial associations was ever known before . It is also quite a different problem in the United States and in other countries . Here private enterprise and corporate wealth have been found ample for the construction of railways as fast as they were needed . If anything there are too many . In many countries of Europe , on the contrary , the state was obliged to build the railways because of the deficient enterprise of private associations . We may approach the problem as it presents itself in the United States by inquiring what , in general , are the advantages of public and private control . In the conduct of any enterprise the state enjoys the advantages belonging to an association of the widest extent and the amplest power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like transportation , this is much . The state is in a position to give that unity and uniformity of aims , methods and equipment that is so important a part of organization . Its weakness is in the nice adjustment of its operations in detail , and in the lack of those simple and comprehensible motives of personal advantage that control private business . The business motive , the hope of private gain , gives to private industrial associations the strongest inducement to conduct all their operations economically and with a careful adjustment to the industrial needs of the community . In the case of the  | state this business motive is so generalized and attenuated as almost to disappear . The fact that public business is less economically managed than private follows from the lack of the particular and definite motive of private gain in those who conduct it . ' It is true that private enterprises are not always conducted in the best manner from the business point of view , and that public enterprises sometimes are ; but no one will question that the fact in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for it . A study of public works , and especially works of transportation , undertaken by states , will unquestionably , I think , show that not only at the present time but throughout history such works have been carried out with a certain disregard of economy and of detailed conditions in general . The Roman roads and aqueducts , in their imposing but often entirely unnecessary solidity , magnificence and straightforward contempt of natural obstacles , are typical . The advantages and disadvantages of private associations are , of course , just the reverse . They are organized expressly to secure the most economical and profitable adjustment of capital and labor power to industrial conditions . Though the problem of the organization of great corporations is a difficult one , and the interests of the stockholders are often imperfectly represented by the officers ; yet as business associations they enjoy an enormous advantage over the state , which is not only far larger and more complex , but is organized primarily for a different purpose and only undertakes business incidentally . They therefore adjust themselves more readily and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest business at the least expense . They lack , however , the reach and coercive authority to bring about unity of aims and methods wherever that would be advantageous . This may all be expressed as follows : Organization in industry has two sides , the side of unity and that of detail or specialization . On the former the state has some great advantages ; on the latter private associations are much superior .  | It follows from this general state of things that those industrial activities are best suited to the state that are universal and uniform in their aims and methods , but simple in detail , ? have a great need of unity and little of specialization . This is the real basis of public conduct of such enterprises as streets and highways , the post , water-works and the like . These serve universal needs and require to be designed and conducted in a uniform and comprehensive manner , but require little nice adjustment to particular conditions , involve no complex business problems . Streets and highways are free and almost the only business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in repair . The post and water-works sell their products , are in a sense commercial , but the former has only three or four prices , determined by simple and universal rules , and the latter only one . The business of transportation unites the requirement of the widest unity with that of very great complexity of detail . It is here held unquestionable that the railroad system of a country should be unified throughout in its instruments , its methods , and particularly its rates ; that these should be , not indeed all alike , but intelligently adjusted to one general plan . But there is also everywhere required a close study of and adaptation to particular natural and economic conditions . It is the most organic of all industries , and as such is both unified and complex . The question of what the state should do with regard to railroads may be considered either as to their location and construction , or to their operation when constructed . The opinion here advanced is that , in view of the preceding analysis , a country having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , would better leave both of these processes to the enterprise of private associations , subject to a control more or less detailed and stringent as experience may indicate . It is certainly the spirit of our institutions to give private initiative the benefit of the doubt in all questions relating to the conduct of industry , and in the case of railways there appears to be very great doubt whether public construction and operation would be expedient . It seems to me improbable that the railroad system of this  | country would be so well laid out and constructed at the present time had this been done by either state or federal agency . Doubtless many mistakes have been made , but the matter has been in the main determined wisely by individuals who have carefully studied the natural and economic conditions of railway building with a view to their own profit . It is true , in a general way , that a road that will pay well is well located from the public as well as from the private point of view . During the thirties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of American states experimented , more or less extensively , with public construction . Among these states was Michigan , where a system of internal transportation was designed and partly carried out , which consisted chiefly of three railroads and one canal extending on nearly parallel lines across the state . ' Each of these four lines of transportation passed about through the center of one of the four lower tiers of counties in the state , the design apparently being to secure public support to these works by distributing them uniformly . It is possible that this is typical of a principle that , in this country at least , would largely influence the construction of new railroads by political agencies . The question is somewhat different when railways are once constructed , but here also I think that all the details of equipment and operation , even of rate-making , are better organized now than they would have been by exclusively public action . The hope of private profit has everywhere been the strongest force making for economy and improvement of all sorts . The real railroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of the aims and methods of public control , rather than the question between public and private ownership and operation . The traditional policy of the nation , the rooted aversion of the people to the unnecessary aggrandizement of government , the splendid results which , in spite of great and unquestionable evils , have been achieved under private ownership and operation ; these and similar considerations must long cause the question of the national purchase or operation of railways to remain a speculative one . A policy of control will  | be preferred as more elastic , permitting the trial of various methods , more in agreement with historical tendencies , and more probable of success . The first aim of control is publicity . This underlies all else , is the indispensable condition of any successful public intervention whatever . It consists in collecting , arranging , analyzing and communicating all those facts which throw light upon any matter with respect to which a question of control arises . There is required an adequate body of trustworthy information , collected and arranged in a uniform manner , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . Publicity is not attained until facts are not only collected but communicated . To begin with the facts themselves , publicity requires that the accounts of private associations carrying on transportation be trustworthy , and be kept throughout the country upon a uniform plan . The work of public statistical bureaus rests upon that of private accountants , and as long as the latter is diverse and unreliable the former can accomplish little . Public statistical agencies should have authority not only to prescribe forms of report to railroad companies and the like , but also to sec that the facts in these reports are really prepared and inserted in a conscientious and scientific manner . The auditor 's office of an important railroad is itself a statistical bureau of great extent , and it should be organized and conducted in the interest of publicity . There can be no sufficient knowledge of transportation , no adequate basis for deciding questions of regulation , so long as the work of these offices can be manipulated to private ends . Public statistical bureaus connected with transportation have had a rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awaits them . They should have power and means sufficient for their work and an adequate body of scientific statisticians , not only trained in the details of their work , but capable of comprehending the vast forces and interests upon which statistical development rests , and of guiding that development in the best manner . There needs also a severer and wore detailed criticism of work of this character on the part of the public , in order that the bad may be detected , the good  | appreciated , and statistics relieved from the reproach of slovenly and unscientific methods . Aside from publicity the aims of control are , in general , two : to further a better organization of transportation , and to control the end or purpose of organization . The aim may be to benefit both the public and the private interests in transportation through a better adjustment of forces , or to prevent the public interest suffering to benefit the private . The former aim is the more important and embraces most of the practical problems of control . Rightly understood the case is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as that of the public and the railroads versus disorganizing private interests . The problem of control relates chiefly to those matters requiring a wider and more perfect unity , a better coordination of instruments and forces . Thus , on the side of physical apparatus , the matters in which the need of government intervention is most felt are those in which uniformity is necessary . The general adoption of automatic couplers on freight cars , for example , is impossible without general agreement upon a uniform type of couplers , each of which will couple with every other . Moreover no individual railroad has an adequate motive to fit its cars with them unless other railroads are to do the same . Railroad companies acting singly are quite unable to effect this reform ; and this fact , admitted on all hands , has been the basis of national legislation on this and similar matters . The same general principle holds with reference to unity of methods , of arrangements , particularly of rates . Efficient organization requires not indeed a mechanical uniformity , but that unity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As to the management of passenger and freight trains , the issue of tickets and bills of lading , and the like , the railroads of a country should make but a single system , an organized whole in which all should be done with reference to the general requirement of efficient transportation . At present it is not so ; a considerable degree of unity has been attained , but much diversity and working at cross purposes remains . In the matter of rates there is both the greatest need and  | here held that railroad competition , in the sense of competitive rate-making at a comparatively few important points of shipment , has no permanent and legitimate economic function within a railway system ; that is it is justifiable , if at all , only on the ground that the time is not ripe for better organization . Those who have followed the chapter on the theory of rates will readily understand the grounds of my opinion that such competition is hostile to any adjustment of rates consistent with public policy . Competition among the parts of what should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own particular work to do different from that of every other part , is something without a rational basis ; it is simply confusion and disintegration . ' All over this field public control should be felt as a unifying force , working either through authoritative interference , or through publicity , which by discovering the existence and character of disintegrating forces often insures their suppression . Uniformity in equipments and methods should be urged and , when necessary , enforced . With particular fitness may public authority be called in to prevent a few recalcitrant private associations from hindering reforms that the great major- the greatest difficulty of organization . Here a chief evil is competition in rates , a distinctly disorganizing force . It is  | ity are ready to adopt . In such cases the principle of interference is analoguous to the exercise of the right of eminent domain in constructing a road . The government supplies that coercive element that is necessary to prevent a small minority of interests frustrating the just and proper aims of the whole . Public control can not advance far without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example as that previously put forth in this essay , and working stea ' ' . ily toward it . The commissions , the legislatures and other public agencies can not regulate railway charges to much purpose unless they themselves know what those charges ought to be . They may , perhaps , dispense with a minute knowledge of details , but in default of comprehensive principles to work upon , their labors must fail . A theory of rates is not a subject of vague and useless speculation , but is the practical need of the hour . The lack of any definite policy reduces public activity to mere criticism . Perhaps only one point in the theory of rates is at present generally agreed upon ? that there should be no discrimination among persons . This is , to be sure , the most important principle of all , and the work of surmounting the well known practical difficulties that obstruct its application should certainly be pushed to a successful conclusion . To this should be added the principle that railroad competition for the business of large cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient performance of the function of transportation , and should cease to exist . The railroad industry is essentially organic , and in it the principle of unity must and should prevail . Its introduction should be not only permitted but encouraged and enforced . What is wanted is some form of combination that shall be stronger , more permanent and more comprehensive than pools ever were or could have become . Merely voluntary associations , of limited scope and subject to dissolution whenever any member becomes dissatisfied , can not meet the problem . Efficient railway organization must be associated with public control , yielding to it the power of ample and minute regulation and deriving from it a  | coercive authority over disintegrating elements within itself . The public control is needed to ensure that the enormous power of such a combination shall not be turned against the general interest . It is also needed because without some coercion over the members no permanent and effective combination would be possible . But it would be a mistake to imagine that the railroad problem would be solved by doing away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public control . There would still remain the most complex question of all , the adjustment of rates among different places and different commodities . It can not be said that any definite and comprehensive principle concerning this adjustment has yet been announced in legislation . The famous long and short haul provision of the Interstate Commerce Act and of many acts of state legislatures is not so much a principle as a rule of thumb , the setting of an extreme limit to the degree in which rates may disregard distance . It is negative rather than positive and only determines what , in certain cases , rates must b not be , not what they must be . It can hardly be called a contribution to the theory of rates , however useful as a practical limitation . In any case , therefore , the formulation of a comprehensive theory of rates and the cautious but persistent application of it by the exercise of public authority , is indispensable . The question will no more settle itself under public than under private control , though the application of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public control is the more perfect organization of equipment , methods and rates . Unification is desirable as the necessary condition of this better organization , rather than as an end in itself . The question whether transportation should be controlled by local or general political authorities depends upon the extent of organization in the particular kind of transportation in question . Thus , street railways are best controlled by the cities whose local needs they serve ; small country roads may be left to townships or other minor authorities ; those of more general importance to the counties , while the state itself should  | care for the chief highways . And , as pointed out a few pages back , ' the regulation of rail and water transport should be divided between the state and federal authorities . Such questions as those of the precise character and powers of commissions and other political agencies charged with the regulation of railroads hardly belong to the theory of transportation . They belong rather to the theory and practice of administration .  | GENIUS , FAME AND THE COMPARISON OF RACES ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a man ; fame is the recognition by men that greatness has been achieved . Between the two lie early nurture and training , schools , the influence of friends and books , opportunities , and , in short , the whole working of organized society upon the individual . One is biological , the other social ; to produce geniuses is a function of race , to allot fame is a function of history . The question I propose to consider is , What is the relation between these two things ? Does genius always result in fame ? I f not , why not , what determines whether it shall or shall not do so ? These , in a general way , are the inquiries which suggest themselves , and which one would like to answer . I shall be well content if , without attempting to answer them fully , I can bring forward facts of reasoning that shall throw any light upon the matter whatever . That the question is a great one I think no one will doubt for a moment . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one point of view at least , the eery root problem of sociology , of history , perhaps of psychology , the question , that is , of the mutual relations between the individual and the social order , of how society makes the Hiatt and of how the man makes society . Although the " greatttian-theory " of history , as taught by Carlyle and others , may not be entirely tenable , yet it is quite plain that recent studies in imitation , suggestion and the like have established more firmly than ever the fact of the momentous influence of remarkable men upon the progress of mankind. , One who wishes to work at this subject in as exact and  | verifiable a manner as its nature permits may well start , I think , from the writings of Francis Galton , and particularly from his great work on Hereditary Genius . ' In this book the author , though concerned primarily with heredity , has found it necessary to his purpose to formulate roughly and to defend a theory of the relation between genius and fame . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may be stated , so far as it is capable of brief statement , somewhat as follows : Fame ? on the whole , and reserving the right to allow for special conditions ? is a sufficient test of genius . Fame can seldom be attained without genius , and genius as a rule achieves fame . ' Social conditions , though sometimes important and occasionally decisive , may on the whole be regarded as disturbing forces , not at all comparable in influence to natural capacity , ' This is so far the case that the number of illustrious men a race is capable of producing from a given population may be used as a criterion of the ability of the race , and upon this basis comparisons may justifiably be made between races so remote from each other as the ancient Athenians and the modern English . I am led by a study of the facts in the case to uphold the following somewhat different theory ? for which , however , I claim no originality . Every able race probably turns out a number of greatly endowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fame . By greatly endowed I mean with natural abilities equal to those that have made men famous in other times and places . The question which , if any , of these geniuses are to achieve fame is determined by historical and social conditions , and these vary so much that the production of great men can not justifiably be used as a criterion of the ability of races except under rare and peculiar circumstances hereafter to be specified. ? p 123 My view of the relation between genius and the social order may perhaps be made clear by the following comparison : Suppose a man , having plowed and cultivated his farm , should take in his hand a bag of mixed seeds ? say wheat , rice , Indian corn , beans , and others ? and should walk straight across his land , sowing as he went . All places on his path would be sown alike : the rocks , the sandy ground , the good upland soil , the rich mold itt the hollows , the marshes , and whatever other sorts of soil there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be a great variety in the result when the harvest time came around . I n some places nothing would come up at all . In the sand perhaps only the beans would flourish , in the marshes only the rice , and so on ; while some generous soils would allow a variety of plants to grow side by side in considerable vigor . Something like this , I think , is the case with a stock of men passing through history . A good stock probably produces remarkable children with comparative uniformity , but of these wily a few become famous men , and these few , instead of being evenly distributed , appear in groups , now of one sort , now of another , now of several sorts . I Before giving Galton 's views at length let me point out that the question whether the production of great men is a fair criterion of race , together with the comparisons based upon the supposition that it is , is a side-issue , possibly an after-thought , in ! Hereditary Genius , and in no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that genius may be transmitted by heredity . I imagine that no one who reads the book will question that this thesis is fully proved . It would be strange , however , if the subordinate propositions were as carefully thought out Slut thoroughly established as the main one . There is a good deal of statistical reasoning in Galton 's work that is not essential to the present discussion . It will be enough to call to mind the fact that he supposes mankind , or any particular race of men , to be classified according to natural gifts hi sixteen classes or grades , as follows , beginning with the  | highest grade and ending with the lowest : X ? **26;1056;TOOLONG ? x . Of these B , A , a and b are the mediocre classes , and of course the most numerous ; F and G include only men of very great abilities ; X embraces all higher grades ; F , G and X together including only about two hundred and fifty men in a million ; f and all below are idiots . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Is reputation a fair test of natural ability ? " it will be necessary , and I am sure interesting , to give somewhat extended quotations . The author first defines the meaning of the question : Let it clearly be borne in mind , what I mean by reputation and ability . By reputation , I mean the opinion of contemporaries revised by posterity ? the favorable result of a critical analysis of each man 's character , by many biographers . I do not mean high social or official position , nor such as is implied by being the mere lion of a London season ; but I speak of the reputation of a leader of opinion , of an originator , of a man to whom the world deliberately acknowledges itself largely indebted . By natural ability , I mean those qualities of intellect and disposition , which urge and qualify a man to perform acts that lead to reputation . I do not mean capacity without zeal , nor zeal without capacity , nor even a combination of both of them , without an adequate power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But I mean a nature which , when left to itself , will , urged by an inherent stimulus , climb the path that leads to eminence , and has strength to reach the summit ? one which , if hindered or thwarted , will fret and strive until the hindrance is overcome , and it is again free to follow its labor-loving instinct . It is almost a contradiction in terms to doubt that such men will generally become eminent . On the other hand , there is plenty of evidence in this volume , to show that few have won high reputations , without possessing these peculiar gifts . It follows that the men who achieve eminence , and those who are naturally capable , are , to a large extent , identical . I believe , and shall do my best to show , that if the " eminent " men of any period had been changelings when babies , a very fair proportion of those who survived and retained their health up to fifty years of age , would , notwithstanding their altered circumstances , have equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefly upon three arguments : That men who are gifted with high abilities ? even men of class E ? easily rise through all the obstacles caused by inferiority of social rank .  | 2 . Countries where there are fewer hindrances than in England , to a poor man rising in life , produce a much larger proportion of persons of culture , but not of what I call eminent men . 3 . Men who are largely aided by social advantages , are unable to achieve eminence , unless they are endowed with high natural gifts . Concerning the first point he remarks : Now , if the hindrances to success were very great , we should expect all who surmounted them to be prodigies of genius . The hindrances would form a system of natural selection , by repressing all whose gifts were below a certain very high level . But what is the case ? We find very many who have risen from the ranks , who are by no means prodigies of genius ; many who have no claim to " eminence " who have risen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a system of natural selection that represses mediocre men , and even men of pretty fair powers ? in short the classes below but many of D succeed , a great many of E , and I believe a very large majority of those above . I f a man is gifted with vast intellectual ability , eagerness to work , and power of working , I can not comprehend how such a man should be repressed . The world is always tormented with difficulties waiting to be solved ? struggling with ideas and feelings , to which it can give no adequate expression . If , then , there exists a man capable of solving these difficulties , or of giving a voice to these pent-up feelings , he Is sure to be welcomed with universal acclamation . We may almost y that he has only to put his pen to paper , and the thing is done . am here speaking of the very first-class men ? prodigies ? one in a million , or one in ten millions , of whom numbers will be found deibed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking of " countries where there are fewer hindrances n in England " Galton has in mind the United States . He points out that : The Americans have an immense amount of the newspaper-articlekin. , or of the Member-of-Congress stamp of ability ; but the numof their really eminent authors is more limited even than with us. argue that , if the hindrances to the rise of genius were removed English society as completely as they have been removed from t of America , we should not become materially richer in highly inert men . In this connection he urges with great vigor that while common men require sympathy and other favorable circumstances to induce them to put forth their energies , the generality of those who have gained great reputations are  | haunted and driven by an incessant instinctive craving for intellectual work . If forcibly withdrawn from the path that leads towards eminence , they will find their way back to it , as surely as a lover to his mistress . They do not work for the sake of eminence , but to satisfy a natural craving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repose on account of their muscular irritability , which insists upon exercise . It is very unlikely that any conjunction of circumstances should supply a stimulus to brain work commensurate with what these men carry in their own constitutions . The action of external stimuli must be uncertain and intermittent , owing to their very nature ; the disposition abides . It keeps a man ever employed ? now wrestling with his difficulties , now brooding over his immature ideas ? and renders him a quick and eager listener to innumerable , almost inaudible teachings , that others less keenly on the watch , are sure to miss . The proposition that social advantages without high natural gifts will not enable a man to achieve real eminence Galton supports by an ingenious argument , which I omit in the belief that the fact will not be seriously questioned . A youth of very great abilities , Galton asserts , is almost independent of ordinary school education . The best care that a master can take of him is to let him alone , just directing a little here and there , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have frequently broken loose from the life prescribed by their parents , and followed , careless of cost , the paramount dictation of their own natures ; in short , they educate themselves . D'Alembert is a striking instance of this kind of self-reliance . He was a foundling ( afterward shown to be well-bred as respects ability ) , and put out to nurse as a pauper baby to the wife of a poor glazier . The child 's indomitable tendency to the higher studies could not be repressed by his foster-mother 's ridicule and dissuasion , nor by the taunts of his schoolfellows , nor by the discouragements of his schoolmaster , who was incapable of appreciating him , nor even by the reiterated deep disappointment of finding that his ideas , which he knew to be original , were not novel , but long previously discovered by others . Moreover , A prodigal nature commonly so prolongs the period when a man 's receptive faculties are at their keenest , that a faulty education in youth is readily repaired in after life .  | This is illustrated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after he was advanced in years , and also by that of Julius Ceasar Scaliger . The scholar who , in the eyes of his contemporaries and immediate successors , made one of the greatest reputations , as such , that any man has ever made , was Julius Caesar Scaliger . His youth was , I believe , entirely unlettered . He was in , the army until he was twentynine , and then he led a vagrant professional life , trying everything and sticking to nothing . At length he fixed himself upon Greek . His first publications were at the age of forty-seven , and between that time and the period of a somewhat early death , he earned his remarkable reputation , only exceeded by that of his son . These observations are to be understood as applying only to literary men and artists , who , however , form the bulk of those that attain to eminence . In the case of statesmen , commanders and demagogues , Galton admits that great weight must be allowed to social advantages and the accident of being born at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how ' Over , as I propose to deal chiefly with those careers which he mself looks upon as affording the strongest support to his gument . In conclusion , I see no reason to be dissatisfied with the conditions under which am bound , of accepting high reputation as a very fair test of high ability . . . . I feel convinced that no man can achieve a very high reputation without being gifted with very high abilities ; and I trust I have shown reason to believe , that few who possess these very high abilities can fail in achieving eminence . From these quotations the reader can judge for himself ! tether it is not a fair description of Galton 's theory to say at he holds social and historical conditions to be no more ii disturbing forces in the career of genius . They may stun or retard its success , but on the whole " few who possess Very high abilities can fail in achieving eminence . " That this IN really his position must also be inferred from the fact that In another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates the Comparative worth of different races on a basis of the number of great men they produce , without any attempt to compare their histories , or take account of their actual state of social  | development . Exceptions are here and there admitted , as , for instance , where he says that the Negroes in the United States have not had a fair chance to compete with the whites , but as to the general tenor of the book there can , I imagine , be no question . Now let us first of all inquire what the facts and arguments quoted really show , supposing that we admit their general truth and reasonableness . They show that some men of genius can and do rise from a rather low rank of life ? such as that in which d'Alembert passed his boyhood ? and attain celebrity at an early age . This , I think , is nearly all that is shown : at any rate I wish to point out the following deficiencies in the reason-ing 1 . It is not proved , or even claimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hindrances , greater than those surmounted by d'Alembert and others cited by Galton , which act as an effectual bar to genius . I shall give reasons for believing that such hindrances do exist , that they are effectual , and that they operate upon a large part of the population . 2 . It is not shown , except by questionable a priori reasoning , that the ability to surmount ordinary social obstacles , proved to exist in certain cases , can be presumed to exist in men of genius as a class . 3 . Finally , and most important omission of all , there is nothing to show that the ripening of genius into fame is not so far a matter of historical development ? apart from the question of race ? that race can at most be regarded as one of several equally important factors that must unite in the production of distinguished men . If this last be the case it follows that to estimate the worth of races merely by a count of famous men and without a comparison of their history and social organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that follows I shall give the grounds for my opinion that these omitted propositions not only are not established but can not be , and that in fact the reverse of each one of them is true . It does not seem to me that Galton is altogether convincing in the examples he cites to show that genius is superior to social hindrances . What is said of d'Alembert is , of course ,  | true , but it should perhaps be added that his father , although not disclosing himself , recognized the child 's natural claims by settling upon him in infancy an annuity of 1200 francs ; also that the son was sent to school at four years of age . A boy brought up by a kind foster-mother , in the principal centre of European culture , and with this income to give him a start , can scarcely In ? said to have labored under excessive social disadvantages . The case of Julius Caesar Scaliger would indeed be remarkable i f it could be shown that he was entirely illiterate in his youth , commenced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at middle age took up classical learning and became a famous scholar . If this were true it would be the only case I remember to have met with in which a man , grown up in ' Illiteracy , afterward acquired fame as a scholar or a man of letters ; and I doubt whether other cases can be produced . Galton 's phrase " entirely unlettered " may mean no more than at he had a merely elementary education ; but the facts , as thered from the more accessible books of reference , seem rcely to sustain the opinion that he was entirely unlettered in any sense . The Encyclopedia Britannica says ? apparently oting an account derived from Scaliger himself At the age of twelve he was presented to his kinsman , the emperor aximilian , and placed by him among his pages . He remained for seventeen years in the service of the emperor , following him in his pcditions through half of Europe , and distinguishing himself no a by personal bravery as a soldier than by military skill as a captain . tit he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most eminent scholars of the day as his instructors , nor of art , which he tidied with considerable success under Albert Durer . It appears , however , that Scaliger 's own account of his utit , and the only one which gives details , is regarded as quite trustworthy . Chambers ' Encyclopedia , Michaud and others ree upon this point . The American Encyclopedia says , He claimed descent from the Scaligeri ( or family Della Scala ) : ereign princes of Verona from 126o to 1367 , and asserted that he an his classical and medical studies when he was between thirty and forty years old . This story has been disproved by Scipio Maffei Tiraboschi . The latter says he was the son of an illuminator of ' nice , a native of Padua , named Benedetto Bordone , and that the Spn studied at Padua in his youth .  | This false account of himself is ascribed to his vanity , which is known to have been extreme . On the whole I think I am justified in counting Scaliger 's case out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or disqualification that operates at all widely and effectually to prevent men of natural genius from achieving literary fame ? I think there is at least one that has operated very widely and , so far as I can learn , quite effectually , namely , the circumstance of having been brought up without such an elementary education as consists in learning to read and write and having some access to good books . In none of the cases cited by Galton of those who have attained to literary fame did the man in question fail to receive in his boyhood these simple tools by which all literary activity is carried on . Genius is wonderful , but not miraculous . A little suggestion , a little opportunity will go a great way with it ? as Galton justly insists ? but something of the sort there must be . A man can hardly fix his ambition upon a literary career when he is perfectly unaware , as millions are , that such a thing as a literary career exists . Between illiteracy and the ability to read a few good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is true that when reading and writing are generally diffused among the common people and recognized as necessary to any sort of advancement , a bright boy will manage to pick them up even when he has not been educated by his parents . But how recent the times and how few , even now , are the countries of which this can be said ! Where whole classes of the people , or whole regions of the country know nothing of these difficult arts , how is a boy to get his start ? How get that definite ambition that must go before any great achievement ? My opinion that an untaught childhood is an effectual bar to the development of literary genius does not , however , rest upon a priori arguments . Galton 's list , as I have remarked , furnishes no example to the contrary . I have also , with the aid of Nichol 's Tables of European History , prepared a list of about seventy of the most distinguished poets , philosophers and men of letters of Europe , consisting chiefly of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authors of this work . ' Having examined the biographies of these men I find none who did not receive elementary instruction in his boyhood . In the few cases where men of letters have sprung from a class generally illiterate it appears that some special pains has been taken with their education . Thus the father of Burns " was at great pains to give his children a good education , " and Bunyan , whose father was a tinker , " a settled and reputable man , " 2 says in his autobiography , " Nothwithstanding the meanness and inconsiderableness of my parents it pleased God to put into their hearts to put me to school , to learn both to read and to write . " The next question is whether this hindrance of illiteracy , which appears to have been effectual , has been felt by a large proportion of the population . Exact information upon this point can not be had except for recent times , but the following statements are moderate and I have taken some pains to satisfy myself of their truth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the population of Europe , even in Protestant countries , was entirely illiterate . By the great mass I mean all but a rather small per cent , differing in different countries and nowhere precisely ascertainable . ' If we except France and Switzerland , the same is true of southern and eastern Europe at the present time . ' Spain , Russia and European Turkey are overwhelmingly illiterate . Italy is prevailingly so , though her condition in this respect is rapidly improving . The same may be said of Greece . In Austria-Hungary more than half of the army recruits are now returned as able to read and write ; but we must remember that these are young men who have profited by recent reforms . In England , where a powerful aristocracy and church estab-  | lishment seem to have been , on the whole , hostile to the education of the common people , such education has been more backward than in any other large Protestant country . This latter statement may be verified by referring to a work upon The Education of the Poor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kay , B.A. , of Trinity College , Cambridge . This book , which is largely statistical and descriptive , contains ample evidence that the common people of England were generally illiterate at this comparatively recent date , that the opportunities for their instruction , though greatly improved since 1830 , were miserably poor , and that the country was in this respect far behind the more enlightened nations of the continent . The author uses such expressions as these : " Our operatives and agricultural laborers are wholly uneducated. " 1 " However miserable the instruction of the poor may be in the towns and great mining and manufacturing districts , that of the agricultural laborers is still worse provided for . " 2 " Over great tracts of country there does not at present exist a single school . " 3 And concludes his last chapter thus : Yes , here , in such a country as this , where the aristocracy is richer and more powerful than that of any other country in the world , the poor are more depressed , more pauperized , more numerous in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very much worse educated than the poor of any other European nation , solely excepting uncivilized Russia and Turkey , enslaved Italy , misgoverned Portugal , and revolutionized Spain.4 There are other hindrances arising from social and economic conditions that operate effectually to prevent the development of natural ability . One of these , as I suppose every one will admit , is underfeeding in childhood , or the subjection of children to premature and stunting labor . No breeder of horses would expect a colt , however excellent his parentage , to develop speed after having been put to the plow when two years old . Yet it is undeniable that something closely analogous happens to a considerable part of the children in countries so advanced as England and the United States . Mr. Galton has himself devised and brought into use methods of measuring large num-  | hers of men which have recently been employed to determine the physical effects of nurture and environment . The most striking of these researches is perhaps the investigation by Spielmann and Jacobs of the comparative measurements of Jews in the East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who are a well-to-do class , did not differ much from Englishmen of the same class . Those from the East End , employed for the most part in sweat-shops upon the manufacture of cheap clothing , averaged more than three inches less in stature , and were inferior also in size of skull and in every particular covered by the measurements . The intellectual deterioration that goes with this can not well be measured , but that it must exist will hardly be doubted . In another paper , ' dealing with the ability of the Jews as compared with other races , Mr. Jacobs asserts that out of one and a half million of Jews living to fifty " only a little more than half a million can be said to have lived ; the rest have but existed and have been out of the running in the race for fame . " The biographies of men of letters seem to me to afford very small support to the theory that literary genius is independent of social hindrances . In going over the list already mentioned of seventy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I find that about two-thirds of them belonged by birth to the upper and upper middle classes , using the latter term rather broadly to include clergymen , advocates , wellto-do merchants and the like . Of the remainder nearly all came of the lower middle class , shopkeepers , prosperous handicraftsmen , etc. , while the very few men who , like Burns , sprung from the peasantry , prove to have received an education uncommon in their class . It would seem , then , that if we divide mankind into these three classes , the number of famous men produced by each class is in something like inverse proportion to the total number in the class . '  | The only escape from these facts , for one who still believes that genius is superior to circumstance , is to assert that the lower classes are naturally as well as socially inferior , and this to such a degree that few or no men of genius are born in them . In our democratic days this will appear to most persons a monstrous supposition , and yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in fairness , to be stated . The struggle for the best places in life operates , it may be said , as a sort of natural selection , by the working of which the ablest strains of men are continually finding their way to the top . Even in the most conservative societies there is always more or less penetration of social walls by men and families of uncommon energy . The natural effect of such a process is that hereditary ability becomes concentrated in the upper strata , and little or none is to be found anywhere else . To this might be added the argument already quoted from Galton , that since America , where education is diffused and opportunity open , does not produce more great writers than England , where social distinctions are comparatively fixed , we must conclude that democracy has no tendency to bring to light suppressed genius . This view has some show of reason , and in fact it may be admitted that , for the cause mentioned , there is probably more unusual ability among the children of the well-to-do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is among those who have not made so good a place for themselves . But there is no proof that this superiority is very great , and when we see that a few men from the peasantry and the proletariat , having had instruction and opportunities unusual with their class , achieve  | literary fame , it seems reasonable to infer that if instruction and opportunity had been general the number of such men would have been correspondingly increased . The argument derived from the United States is pertinent only if we assume that the failure of this country to produce a large number of famous writers can not be explained by some historical cause , such as the inevitable preoccupation of the people with the material development of the country and its political organization . That it can be so explained is the general and defensible opinion with us , and I shall later offer some observations tending to confirm this view . Moreover , if we take history as a whole , the proposition that democracy favors the development of genius will appear plausible , to say the least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all other places , were democracies when at the height of their glory , and ceased to be glorious soon after they ceased to be democratic . The great writers of the Augustan age were the , product of the later days of the Roman Republic , and the time of Elizabeth was one of freedom and open opportunity compared with the times that preceded and followed it . The history of the Netherlands would also offer striking confirmation of the theory suggested . Freedom is certainly not the only cause of the appearance of great men , but it appears to be one of the causes , a favoring circumstance which has commonly united with other and more obscure conditions in the production of memorable groups of fatuous persons . It seems to me that if any conclusion upon this point is to be drawn from history it is the one opposite to that which Galton draws from the case of the United States . And if this fails , what other standing ground is there for the theory that genius is not suppressed by illiteracy and class dis-tinctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hindered by such differences of wealth and circumstance as are found within the educated classes of peoples as advanced as the English or the American , can not be precisely determined because we have no way of knowing what a man might have done under differ-  | ent conditions . We can not know what is in him until it comes out : if genius does not become fame we can not be sure it was genius . There is no single , definite obstacle which , like illiteracy , is almost invariably efficacious ; but what may help one may hinder another . In such a question more weight must be given to probability and the opinion of judicious observers than to anything else . Galton is very clear in his belief that these things do not materially affect the final result , that if a man of genius does not reach fame by one road he will by another . It is possible , however , that he does not do full justice to the considerations opposed to this view . That poverty , low rank , bad luck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been a thousand times proved . Indeed there is quite a general impression , borne out by ordinary observation , that men as a rule require a certain amount of opposition and hardship to bring out what there is in them . " To be thrown upon one 's own resources , " says Franklin , " is to be cast in the very lap of fortune ; for our faculties then undergo a development and display an energy , of which they were previously unsusceptible . " Human nature , as a rule , is sluggish , needing some sort of external occasion and incitement , and men of genius are not always exceptions to this rule . Galton says of Talleyrand , Talleyrand would have passed his life in the same way as other grand seigneurs , if he had not been ejected from his birthright by a family council on account of his deformity , and thrown into the vortex of the French Revolution . The furious excitement of the game overcame his inveterate indolence , and he developed into the foremost man of the period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to suppose that inveterate indolence is confined to diplomats or statesmen . Thackeray , among modern men of letters , is accused of it , perhaps unjustly , as some who knew him assert . At any rate Trollope says of him , ' It was his nature to be idle ? to put off his work ? and then to be angry with himself for putting it off . Ginger was hot in the mouth with him , and all the allurements of the world were strong upon him . To find on Monday morning an excuse why he should not on  | Monday do Monday 's work was , at the time , an inexpressible relief to him , but had become a deep regret ? almost a remorse ? before the Monday was over . It is possible that had Thackeray been rich he would never have settled down energetically to literature , but would have continued through life the desultory activities of his youth and early manhood . I think it is true , however , that most artists and men of letters have the hair-trigger temperament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward production . But although this impulse is powerful it may be vague , a mere unrest and discontent ; indeed it must be so until it finds its proper use through observation , opportunity and training . If this self-knowledge and wholesome activity are not gained , men of genius are peculiarly apt to sink in dissipation energies that do not readily find a natural outlet . The muscular sensibility of the born athlete , to which Galton likens the promptings of genius , seldom causes him to keep in training except when there is a fight or a race in prospect . At other times he is not unlikely to appease his uncomfortable sensations with drink . In the same way , I believe , genius , especially of the imaginative sort , is liable to run wild unless it finds betimes a harness in which it can work . This is the common impression , and the irregular lives of many gifted men bear it out . There is a class of men of genius in whom extreme sensitiveness , combined with lack of physical vigor , makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and annoyance of bread-winning activities . The case of Darwin , as Professor Ritchie has suggested , ' may be cited as one in which , so far as we can see , inherited wealth could not well have been dispensed with . Half an hour more or less conversation would make to him the difference of a sleepless night , and of the loss perhaps of half the next day 's work . After speaking of the routine of his life , in which everything that wealth , retirement and the affection of his family  | could do , combined to secure regularity , amusement and freedom from disturbance , his son goes on to say , ' It is almost impossible , except for those who watched his daily life , to realize how essential to his well-being was the regular routine that I have sketched ; and with what pain and difficulty anything beyond it was attempted . Any public appearance , even of the most modest kind , was an effort to him . In 1871 , he went to the little village church for the wedding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fatigue of being present through the short service . A notable instance of good fortune in Darwin 's life was his appointment to be naturalist of the Beagle , leading him to settle finally upon a scientific career and enabling him to make those observations in which most of his later work was rooted . Just how far his development depended upon this opportunity it would be useless to discuss . It is very possible that he might have collected his material in some other way . In connection with this appointment there is an instance , related in his autobiography , of how great matters may hinge upon small ones . Afterward , on becoming very intimate with Fitz-Roy ( the captain of the vessel ) I heard that I had run a very narrow risk of being rejected , on account of the shape of my nose ! He was an ardent disciple of Lavater , and was convinced that he could judge of a man 's character by the outline of his features ; and he doubted whether any one with my nose could possess sufficient energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of education and circumstance to help or hinder genius is largely a matter of opinion , I may be excused for quoting Goethe , whose wide acquaintance with every sort of natural ability and close study of the way in which it develops , make him perhaps the highest authority that can be found . Speaking of the fact that distinguished men , especially poets , are often sickly , he said to Eckermann , ' The extraordinary performance of these men presupposes a very delicate organization , which makes them susceptible to unusual emotions , and capable of hearing celestial voices . Such an organization , in conflict with the world and the elements , is easily disturbed and  | injured : and he who does not , like Voltaire , combine with great sensibility an equally uncommon toughness , is easily exposed to perpetual indisposition . And again , in " Wilhelm Meister , " ' " But will not a happy natural turn , " said Wilhelm , " as the first and last requisite , of itself conduct the player , like every other artist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he aims at ? " " The first and last , the beginning and the end , it may well be ; but in the middle many things will still be wanting to an artist , if instruction , and early instruction too , have not previously made that of him which he was meant to be : and perhaps for the man of genius it is worse in this respect than for the man possessed of only common capabilities ; the one may much more easily be misinstructed , and be driven far more violently into false courses than the other . " " But , " said Wilhelm , " will not genius save itself , not heal the wounds which itself has inflicted ? " " Only to a very small extent and with great difficulty , " said the other , " or perhaps not at all . " In estimating the importance of circumstance it should never be forgotten that " a favorable environment " is nothing fixed and definite , like social standing or wealth , but is different for every individual . That measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed stimulus to one man , may drive another into dissipation , or wear out his body and mind with fruitless annoyance and anxiety . In the same ay the wealth that may secure just the needed seclusion and atcrials for one , may keep another in lifelong indolence . So much for those differences in education , nurture and opportunity that are found among the people of the same time d nation . Now how is it as between different countries and different times ? Can it be shown that there are forces apart from race that cause genius to flourish here and droop there , which at one period foster the germs of greatness in a people Until they yield a rich fruitage of accomplishment and fame , d at another wither and chill them into barrenness ? Are Ouch things as historical tendency and the spirit of the age sufficiently real and powerful to control the production of famous men ? If the affirmative of these questions can be established , it   is clear that the whole plan of estimating the worth of races by their great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ground . Such comparisons can be defended only upon the theory that race is the paramount factor . I hope to show that history is quite as important as race in this matter ; that while it is a function of race to turn out geniuses , historical forces determine how many of them shall be famous , and of what sort these shall be , that the appearance of great men in the past has been of a sort impossible to reconcile with the theory that such appearance is controlled by race alone . Let me begin by giving the main argument and conclusions of Galton 's chapter on " The Comparative Worth of Different Races . " In discussing this the first question considered is , What are the qualities which are needed in civilized society , and which may , therefore , be used as a test of the worth of races ? They are , speaking generally , such as will enable a race to supply a large contingent to the various groups of eminent men , of whom I have treated in my several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this very convenient test is perfectly fair , we are at all events justified in making considerable use of it , as I will do , in the estimates I am about to give . The comparison , then , is to be based upon the number and grade of the eminent men that a race produces , the supposition being that the distribution of ability is similar in all races , so that if the ablest men in a given race are superior in a certain degree to those of another race , the men of medium and low ability will be superior in like degree . It is like the inference of a zoologist , who , having only a single bone of an animal of known species , will compute approximately all the other dimensions . I know this can not be strictly true , for it would be in defiance of analogy if the variability of all races were precisely the same ; but , on the other hand , there is good reason to expect that the error introduced by the assumption can not sensibly affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ; moreover , the rough data I shall adduce , will go far to show the justice of this expectation . p 141 Upon this basis Galton proceeds to compare the Negro race with the Anglo-Saxon , the Lowland Scotch and the English North-Country men with the ordinary English , and the English with the ancient Athenians . The Negro race he finds to be about two grades below the Anglo-Saxon . This conclusion is based upon the fact that its greatest men , such as Toussaint l'Ouverture , appear to be at least that much inferior to the greatest men of the rival race , also upon the opinions of travelers who have had to do with African chiefs , and upon the large proportion of half-witted persons found among the blacks . The Lowland Scotch and the English North-Country men are held to be " decidedly a fraction of a grade superior to the ordinary English , " both because they produce more eminent men in proportion to their number , and because the well-being of the masses of the population is greater . We now come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Attica was the ablest , and e was no doubt largely indebted to the following cause for her periority . Athens opened her arms to immigrants , but not indisiminately , for her social life was such that none but very able men Id take any pleasure in it ; on the other hand , she offered attracs such as men of the highest ability and culture could find in no er city . Thus , by a system of partly unconscious selection , she lit up a magnificent breed of human animals , which , in the space one century ? viz. , between 530 and 430 s.c. ? produced the followillustrious persons , fourteen in number : Statesmen and Commanders. ? Themistocles ( mother an alien ) , iltiades , Aristides , Cimon ( son of Miltiades ) , Pericles ( son of nthippus , the victor at Mycale ) . Literary and Scientific Men. ? ucydides , Socrates , Xenophon , Plato . Poets. ? Aeschylus , Sophot , Euripides , Aristophanes . Sculptor. ? Phidias . The population of Attica at the time she produced these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free-born persons , o , 000 resident aliens , and a laboring and artisan population 0f 400,000 slaves . Of these Galton holds that the first-mentioned alone are to be considered , the aliens and slaves being excluded , doubtless because they did not belong to the Athenian race .  | Now let us attempt to compare the Athenian standard of ability with that of our own race and time . We have no men to put by the side of Socrates and Phidias , because the millions of all Europe , breeding as they have done for the subsequent 2000 years , have never produced their equals . They are therefore two or three grades above our G ? they might rank as I or J. But , supposing we do not count them at all , saying that some freak of nature acting at that time may have produced them , what must we say about the rest ? Pericles and Plato would rank , I suppose , the one among the greatest of philosophical statesmen , and the other as at least the equal of Lord Bacon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ X , one or two grades above G ? let us call them between H and I. All the remainder , the F of the Athenian race ? would rank above our G , and equal to or close upon our H. It follows from all this , that the average ability of the Athenian race is on the lowest possible estimate , very nearly two grades higher than our own ? that is , about as much as our race is above that of the African Negro . This estimate , which may seem prodigious to some , is confirmed by the quick intelligence and high culture of the Athenian commonalty , before whom literary works were recited , and works of art exhibited , of a far more severe character than could possibly be appreciated by the average of our race , the calibre of whose intellect is easily gauged by a glance at the contents of a railway book-stall . This argument is so ingenious and the conclusion so startling that I propose to assume for a few moments that the method is sound ? that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect as the English and Athenians upon a basis of the number and grade of their eminent men ? and inquire whether it is fairly applied , whether it does , after all , show such a pre-eminence on the part of the Greeks as Galton asserts . The only changes I propose to make are such as in my opinion tend to insure fair play between the contending nations . As we allow Athens to choose her ground , so to speak , and rest her claims upon the age of Pericles , we ought surely to allow the same privilege to England . The brightest period in her history , having in view the number of her great men and of the population from which they were drawn , was undoubtedly the age of Elizabeth . The population of the country at that period is not accurately known , but it appears to have been not greater than four and a half millions . Against this we have in Athens only about   1O,000 free citizens , or but two per cent of the number of Englishmen . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in questions of fame the illiterate and overburdened poor should be counted out . Now among the free citizens of Athens there was no such class as this ; although the government was democratic , so far as concerned those who shared in it , the citizens were really an aristocratic caste , ruling over a vast population of slaves . There were , on the average , four or five of these latter to every man , woman and child of the Athenian population , and even the poorest families had at least one slave to do the lower sorts of manual labor . The education of boys appears to have been nearly universal , and it was not a mere smattering of the elements , enabling the pupil to write his name or spell out laboriously a few paragraphs , but lasted from the age of seven to that of sixteen , and was often followed by more advanced studies . The three main divisions were gymnastics , music and letters , and the course as a whole appears to have been a thorough initiation into the culture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will admit , one peculiarly avorable to the development of literary and artistic genius . I have not been able to find even an estimate of the number of English people that could read and write in the time of Elizabeth ; but it was some small percentage of the population . Of course the upper and middle classes were feeling in some measure the general intellectual awakening that followed the vival of learning and the invention of printing , but culture as by no means general in any class and scarcely touched the common people . Froude says in his Life of Bunyan , " In those ys there were no village schools in England ; the education the poor was an apprenticeship to agriculture or handicraft . " Without pretending to definite knowledge upon the matter venture to suggest that it is at least a fair question whether more than two per cent of the people of England had such portunities for culture that they can reasonably be classed , this respect , with the free-born population of Athens . Another circumstance in favor of the Athenians is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of literary and artistic genius is greatly stimulated by facility  | of access to great centers of culture , where one can come into contact with eminent men and their works , and gain an inspiration more personal and visible than can be gotten from books . It is in capitals , and there only as a rule , that literature and art are organized , communication and sympathy established among men of promise , and an " atmosphere " created . Upon this point I shall take the liberty of quoting Goethe again . He has discussed the question at length , with his usual sagacity and amplitude of information . Take for instance this concerning Beranger , whom he is contrasting with Schiller . ' On the other hand , take up Beranger . He is the son of poor parents , the descendant of a poor tailor ; at one time a poor printer 's apprentice , then placed in some office with a small salary ; he has never been to a classical school or university , and yet his songs are so full of mature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irony , and there is such artistic perfection and masterly handling of the language , that he is the admiration , not only of France , but of all civilized Europe . But imagine this same Beranger ? instead of being born in Paris , and brought up in this metropolis of the world ? the son of a poor tailor in Jena or Weimar , and let him commence his career , in an equally miserable manner , in such small places , and ask yoursel f what fruit would have been produced by this same tree , grown in such a soil and in such an atmosphere . I suppose I need not insist on the fact that as a focus of intellectual activity the London of Elizabeth bears no comparison to the Athens of Pericles . The Athenians were all , practically , inhabitants of one great town , and any man could meet with any other as often as he liked , while all came in daily contact with the great works of art that crowned the city . London , on the other hand , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the famous description of English roads in Macaulay 's third chapter ? and was not much of a place when you got there . It contained something like 150,000 people , of whom the great majority were ignorant artisans who must be classed , so far as culture is concerned , with the Athenian slaves . Making due allowance for these things and assuming that the conditions other than race are about equal in the two cases , let us see if England can produce a list of men born within Conversation with Eckermann , May 3 , 1827 ,  | one century , which shall be other than ridiculous when set beside the one that Galton gives us from Athens . I choose the century beginning with 1550 . Table Opinions will differ regarding these two lists ; but few , I imagine , will go so far as to say that the Englishmen are outclassed . It is not for me to praise Shakespeare , or Milton , or Cromwell , much less to depreciate Phidias or Sophocles . Some would say that to have produced Shakespeare was alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to cast lasting doubt on all comparisons tending to make it appear less than hers . Let the reader form his own opinion . In such questions as these , where there is no definite criteion , we are necessarily more or less controlled by prejudice . In favor of the Englishmen there is the prejudice of race ; in favor of the Greeks there is the prejudice of education . The writers of the latter people had a long start ; they have been c school-books of Europe emerging from barbarism ; they have grown with the growth of culture , and their fame is rried on by irresistible tradition . The fame of Shakespeare still young , and it is only within the present century that he has come to be generally regarded as the peer of the great assic writers . Anglo-Saxons of sensibility and culture regard Greek litattire and art with an intensity of admiration which might  | be interpreted as a sense of their own inferiority . I would suggest , however , that this charm which the Greek spirit has for the northern races @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is like the feeling of sex ; just as there is something in what is womanly that appeals to men , and something in what is manly that appeals to women , so that which is Greek delights the modern nations without there being any question of greater or less in the matter at all . The Teutonic man , one may say , feels toward the spirit of his own race as toward a brother , but toward the Greek spirit as toward a mistress . This very capacity of admiring , and so assimilating , what is best in a different race is itself , perhaps , a title of greatness . After all , were the Greeks an abler people than the AngloSaxon ? Could they have advanced in liberty for a thousand years without falling into disorder ? Could they have organized and maintained a commercial empire " greater than the Roman ? " Could they have suppressed Napoleon and abolished the slave trade ? Such questions are interesting , perhaps , but quite unanswerable . In the meantime I imagine that most persons who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we accept Galton 's method of comparison , there is small foundation for his judgment " that the average ability of the Athenian race is , on the lowest possible estimate , very nearly two grades higher than our own ? that is , about as much as our race is above that of the African Negro . " But it can be shown , I think , that this method , no matter how carefully we allow for differences of social organization , is still hopelessly fallacious . It can be satisfactorily tested , it seems to me , by examining the historical grouping of the eminent men produced by any one people , with a view to finding out whether they appear with such approximate regularity as would be expected if greatness is a function of race . If one thing is to be the criterion of another it must be shown to bear some reasonably definite relation to it . In Galton 's argument it is assumed that we have an equation of two variable quantities , of which one being determined , namely the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is race ability .  | Now it is demonstrable that there are other unknown quantities entering into this equation which are not determined , and whose presence vitiates the reasoning . The conspicuous fact that one generation may be rich in famous men and another , a little earlier or later , quite barren of them , does not entirely escape Galton ; but he endeavors to account for it , as he apparently must under his theory , by a change in the race itself . Let us see how he does this in the case of the Athenians . In a paragraph already quoted , the rise of this people is explained as follows : Athens opened her arms to immigrants , but not indiscriminately , for her social life was such that none but very able men could take any pleasure in it ; on the other hand , she offered attractions such as Wien of the highest ability and culture could find in no other city . Thus , by a system of partly unconscious selection , she built up a magnificent breed of human animals which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes of the decline of this breed . We know , and may guess something more , of the reason why this marvelously gifted race declined . Social morality grew exceedingly ; marriage became unfashionable , and was avoided ; many of the re ambitious and accomplished women were avowed courtesans , and Consequently infertile , and the mothers of the incoming population ere of a heterogeneous class . In a small sea-bordered country , ere emigration and immigration are constantly going on , and where e manners are as dissolute as were those of Greece in the period of which I speak , the purity of a race would necessarily fail . It can , therefore , no surprise to us , though it has been a severe misfortune to humanity , that the high Athenian breed decayed and disappeared . Now is this entirely plausible , or even consistent ? Both the rise and the decline of the race are ascribed to the same cause , namely immigration . Certainly , then , some reason should be given for supposing that there was a radical in the character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until something more definite and convincing than is is brought forward we must believe that the natural characteristics of a race are comparatively stable , and that it takes a long time , as a rule , to transform them into something   quite different . Believing this we can not explain the instances of rapid rise and decadence , of which history is full , by saying that they are due to changes in the breed . To examine this question a little more closely let us look for a few moments at the distribution of famous painters in the country that has been most noted for producing them ; since artists are regarded by Galton as affording , along with literary men , the best illustration of the truth of his theory . For convenience , and in order to have something definite to refer to , I shall again make use of Nichol 's Tables , already mentioned . Arranging the famous painters of Italy according to the dates of their birth ? omitting two or three unimportant ones whose dates are uncertain ? I have the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great painters . In the thirteenth century seven were born ; in the fourteenth , seven ; in the fifteenth , thirty-eight ; in the sixteenth , twenty-three , of whom fourteen fall in the first half . In the seventeenth , eighteenth and nineteenth centuries a few scattered painters , none of them of very high merit . The concentration in the fifteenth century , here apparent , becomes more striking when we examine that century by quarters . Six of the thirty-eight were born in the first quarter , eight in the second , eight in the third , and sixteen in the last . But the real pre-eminence of this period , the real intensity with which the light of fame beats upon this particular point , is very faintly suggested by figures . It will be better appreciated when I say that here , within a period of nine years , were born the three painters generally acknowledged to be the greatest that the world has produced : Titian ( 1475 ) , Michelangelo ( I 477 ) , and Raphael ( 1483 ) .  | Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory that greatness is a comparatively constant function of race ? Can it be supposed that by some occult action of the laws of selection the Italian people rapidly increased in natural ability of an artistic sort up to 1500 , and then as rapidly declined ? I f not , if such variations as these are observed in the same race , how can the number of eminent men produced be taken as a test of race ability ? The odds against this remarkable grouping being due to mere chance would be so great that no one , I suppose , would venture to attribute it to that , though I should be inclined to admit that the birth of the three transcendent artists within so very short a period as nine years was partly fortuitous . Nor can it be said that genius , such as these painters possessed , found some other path to fame in the periods preceding and succeeding the great time of art . On the contrary the time when there were famous artists in Italy was also the ' me , roughly speaking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in the age succeeding all sorts of nius were obscured . A study of Dutch and Flemish painters would lead to reIts essentially similar . Nearly all the great ones were born the period 1550-1650 . To explain facts like these , and analogous ones that can be raced in the history of literature by any one who will take the  | trouble , we must suppose one of two things : first , that the natural ability of races undergoes rapid changes in degree and kind , owing to the action of forces as yet unknown ; or , second , that the appearance of famous men is dependent upon conditions other than race . The second conclusion is so much simpler and agrees so much better with known facts , that I imagine few will embrace the first . And if we accept the second we must also , I think , conclude that able races produce at all times a considerable number and variety of men of genius of whom only a few encounter those favorable conditions that enable them to achieve fame . To make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest a comparison . Suppose one were following a river through a valley , and from time to time measuring its breadth , depth and current with a view to finding out how much water passed through its channel . Suppose he found that while in some places the river flowed with a swift and ample current , in others it dwindled to a mere brook and even disappeared altogether , only to break out in full volume lower down . Would he not be led to conclude that where little or no water appeared upon the surface the bulk of it must find its way through underground channels , or percolate invisibly through the sand ? Would not this supposition amount almost to a certainty if it could be shown that the nature of the rock was such as to make the existence of underground channels extremely probable , and if in some cases they were positively known to exist ? I do not see that the inference is any less inevitable in the case before us . We know that a race has once produced a large amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that the river has a large volume in some places . We see , also , that the number of eminent men seems to dwindle and disappear ; but we have good reason to think that social conditions can cause genius to remain hidden , just as we have good reason to think that a river may find its way through an underground channel . Must we not conclude , in the one case as in the other , that what is not seen does not cease to be , that genius is present though fame is not ? There are reasons for believing that even where our river   seems fullest a great part of its flow is underground . In the age of Elizabeth , for instance , there was a complete lack of those masters of painting and sculpture who made the chief glory of the age of Lorenzo de Medici . Yet later history has shown that the English people are by no means lacking in this sort of genius . The inference is that it was present but undeveloped . The fact that genius can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others is by no means inscrutable . The reasons for it can be indicated in a general way , though they are so complex that it is difficult to point out their precise application to various periods of history . In the case of painting , for instance , it is easy to show that a number of conditions other than natural ability must concur be fore excellence can exist . Among those generally recognized as essential to great art of any kind are the three following : First , a perfect technique , achieved by the accumulated experience of many generations , and kept alive and promulgated by a succession of masters . This technique can not be learned from books or by looking at finished pictures . " Studio traditions are to be acquired only in the studio . " It calls for pernal contact and a long training that begins in childhood . In der that this training may be had it seems important that art should rest upon art-handicrafts , which maintain a large number of skilled craftsmen , of whom the most gifted become great Artists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely because it was a recognized and flourishing trade , and beuse the kindred trade of goldsmithing also flourished . The cat painters and sculptors were first of all craftsmen . They Were apprenticed when eight or ten years old , and for a long me were contented to watch their master and copy his methas closely as possible . So general was this and so close imitation that it is frequently impossible to distinguish the ! work of a master from that of his pupils . The greatest painters grew up in these traditions , and spent  | their youth in imitation . Raphael was a pupil of Perugino , Perugino of Verocchio , he of Donatello , and so on . Mr. Stillman says 1 that Raphael " had an extraordinary and , so far as we can judge by the history of painting , unique power of absorbing the ideas and feelings of other men . He caught the color of every great artist he approached . " A second indispensable condition is an " art-atmosphere , " a general and unaffected interest in the creation of beauty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest naturally leads . This art-atmosphere is itself a social product , and usually grows with the growth of art , in part its cause and in part its effect . Little can be done in any line of work without appreciation , sympathy , friendly criticism ; and artists and poets , being extremely sensitive , can least of all do without these . They all agree , I believe , that no headway can be made without an " atmosphere , " and , where people in general are cold , artists flock together and try to keep one another as warm as possible . Thirdly , I believe that no very great art has been produced except where there was an aspiring and successful general life , furnishing symbols that spoke to a common enthusiasm . Stimulated by this enthusiasm art raises these symbols to the highest types of beauty . The general life and the symbols which stand for it , may be religious , as with most of the earlier mediaeval painters , or they may be political , or a union of the political with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case with much of the greatest art of Athens and Venice . The art which separates itself from great ideas and general feelings , which aims solely at sensuous effects , is usually felt to fall short of art 's highest functions . I do not say that these are all the essential conditions of great art , but they seem to be essential , and that they are so helps one to understand the fact , already shown , that the development of artistic genius is dependent upon historical tendencies and the spirit of the time . A complete philosophy of art , showing just what the favoring conditions are and how they arise , has yet to be written . How present conditions in the United States bear upon the P 153 development of artistic genius may be gathered from the statement of an American painter of acknowledged eminence , Mr. F. D. Millet . ' The brief chapters in the career of an American artist may be summarized as follows : He spends the most impressionable years of his life between studying in an art school and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable him to pursue his studies abroad . He enters an art school in a foreign capital , and proves that with all the disadvantages of his early education he can take rank with any student in any branch of the profession . After his student days are over he has to decide the question whether to expatriate himself and lead a congenial life in the stimulating atmosphere of professional sympathy and support , or to return home and add his efforts to the sum of individual endeavors directed with rare devotion and self-sacrifice toward the development of artistic talent in his native country . If he chooses the former course , he may and often does become known to fame and fortune ; if he selects the latter and nobler career , his life becomes a round of teaching , struggles with sordid conditions of professional life , and the wearing and soulkilling battle with lack of appreciation and encouragement , not to say distrust . If in the whirl of commercial prosperity , and all the distractions of active and ultra-modern life and the accompanying unrest which is death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of serious artists , what may we not expect when the luxury of leisure is possible in this country ! There is , then , reason to believe that it is not native incapacity that retards the rise of art in this country , but sheer ignorance and lack of interest resulting from generations of onesided development . Since Galton includes distinguished oarsmen among his men of genius , I may be allowed at this point , to draw a comparison from the game of baseball . It is as difficult for an American brought up in the western part of our country to become a good painter as it is for a Parisian to become a good baseball player , and for similar reasons . Baseball is a social institution with e ; every vacant lot is a school , every boy an aspirant for success . The technique of the game is acquired in childhood , and every appearance of talent meets with enthusiastic appreciation . Hence we have many good players and a few great ones . Now   it is probable that Frenchmen are from time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how can it be developed ? What chance do they have to achieve excellence or acquire fame ? They probably remain in lifelong ignorance of their own possibilities . If the ambition did arise in one of them it would probably come too late for him to make up the lack of early training . ' This somewhat humble illustration is believed to be well worthy of consideration by those who imagine that a social career can be independent of circumstances and the spirit of the time . The principles that apply to painting hold good , mutatis mutandis , in other social careers . The dependence upon conditions other than race , the concentration of certain kinds of greatness at certain epochs , exist in all the arts and in literature . The concentration of English dramatists toward the end of the sixteenth century is as conspicuous as that of the Italian painters a century earlier . Shakespeare , Beaumont , Fletcher , Ford , Webster , Massinger and Jonson were born within a period of twenty-three years , while in the centuries since then England has produced only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A similar grouping may be observed in the earlier group of American men of letters . Professor McMaster , in his history , speaks of it as follows : 2 The men whose writings now form our national literature , the men we are accustomed to revere as intellectual patriarchs , all whose works have become classics , belong , without exception , to the generation which followed the Revolution . Irving was not a year old when peace was declared . Cooper was born in the same year Washington went into office . Halleck , one year later . Prescott , in the year Washington came out of office . The constitution was five years old when Bryant was born . The first year of the present century witnessed the birth of Bancroft , and , before another decade had come and gone , Emerson was born , and Willis , and Longfellow , and Whittier , and Holmes , and Hawthorne , and Poe . . . . Scarcely a twelvemonth went by unmarked by the birth of a man long since renowned in the domain of letters-1783 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1796 , 1800 , 1803 , 18o6 , 1807 , 1808 , 1809 , 1811 , 1814 , such is the almost unbroken succession .  | I find , however , that grouping is not so conspicuous in literature as it is in art ; and in science it is not at all obvious . Since the Reformation there has been a tolerably regular and constant advance of verifiable knowledge , in which all civilized nations have participated . Though it is no doubt true , as Galton points out , that the fame of a man of science is likely to rest upon some striking discovery which might easily have been made by some one else ? since the time had arrived when it could not long be postponed ? yet I am not sure but scientific genius is , after all , more independent in its development than any other . If so it is because science , as a social institution , is farther-reaching , and more accessible to those fitted to share in it , than is any other institution . Since the invention of printing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all nations have formed a single co-operating group , enabled to co-operate by the facility of communication and by the exact and verifiable character of their work . To the man with a natural turn for it , science , and the inspiration to pursue science , are communicable through books and correspondence . There is no " local color " in science ; the " atmosphere " is as essential as it is in art , but it is purely intellectual , and depends relatively little upon personal contact . Compared with the artist the man of science is cold , and can carry on his pursuits with but little emotional support from his immediate surroundings . Letters , journals , and the notice of his work by others in same line of research suffice for him . Literature has some of these characteristics , but not others . t has a great advantage over painting and sculpture in that it is capable of cheap diffusion through printing . It is for this ason , apparently , that literature arises earlier in a new country than do the other arts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through intercourse with a master , nor is it possible adequately to reproduce great works and disseminate them over the earth . Accordingly it may happen , as is the case over the greater part of the United States , that no conception of these arts exists except a vague and false one derived from reading and from familiarity with cheap mechanical reproductions . The arts of illustrating and engraving , however , precisely because their products are easily disseminated , are in   a comparatively flourishing state and are doing much to arouse an art-sense among us . As compared with scientists , men of letters have probably more need of the emotional stimulus and support that come by personal contact . The passionate desire of young men of letters to see and know the heroes of their craft is depicted in many autobiographies . I suppose that when Mr. Howells went to Boston and saw Lowell and Dr. Holmes for the first time it meant more to him than a like experience would have meant to a young chemist or mathematician . In the matter of propagation in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees , like oaks and walnuts , which , because of the difficulty with which they are sown , make their way slowly into a region where the species is not already established . Literature and science , for the reasons just given , are comparatively light-seeded , furnished like thistledown with facilities for transportation , and so spread very rapidly where the conditions are favorable for their growth . These , however , are details which have little to do with the general question under consideration . The main fact is that great success in any career calls for two things : natural ability , and a social mechanism to make this effective . Genius can reach high , as a rule , only when it stands on top of a culminating institution . When one looks off at the horizon of a rolling landscape he will notice two or three trees that seem to overtop all others . They seem to do so partly because they are really tall trees , and partly because they stand near the summit of the highest visible ridge . There may be higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high ? but these do not appear . It is quite the same with men . The age of Elizabeth and the age of Lorenzo de Medici were , so to speak , natural elevations in the histories of England and Italy , resting upon which it was easy for genius to attain fame . I do not mean that they were superior , on the whole , to our own time , but they were more favorable to the development of certain sorts of ability . Individual faculty is real and powerful , and there is no greatness without it , but no man is tall enough to stand upright and fixed in the stream of history . He can at most swim   a few strokes against or across it . " Who can separate his ship from the waves on which it is floating ? " I trust I have made clear my reasons for thinking that estimates of the worth of races based upon the number and grade of the eminent men they produce , have no scientific justification unless it be possible to eliminate those social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter as race . That such elimination is usually impossible , I suppose all will admit . To show , in a general way , the power of historical forces is easy , but to take exact account of them , to predict their future operation , to show just how they differ in different times and countries , and how much must be allowed for that difference , is , in the present state of historical science , quite out of the question . If , however , cases can be found where two races mingle and compete in the same social order , and under conditions substantially the same , a valuable comparison might perhaps be made . Are there any such cases ? The negroes and the whites in the United States could not be so compared , as Galton justly remarks . Neither , for similar reasons , would it be possible to compare the older English stock of the same country with recent immigrants of other races . Perhaps no cases can be found in which the use of the ethod is more defensible than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North-Country men , suggested by Galton , and the comparison between the Jews and other races carried out by Mr. Jacobs in the paper published by the Anthropological Institute . ' The question here is whether the peoples mentioned are really On an equality in respects other than race . It is commonly reported that the standard of education and individual freedom long the Lowland Scotch is considerably higher than it is in ngland . Galton says as much , and contrasts the well-being of the northern peasantry with " the draggled , drudged , mean look of the mass of individuals , especially of the women , that one meets in the streets of London and other purely English towns . " Now to assume that this degradation is due to inferiority of race seems to me to be a begging of the whole uestion . Before doing that it should be shown that nurture   and social conditions can not thus degrade the members of a good race . I do not think it is possible to show this , and I would cite the comparison of East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicating the contrary . ' If the comparison between English and Scotch were made at the time of Elizabeth it would seem to show that the English were a far superior race at that period , since Scotland was then conspicuously lacking in distinguished men . ' If this lack was due to the backwardness of social development , how can we assume that the present apparent superiority of Scotland is not likewise due to social conditions , instead of to race ? The men of the north may be " a fraction of a grade superior , " but , if so , the fact needs further proof . The author of the paper upon the ability of the Jews ascribes a great deal to their social conditions , which still differ much from those of the races with whom they mingle . Thus he explains their musical pre-eminence partly by " the home character of their religion , which necessarily makes music a part of every Jewish home . " Again , " Persecution , when not too severe , has probably aided in bringing out their best powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is hope of overcoming it , is a spur to action . " Such comparisons , when made with as much thoroughness and caution as this one , are certainly interesting and valuable ; and if they do not arrive at precise results they are no worse off in this respect than most social investigations . On the whole it seems to me that the relation between genius and fame is fairly well represented by the comparison , suggested at the outset , of a farmer sowing mixed seeds in a furrow which traverses a great variety of ground . Here many come up and flourish , there none , and there again only those of a certain sort . The seed-bag is the race , the soil historical conditions other than race , the seeds genius , and the crop fame . It is true that knowing so little as we do of the forces governing heredity and degeneration , we can not be sure that the   seeds are sown with anything like uniformity , that the amount of natural ability produced from a given stock is approximately constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would seem reasonable to accept it until the contrary is shown .  | I propose to discuss Personal Competition with no special reference industry or commerce , but rather with a view to the part that it plays in social life as a whole , and to the effect it has upon the charter and happiness of men . With this purpose I shall consider its action , its intensity , its relation to association , the conditions of rsonal success , the bearing of success upon morality , the effect of mpetition as regards sympathy , contentment and individuality ; and finally , the standard of success . Of course the discussion of these bjects is very far indeed from exhaustive : my aim is to give a conIse and connected view of principles and to suggest , at least , their ) plication to existing social conditions . Some of the matters treated are of a sort concerning which many ogle feel strongly , upholding conflicting views with a common  | vehemence . I can not expect to reconcile these differences , which rest as much upon temperament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I hope that discerning readers will find in what I say evidence of a painstaking desire to see the truth and to state it fairly . I. THE FUNCTION OF PERSONAL COMPETITION The function of personal competition , considered as a part of the social system , is to assign to each individual his place in that system , , If " all the world 's a stage , " this is a process that distributes the parts among the players . It may do it well or ill , but , after some fashion , it does it . Some may be cast in parts unsuited to them ; good actors may be discharged altogether and worse ones retained ; but nevertheless the thing is arranged in some way and the play goes on . That such a process must exist can hardly , it seems to me , admit of question : in fact I believe that those who speak of doing away with competition use the word in another sense than is here intended . Within the course of the longest human life there is necessarily a complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the life of society . The new members come into the world without any legible sign to indicate what they are fit for , a mystery to others from the first and to themselves as soon as they are capable of reflection : the young man does not know for what he is adapted , and no one else can tell him . The only possible way to get light upon the matter is to adopt the method of experiment . By trying one thing and another and by reflecting upon his experience , he begins to find out about himself , and the world begins to find out about him . His field of investigation is of course restricted , and his own judgment and that of others liable to error , but the tendency of it all can hardly be other than to guide his choice to that one of the available careers in which he is best adapted to hold his own . I may say this much , perhaps , without assuming anything regarding the efficiency or justice of competition as a distributor of social functions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All I wish to say here is that the necessity of some selective process is inherent in the conditions of social life .   It will be apparent that , in the sense in which I use the term , competition is not necessarily a hostile contention , nor even something of which the competing individual is always conscious . From our infancy onward throughout life judgments are daily forming regarding us of which we are unaware , but which go to determine our careers . " The world is full of judgment days . " A and B , for instance , are under consideration for some appointment : the experience and personal qualifications of each are duly weighed by those having the appointment to make , and A , we will say , is chosen . Neither of the two need know anything about the matter until the selection is made . It is eligibility to perform some social function that makes a man a competitor , and he may or may not be aware of it , or , if aware of it , he may or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the reader will bear in mind that I always use the word competition in the sense here explained . There is but one alternative to competition as a means of determining the place of the individual in the social system , and that is some form of status , some fixed , mechanical rule , usually a rule of inheritance , which decides the function of the individual without reference to his personal traits , and thus dispenses with any process of comparison . ' It is possible to conceive of a society 2 organized entirely upon the basis of the inheritance of functions , and indeed societies exist which may be said to approach this condition . In India , for example , the prevalent idea regarding the social function of the individual is that it is unalterably determined by his parentage , and the village blacksmith , shoemaker , accountant or priest has his place assigned to him by a rule of descent as rigid as that which governs the transmission of one of the crowns of Europe . If all functions were handed down in this way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children to take the place of their parents , if there were no progress or decay in the social sys-  | tern , making necessary new activities or dispensing with old ones ; then , there would be no use for a selective process . But precisely in the measure that a society departs from this condition , that individual traits are recognized and made available , or social change of any sort comes to pass , in that measure must there be competition . Status is not an active process as competition is ; it is simply a rule of conservation , a makeshift to avoid the inconveniences of continual readjustment in the social structure . Competition or selection is the only constructive principle , and everything worthy the name of organization had at some time or other a competitive origin . At the present day the eldest son of a peer may succeed to a seat in the House of Lords simply by right of birth ; but his ancestor got the seat by competition , by some exercise of personal qualities that made him valued , or loved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sir Henry Maine has pointed out that the increase of competition is a characteristic trait of modern life , and that the powerful ancient societies of the old world were for the most part non-competitive in their structure . While this is true , it would be a mistake to draw the inference that status is a peculiarly natural or primitive principle of organization and competition a comparatively recent discovery . On the contrary the spontaneous relations among men , as we see in the case of children , and as we may infer from the life of the lower animals , are highly competitive , personal prowess and ascendency being everything and little regard being paid to descent simply as such . The regime of inherited status , on the other hand , is a comparatively complex and artificial product , necessarily of later growth , whose very general prevalence among the successful societies of the old world is doubtless to be explained by the stability and consequently the power which it was calculated to give to the social system . It survived because under certain conditions it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predominant among savage or barbarous peoples . With the American Indians , for example , the definiteness and authority of status were comparatively small , personal prowess and initiative being correspondingly important . The interest- ing monograph on Omaha Sociology by Dorsey , published by the United States Bureau of Ethnology , contains many facts showing that the life of this people was highly competitive . When the tribe was at war any brave could organize an expedition against the enemy , if he could induce enough others to join him , and this organizer usually assumed the command . In a similar way the managers of the hunt were chosen because of personal skill ; and , in general , " Any man can win a name and rank in the state by becoming wacuce ' or brave , either in war or by the bestowal of gifts and the frequent giving of feasts . " Throughout history there has been a struggle between the principles of status and competition regarding the part that each should play in the social system . Generally speaking the advantage of status is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informs us , " The superior prerogative of birth , when it has obtained the sanction of time and popular opinion , is the plainest and least invidious of all distinctions among mankind " ; 1 and he is doubtless right in ascribing the confusion of the later Roman Empire largely to the lack of an established rule for the transmission of imperial authority . The chief danger of status is that of suppressing personal development , and so of causing social enfeeblement , rigidity and ultimate decay . On the other hand competition develops the individual and gives flexibility and animation to the social order ; its danger being chiefly that of disintegration in some form or other . The general tendency in modern times has been toward the relative increase of the free or competitive principle , owing to the fact that the rise of other means of securing stability has diminished the need for status . The latter persists , however , even in the freest countries , as the method by which wealth is transmitted , and also in social classes , which , so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth and the culture and opportunities that go with it . The ultimate reason for this persistence ? without very serious opposition ? in the face of the obvious inequalities and limitations upon liberty that it perpetuates , is perhaps the fact that no other method of   transmission has arisen that has shown itself capable of giving continuity and order to the control of wealth . II . THE INTENSITY OF COMPETITION By the intensity of competition I mean the relative amount of activity absorbed by the selective process . To make this meaning clearer suppose a country where children ordinarily remain in the same locality as their parents , where their choice of career is practically limited to a small number of trades or , in the case of the upper class , to three or four professions ; where , moreover , one who has established himself in a trade or profession is fairly secure against being driven out of it , or of finding it undermined by new methods ; there , I should say , the intensity of competition is small , that is to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to finding his place in the social whole . That question is in great measure settled for him by the conditions just mentioned . On the other hand if neither place nor class confine him , if migration in search of opportunity is common , if the humblest-born may and do aspire to the highest places , and spend a large part of their lives in striving to attain them , if a man even when established in some niche in the social system can maintain it only by vigorous and continued endeavor ; there the intensity of competition is great . Again , where things go on in much the same way one generation after another , without the creation of new kinds of activity or the extension of old ones , competition will be less intense than where a rapid creation of new functions involves selection to determine who shall perform them . The greater or less efficiency of the selective agents is another important element in the matter . If they work promptly and surely they may do a great deal with a comparatively small expenditure of force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; while if they are inefficient they will , like any other bad machine , use up a great deal of energy without producing a corresponding result . Accordingly it seems to me that the general relation between social conditions and the intensity of competition may be comprised in the following propositions :  | The intensity of competition varies 1 , with the degree of personal liberty ; 2 , with the rate of social change ; 3 , inversely as the efficiency of the selective agents . The freer the individual the wider his field of choice in determining his social function , and the wider the field of choice the more active must the selective process be in assigning him his place in it . Of a child born in British India , it can be predicted with some probability what and where he will be thirty years hence ; but a child born in an American village may be anywhere and anything , almost , at the end of that time : no one would venture a guess . In the one case competition has r , ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So with social change ; , u/ unless it is mere decay , it involves new things to be done , new opportunities . For example , the electric industries , now employing hundreds of thousands of men , have arisen within a comparatively short time , and every man in them has found his place by competition . In an analogous manner the opening of new regions , like Oklahoma or the Klondike , the creation of an army , such as took place at the outbreak of the Spanish war , the revelation of new fields of research , such as was made by the publication of the Origin of Species , are inevitably the occasion for a selective activity to determine who shall be the settlers , the miners , the military officers , the investigators , that the situation demands . ' As to selective agencies , an all-wise despot would undoubtedly be the most efficient ; and it is conceivable that he might give to men a great deal of personal liberty and provide for any amount of social change without much increase in the intensity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a society striving to be free and progressive must do the best it can to achieve rational selections through its organization . By just laws , by a public sentiment appreciative of every sort of merit , and , most of all , by a system of education calculated to discover and de- velop the special capabilities of each individual , it can do much to make its choices prompt , intelligent and just , and to avoid wasteful conflict . ' It is from this point of view that the existing state of things has been most effectively criticised ; and writers who demand that competition be suppressed usually mean that we ought to replace irrational and destructive contention by intelligent selection , The three propositions that I have suggested indicate the social conditions of more or less intensified competition . To these should be added a condition that is rather biological or psychological , namely the race traits of the people . An aggressive , ambitious , virile people , such as the Anglo-Saxon , German or Irish , is naturally competitive . Each man wants a great deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertainty , or personal contention , to deter him from seeking it . An Englishman or a German will seize upon all the opportunities in sight and demand more , where an Italian or a Spaniard would perhaps make no use of those that are at hand . The principles above stated are sufficient to explain the fact , which seems to me unquestionable , that the present time is one when , among all progressive peoples , competition is far more intense than it has ever been in the past . They also explain why it is much more intense in some countries than in others , and in some parts of those countries than in other parts . The diffusion of personal freedom among the mass of the people is undoubtedly , it seems to me , something that was never achieved on any large scale or for any long period , until within the present century . Such democracies as existed previously were small , of short duration , and at best gave comparatively little real personal liberty . The fundamental reason for this general failure of free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that until modern methods of easy and rapid communication came into existence it was impossible to combine freedom with unity , order and control over wide areas . The unfree individual is controlled by custom , authority , physical necessity and other agencies that do not involve his intelligent choice : the free individual must be controlled by what we call the moral forces , by public opinion , patriotism , rational selfinterest and the like . Now nothing but the newspaper , the tele  | graph , the railroad and the rest of the modern appliance of communication can enable the moral forces to be so organized as to act quickly and effectively over wide areas . Consequently freedom on a great scale was an impossibility in the past , and the large , stable , powerful states were based on status and authority . Personal freedom failed because it was the unfit ; it is now succeeding because , under changed conditions , it has become the fit . This is hardly the place to develop this view of the genesis of personal liberty , though I feel confident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the meantime it is certain that such liberty has increased rapidly and that it has correspondingly stimulated competition . Of the great nations the United States has undoubtedly partaken most fully of this tendency , Great Britain , next and Germany , perhaps , next . It is now well understood that the Latin nations , even republican France , are behind the Teutonic nations in this respect , the chief cause , apparently , being something in the race psychology of the two stocks . We find that in France , notwithstanding her unstable politics , the social life as a whole is quieter , based more on status and less on competition , than in the other countries mentioned . France " presents the spectacle of a tranquil people with agitated legislators . " 1 The first principle , then , gives one reason for intense competitive activity in the United States : a consideration of the second will show how greatly this activity is stimulated by social change . The changes that this country is undergoing may be divided into two classes , those that are world-wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current , and local changes incident to the development of a new country . The former have intensified competition everywhere , the latter give it a peculiar vigor and a special character among us . The thought of the industrial revolution and of the radical social changes of every sort that have grown out of it is so familiar that I do not care to dwell upon it . Not industry only but family life , social relations , science , education , philosophy and religion are in process of transformation as a result of this movement . In all these fields , though most consciously  | in industry ? because that gives occupation to the vast majority of the people ? we have intenser activity , more striving , more success and more failure , a constant breaking-up of settled relations . Great cities , which are incidental products of the new regime , are in all countries the foci of competition , and show most conspicuously its good and evil results . Populated by immigrants , tradition and status have little hold upon them , either for good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social and moral conditions , are new and unregulated . To all this a new country adds the special series of changes incident to the passage of each part of it through those steps of development , from the rude agriculture of pioneers to the full maturity of manufactures and commerce , which would suffice to produce a restless and competitive condition of things , even if the course of life in older countries were quite uniform and regular . This series is so mingled with the other that it can not well be studied separately , but its influence appears clearly in the general result . It is chiefly , I think , because they have this additional strain upon them that Americans are thinner , quicker , more nervous and restless than their English kinsmen : it is for this reason , I should say , rather than on account of the difference in climate , that people walk faster upon the streets of Chicago than upon the streets of London : and this helps to explain , also , why , in spite of an unequalled expenditure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States that other nations have achieved . And moreover the disintegration that accompanies all these changes affects the selective process itself , and tends in some measure to exaggerate the intensity of competition and lower its character by making it wasteful , unjust , brutal , anarchical . The just laws , the effective moral sentiment adapted to the various conditions of human activity , the adequate educational institutions , which ought to preside over and assist competition , being things of slow growth , are largely wanting just when they are most needed ; and we have as a result the disorganization which is so often portrayed , not without some extravagance , by the advocates of radical reconstruction . Whether this great intensity of competition is on the whole a good or a bad thing can not be determined satisfactorily until   the period is past and we can see what comes of it ; perhaps not then . The matter will frequently come up in the further course of this essay . In general it may be said here that the present rt'ginme certainly does great things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrive in it , developing energy , self-reliance , strength of character , and power and efficiency of many sorts ; but bears with blind severity upon the weak , the misplaced and the unprepared , among whom are many who in circumstances more fortunate would take an honorable and important part in the general life . The moral and social forces that should prepare and support men share in the general disturbance and disintegration ; character as well as ability is mercilessly and unfairly tried , and the access of strength to those that stand the test is more or less offset by the demoralization and degeneration of those who do not . Whole classes of the population , institutions , nations , modes of thought , may suffer retrogression . Thus it may not be true , as some believe , that the Negro race has deteriorated under the moral strain of emancipation , but there is nothing absurd in the hypothesis . Or we may plausibly ascribe the pessimism and sensualism of French literature to a decay of religious faith which has not been made good by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists all about us . There is strong evidence that certain portions of our immigrant population suffer moral deterioration , perhaps temporary , under the influence of American life . Corrupt conditions of business are common enough , though not so general as many suppose , and are found principally in new industries , new forms of association and , in general , where business morality has not had sufficient opportunity to develop . Political corruption , which flourishes most in great cities and among immigrant populations , may be looked upon as coming in part under the same general law . To discuss these questions fully would take us too far ; it will be easily understood that a thorough examination of the effects of intense competition would bring within our range all the pressing social problems of our time . Meanwhile it is well not to forget that even in the United States this restless activity is by no means general , but is   confined to the frontiers of social change . The majority of the people live in rural communities and , though more wideawake and changeful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demoralization by excessive mental strain . While very intense competition is a characteristic of the time and place ? that is , there is more of it here and now than elsewhere or ever before ? it is far from being universal . We must also bear in mind in this connection that any diminution of the intensity of competition is inevitably accompanied by an advance in the alternative principle of status . In our eastern states , as conditions become more settled , social classes are correspondingly delimited . The family line , always the most tenacious strand in the social fabric , renews its continuity and its hold upon tradition , fellow-feeling , and other parts of the social structure ; inherited wealth and position create differences in education , manners and associations ; and the resulting class sentiment prevents free intermarriage and increases the difficulty of rising from the manual laboring to the professional and commercial class . ' I do not mean to imply that we have here merely a see-saw between alternative evils . It is possible to combine , in a considerable degree , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity open after tranquillity is assured . For example , a system of free technical education which should bring home to every boy in the land the opportunity to secure the best training in any career for which his natural capacity fits him , would promote competition of the best kind without producing any serious ill to offset the good . The question of good or ill is quite a different one from the question of status or competition : either of these principles may work very well or very badly . We must try to combine the better forms of each in such a way as to produce the best general result . Nevertheless it would certainly indicate a lack of insight if a person who deprecated intense competition of all kinds as a great evil should also attack such strongholds of status as the inheritance of property and class sentiment ; since any demolition of these portions of the social structure must inevitably be  | compensated by increased competition of some kind or other . There are no other organizing principles in society beside these , and what one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , were not inherited , the death of a rich man would call for some sort of a selective process to determine what person or persons should control his estate ; just as the substitution of a president chosen by the people for a hereditary monarch involves increased competition in the form of elections . III . THE RELATION OF COMPETITION TO ASSOCIATION Where there is a common interest it is rational to pursue it through united action . There is at present no necessity to combat the error , ascribed to the classical school of English economists , that competition is the natural state of man and combination something irregular and unnatural . The tendency is perhaps rather toward the opposite error , namely , that of assuming that competition is the irregular and unnatural thing and combination alone normal . The two , of course , are supplementary and each has its proper sphere . One is achievement , the other process . Competition is an organizing force , and its relation to association is ? as Hamerton said of the relation of truth to beauty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The usual way of thinking and writing about these two appears to flow from an idea of separateness and inconsistency between them that does not correspond with the facts . Though perfectly distinct as principles they are inextricably interlaced in human life . Every one of us is a competitor in several or many fields , while he is at the same time a member of various co-operating groups : and ? what seems somewhat surprising ? we are likely to compete with the very persons with whom we - operate . For example , every important branch of trade has rather elaborate system of co-operation , including associations , trade-journals , price agreements , and the like ; yet it is among those who follow the same trade that competition is ost severe . Again , here is a factory full of operatives joined together in a labor union for the furtherance of common inrests ; yet they inevitably compete among themselves ? for   reputation as workmen and advancement in grade , for office or influence in the union , and probably in many ways not directly connected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . The faculty of a university is an illustration of organized co-operation of the highest type ; but there is always competition among its members , for the furtherance of individual views of educational policy , for professional reputation , and the like . As I have pointed out , no active person escapes competition for a day . It goes on often when he is quite unconscious of it : that is , his action is affecting judgments and influences that will ultimately determine , in some measure , his social function and career . Nor is there anything irrational in this interlacing of the two principles . It is rational to co-operate as regards common interests , and at the same time to compete as regards interests which are divergent or undetermined ; and this is what men do . Co-operation , then , arises when men see that they have a common interest , and have , at the same time , sufficient intelligence and self-control to seek this interest through united action : perceived unity of interest and the faculty of organization are the essential factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " getting together " is one of the things that chiefly distinguish the abler races of men from the weaker , and would of itself suffice as a test by which to arrange the various nations of the earth in an ascending scale of ability . With good reason we congratulate ourselves that the American people , as a result both of nature and training , possess this faculty in a comparatively high degree , although they are at the same time a notably competitive people . There is nothing inconsistent in this : to compete vigorously and combine promptly is to be expected of men who are at once aggressive , sympathetic and intelligent . Because it requires intelligence and energy , because it is difficult , intelligent co-operation always lags behind the need for it ; and we have the rule that competition , once set up , is likely to persist beyond the point where it ought to be dispensed with . ' Owing to this fact it is , in our own time , not  | only intense but quite often excessive : it continues when it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has performed its function , when it has answered the question , what is the fittest , as well as it can , it ought to cease and give place to organization . To prolong it beyond this point is wasteful and destructive , the principle involved being the same as that rule of humane warfare which declares that the sacrifice of life aught not to continue when the result ceases to be doubtful . The failure to cease is an evil characteristic of a time like the present when the work of breaking down obstructive organization , the outworn machinery of the past , has been pretty well accomplished , and the time for reorganization has arrived . During the breaking-down period the great need is to introduce the competitive principle ; but when this has been achieved , and the building-up period has set in , the great need is to check it . If we look about us we see almost everywhere a condition of disintegration , of working at cross purposes , which gives much color to the views of those who charge the age with " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions , for instance , are far from performing their proper functions , the lower grades of labor being unorganized , and the unions among the higher frequently unstable and apparently ill-conducted . In almost every branch of trade competing agencies are multiplied beyond what is necessary or economical : there seem to be too many small groceries , drug stores , hardware stores , shoe stores , restaurants and the like ; that is , the goods they supply could be furnished cheaper if the same energy were concentrated upon fewer establishments . It is well known that more railroads have been built , in many instances , than there is any need for , and the rate-wars that frequently take place have been shown to be injurious to the public as well as to the stockholders . We hear also that there are too many small churches , too many small colleges ; and so on . This state of things is slowly working its own remedy : the tendency , the current , is clearly toward organization . This is decidedly a time of " getting together , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with what is needed . It is surprising to note the number and variety of conventions that   take place in one of our larger cities during the summer months . From the advancement of science to bill-posting , almost every reputable occupation seems to have general interests which require the attendance of delegates at an annual meeting ; not to speak of the hundreds of social and benevolent societies . The rise of department stores , the multiplication of private industrial corporations and the formation of trusts are , of course , an outcome of the same tendency . Organization , since it brings power and success , is coming rapidly ; and the very process of its coming introduces a new set of problems , problems of symmetry in growth . Some forms of organization , like the private corporations just mentioned , outstrip other forms which are required to balance or control them ? legislation , for instance , administrative machinery , economic science , trades-unions ? and we have an overweening growth of power , which gives rise to much wrong , much protest and to extravagant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this narrowing of contemporary development into a few channels while others are almost dried up , is to be found the cause of many if not most of the evils characteristic of our time . I am as far from sharing the apprehensions of those who see a " coming slavery " in the growth of organization as I am from joining in the indiscriminate condemnation of competition . No fear need be entertained of the disappearance of competition : it is quite as firmly rooted as association . The two will continue to subsist side by side while varying indefinitely in form and character . Those who cry " Look out for slavery ! " as well as those who cry " Look out for anarchy ! " are seeing ghosts which will hardly materialize . The future will have its urgent problems , of which the problem of the regulation of great associations will certainly be one , but there is no reason to despair of accomplishing this regulation , and much reason to hope that , if properly regulated , the development of rational organization will increase and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that competition is an organizing force or process appears , at first sight , to be opposed to the views of some very distinguished writers from whom I should be sorry to find myself at variance ; but I think this apparent opposition  | is more a matter of difference in the use of terms than anything else . The word competition is used by them as equivalent to what I should call bad competition ; and their projects of dispensing with competition are such as I should describe as projects for displacing a lower form by a higher . Professor Lester F. Ward , by a very striking comparison , has vividly illustrated the principle that the mere blind struggle for existence , the natural selection of the animal or vegetable worlds , is suited only to the early stages of organic progress , and becomes wasteful and repressive when continued beyond the point where it can be replaced by intelligent selection . He says : Once , when herborizing in a rather wild , neglected spot , I collected a little depauperate grass that for a time greatly puzzled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other than genuine wheat . It had been accidentally sown in this abandoned nook , where it had been obliged to struggle for existence along with the remaining vegetation . There it had grown up and sought to rise into that majesty and beauty that is seen in a field of waving grain . But at every step it had felt the resistance of an environment no longer regulated by intelligence . It missed the fostering care of man , who destroys competition , removes enemies , and creates conditions favorable to the highest development . This is called cultivation , and the difference between my little starveling grass and the wheat of the well-tilled field , is a difference of cultivation only , and not at all of capacity . . . . I look upon existing humanity as I look upon a pristine vegetation . The whole struggling mass is held by the relentless laws of competition in a condition far below its possibilities . Just as what might be grain is mere grass , just as the potential greening is a diminutive crabapple , so the potential giants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wood and the drawers of water . ' The remedy Professor Ward shows to be education , in the broadest and truest sense of the word , the surrounding of each individual with that environment most favorable to the development of his faculties . I sympathize heartily with the views thus eloquently set forth . ' If the selective process is to be progressive and not  | retrograde in its tendency it must pass continually to higher and higher levels as society advances ; it must become more rational , more economical , more moral , more just , more free . In the present connection , however , it is fair to add ? what I imagine Professor Ward would readily admit ? that in point of difficulty social selection presents a wide contrast with the case of the wheat , and that existing competition , bad as it is in many respects , has a relative justification , or at least an explanation , in the fact that it is the only organizing agency available . Some of the points of contrast that I have in mind are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not one simple type of excellence to be preserved and developed , but an enormous number of divergent types , matching the complexity of social functions . Not the wheat only but every species and variety of plant that grows calls for a garden plot of its own , and a special culture . We scarcely dare assert that there are any weeds at all on the social roadside , some authors holding that every child that is born is fitted to take some useful part in the general life . We can transplant and arrange , trying to accommodate each so far as practicable in the matter of soil and climate , but selection , as the wheat is selected , involves the suppression of other species , and that , in view of the complexity of which I speak , we scarcely dare attempt . If the problem were to develop large men , or strong men , or blue-eyed men , or mathematicians , or musicians , and we could rank all other types as weeds and mercilessly plow them up , the matter would be quite simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be favored would be intolerable , we put up with a somewhat blind and anarchical struggle as the lesser evil . In short , we can not select rationally because we do not know what we want . We know very well what we wish to get out of a grain of wheat , but in the case of a child we do not know . 2 . In the case of man there are no visible external traits or " characters " which can be used as trustworthy guides to selection . Darwin , in The Origin of Species , noted the reliance upon such traits as a weakness of all artificial selection ; and in the social order this weakness becomes so pronounced as to be absolutely fatal to all schemes for setting an a priori valuation upon men . The most plausible principle of a priori  | valuation , that of heredity , which was so generally adopted in the past , is , of course , hopelessly discredited as a basis for social organization . Because of this lack of reliable signs to go by , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presiding intelligence , like the selection by man of types of animals or plants but must be competitive , in so far as that each person must be permitted and assisted to form his own idea of what he is fit for , and to show what he can do by doing it . We want a competition that shall bring a gentle but firm pressure to bear upon all persons , urging and aiding them to find something useful that they are fit to do , and then to do it faithfully . Progress , as Professor Ward so warmly urges , must be along the line of a scientific educational process which shall not so much select for the individual as help him to select for himself ; and the test , to find out by comparison with others whether he has chosen rightly or not , can never , it seems to me , be dispensed with . 3 . It is scarcely necessary , perhaps , to add that even if the problem were soluble from a scientific standpoint the practical treatment of it would remain extremely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paramount and intelligent will to play the part of the wise despot who plants the wheat and ploughs up the other grasses . The " sociocracy " which Professor Ward has taught us to look to as the instrument of rational progress , must clearly be somewhat slow in its growth , the ripe achievement of an intelligent , self-controlled and well-organized democracy . In the meantime we must do the best we can . Another point which ought to be considered in estimating the work which competition , as an organizing process , has to do , is the degree of natural adaptation that may be assumed to exist between the innate capacities of men and the society in which these capacities are to play a part . The optimistic view is that there is a place for every one , and that the only question is how to get every one in his place ; that each man has some special aptitude that only needs opportunity for development to make him both happy and useful . Thus as each one has properly a distinct object of ambition , different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by his success in the pursuit , does not hinder but helps his competitors , " " Every   individual has a bias which he must obey , and it is only as he feels and obeys this that he rightly develops and attains his legitimate power in the world . " 1 The competitive process is thus conceived in its highest form , as an amicable testing and comparison of powers , with a view to securing the happiness of all , by helping each to find his own peculiar and appropriate work . It is like the preliminary practice of a football team to determine what place shall be assigned to each player : every one , presumably , wishing to have that position in which he can gain most applause by contributing most to the common success . The aims of the individual and of the whole are the same . There is a great deal of truth and encouragement in this view ; it sets forth in one of its aspects the ideal towards which competition should aspire . We ought to strive for this state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . But the ascertained principles of evolution , as I understand them , will by no means permit us to assume a perfect natural adaptation between men and society . The fact seems to be rather , that the social order , continually changing , makes ever new and more trying demands upon humanity ; that men , from the point of view of social organization , are to be looked upon as a mass of rough material , all of which is more or less imperfect , and some part of which , a part that might be greatly diminished by better husbandry , is unavailable . This part must be separated out and the remainder must be planed , sawed and tried here and there until fitted , with a view to getting the most use out of it with the least waste . A ready-made fit is quite exceptional . Each of us is fitter for some places than for others , but no one is fit for anything without a course of education and discipline , whose purpose is to produce an adaptation to social existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undeveloped capacity . It can hardly be necessary to argue at length that competition , however defective , does the work better than status , and that the real question of practical moment is that of increasing its efficiency . In this direction there is everything to be done , and the means , speaking generally , is the development of ra-   tional organization in every form , and particularly in the form of special selective agencies , chiefly educational , to supplement and in part to replace the somewhat blind and irrational competition that accompanies rapid change . It is a question of the quality of competition rather than of its quantity . The selective process should begin farther back , in an intelligent and truly free system of education , opening to every child opportunity and incitement to find out and pursue that career for which he is naturally best suited . The principle of status now persists in the too mechanical uniformity of education , and in its general failure to supply appropriate special training to the great mass of the people . The rising demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each child with a view to making the most of him and teaching him how to make the most of himself , for manual-training and trade schools accessible to all , is a demand for a more rational and open competition . In the lack of these things children , who need freedom most , are not free , but bound by the condition of their parents , and by the habits and ideas which they contract from their early associates and surroundings . Freedom is a positive and not a negative thing ; it is to be secured not by mere letting alone , which is often abandonment to enslaving social conditions , but by rational social agencies deliberately organized to secure it . True freedom , healthy organization and the highest type of competition inevitably go together ; they are , indeed , various aspects of the same thing . Freedom is possible only through open competition and through an organization that promotes the highest development of each individual : the best organization is not only the outcome of rational freedom and just competition , but is also a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social structure and process is an organic whole which can be bettered only by a general advance all along the line . Our time , as already suggested , is one in which , old social structures having gone to pieces , we are slowly and tentatively building up new ones . In the meantime the social process is at once intensified by the extraordinary call upon it and somewhat confused and demoralized by the failure of the structures which  | normally control and direct it . Our cities , especially , are full of the disintegrated material of the old order looking for a place in the new : men without trades , immigrants with alien habits and traditions , country boys and girls who have broken loose from their families and from early ties and beliefs , college graduates ignorant of the intellectual progress of the past fifty years , young theologians whose creeds the world has ceased to believe , and so on . There is no adequate means of dealing with this refractory material . Some of it is quite spoiled , and the moral and educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and laws , required to assimilate the rest to the needs of the situation , can not be created in a moment . In such a state of things competition becomes the immediate occasion of a great sum of misplacement , confusion and suffering for which nothing but the situation as a whole is responsible . The charge that it is a failure as an organizing process , that it puts the round men in the square holes and vice versa , causing dissatisfaction to individuals and detriment to society , will appear true or false according to the point of view from which one regards actual conditions . If one holds that each man is by nature fitted to perform some special function in the social system , that there is always something waiting to be done that he can do better than anybody else , and in doing which he finds his own happiness ; if one blinks the difficulty of finding out just what this special function is , of educating the faculties to perform it , and of making a way through the throng to the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be likely to pass a severe judgment upon the existing order , in which there are many total failures and innumerable misfits . But if he does justice to the difficulty of the problem , rejects as unsound the theory of perfect natural adaptation of men to functions , and compares competition , even in its present form , with the working of the alternative principle of status , he will easily discover much good that we must hold on to , as well as much ill that we must try to cast off . There is no clear dividing line between individual and group competition . In a certain sense it may be said that there is no individual competition , since the competing person always   draws aid and support of one sort or another from other persons . So far as a man is social , and not merely animal , he is the center , and in a manner the product , of a complex web of relations and influences from which he can in no way be separated , unless by death . By " group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection , a definite association with distinct purposes and organization . One of the chief purposes of the creation of such definite groups is to compete more effectually . They are tools devised by men to further their personal aims , and so far as the aims thus furthered meet with opposition the group becomes a competing agency . The main differences between a person as a competing unit and an organized group are the greater power and permanence that the latter may have , and its impersonality , the fact that , as is said of corporations , it " has no soul . " Its action is not necessarily conditioned by that psychological unity of the various elements of human nature that exists in a person . In joining to create a social mechanism for the achievement of some special aim , such as exploiting a mine or electing a candidate to public office , a man isolates a certain part of himself , a certain wish or purpose , and sends it off by itself , so to speak , to work independently of the rest of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the result is essentially mechanical , and not human . The man , as a moral whole , is not in it ; it is only a faggot of parallel interests . The man extends his reach , but in doing so he loses immediate control of the organ , and with that is likely to go all vivid sense of responsibility . The action of an organization is not necessarily lower , morally , than that of the individual men who create it , but it is likely to be ; it is not so accessible to control by sentiment , by public opinion , by pride , vanity , and other peculiarly human influences . As members of a corporation , a legislature or a party , men will share in doing things which they would not do if they were to be held personally responsible for them . It is also true that as members of philanthropical and educational organizations men frequently build better than they know , better than they seriously or continuously intend . The fact that definite associations are more numerous and   more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impersonal tendency . This circumstance , which is connected with the increased facility of association effected by modern communication , brings it to pass that the modern man shares in many associations , each one of which is narrowly restricted in its aim , and of course feels a personal responsibility for each in inverse ratio to their number . The broader association of the past , for instance the medieval trade-guild , embracing almost the whole social , aesthetic and religious life of the individual , must have been a more human thing than the modern corporation or trades-union . These two attributes of competing organizations , power and impersonality , together with the fact that they are , for the most part , new and unassimilated elements in the social system , entirely justify the expectation that they will require special and somewhat stringent means of control . All forms of power must be controlled and subordinated to the general life and aims ; freedom means not the diminution of such subordination and control but the substitution of higher forms for lower , the replacing of tradition , authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeals to feeling or principle . Organized groups being comparatively little amenable to these higher forms of control must be correspondingly subjected to the lower , that is to legal restrictions : being impersonal they can not share fully in the growth of personal freedom . An important and substantially new problem is thus introduced into political science by the rapid rise of powerful and highly-specialized private associations . In the past it has been the policy , I believe , of all stable governments to control strictly , if not to repress , organizations formed independently of them . This is still largely the case outside of the United States and Great Britain . There is no freedom of association in Russia ; and little in France or Germany compared with what we enjoy . In the United States the legal presumption is , and should be , in favor of the beneficence or harmlessness of all exercise of private initiative until it appears by experience to be harmful . Where harmfulness does appear the question before our jurists and legislators is , just what control is required and how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatly complicated by the fact that not only are the forms of association new and hard to manage , but the industries themselves , which the associations carry on , are largely new also , and would require a new body of law simply as industries , even if they were carried on by individuals . Thus , in connection with railways we have two distinct classes of questions , the corporation problem , including what relates to the form of organization , questions common to this and to other great industries , and the railway problem proper , arising from the special nature of this particular industry . The matter may be summed up by saying that , as before hinted , it is a question of symmetry in development . Urged on by the necessities of the situation , industrial activities , and the social relations arising from them , have far outstripped other activities which , in a symmetrical social order , should balance and control them . This fact is patent everywhere ; it is the key to the whole situation . Law , religious belief , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and the great need of the time is that they should catch up with the procession . Owing to this backwardness of the means of control , group competition , even more than any other sort , is in a state of partial anarchy or border-ruffianism . These gigantic , unmoral creatures are restrained , if at all , rather by the primitive fear of retaliation than anything else . Things are in the fighting stage , which has not yet brought to light the conditions of equilibrium , and given place to that subordination to rule that characterizes an orderly society . IV . CONDITIONS OF SUCCESS I wish to avoid the utterance of platitudes upon this familiar though always interesting subject , and shall therefore content myself with attempting to indicate in the most general way , the relation between success and the social order . The discussion must be very indefinite owing to the fact that the conditions of success are a function of the particular social organization , so that every field of endeavor , every social group , has in some measure its peculiar requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are almost universal , and to show how they are related to the competitive process . Generally speaking the world requires of a man two classes of faculties , which may be roughly described as the special and the social . The first distinguish him from other men and enable him to perform some more or less peculiar function ; the second unite him to other men and enable him to put his more special aptitudes into a wholesome and fruitful relation to the world at large . It is very well if nature and education have made one a master of the technique of carpentry , or banking , or medicine , or law , or any other specialty ; but as a rule this will do little for a man if he does not add to it those social and moral qualities which enable him to place and keep himself where his gift is available , and to exercise it in such a manner as to make it an effectual working piece of the general mechanism . Special ability is a helpless thing unless it is supplemented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very nature of organization . Just as the special structure of the eye is meaningless and dead without the nervous mechanism that unifies it with the whole , so , I may also say , is a man who has special faculties without social faculties . Moreover since these two requirements spring from the same root , the need of organic life , they do or should develop equally . The more highly specialized a social system becomes the greater should be the development of the unifying and co-ordinating activities of every kind : and as regards the individual this means that more and more will be required of him in the way of intelligence , morality , self-reliance , and the like . Under favorable conditions individualization and socialization proceed pan passe ; and I recommend this suggestion to the consideration of those who believe that the increasing specialization which marks our time necessarily involves the narrowing and dwarfing of personality . On the contrary it calls for a larger , richer personality ; and that is what must in the end prevail . In order to make my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain familiar and generally-valued elements of personality ? such as self-control , enterprise , perseverance , address , and " common-sense " ? with the purpose of showing   that they are very much in demand in a competitive society , and that the call upon them increases as such a society becomes freer and more complex . In every social career a prime demand is steadiness : it matters little what the task is , the incumbent must be faithful to it , he must be one upon whom the world can depend to be at his post doing work of standard quality . To illustrate this in detail and to show that unreliability spells failure would be superfluous . The demand for this trait is steadily upon the increase ; since the greater the complexity and interdependence of the social order the greater the need of soundness in all parts of its structure . The unreliable man is a public nuisance ; and the wider the relations in which he is involved the more intolerable he becomes : there is really no use for him , and he inevitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casual employment . The moral quality underlying steadiness is of course self-control , the power to subordinate passing impulses to a rational rule and purpose ; the lack of this is social degeneracy , and is perhaps the most common cause of failure . Enterprise may be described as a disposition to make experiments upon life , and perseverence as a disposition to make those experiments conclusive . From earliest infancy , as any observer of children may see , the method by which we advance iii knowledge and power is what Professor Baldwin calls the try-try-again method , the only one , indeed , by which progress is achieved in any sort of endeavor . In social life this becomes enterprise , aggressiveness , a habit of making intelligent plans and of actively attempting to carry them out . In a competitive society every one must undertake and execute a voyage of discovery whose object is to find out his own proper relation to the world ; and if he is to accomplish anything much above the common he may need as much courage as Columbus . The leaders of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first of all explorers ; and in this regard the requisites for success are much the same in science , in literature , in war , business and politics , as they are in navigation . It took the same sort of qualities , in part , for Darwin to spend twenty years in thinking out and demonstrating the origin of species by selection , as it did for Columbus to carry through his project for a   westward voyage to the Indies , or Napoleon to plan and execute his schemes of European conquest . And something of this is required for success of any sort where opportunity is open . The wider the field of opportunity , the more necessary it becomes to explore it , the greater the need for that selfknowledge and self-reliance that can only come by bold experimentation . Accordingly the standard of courage and enterprise up to which men must come if they are to hold their own increases with the growth of liberty . Perseverance , as I just suggested , is required to make this experimentation thorough . In the prosecution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead-centers at which the propelling forces cease to act . At such times the whole matter of success or failure usually hangs upon the question whether the person has formed that habit of keepingon that constitutes perseverance and gives momentum to his undertakings , or whether , on the contrary , he is a victim to the fatal habit of leaving-off , which will condemn the most exceptional talents to futility . And the need for thoroughness undoubtedly increases with the advance of civilization : " the fields for long-ranged , cumulative efforts , are wider , more numerous and far more needy " 1 at the present time than they have ever been in the past . Address or savoir-faire appears to be based upon a sympathetic insight into human nature , guided by intelligence and steadied by a natural coolness or phlegm . It is also closely connected with the qualities mentioned above , since it is developed or educated only by practical endeavor to further one 's purposes in the world . It is social facility in the largest sense , skill and efficiency in dealing with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a faculty that is necessary to every one in the early part of his career , or at times of change , in order to make his way through the social medium to the place where he can bring his special abilities into play . The young mechanic looking for work , the medical graduate seeking to start himself in practice , the business man trying to re-establish himself after some unforeseen change has driven him from one branch of trade , the artisan thrown out of em-   employment by the closing down of a factory ? each needs , first of all , some tact and force in dealing with men which shall enable him to face the world and induce its occupants to make room for him . And in most careers , especially in those which are looked upon as the higher ones , those which involve power and leadership , the necessity for these qualities is perennial . Their importance is seen in the fact that those who possess them are often remarkably successful even if their other faculties are quite commonplace . No matter what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man of address will know how to tap them . The inventor of the machine often remains in his original poverty , while the able promoter reaps the reward of his success . I would not , however , push this last suggestion too far , because I believe that address is normally and usually based upon character and sympathy , and therefore associated with the better qualities of human nature rather than the worse . It is something very different from mere cunning , which is seldom or never accompanied by that breadth of view and insight into the higher as well as the lower workings of human nature , which go to the making of what we call " a man of calibre . " Generally speaking , the successful man must have a good measure of our common humanity , because without that he can not know men or gain their confidence . Antonio will make a better president of a railroad company than Shylock . At the same time , perhaps just because he has this common humanity , the man of address is not likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morality . He is usually a conformer , a " Mortal mixed of middle clay . " The need of address evidently increases with the increase of liberty and the general enlargement of life . There is a growing demand for competent men to act as organizers , and at the same time a greater call upon men in general for social facility . The more progressive a society is , and the more sorts of progress are going on at the same time , the more it needs leaders , men who know how to guide the forces , how   to distribute them in the most effective order , and to assign to every one the duty that he can best perform . There were never so great and varied opportunities for this sort of ability as at the present time , whose most urgent need is the organization of its abundant energy . And one of the first requisites in such a leader is that faculty of promptly estimating men which enables its possessor to put them where they will be most useful . Jedwedem zieht er seine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lasst jeden ganz das bleiben was er ist ; Er wacht nur driiber , class er 's immer sei Am rechten Ort ; so weiss er aller Menschen Vermogen zu dem seinigen zu machen.i Every successful mechanic , in a free society , becomes more or less a man of the world : he knows the minds of many men , learns to make his way among strangers , and to fall upon his feet when he is thrown off them by one of the frequent displacements incident to social change . His standard of manners may be , in some trifles , different from what prevails in a richer class ; but in the essentials of bearing , address , knowledge of men , self-respect , he is often a true man of the world , and his savoir-faire does not differ fundamentally from that of the statesman . I shall not dwell at length upon common-sense , so much , yet not excessively , eulogized . We seem to understand by it a symmetrical and humanized intelligence , not necessarily quick , acute or original , but broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find it . It is rather a just equilibrium of primary faculties than any special trait ; and as such is the foundation of sane and effective action in every situation . Of course I do not offer these observations as an adequate enumeration and exposition of the conditions of success ; but I trust that what I have said will be sufficient to suggest the main tendencies . Each social group , as I have already remarked , has in some measure its own peculiar conditions of success , perhaps making great demands upon some qualities and scarcely any upon others . Yet there is , after all , a sort of type of the successful man , that is , an assemblage of qualities   all of which are important to almost any sort of success . It will be apparent that while I have said nothing about goodness , which is a word of no accepted meaning , I do hold that this type is distinctly human and , in a general way , moral ; that is , the qualities called for are , as a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that this conclusion is apparently inconsistent with some facts of observation , and that many seem inclined to an opposite opinion . In order to show more clearly the trend of my views and the manner in which they may be reconciled with the facts alluded to , I propose to take up some of the more common criticisms of the working of competition upon individual character , and consider them with the purpose of analysis and explanation rather than controversy . In this way I shall discuss the morality of competition , its relation to sympathy , and its supposed tendency to inflict insecurity , discontent and strain upon mankind . V. SUCCESS AND MORALITY If it were true , as some persons seem to believe , that immorality is on the whole more favorable to success than morality , the outlook for the future would be dark indeed ; for it seems to me that practices which tend , on the whole and in the long run , to produce success , to achieve the ends of endeavor , must inevitably be adopted . And if these practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the unseen and perseverance in the face of discouragements , were such as our lower nature is naturally prone to , like violence and deceit , their spread would be rapid and ruinous . It would be easy to show this by the example of communities where , by bad customs or laws , premium has been put upon immorality ; as was the case with some of the provisions of the old English Poor Law , and is the case with a good deal of present charity . I imagine , however , that this is not necessary . Few will question the fact ; and I suppose , therefore , that most will admit , as a general proposition , that morality is stronger than immorality . What appears to be needed is a somewhat detailed analysis to show just how the principle works in actual life , and what is the meaning of the numerous exceptions to it that appear to exist .   The forces that cause success to be associated with morality , or the reverse , may profitably be considered , it seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conditions , dealing with the forces of custom , opinion and law that impose moral or immoral conditions upon the aspirant for success ; and ( 2 ) Psychical Correlation , dealing with conditions imposed by the fact that the mind of each man is a whole , so that certain qualities and activities of the individual imply others as their necessary correlates . I shall assume that any one who reads this essay is enough of a sociologist to understand that the moral standards which the individual applies to his own conduct are always the reflection , more or less individualized , of those of his social environment , of the group , or complex of groups , of which he forms a part ; that , to be specific , a lawyer necessarily accepts , with more or less modification , the moral standards of that great social group the legal profession ; and so with the physician , the mechanic , the clergyman , the schoolboy , even the criminal . Every group , in the measure of its organization , controls its members and exacts from them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not conform to these standards the group inflicts failure upon them and casts them out . This control or casting out is accomplished in a great variety of ways ? most of which do not imply deliberate purpose ? which it would be out of place to discuss in this connection . I would refer those who wish a full exposition to the lucid articles of Professor Ross on " Social Control . " 1 In every career , therefore , in which success is pursued the aspirant finds himself conditioned by certain standards more or less peculiar to the group and different from those of other groups . The army officer can not hope to rise unless he comes up to standards peculiar to the army : the clergyman finds that a somewhat different set of qualities conduce to success in his profession . At the same time , beside these special conditions , there are more general conditions imposed by public sentiment and by the law upon all men , or at least upon all who share in In the first three volumes of the American Journal of Sociology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | the normal life of the community . In other words , except in some inconceivable condition of anarchy , success is always conditioned by social forces , both general and special , some of them acting through definite command and penalty , like the law , but most of them of a less definite , though not necessarily less efficacious character , working through social feeling , ambition , the dread of disapproval and the like . The reason why each group imposes special conditions of success upon its members is , of course , that its interests as a group require that certain standards be maintained , their precise character depending upon the activities which the group performs , so that custom and sentiment , re-enforced often by definite social machinery , very naturally take a form tending to enforce these standards . Consider , again , the legal profession : at the very outset an examination must be undergone which imposes somewhat difficult conditions upon the wouldbe practitioner . Having met these successfully he wishes to get clients and win cases , and finds that to do this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as insight into legal principles , power of lucid exposition , mastery of the details of each case , the respect and confidence of other members of his profession and of possible clients . In the pursuit of these ideals others are relatively neglected . Moreover he acquires unconsciously , by constant association with lawyers , the habits of thought and opinion current in the profession , and is largely controlled by these irrespective of any personal interest of his own . Every successful man in this well-organized group gets the legal habit of mind , which includes somewhat special moral standards regarding all that relates to the profession . And so , in general , every social group , so far as its organization is effective , recognizes and enforces such rules of morality as conduce to the attainment of the ends which , as a group , it seeks . From this follows a corollary that is very important to sound notions of the relation of success to morality , namely , that the morality inculcated by each specialized group is , as a rule , superior in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current in the society as a whole . As   regards the virtues particularly important to the prosperity of the social group its standard will be higher than that of the people in general , while other sorts of morality will be correspondingly neglected . The result of this is that the young man entering upon almost any recognized social career will find his new surroundings elevating in some respects and demoralizing in others , judged by his previous standards . If he goes into the army he will find required of him a promptness , a regularity , a submission to discipline , which is in most cases extremely good for him : on the other hand he will find little opportunity or encouragement for individual enterprise or intellectual culture , and may fall into certain vices which are less reprobated in armies than in civilian life . Of course the higher , from a moral standpoint , the activities of the group the more moral the conditions of success in it become ; and vice versa . In a criminal organization crime is a condition of success ; while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unquestionably the best policy . Such is the pursuit of excellence in science , art or literature , where the very basis of all durable success is a thorough-going truth or sincerity of character and endeavor . All the great critics recognize and insist upon this , pointing out that insufficient honesty , a swerving from the truth in the endeavor to produce what other people will think is the truth , characterizes all except the best work . Again , since every person is involved in several or many social groups and seeks more than one sort of success , each man 's mind is the theatre of a conflict of standards : we are continually called upon to choose between different kinds of success , or between a temporary and a durable success in any particular direction . If a writer , for instance , is to have any chance of durable success in literature he must be prepared to forego the temporary success that he might gain by appealing to transient phases of sentiment . The man of science or the moral reformer can not complain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he chances to be burned at the stake ? provided , of course , this does not take place until he has published his discoveries or disseminated his doctrines . As a rule success in one line involves more or less failure in others , a   higher success is bought by the sacrifice of a lower , a permanent success by despising one that is temporary . I have so far avoided saying anything about success in commerce or " business " in order that I might state the general principles that I conceive to apply to all careers before entering upon a matter which is a subject of some controversy . I believe , however , that trade offers no exception to these principles . The conditions of success in all regular business are moral in some respects if not in others . One must be systematic , assiduous and painstaking in the prosecution of his enterprises , and must cultivate the good opinion of his fellows . Accordingly the young man who goes into business finds that there is a great deal of wholesome discipline in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seldom achieved at home or at school . Among these is a certain kind , at least , of honesty . Regularity , precision and trustworthiness in money matters are , I believe , conditions of durable success in almost any legitimate business . These things are required because the interests of the group depend upon them , because trade in general could not be carried on if tradesmen could not be relied upon to keep their engagements . Of course the law is there to deal with the worst cases , and is essential ; but custom and a fear of the ostracism that would follow irregularity are generally sufficient to maintain the standard . On the other hand it has been justly said that business competition does nothing at all for certain kinds of morality , but on the contrary tends to condemn those who practice them to failure . Professor Henry C. Adams , in his luminous and widely-quoted essay on the " Relation of the State to Industrial Action , " shows this very clearly , and illustrates it by the example of a shirt-dealer who should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him than other dealers do . It is clear that his attempt to practice this kind of morality might force him to quit the business or to continue it at a loss . Trade , as a social group , has not concerned itself with the question of paying living wages to employees , and there is doubt whether it is likely to do so . To solve such questions a new set of influences must be brought to bear , new relations   created . The law must do a part , especially in the protection of women and children , and organization among the employees , with group-bargaining ? not without the strike and the boycott in the back-ground as a final resort ? must do more . This , if I understand him correctly , is substantially what Professor Adams holds . His analysis makes very clear the important fact that morality can not maintain itself unless organized , that mere good-will , even on the part of a large majority of those concerned , is ineffective unless supplemented by coercive machinery to bring up the moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the action of competition is essentially and generally immoral he could not have said , as he does , that it " is neither malevolent nor beneficent , but will work malevolence or beneficence according to the conditions under which it is permitted to act . " Yet some of those who follow him appear to suppose that the competitive process is in itself immoral , at least in trade , and tends generally and necessarily to make men worse . The ground of this opinion seems to be some such reasoning as the following : It is obvious that advantage is frequently to be gained by unscrupulousness . A higher price may be gotten for certain goods , we will say , by falsely asserting them to be of better materials than is really the case . Now competition being close and the margin of profit narrow at the best , those who adopt these dishonest practices will have a decisive advantage over those who refuse to do so , and will drive them out of business . So that competition is a continual bribe to immorality ; or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , competition tends to lower the moral level of business to that of the worst men engaged in it . The fallacy of this evidently lies in the begging of the real question at issue , in the assumption that immorality , on the whole , tends to success . The fact that dishonesty can be shown at times to give a particular advantage is assumed to justify the general assertion that it is more advantageous than honesty ; and the rest follows at once . Honesty is the worst policy , competition is degrading , and the sooner we abolish it the   better . Perhaps the best answer to this is to turn the argument around . Trade being based upon credit and upon the regular keeping of engagements by business men , it is obvious that great advantage attends a reputation for business integrity and fidelity . Competition being close and the margin of profit small , this advantage will be quite sufficient to determine success or failure , and the dishonest men must be forced out of business . Or , to put it in the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral level of business to that of the best men engaged in it . Of course neither form of the argument is worth anything . The fact is that competition simply enforces the conditions , as a whole , upon all the competitors . It levels down or levels up , just as may happen . Those who adopt the pessimistic view usually limit their conclusions to business competition : but there appears to be no sound reason for this limitation . If true in business they must be true of competition generally , and we must be forced to admit that lying , pretence , unscrupulousness , are the conditions of success in every career , since there is none in which particular advantage may not be gained by them . The argument given above is just as applicable to law , medicine , teaching , the ministry , as it is to trade . And the only logical conclusion of the matter would seem to be that the world in general must be rapidly going to the bad , doomed by an inexorable tendency to sink toward the moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I trust , is a reductio ad absurduin , and I see no escape from it , no way of accounting for the general upward tendency which most people now admit , except by the supposition that on the whole , admitting what exceptions you please , right is more successful under actual conditions than wrong . As to trade , it is , I believe , a commonplace of the history of morals , that the idea of honesty , as we conceive it , grew with the growth of commerce and was unknown to our barbarous ancestors . Precise notions regarding rheum and tuum , a feeling of the obligations to keep agreements , the whole elaborate ethics of exchange , that " business morality " and " business honor " whose reality and power no one , I think , who really  | knows anything of normal commercial life will deny , reflect the necessities of an elaborate economic system and are part of the framework upon which it rests . That system everywhere assumes that the men established in legitimate business are , in general , trustworthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week , with inconceivable ruin . All rests upon personal character . The countries where the persons engaged in trade are not trustworthy , where deceit and cunning are the rule and not the exception , are just those which do not and can not have any well-organized economic life . A main reason for the commercial backwardness of the Spanish-American peoples lies in the fact that the primitive conception of trade as a contest of cunning and deceit is too prevalent among them . National power in trade , as in war , in everything which requires organization , depends ultimately upon moral conditions . Unstable and dishonest individuals are like crumbling bricks , out of which no substantial structure can be built . What I have said so far relates to conditions of success directly imposed upon men by the social organization of which they are a part : the conditions imposed by what I have called psychological correlation come also from the social system , but more indirectly ; quality A is developed in men because it is necessary to success , and quality B appears , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such that it necessarily goes with A. This matter evidently belongs upon the other side of the psychological border , and I shall offer only a few remarks upon it , aiming rather to point out its importance to such discussions as the present than to formulate any definite principles regarding it . I believe it to be true that ability of the sort implied when we speak of " a man of calibre , " the ability necessary to distinguished success of the kind that most men seek and prize , is more often than not associated with a substantial integrity , and a refinement of sensibility rather above than below the average . This opinion I would base partly upon a priori considerations and partly upon observation . Success of any large kind certainly requires , first , a good mind , an effective machine for arranging and comparing the elements of life , and second ,  | ample and correct materials or premises for this mind to work with . This second requirement involves at least a fair measure of sympathy or social sensibility , because the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the minds of other men ? and nothing but sympathy will give him access to this . Certainly the sympathy will not be of the most conspicuous and demonstrative kind , uncontrolled by thought , nor would it be well if it were , for unregulated sympathy is quite as unsocial a quality as cold intellectualism . Indeed the union of the two qualities I have mentioned is precisely the psychological condition , as I understand the matter , of a sense of justice ; and I am fortified in this view by a careful and very profitable study of Professor Baldwin 's admirable work upon the Social and Ethical Interpretations of Mental Development , in which this and many related questions are most originally and suggestively treated . Of course I do not for a moment assert that the successful man is necessarily moral or just ; only that there is an intrinsic psychological connection between success and morality , a community of origin , that makes them more likely to be associated than not to be . I may perhaps say that they are like two children of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular case how much or how little they may resemble each other ; but he can assert that as a general rule there will be a great deal in common between them . For a more precise analysis of the matter we must await the further development of social psychology . It may be objected that a man is not a moral unit , but seems rather to have as many moral selves as he has activities , and applies different standards in each . This is true in part only . Custom and the exigencies of different situations do lead men to vary their standards , but there is always an inner protest against this , in so far as the man is conscious of it , and the clearer and abler his mind the more distinct and disturbing the protest . A good mind strongly tends to bring all the activities of the individual to the same moral level ; perhaps I may say up to the level of the highest of them . It is clear , I think , that in speculating upon the policy of honesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result   of this or that act , but what habits of thought and action must a man form , what sort of a man must he be , to stand in the long run the best chance of success . To this I think there should be but one answer , namely , that the man who endeavors to be honest , according to the standards inculcated in the society of which he is a part , is more likely to attain worldly success , other things equal , than one who does not , It is not so much a matter of causation as of correlation : success and honesty have normally a common root in a sound mind . The advantages of dishonesty are usually near and obvious ; the disadvantages , though overwhelmingly demonstrated by general experience , are commonly remote and hard to conceive vividly : it takes some faith to believe in them . As Adam Bede says : " It takes something else besides cuteness to make folks see what 'll be their interest in the long run . It takes some conscience and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear . " As to the question whether the facts of observation support the view that successful men are not as a rule below the average in a disposition to be just , in sympathy , integrity and other moral qualities , the reader will doubtless form his opinion from his experience . I willingly admit that a long list might easily be prepared of successful characters who were , or were reputed to be , men of the worst character , judged by the ordinary notions of morality . Regarding such a list and the conclusions to be drawn from it there would be much to say ; and the matter would prove too large for adequate discussion in the present connection . A great deal might be ascribed to the moral isolation in which men of great aims almost necessarily live and which , putting a peculiar strain upon character , is likely to transform a commonplace weakness or hardness into something quite monstrous . The view which I would suggest , without attempting to demonstrate its correctness , is that , on the whole , the association of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not the rule . I find successful men to present infinite variety , but to be very distinctly human and social , decidedly above rather than below the average ; and I think that this statement will hold in business as well as elsewhere . Those who arrive at a contrary con- clusion appear to compare successful persons rather with their ideal of what mankind in general ought to be than with what it is . It is hard to take seriously the view apparently held by some writers of the Italian school , namely , that there is a class of men of vast intellect in whom the moral nature is totally absent , monstrous creatures whom the anthropologist classes with " born criminals , " but who by virtue of their prodigious mental faculty not only keep out of prison but accumulate wealth and power and , aided by their entire freedom from moral scruples , occupy many of the high places in our social system . This seems to me improbable on psychological ground , and I have not in fact met any notably successful man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political and economic , sometimes describe distinguished persons as having the traits mentioned . The late Jay Gould was painted in very dark colors during his lifetime , and was perhaps the most conspicuous example of the sort of successful financiers that are looked upon as bad men . But whatever may have been the moral tendency of his financial operations , he appears , from all accounts , to have been as regards personal traits , a quiet , industrious , affectionate and upright man . The worst we can say of such persons as a class is that they do not rise above their environments , they find the game going on and play it according to the accepted rules . Their success may be of a bad sort , but it appears to be due to qualities which we must , upon the whole , regard as good or progressive , to intellect , energy , insight into human nature , and the like . In all such cases we must discriminate , in theory at least , between badness as an individual trait , an intrinsic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the same opportunities and under the same influences , and the harmfulness of the activities or tendencies in which a perfectly normal individual may be involved . The individual degeneracy that makes a man lower , morally , than his fellows is one thing , and the social degeneracy of nations , historical periods and particular trades , professions or other social groups , is another , though it is often difficult to distinguish between them . General Grant might be taken as an illustration of what I   mean by correlation . He was a great soldier because he had a large , keen , sound intelligence , because he understood men , because he was aggressive , steadfast , self-possessed , a man of character . He was a gentle , courteous , upright man ? a good man , surely , as the world goes ? not because these qualities are of the first importance upon the battlefield but because they went with the other qualities mentioned which are of the first importance . Generally speaking the great warriors , among whom if anywhere one would look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human . Alexander , Caesar , Charlemagne , Henry of Navarre , Wallenstein , Cromwell , Marlborough , Frederick , Nelson , Wellington , Grant , Moltke and their like were men of all-around , human ability , not at all monstrous , and the majority of them possessed a natural refinement and sensitiveness far beyond the common . Napoleon is perhaps the only great captain who might be regarded as a moral defective ; and it would hardly seem that his brutal and cunning traits were such as to deserve this description . As Mr. Stevenson says , he was not a gentleman ; but he could hardly have been loved as he was by his soldiers if he had not been within the pale of normal humanity . Yet I do not deny that men can be named who apparently united considerable military talent with almost insane ferocity . Eccelino was such a man . Surely no thinking man can doubt that , in general , badness is weakness , and that where it succeeds it usually does so through being associated with something better . It may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no getting around the fact that in a very large class of cases the bad men succeed and the good do not . This is true ; and it will be observed that I have claimed no more than that " honesty is the best policy " is the rule and the contrary the exception . The cases in which dishonesty is , really or apparently , successful , come chiefly , I think , under three heads : first , those in which the success of unscrupulous men is due not to their unscrupulousness , but to uncommon ability associated with it ; second , those where the success is partial or temporary , and , third , those in which , owing to a demoralization of the social   conditions under which competition takes place , the dishonest or , more generally , the immoral , really prevail over the honest or moral . Each of these classes will find ample illustration within the experience of almost every one . Here , to begin with the first , is a local money lender and real estate agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living meanly , who is supposed to have accumulated a good deal of money . " This , " says the pessimist , " is the sort of man that succeeds under a competitive regime . " Upon closer scrutiny , however , it appears that this man is an indefatigable worker , clear-headed within the narrow range of his thought , and patient , and that such prosperity as he enjoys may easily be ascribed to these qualities , and to his economy . On the other hand it would seem that his personal traits and reputation must be a great disadvantage to him . He is generally disliked ; people will not do business with him if they can easily avoid it , and take extraordinary precautions when they do ; it may well be believed that he would be better off , pecuniarily as well as otherwise , if he were morally and socially such as to be liked and respected in the community . And so on a greater scale . Admitting that Napoleon , for instance , often profited by his unscrupulousness , might he not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even in his own way , if he added to his transcendent energy , intellectual power and personal ascendency , something of the magnanimity of Caesar , Charlemagne or Alexander ? His aim was glory ; but did he not , after all , partly fail to achieve it , just because there was an ignoble streak in him ? The world glorifies power , but it does not glorify deceit , sensuality and meanness ; so that there is , perhaps , an admixture of contempt in the way it thinks of Napoleon . I need not say much of the second class of exceptions , that in which the success achieved is partial or temporary . Here would core most of the successful speculators , of various sorts , who now and then draw public attention by enormous gains but who seldom enjoy lasting prosperity . Their life is akin to that of the gambler and subject to similar vicissitudes . This also would cover the many cases in which a par- ticular advantage reaped from a single unscrupulous transaction is made the basis of a pessimistic conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Honesty is not the best policy in my profession : X made false representations and secured the contract : I told the truth and lost it . It is scarcely possible for a man of principle to succeed . " This last statement may be true in some instances ; but not , I imagine , as a rule . The argument , as I have tried to show , is fallacious and usually is no more than the expression of a natural chagrin at having suffered a palpable loss for the sake of an impalpable benefit . After all the upright men seem to hold their own in business , and many who are very successful are admitted even by their competitors to be men of strict integrity . There is little success without strength , force of character , and this usually goes with truth and self-respect . Cases of the third class are by far the most important , because they constitute real and not apparent exceptions . We must admit that honesty is not always the best policy ? in the ordinary sense of that word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " pay " to adopt standards above what the group or community of which one is a part can understand and appreciate . I do not say above what is generally practiced , because the moral standards of men are commonly above their practice , and they often reward with their admiration and support conduct which is much better than their own ; but one who goes beyond this enters the region of heresy , where he must expect misunderstanding , opposition and failure to achieve the ordinary objects of ambition . He must forgo policy and fix his mind upon a different kind of success from that which other men pursue , and look for companionship and appreciation to some select group of the wise and good . As we saw above , the moral level of competition is simply that of the conditions under which it takes place . Its functions are executive , not originative , it determines who and what is fit , in the plainest sense of the words ; it tries the available pegs in the available holes and uses the ones that go in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social order at the same time that it is the process of readjustment , equilibra- tion , change ; at once an outcome of actual conditions and a cause of change in those conditions . It therefore happens that when competition is suddenly intensified it is likely to be more or less debased , the intensification and debasement both coming from the disintegration of social structure . An obvious case is that of new communities in the West , where , before the forces of law and order became organized , competition reverted to a brutal type , and no one was fit who did not cultivate skill and promptness in the use of his revolver . Another was offered by the Commune of Paris , when , at the end of a series of rapid and destructive changes , culminating in the surrender of the starved and harassed city to the Germans , the untrained and irresponsible " proletariat " secured control of it , a number of bloody and cunning miscreants stepped into leadership , and the respectable element of the population was robbed , murdered or terrorized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unfit . The same principle is in some measure applicable to new industries , rapidly-growing cities , and novel conditions generally . The corruption of our city politics and the fact that the fittest to succeed in them appear often to be the worst , is ascribable to causes most of which , perhaps , may be brought within this general rule : that is , to the presence of a vast unassimilated foreign element whose vote , not being intelligent , is peculiarly subject to manipulation ; to the fact that street-railways and other great urban industries , their rights and duties not being properly determined by law , resort to systematic bribery of public officials ; and most of all , to the fact that the general stress and hurry withdraw the energies of the ablest men from all but immediate concerns . So with the demoralization , in many forms , accompanying the rapid expansion of railways . Where rates are unequal and the lowest is to be obtained only by bribery or intrigue , the policy of honesty becomes very questionable , and men of average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admit of intrigue with a freight agent . It would be superfluous to give many examples : any one who reflects upon the matter will find them without number .  | And , further , as hinted above , the highest honesty , that which is ruled by standards beyond the comprehension and sympathy of the time and place , is not and never has been or can be good policy , in the sense of conducing to ordinary success . The very essence and merit of it , as of all higher morality , consists in its being ahead of the time , heretical , and so unappreciated and unrewarded . It appeals from the present to the future , to conscience , to an ideal being . In so far as it is justified by the world in the end it sets a new standard , creates a new kind of success . Ordinary success is only going a little farther than others on the road that everybody is following , having therefore little permanent result ; but the success of moral leaders of mankind is success at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lower aims , even to the individual life itself . As Lowell says : " Count me o'er earth 's chosen heroes ; they were souls that stood alone While the men they agonized for hurled the contumelious stone . " l Yet to this I would still add , lest the danger of goodness be overestimated , that for one who impairs his worldly career by transcending the ordinary canons of morality there are at least nine hundred and ninety-nine who injure themselves by falling short of them . And moreover the man who feels the higher aspiration can never be happy in the lower success : so that we may say , if we will , that for him also honesty is the best policy . VI . COMPETITION AND SYMPATHY A very powerful source of the sentiment against competition and of the belief which many cherish that it can not be a permanent feature of social life , lies in its connection with personal ill-feeling . It is often said to be in its very nature anti-social , a state of war instead of a state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The bloody conflicts of our brute ancestors have been replaced by something less obvious and open but ? so we are told ? equally bitter and destructive , morally-speaking the same thing , " a disguised   and indirect anthropophagia , " as an Italian writer puts it . ' Yet there is no inevitable association between competition and hostility . In great measure the selective process operates without any conscious clash of personal aims , and therefore without generating personal feeling . A young man , for example , starts out in life with the purpose of following a certain profession ? let us say the law . The experience of two or three years convinces him and others that he can not succeed in this , and he makes his way into something else . About half the graduates of our law schools are eliminated in this way , and the same sort of thing takes place in other trades and professions . But the process is gradual and the eliminating forces , as a whole , impersonal ; that is to say they are too many , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition . Disappointment may ensue but not hatred , except in the case of weak and abnormally sensitive minds whose uncontrolled emotions lead them to ascribe every painful experience to the malignant purpose of others . So with commercial competition : a man 's trade gradually increases or declines ; but there is seldom any one person who can be fixed upon as the cause . In fact , while admitting the existence of a great deal of competitive bitterness , I believe that most men look upon the social conditions under which they work very much as the farmer looks upon the weather and other natural agents . They may make or mar him , and he thrives or suffers accordingly , but there is no single person to hold responsible . Moreover , open and declared opposition is not the thing most likely to give rise to hatred and jealousy . Where a conflict takes place tinder recognized rules and conditions which are observed by both parties , it does not necessarily give rise to bitter feeling , no matter how dangerous and destructive it may be . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was well and magnanimously expressed , it seems to me , in the remarkable address of the Spanish soldiers after the fall of Santiago : " We fought you with ardor , with all our strength , endeavoring to gain the victory , but without the slightest rancor   or hate toward the American nation . We have been vanquished by you ( so our generals and chiefs judged in signing the capitulation ) but our surrender and the bloody battle preceding it have left in our souls no place for resentment against the men who fought us nobly and valiantly . You fought in compliance with the same call of duty as we , for we all represent the power of our respective states . " The clause italicised contains the essence of the matter . So long as I see in my opponent a man like myself , acting from motives which I recognize as worthy , and acknowledging a like worthiness in me , I can not feel anger toward him , no matter what he may do to me . The conditions of the open market , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceived of as part of the necessary course of things and do not , in fairly reasonable men , generate personal hostility . Bitterness arises when there is , or is believed to be , something unfair , something exceptional , some infraction of the rules resulting in unjust discrimination . In fact , so far as my observation goes , it is among those removed from open and equal competition that hatred and jealousy are most rife . For instance , among the clerical force in public offices or large private businesses , where promotion depends upon the decision of one or a few men , a bad state of feeling is likely to prevail , especially if there is the slightest appearance of favoritism . A trifling slight will engender more animosity than would the most serious injury under freer conditions . The very extreme of self-consuming bitterness comes when one 's fate is in the hands of another who is thought of as maliciously or contemptuously unjust . Then , indeed , come the nights of sleepless resentment , of passionate , futile hate . A healthy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass of men to attribute their fortunes , good or bad , to something in themselves , is more general , I believe , in this country than in Europe , and may be ascribed largely to the comparatively free and open conditions that prevail here . It may be maintained that competition , when not unjust or destructive , promotes a broader social feeling . The free and open play of energy and purpose is calculated to arouse precisely that knowledge of others , and of the limitations which   their life imposes upon ours , out of which a wholesome sympathy and a sense of justice must spring . Competition involves contact and usually necessitates some degree of mutual comprehension . To succeed one must understand opposing forces , and understanding is the beginning of sympathy . Your competitor is one upon whom you must count , a factor in your life ; unconsciously your imagination occupies itself with him , trying to make out his purposes and methods , interpreting his thoughts from his words and actions . If he turns out to be a person of your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers , that you can appreciate , you will respect and perhaps admire him , no matter how much he may hinder you . Thus you will see life from a new point of view , and be correspondingly enlarged and delivered from your smaller self . There is no selfishness , no narrowness of social feeling , worse than that which flows from an ignorance of others fostered by a too secluded existence . What reasonable man does not rejoice in that necessity of struggle which , in our " fierce democracy , " permits no class to live apart in sensuous idleness without incurring the danger of being supplanted , which forces upon almost all of us , sooner or later , a working knowledge of mankind ? The great majority of our people are somewhat sluggish in imagination and sympathy , needing the spur of opposition , and prone to apathy and self-indulgence when it is withdrawn . One who notices how often men of promise fall into triviality and sensuality in the lack of definite aims , and how prompt a cure is often wrought by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the most efficient antidote yet devised to these forms of social degeneration . It is true that when a young man whose early years have been fortunate passes from the family circle into the larger world , and comes to know the feelings and practices that prevail in the latter , he feels a measure of degradation in the change , and bitter feelings are often aroused , which usually pass away in time but sometimes do not . It has always been the case that a good family is a social group of higher type than society at large , a place where love , justice , truth and refinement are inculcated . It is necessarily higher , not only   because of the mixture of all sorts of people in the world , but because the large , complex and shifting groups that carry on commercial and political life can not so readily be made social , in the higher sense , as a small , stable and presumably congenial group like the family . The difficulty of organization increases with size , complexity , heterogeneity , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such forces as law and economic necessity and less by personal feeling . The good family is a small Utopia , and from it comes the social ideal of fraternity or brotherly love as the right relation among men . The change , then , is a painful one , so much so to a person of naturally acute sensibility , who has spent his childhood and youth in circumstances favorable to a refined and elevated habit of thought and feeling , that the world is likely to seem a very bad place indeed . Yet it is in most cases a wholesome change ; what he loses in tenderness and refinement he gains , if he undergoes the trial well , in breadth and strength . His view is enlarged , and he outgrows that selfishness from ignorance to which every one who leads a protected life is necessarily subject . There is very often to be observed in those who are removed from the more active struggles of the world , most commonly perhaps in women , a type of social feeling which is quick and strong in certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a contracted experience has enabled them to understand , and having all the effect of coldness and selfishness as regards what lies beyond . On the other hand , while the man who is in the world becomes more or less of the world , with the fine edge of delicacy a good deal blunted , he usually gains something of the broader view and of the robust sense of justice that goes with it . Extreme refinement has its very great value ? to the poet , for example , to the artist , the scholar , the moral teacher , and through them to the world : it is a kind of leadership ? but to swim in the wider current is essential to the- doing of most of the world 's work . How much have our great American democrats , men of the type of Lincoln , owed to the fact that they have had to work their way up through stratum after stratum of a various and everywhere competitive society . What a knowledge of men   and mastery of life it gives them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " dealing with the vast and mysterious forces of the popular mind with the same confidence as the chemist handling his occult substances . There is something magnificent in this , a development of personality larger , in some ways , than is possible within any narrower social polity . And the mention of Lincoln is enough to dispose of the notion that such an experience is necessarily unfavorable to the growth of sympathy and kindliness . Every step of his advancement was won in a competitive struggle ; and he was , within just limits , a seeker of his own advantage , frankly purposing to overcome his opponents in politics and elsewhere ; yet his kindliness and truth were so great that they are the first things that come to mind in thinking of him . In short , it is only by trying to impose our ideas and purposes upon the world , that is by competing , that we come to know the world and our own relations to it . Our thoughts might be higher and finer , in some respects , if we withdrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cloistered goodness like that inculcated in the Imitatio Christi ; but if we reject such ideals and determine to share the life of humanity at any cost , we become competitors . As regards the feeling under the influence of which competition is carried on , its moral character is not to be determined merely by enquiring whether it is friendly or hostile . Hostility in the presence of evil is more moral than amity . Philanthropists not infrequently evince a righteous and justifiable anger against persons and institutions that they believe to be injurious to human welfare ; and all energetic people are subject to hostile feeling regarding what seems to them wilfully wrong . The essential question is that of the aims and tendency of the man , to which his feeling is subsidiary . If his purposes are just , so far as he can see what is just , and if he reserves his anger for that which he finds to be unjust and wrong , then his hostile feeling is right and wholesome , at least from his standpoint ; it fulfils the function of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course most of us are subject to angry passions that we know are wrong , and are liable to gross error as to others which we suppose to be   justifiable ; these are evils which we ought to remedy as far as we can ; but not by withdrawing from contention and abandoning those objects we hold to be worthy . There is great need for combativeness and I look upon it , when dominated by a sense of justice , as a social rather than an anti-social quality . Any motive whatever may be a motive to competition , from the basest fear or rage up to the noblest love , emulation or sense of duty . There is no special class of feelings or desires that is peculiarly competitive . All alike strive for success as they conceive it . To be a man is to compete . Vivere militare est . I can see only one class of cases where competition , merely as competition and without reference to its particular objects or standards , can justly be held responsible for the genesis of bad feeling . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , exceeding that of other peoples , the breaking up of established relations , the partial disorganization of moral control and support of every kind , the general racking and jerking , so to speak , that go with social change , put undue strain upon many characters , so that they go down under it . The man loses , or fails to acquire , that mastery of the moral situation , that power to control the passions and subordinate them to rational endeavor , which constitutes strength of character . Among those who suffer this fate are many of more than average refinement and sensibility . Those whose skins are very thin do not well endure the excitement and rough handling which befall many in a time like the present . Such find experiences distracting and exhausting which supply only a wholesome stimulus to others . ' There is quite a large class of persons who are too sensitive , too fine-strung , to become indifferent to vicissitude and social friction , and at the same time without the intellectual or moral vigor to overcome or subordinate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessive and conflicting emotions that rack their minds ; they fail to achieve any abiding relation to a world which seems to them a fearful chaos of unrest and pain . As is always the case when moral control is broken down , the lower passions take possession and hurry on the process of degeneration . Among these passions comes an unreasoning and selfdestructive animosity toward persons and a pessimistic bitterness as regards the world in general , which prey upon the decaying character very much as intemperance and other vices do . This form of suffering is terrible indeed , and the sufferers being often men of intelligence and power of expression their plaints are sometimes heard in literature . The more effective utterance , however , the bitter protest which is a very distinct and penetrating note in the literature of the day , comes from a class of refined and sensitive men , of strongly emotional type , who have been near enough to this experience to understand it , to taste its bitterness , without actually going under . I mean , to take names well-known , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Howells , who seem to me to come within the class indicated . It is also plentifully represented among writers upon political economy and socialism . I would not be understood as deprecating this protest : on the contrary there is good ground for it , and when containing something beyond mere accusation , something hopeful and reconstructive , it is beneficent and a spur to progress . It would be too much to expect such writers to weigh the existing order in a perfectly just balance . They are likely to overlook the favorable side , and especially the important fact that the very stir and flux that proves too much for some , brings awakening , opportunity , wholesome endeavor , to a class infinitely more numerous , the somewhat sluggish multitude , previously sunk in routine , torpor and sensuality . VII . RESTLESSNESS , INSECURITY AND STRAIN Fifty years ago 1 Bayard Taylor , landing in New York after his first visit to Europe , exclaimed : " What activity ! what a   restless eagerness , and even keenness of expression on every countenance ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American face was so sharp . " The same thought comes to the returning traveler to-day . One who has lived long enough in some unprogressing foreign city to become at all settled can not fail to notice there , among much that is uncongenial to his habits of thought , a certain smoothness and repose in life that is grateful to the soul . Every one has his place and , expecting nothing but to remain in it , does not worry himself and others by aggressive self-assertion . In dealing with a servant there is no disquieting clash of democratic theory with undemocratic fact . He does not look upon himself as your equal , and you very readily fall into his way of thinking . The traveler , as a person of leisure and presumptive wealth , finds himself the member of an upper class , an unquestioned aristocrat . For him the rough corners of life seem all filed off . Things are rotten at the core , possibly , but on the surface all is finished , stable and secure ; he feels a sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposition to enjoy life and to cultivate the esthetic feelings . Nor is this state of mind confined to the upper class ; the general lack of personal ambition brings with it a sort of freedom , a moral disengagement of which all partake in some measure . To return from this to strenuous America is in part a painful experience ; intensely so to sensitive minds of strong aesthetic instincts , minds naturally alien to the conditions that prevail here . The mental attitude that goes with our intense and somewhat chaotic competition is unquiet , expectant of change , agitated by fear and hope as to the near future , and so at variance with that repose and impersonal breadth of thought which promotes the appreciation of beauty and the finer , larger , more detached activities of the mind . ' Opportunity seems to bring discontent . Men soon reconcile themselves to any lot that they believe to be inevitable : far from protesting and resisting the more , the more they suffer , they become apathetic when hope dies out and pres-  | ently lose all power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things . But freedom , democracy , competition , animate every one with the sight of bright possibilities , and thousands seek what only a few can gain . Social classes no longer appear inevitable ; and the less the distinctions become the more odious they appear . The growth of prosperity , freedom , opportunity , seems to bring increase of dissatisfaction : the more is achieved the more is wanted , social agitations increase instead of diminishing , and there is no end in sight . Then , too , there is the insecurity that is inseparable from intense competition . There seems to be no way to give opportunity to the fit but by permitting them to supplant the unfit ; and who can be perfectly sure that he does not belong among the latter ? While it seems only reasonable that the young should be insecure in the functions they are attempting to perform ? because they may be regarded as undergoing ya process of probation ? it would appear that , once established , the increasing efficiency resulting from experience should make their maturity practically secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The earlier period of life is naturally restless and adaptable , suited to undergo without injury and often with enjoyment the vicissitudes of apprenticeship to life . But later comes a longer period that is more rigid , fit to grow and expand in a given direction but not to take a new one , executive but not formative . That industrious and efficient men in middle life should find themselves undermined by social and industrial changes they could not have foreseen , and be cast loose to begin an untimely and unsuccessful competition with younger men for new careers , is a great and frequent evil incident to a time like this , and one for which there is no adequate remedy . And an evil still greater , perhaps , is the feeling of insecurity , the apprehensions that are never realized , the moral wear and tear upon the finer and more imaginative minds , destroying repose , wasting strength , and often leading to pessimism and mental disease . Thus the time is plausibly charged with strain , painful to all , so it is said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who come to drink , crime , suicide , insanity and every other form of degeneracy . A very large class of persons ,   including many of the wisest and finest minds of the day , dislike and denounce the time , and pray that it may soon be over . They recognize , if they are clear-headed , that there is much good in it , that great things are doing and greater ones , probably , in preparation ; but they say that it is a time of transition , of disorganization , of distraction , hostile to poetry , the fine arts and all the higher manifestations of genius , an unhappy time , in which men are paying the cost of a future they will never see . This matter seems to be very much like that of social feeling , already discussed . The first condition of a just conception of it is to make a division among men and to recognize that one part is quite differently affected from the other . Present conditions , like all others , are very well for those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who are not . The distinction most important to make is that between the sensitive , the irritable in the broader sense of the word , and the more phlegmatic ; the former being comparatively few in number , but including a large proportion of the men who have marked ability of the finer sort . This sensitiveness , though increased by intellectual pursuits and refined living , is by no means confined to the well-to-do class , the greater number of those possessing it being scattered inconspicuously among the mass of the people . The more phlegmatic sort are an overwhelming majority in all classes . Now the most general trait of the present time , as regards its action upon individuals , is perhaps the unprecedented intensity and diffusion of social incitement . On every side are suggestions of thought and action , awakening ambition , sympathy , curiosity , envy , apprehension and multiform desire . Life assails us on every quarter and demands an active response . These stimulations are felt with an intensity proportional to the sensitiveness , natural and acquired , of the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally , is admirable . The once brutish multitude is penetrated to a considerable depth with thought and aspiration , which dispel apathy and compete with sensuality . In comparison with lethargy there is scarcely any form of ambition , however narrow , hostile and apparently selfish , that is not noble   and elevating ; since ambition , in its very nature , is social , in that it looks to others for its reward , and involves the subordination of the animal nature to imaginative aims . For this class the sort of discontent that ensues is no evil , but an awakening of the imagination , a stimulus to wholesome and humanizing activity . That few gain what they desire is nothing in comparison with the fact that life is spent in hopeful endeavor . " The soul can be appeased not by a deed , but by a tendency . " Instead of this social stir and incitement being generally excessive , it is still far from accomplishing its full work , and the mental state of the people of the United States can be called active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with that of other countries . The greater number still live in a narrow , sleepy way , without definite ambition , without real contact with the intellectual movements of the time , wanting awakening rather than soothing . One need only go into any country neighborhood and exercise his imagination upon the mental state of the persons he sees to feel how grossly exaggerated is much of what is written about the unrest of the American people . They are certainly of a protestant turn of mind , more ready than any other , perhaps , to demand a betterment of their condition . But does this indicate that they are more unhappy ? Not at all . Social agitation may be said to be one of their pleasures , a part of the wholesome activity to which I have referred , an outlet to energies which would be painful if kept in . Our contentment is kinetic , not static . It must surely be a person of perverted sympathies who can imagine that Americans are generally unhappy . A fundamental cheerfulness and optimism appear to observant foreigners to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I think , is due to the pleasures of action and of hope that are so widely distributed . The very persons whose printed utterances would seem to indicate the most desperate state of mind , will often be found , upon personal contact , to be decidedly cheerful , partaking of the joy of life . Freedom takes the bitterness from revolutionary agitation by permitting to the agitators that self-expression , in speech and endeavor , which is their most urgent need . This , in my opinion , is the case with the great mass of people ;   they are on the whole happier and better , more alive and human , for the intensity of competition . But , as I have intimated , it often proves over-stimulating for the finer and more irritable temperaments . These do not need the spur , and are only agitated and put out by it . They say with Thomas a Kempis " Taedet valde sic cotidie vivere in lite , " and " make their only prayer for peace . " They wish to love , and find themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create beauty , and find no repose for the one or encouragement for the other . Assuming that what is true for them is true for all , they are likely to adopt extravagant social opinions and write pessimistic literature . What they really need is not less competition , but one that is more discriminating , and broader as regards the careers to which it opens the way . An adequate system of education , as Professor Lester Ward insists , would detect the finer aptitudes in childhood , lead their possessors aside from the ruder struggle for which they are unfit , and provide for their development in a congenial environment . This alone will give to such minds true freedom , a fair chance , just competition . It involves a more symmetrical social organization , providing better for the aesthetic and intellectual needs of human nature , and a competitive process suitable to select and educate the persons fitted to minister to these needs . VIII . INDIVIDUALITY , SELF-RELIANCE , EARNESTNESS In closing this discussion of the effect of competition upon human character and happiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been implied all along , and is perhaps too obvious to call for much exposition ? that , whatever its evils , it promotes individuality , self-reliance and earnestness . In so far as a man can and does live upon traditional ideas and feelings , without the necessity of exercising choice or of testing his principles by use , he fails to achieve individual character and self-reliant manhood . It is by permitting this , and so relaxing the tissue of personal character , that the most elaborate social systems of the past have decayed . The man who has made his way in a competitive order has learned to   resist suggestions , to select and develop one class of influences and reject others , thus achieving self-knowledge and an effective will . At the same time , as we have seen , he is forced to study other men and to develop a robust type of sympathy . The plainest workman , thrown upon his own resources , becomes something of a diplomatist , a student of character , an experimental observer of social forces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better sort to make every man a man of the world . He undergoes at once individualization and socialization , these two proceeding hand in hand , in a wholesome social life , each enriching the other . ' Again , it is not the least of the merits of competition that it makes life earnest by giving to men a definite , difficult and urgent problem to solve . The present age is alleged to be material , and so vulgar , with too much to eat and drink and wear and no faith or aspiration . But is it not surprising , on the whole , that this facility of production , this economic abundance , has produced so little frivolity , sensuality and gross self-indulgence ? The people of the richest and freest nation in the world are said to be too earnest , too striving ; they are exhorted to relax a little , to permit themselves reasonable recreation . How can we account for this idealism , for it is certainly a kind of idealism , in view of the apparent fact that the spiritual forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material forces never so well ? How is it that the Saxon of to-day , with infinitely greater command over food and drink , is less of a sensualist than his ancestor was ? Is it not partly that while the material inheritance is great , a share in it can only be obtained , as a rule , by a success more dependent upon moral and intellectual power than success ever was in the past , by the habitual exercise of self-control , foresight , patience , by the acquirement of character ? The present regime usually gives a man material goods only upon condition that he be- This is well illustrated , it seems to me , by the contrast between German and American students of the same age . German life , though perhaps more competitive , more encouraging to personal initiative and self-reliance , than that of any other country of continental Europe , is much less so than life in the United States . And the German student is more childlike , simple , impulsive , appears less practiced in self-reliance and self-control , than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allows him plenty only when he is proved capable of abstinence ; and he often learns his lesson so well that he comes to care even less than is right for the pleasures of sense , and to turn from them when they are within his reach . IX . THE STANDARD OF SUCCESS Success , as I use the word , is whatever men think it is ; that is to say it is nothing other than the achievement , or the hopeful pursuit , of the object of endeavor . Now the object of endeavor which each person sets before himself is , like all the products of our minds , at once individual and social in its origin . It represents the ideas concerning success offered by the social environment organized according to the structure of the individual mind . What I think worth doing must always be a function , more or less involved , of what other people think , or have thought , worth doing . It is therefore no denial of individuality to say that the object of endeavor reflects the sentiment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for every nation and every age , a standard of success more or less peculiar and characteristic . So far as life is determined by the animal necessities , to exist and propagate is success ; but beyond this point , when this primary object is secured and a surplus of energy remains , success begins to take on a social or moral character and the object striven for becomes more and more the production of some effect upon the minds of others , the achievement of respect , honor , power , love , or beneficence . These are clearly the chief objects of endeavor in existing society , under normal conditions . The literal " struggle for existence " comes into painful prominence at times , but on the whole it plays only a small part . What this expression really means in most cases is the struggle to maintain what is called a standard of living ; and this is altogether a social or psychological phenomenon . Our standard of living is fixed by what others think , by what those whose respect we wish to retain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while a man is at home , and quite a different thing when he is upon a hunting trip . It is determined by his habit of thought and his social environment . The more   aggressive forms of ambition , which engage those who are not content with merely maintaining a standard of living , have also this social and imaginative character . The objects sought are power , reputation , beneficence ; always the production of some desired effect upon the minds of other persons . Wealth as an object of ambition and a measure of success , owes its ascendency to its social implications , and the pursuit of it is by no means a proof of materialism or sensuality . Wealth is merely a symbol for the power into which it is convertible ? and for the sake of which it is desired . The fact that a man desires it , throws little or no light upon the real object of his ambition . He may want it to pamper his stomach , to build a fine house , to further his political ambition , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however they may differ in ethical value , the first alone is a material or sensual aim . The rest are social and look to the minds of others for their success . As regards mere sensualism , it would seem that it does not play and never has played any very important part as an object of ambition . It does not appeal to that social imagination which is the basis of all ambition . Men may become sensualists after they achieve wealth ? though that is usually left for the heirs ? but sensual pleasure was not the object for which they strove . They sought wealth in order to have power , and the respect and admiration which power commands , or , as I think is usually the case , simply because they needed to strive for something and this was the object that most readily presented itself . They sought what they found others seeking , just to be in the game . The more ambition one has , even of the more selfish sorts , the less he is likely to fall into sensuality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is essentially social , and that its object is the production of some desired effect upon the minds of others , is contradicted by the fact that rich and successful men often display a great contempt for what others think , and openly " trample upon the moral sentiment of the people . " I think , however , that a close scrutiny of the facts will show that this supposed contempt of public opinion seldom or never exists . If it does exist it is simply because the person in question looks for the gratification of his ambition to the minds of some small group , his   rivals and associates in business , perhaps , whose sentiment differs from that of the public in general . The truth , in most cases , is that the opinion or moral sentiment disregarded is that of only a small part ? though very possibly the best part ? of the community . It is disregarded largely because attention is fixed upon the majority , who are indifferent to the actions reprobated and are ready to admire wealth and power however obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plutocrats if you will , are simply conforming to the reigning conception of what constitutes success . Because it is a symbol convertible into any one of many forms of power , wealth must always be a main object of endeavor , and its attainment will perhaps remain for a majority of persons , the accepted standard of success . There seems to be a truth , however , in the idea that it plays a larger part than it should at the present time , larger , perhaps , than it has ordinarily played in the past . The kinds of power which wealth assures are after all the lower kinds . It will buy material commodities , mechanical service , and plenty of a certain sort of admiration . But the finer , stronger and more generous spirits among men are not , as a rule , to be satisfied with these ; they crave something more ideal , more enduring , more personal , some higher place in the minds of those with whom they sympathize , something that , as I said above , appeals more to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be gratified by creative work in literature or art , by heroic deeds upon the field of battle or elsewhere , by eloquence in any noble cause , by the sort of philanthropy that involves personal service , and so on . As compared with these finer ambitions the pursuit of wealth now absorbs more of the endeavor of the higher class of minds than has commonly been the case in the past . The dazzling succession of inventions and the sequent material progress have had a semi-hypnotic effect in turning the attention of men in this one direction and in shutting it off from others . The work at hand has been material work , chiefly the development of new means of production . Men have taken it up , and with the emulation inseparable from human energy have striven with one another to excel in it and to gain the power and honor that goes  | with success . But in such work , more than in others , the accumulation of wealth is the proof and symbol of success , and this , accordingly , has more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of minds that in another state of things would have risen above it . A standard or type of success , set-a-going in this way , tends strongly to perpetuate itself . It becomes established in the habit of thought , in public sentiment , tradition and education , while other standards or types are neglected . Children are brought up in it , it is in the air ; this comes to seem real and solid while other ideals are looked upon as vague and visionary . A few hundred years ago it seemed the most natural thing in the world to the ambitious among our ancestors , to sell off their property , raise a company and set off to the Holy Land to rescue it from the infidels . This is incomprehensible to us , but we see nothing strange in a man of ambition and imagination devoting a lifetime of strenuous endeavor to the making of tubs or the organized slaughter of hogs . One of these aims is no more strange than the other ; both are natural and human , and the men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably the same who would do the other in another age . We must , then , conclude that the standard of success which our age presses most strongly upon our attention is a narrow and , in some sense , a low one . It needs to be raised and diversified . The standard of success should be the symmetrical reflection of all the needs of human nature , not the exaggerated image of a few of them . Without expecting that wealth will cease to be an object of pretty general esteem and endeavor , we may hope and strive to break down the ascendency which it exercises over a class of persons who would serve the world better and find more happiness for themselves if they could devote their energies to the discovery of truth , the creation of beauty , or some other of the more imaginative aims . It may be asked , what is to hinder ? The answer , however , is not difficult : to undertake careers of this sort in the face of the indifference to them which for the most part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rare ; the special education necessary is often unattainable ; the chance of making a living is not encouraging ; and , most fatal of all by far , the                     