@@774291

txt  | THE COMPOSITE PICTURE OF THE TENNESSEE VALLEY REGION 1 . The Region , its Resources and Potentialities The Tennessee Valley Authority is charged with the comprehensive regional planning and development of an entire watershed , the Tennessee River Basin . In order to understand the regional work of the Authority it is necessary to be familiar with the cultural setting in which it functions . The size and shape of the Tennessee Valley region has become so well known in American life as to be almost a popular symbol . It is the largest and most distinct region that has yet been given official recognition in this country . The river watershed , running through seven States , starts in the southern Appalachians near the western end of Virginia and sweeps southeastward in a wide arc across western North Carolina and eastern Tennessee , northern Georgia , northern Alabama and a corner of northeastern Mississippi , then swings northward again across Tennessee and Kentucky and finally flows into the Ohio at Paducah , Kentucky . It heedlessly ignores state boundaries along its course . The Tennessee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average width of fifty miles . It has an area of 40,600 square miles , about four-fifths the size of England . There are about 2,000,000 people in the Tennessee Valley watershed with which the Tennessee Valley Authority is primarily concerned , and about 4,000,000 others in the immediate surrounding territory for which the Authority may assume planning functions . And of the character of the region , again , the Nation is aware . Picturesque , vivid , realistic or romantic , the region has Footnote  | been described in pictures and periodicals ; in maps and government documents ; on the air and on the stage ; in county and state , country and city ; in conference and committee ? in a manner speculative , factual , descriptive or analytical ? so as to mean almost anything to anybody . In terminology , the Valley and its Authority have ranged from the greatest national experiment in social , economic , and physical reconstruction , to the pork barrel de luxe ; " a river basin draining the seven states , an authority draining forty-eight states . " 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has " all the ear marks of out-and-out socialism after the Russian pattern . " ' It was designed consciously to be " the first large scale experiment in economic and social planning ever undertaken outside Soviet Russia . It was expected to produce , as rapidly as possible , a sort of baby Gosplan which later , perhaps , might serve as a model for the nation . " ' It has been variously called a " slice of Soviet Russia , " " a five year plan , " " an attempt to ruin the private power companies by subsidized government competition . " Some people say the Authority is " an alltime menace to American institutions , " others say it is " the route to an ideal society . " ? The regional plans of the Authority have been described as " a set of blueprints made either in Yellow Springs , Ohio , or in Washington , and intended as patterns to be rigidly imposed upon the simple mountain folk of the Tennessee Basin ; or as the expensive playthings of radical politicians who , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dramatizing themselves as the friends of the common people , would discard the whole thing and take up some Footnote  | new toy . " ' To the North it is sometimes seen as regional favoritism ; to the South it has at times been characterized as federal dictation , " a form of dominion government being forced upon us from Washington . " $ When nothing else was at hand , critics have described the project as a " silly plan to teach folk-dancing and basket-weaving , at national expense , to people who had known how to do these things for generations . " ' Yet in North and South , East and West , it has appeared most often as a great and hopeful portent in the American scene . But to summarize more of the physical characteristics of the region : the physiography of the Valley ranges from mountain peaks and ridges over 6,000 feet in the Smoky Mountains and Blue Ridge Mountains , which are the highest ranges east of the Rockies , to level plains only a few hundred feet above sea level . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much colder regions , while the southern portion of the Valley has the characteristics of the cotton belt . The life and activities of the people vary considerably . The eastern section of the Valley is composed of small farms , pasture lands , orchards , and forests . The southern and western portions are mostly plantations with their attendant problems of share croppers and renters . The climate varies from that of the Great Lakes in the mountain areas to sub-tropical in the cotton country . They can raise anything that grows between Canada and the Gulf of Mexico . The rainfall is heavy , ranging from forty to eighty inches , with an average rainfall of about fifty-one inches . The growing season is long and moderate , the soil is varied , rich by nature , poor by exhaustion . The region is rich in natural resources , which are to a large extent undeveloped . Vast and almost untouched deposits of coal , iron ore , zinc , asphalt , barite , clay , limestone , manganese , marble , bauxite , phosphate rock , slate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Footnote  | gravel are to be found within easy reach of the river.10 The forests of the Valley occupy 13,500,000 acres or approximately fifty-two percent of the entire area . These forests are composed of a greater variety of species of commercial timber than is found in any other area of equal size in the United States . " Transportation facilities are relatively good . Despite the many shoals , the Tennessee River serves as an artery of commerce for the region . On its upper and lower channels move yearly 1,982,252 tons of freight valued at $50,000,000.4= Assuming a normal increase in traffic , it is estimated that by 1950 the traffic using the waterway will be 17,800,000 tons , effecting an annual saving to shippers of $22,800,000 . " Tremendous hydroelectric possibilities are latent in the Tennessee River and its tributaries that drop sharply as they bear the rainfall down through the Valley . The current at Muscle Shoals , Alabama , alone is sufficient to produce from 100,000 to 1,000,000 horsepower , depending upon the flow of the river.r4 Development of the water power resources of the river @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private development , will tend to equalize this violent fluctuation in the flow with beneficial results , by way of aid to navigation and protection against flood and drouth . " Footnote  | The Valley region is predominantly rural , there being only two cities of over 100,000 population : Knoxville and Chattanooga , and only twenty-one additional cities of over 5,000 population . " The region has an essentially agricultural economy . Of the 2,000,000 inhabitants , about half are engaged in farming . The chief farm products consist of livestock , corn , tobacco , cotton , wheat , oats , peanuts , hay , and sweet potatoes . Fruits such as apples , peaches , pears , grapes , cherries and strawberries are cultivated in the highlands of the mountain sections.17 The variety of raw materials from farm and forest and minerals from mine and quarry contributes to a greatly diversified manufacturing industry . However , such industrialization as had taken place before the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority in May , 1933 , had been due to textile manufacturers moving in from the North to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had done little to raise the standard of life . Employment is primarily agricultural , but the scanty population is by no means fully occupied . Chairman Arthur E. Morgan states that " the Tennessee Valley contains twice as many people in rural areas as are necessary for agricultural work . " 18 The younger and more energetic members of Footnote  | the Valley region have been steadily moving out to seek more remunerative occupations and more attractive conditions in the large industrial centers of the North . " The Tennessee Valley is one of the Nation 's most underdeveloped regions , while at the same time it is one of the richest in fertility and economic possibilities . One day it may become one of the most populous areas of the country . Practically all of the factors necessary to produce a well developed regional economy are present , actually or potentially . According to the report of the Army Engineers , eighty-three percent of the annual tonnage produced in the Tennessee Valley Basin consists of mineral products , seven percent agricultural products , three percent forest products , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of approximately 44,135,000 tons. = ? The potential mineral , agricultural , and forest resources of the region as compared to the small percentage of processed products indicate the possibilities for a great increase in industrialization in the future . In short , the region possesses that happy combination of circumstances which brings forth the often repeated verdict , " no other comparable area in the United States offers the diversity of climate , soil , vegetation , and of other resources , which we find in the Tennessee Valley . " It is in this respect the perfect laboratory for an experiment in national regional planning and development.21 Footnote  | 2 . Problems Growing out of the Region Reasons for the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority may be found in the social , economic , and physical conditions prevalent in the region . Although the drainage basin of the Tennessee River has long been recognized as possessing unusual human , technological , and physical resource possibilities , the development of its resources has been obviously unsatisfactory . Eroded soils , depleted forests , sub-marginal lands , mines abandoned after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , low wages , a large proportion of illiterates , poor educational and cultural facilities , inadequate technological equipment , and stranded populations all testify to the unwise use that has been made of the region 's natural and human resources . The selection of the Valley region of the Tennessee River as the location of a national experiment in regional planning and development indicates the Administration 's recognition of these conditions . A realistic picture of the Tennessee Valley region can be obtained only when the superabundance of its resources is contrasted with its deficiencies in technology , its wasteful economy , immaturity in cultural facilities , and lack of unity in the development of its human and physical resource possibilities . In order to analyze critically and to appreciate the regional planning and developmental activities of the Tennessee Valley Authority , we need first a general understanding of the people and of the multifarious problems and deficiencies of the region which the Authority has had to face , and for which it is attempting , on a regional scale , to work out proper solutions . The measuring and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitute the major tasks of the administrative regional planning and developmental units of the Tennessee Valley Authority . The activities of these units first come into the picture through the fact that the Authority seeks by persuasion and financial assistance to affect directly many of the phases of living in the Valley , and then through them possibly also the remainder . The Tennessee Valley Authority 's problem , therefore , is one of both fitting itself into the various attitudes , folkways , and mores of the region , and effecting a change in them in the interest of the planned " good life " for the social , physical , and economic well-being of the Valley . This is a philosophic and diplomatic job of no mean proportions : philosophic in the task of setting up ideals as to what the Authority should work for ; diplomatic in the necessity for working out the methods and techniques of persuading several million people to fall in line with ii:s regional plans and programs . It calls for administration of the highest order . It is in this phase of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field which may produce results which when tested may be applied to the orderly regional planning and developmental programs for other areas of the Nation . It is necessary , therefore , briefly to portray the chief attitudes , characteristics , problems and deficiencies of the area and to illustrate them from various phases of the life of the region.22 The population is of early American stock , a vigorous and independent people , with a distinctive . culture and pattern of life . Less than one-half of one percent of the population is foreign born.23 There exist , also , certain cultural characteristics of earlier America , " frontier patterns , church going , protestant , Sabbath observing , patriarchal folk , taking their honor , their Footnote  | politics , and their liquor hard . And there is always the bi-racial civilization with its ever-present ' Negro problem ' and dual drain on resources . " 24 " The more poverty-stricken the people , the more difficult it is to get them to break away and seek better economic conditions . They are afraid . " 25 This explains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding characteristic of a large group in the region , the inhabitants of the highland and mountain areas . Conservatism , however , is a common trait of the entire region . Chairman Morgan aptly summarized the condition of the people of this area , when , testifying before the House Committee on Military Affairs , he stated:26 There is a situation down there that I think the American people as a whole do not realize . . . . In the fall of 1933 , there were counties in the southern highlands with more than 50 per cent of the families on relief . One county had 87 per cent of their families on relief . There are many prosperous communities in that region , but there is also considerable part of that population that is on the verge of starvation ... . This is a very desperate economic situation . In the wake of poverty in much of the region follow conditions of health and diet which contribute in some degree to a lack of mental alertness and consequent indifference to the possibilities of change and relative progress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large proportion of the rural diet . While even during growing seasons vegetables are rendered more or less useless by fat and long cooking.27 Added Footnote  | to the improper diet are unsanitary conditions of all sorts . Consequently , the development of certain debilitating diseases such as hookworm , malaria , tuberculosis , typhoid and pellagra , is easy and their incidence widespread . The effect of some of these diseases upon mental development is pointed out by Professor Rupert B. Vance in his study of the South . He predicts that with their passing will also disappear the poor white of the region . ' $ Inadequacies in the field of education contribute to the conservatism of the region . In the administration of formal education , particularly in the highland areas , the growth of nepotism has almost thwarted progress . The schools have literally been " cousined to death . " Education , or what there is of it in many mountain communities , is fundamentally remote from the actual life problems of the student ; one observer declares that the only product of such schools can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrorize whole communities with their promiscuous shooting and threats of barn burning . . . these boys are the fruits of schools dominated by political nepotism and bartering. " 20 Of higher education throughout the region , a competent authority on Southern culture writes : 30 It is not only that the region has no university of the first ranking , but it lacks college and university scholars and administrators of topmost distinction , measured by the usual standards of achievement and recognition . . . . Until very recently there was nowhere in the whole region a college or university science building or laboratory equal to many of the high school laboratories in the larger and better school systems of the country . . . . The high schools , it follows , are proportionally even weaker in their facilities and personnel . With the land and its utilization is tied up the entire horizon of man 's life in many rural areas of the region . His economic Footnote  | and social interests are so minutely circumscribed by the land he tills that they become almost a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not resulted in the most intelligent and advantageous use of the land and its resources . Little foresight and less appreciation of basic economics in farm operation , management , and marketing emphasize the attitude of indifference and a willingness to carry on in the old traditional manner without concern for the possibilities of meeting in a better way the demands of living . These attitudes have produced a continuation of economic problems of many sorts . As a result of unscientific farming , exhausting soil fertility , and of uncontrolled soil erosion , much of the farm lands of the region have become waste lands ; the farmer " is trying to farm land a crow would n't fly over without carrying his lunch . " 31 Dr. Harcourt A. Morgan , agricultural expert of the Tennessee Valley Authority , recently testified before the House Committee on Appropriations that out of " 26,000,000 acres in the valley , it has been estimated that 7,000,000 acres have suffered from erosion . " " On one farm where measurements were taken , it was computed that one rainstorm washed away thirty-nine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County , Tennessee , a typical agricultural area of the Upper Tennessee Valley , shows that in this county thirty-five percent of the land had lost more than one-half of its topsoil , about forty-two percent had lost two-thirds or more of its topsoil , and about three percent had substantially been destroyed.34 In many parts of the region , the soil has been exhausted by single Footnote  | crop farming . Cotton , corn or tobacco has been grown year after year with little attempt to revive the fertility of the soil . Plant foods like clover and phosphate fertilizer have to a large extent been neglected . The forests of the region have been steadily destroyed by wasteful lumbering methods and avoidable fires . Naturally under such conditions a considerable portion of the rural population is able to eke out but a meager existence . If continued , this process would eventually make the region impotent for agrarian culture or even for supplying resources adequate to support industry and mercantile interests.3 ' Not only in the rural areas are there evidences of indifference bred by conservatism . For instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so as to serve an outlying town were rejected by the townspeople , protesting in a mass meeting that by means of the river flowing through the area they were kept in sufficiently close contact with the outside world . " Toward social problems too the urban areas manifest a traditional approach . Restrictions on child labor are opposed on the ground that the disposal of the child 's abilities , training , and education are entirely matters of parental control . Factory legislation is resisted on the ground of interference with freedom and liberty.37 And efforts in the direction of unionization of industrial employees are bitterly resented not only by owners but also by citizens in general.38 Wages in the region are from Footnote  | twenty to thirty percent lower than corresponding wages in the Northeast . Among the causes of low wages in the area are lack of skill in labor and low standards of living . A large part of the region 's technological lag is due to the lateness of the discovery of cheap hydro-electric power , compared with coal , and to the apparent destitution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power resources . The power potentialities of the region may be appreciated when it is observed that up to 1933 throughout the Tennessee River Valley only two percent of the farms had electricity , and about three out of every one hundred farmers had access to electric current.30 As a consequence of failure to plan an economical development of the Tennessee River system for power , navigation , and flood control , prior to the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority , the river basin was subjected to inundation by floods almost every year and frequently these overflows caused great damage . The annual flood damage on the Tennessee River and its tributaries reached the figure of approximately $1,780,000 according to Army Engineers ' computations . At Chattanooga alone , the annual flood damage was $687,700 . These figures cover only direct property damage . They do not include such indirect losses as those resulting from interrupted traffic and business , unsanitary conditions and spread of disease due to flooding of towns , or depreciation of lands due to overflow and soil erosion.40 Footnote  | Attitudes of conservatism very naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But to them is added a blind perverseness , an unseeing emotionalism grounded in factors of religion and personalities . Thus the political picture is frequently cloudy , and acute analysis of political and administrative problems is made difficult . One looks in vain for any fundamental conception of political philosophy that will distinguish one party from another . The existence of parties other than the Democratic and Republican is hardly to be noted . " Party loyalties and alignments are historic and highly personal throughout the region . Selections for office and appeals for votes are based upon the personal integrity of the individual candidate , and his honesty , economy , and characteristics comprise the issues which may cause a heated political campaign . Professor Odum describes this emotional attitude in the following words:42 Against evolution , materialism , atheism , against airplanes on Sunday , against recreation on Sunday , against divorce , against Catholics , against Jews , against the North , against cards , against fiddling , against theatres , which they know little about , against lawlessness , against crime wave , against youth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and narrowness , and intolerance , and industrial wrongs , or racial discriminations , nor against homicide and lynching . Energies are thus wasted in constant protest ; energies which might more fruitfully be directed toward the solution of many of the region 's social , economic , and physical problems . A similar lack of awareness of everyday problems demanding solution can be traced to the nature of the religioas backgrounds generally prevalent in most of the region . An otherworldliness , induced probably in part by constant adversity , Footnote  | helps to cause an indifference toward matters of daily life . Manifested in the form of resignation , the attitude assumes the proportions of a virtue , particularly in the mountain areas . Thus , treatment for syphillis was refused because thereby the will of the Lord might be frustrated.43 A student whose whole life has been spent in the mountain areas of the region records religion as the first characteristic of his people , who have " . . . great respect for religious leaders , reverent attitude , though often dogmatic . They take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Andre Siegfried quotes the judge at the Dayton trial as instructing the out-of-State lawyers , " I find it necessary to advise you , in order to govern your conduct , that this is a God-fearing country . " 4 ' Life on earth , to many of the people , is but a short burden to be borne without complaint . The believer is strengthened by thoughts of the glorious life of the future . Religion , as a consequence , has little place in giving to life on earth course or direction . Any attempt on the part of the minister to relate his sermon to his congregation 's social and economic problems is resented , for the salvation of the individual is the only concern of the hearers.4f A further impediment to the development of a social insight by the region into the nature of its many complex problems exists in a characteristic sensitiveness to criticism , a false pride and sense of superiority which rejects as impertinent any possible question as to the validity of the Southern way of doing things . Dr. Vance , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Federal officials when in 1921 , as a result of the depression , a survey of pellagra cases in the region was suggested , having in mind the amelioration of distressing conditions . Southern legislatures and officials , Senators and Congressmen violently denied the existence of an unusual number Footnote  | of pellagra cases , and prevented the survey . The grave nature of the problem appeared later in mortality reports and statistics of pellagra cases . No realistic self-appraisal is possible under such conditions . " But even more significant is the fact that the old sectional issue still lingers on . The Tennessee Valley lies south of the Mason-Dixon line . The inhabitants of most of the region are related to those who fought with the Confederacy . Consequently , it is common to hear references to " our Southern boys , " or to have comparisons made to the Confederacy as a common heritage . Professor Odum states in this connection : " Sectionalism itself has constituted a continuous major crisis . Powerful in the development of all the nation , it became in the South America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cultural fortunes and conditioning the South to isolation , individualism , ingrowing patriotism , cultural inbreeding , civic immaturity , and social inadequacy . " " Many of the Valley folk today look with suspicion at the importation of Northern blood into the comfortably furnished offices of the Tennessee Valley Authority in Knoxville . Thus this national experiment in regional planning and development being carried on by the Tennessee Valley Authority offers the opportunity for the development of a more dynamic regionalism in contrast with the old state sectionalism portrayed by Frederick Jackson Turner in his Significance of Sections in American History . Subsectionalism is another characteristic of the region . State loyalties provide identity with one set of interests , sectional attachments another . However when one hears appeals to recognize the difference between upper , middle , and lower east Tennessee the consciousness of subloyalties seems to be carried too far . While much of this may be explained in terms of the activities of the politicians , sectional and subsectional ties do serve to bolster up the parties effectively . " 9 Footnote  | The same geographic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern of thought in race relations . The region has a substantial negro population . Expressions heavily weighted with emotional connotation provide the setting . " God Almighty , " they say , " created the Negro for a menial . " " Social equality , " " know your place , " and such phrases are felt and not described . In general , the negroes are looked upon as " beings of an inferior order , and altogether unfit to associate with the white race , either in social or political relations , " although wide differences exist in different areas and even in the same communities . On the whole the negro lives in a world apart , carrying on his life and cultural interests independent of the white world . His life is one largely of poverty and disease . He is exploited and discriminated against , and although the economic factors lead the negro to have access to the ideas and activities of the white world there is little or no shift of ideas from negro to white . " They know their place . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociological problems and conflicts are evident throughout the region . Such expressions as " You can take the people out of the mountain , but you ca n't take the mountain out of the people , " are expressive of a cultural conflict that exists between the mountain valley of the more prosperous areas in contrast with the more isolated , less favored residents of the " coves . " Another psychological factor in the region is the farm owner-tenant conflict found in the difference in outlook and cultural and economic opportunities between farm owner and tenant , or sharecropper . In this situation the student of economics and sociology has a serious problem to solve . Although the region is essentially agricultural , the trend toward urbanization is under way . As a consequence , an urban-rural conflict has sprung into existence . Class consciousness , Marxian philosophy of the economic struggle , and such patterns as those Footnote  | circulated in the I. W. W. , the C. I. O. , and other labor groups have made some progress among the people of the industrial areas , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and smaller industrial towns . One senses the general public 's resentment to it all . The philosophy of class conflict is still a foreign intrusion , as are communism , atheism , socialism , anarchy , and all the other religious , political , and philosophical heterodoxies.51 That psychological factors are of great significance in the development and administration of the Tennessee Valley Authority 's planning and developmental program has been recognized by a number of observers . Walter Davenport reports the conversation of a judge with whom he discussed the coming of the Tennessee Valley Authority , presenting the situation in this picturesque style:52 " I ai n't got any complaint , " said the judge . " The way the government is doing down here these days , it would n't make much difference if I had , but I ai n't . Still a man 's home is a man 's home . How far you going . Tupelo , hey ? Well you 'll hear something else over in Tupelo . But do n't let any of these lawyers and engineers fill you up so full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You can dam all the rivers and creeks from here to Canada and knock down the cost of electricity until no honest , God-fearing man would be caught without it , but if the people ai n't with you , you 're just wasting your time and money . " Perhaps the psychological attitudes in the region with which the Tennessee Valley Authority must deal are best summarized under the term " individualism . " The rural dweller everywhere is traditionally an individualist , " . . . but it is doubtful whether the United States knows another individualist quite so fierce in his individualism as the hill-dweller of the Tennessee , Kentucky , and North Carolina watersheds or the cotton farmer of Footnote  | the Alabama and Mississippi bottoms . " " Probably this statement represents an extreme and too easy generalization ; nevertheless a serious problem exists in the fact that the regional planning and developmental objectives of the Tennessee Valley Authority definitely include the development of a cooperative social outlook , diametrically opposed to vigorous individualism . Illustrations of this attitude characteristic throughout the region are numerous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live their own lives in their own ways . Part of the same picture in the mountain areas is suspicion of all but kinsmen , a suspicion which makes difficult efforts in the direction of community cooperation . Instances can be cited of the failure of such joint enterprises as the construction of roads merely for lack of ability or desire to submerge even slightly the demands of individualism to those of community well-being . ' Interrelated and to a considerable extent growing out of the population pattern , certain deficiencies are clearly in evidence in many parts of the region . The region , with its predominance of country life , is poor in capital wealth . While it may abound in great natural resource possessions , its chief wealth is characterized by non-liquidity and reserve potentialities . Such deficiencies include the lowest per capita farm income , the lowest income per worker , the lowest return per unit of horse power , the lowest ratio of income from livestock production ; a low ranking in the various mechanical techniques of farming and living , such as tractors , water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , education , proper land use , and cultural facilities previously mentioned . The region shows also a marked deficiency in social technology . Public welfare institutions , penal institutions , hospitals and other eleemosynary and social service organizations are sparse and inadequately equipped . However , adequacy and deficiency in social technology , as in other fields , vary greatly throughout the region in relation to Footnote  | natural and technological resources and the attitude of the people toward their institutions and public organizations . " The region 's lag in new governmental techniques illustrates the political deficiency of the area . The political organization of the counties is now obsolete . Local government throughout the region was developed a century ago when there were no good roads or adequate transportation facilities . Counties were made large enough so that a man could ride to the county seat and get back to his home by nightfall . Distances today , with modern means of communication and transportation , are of much less significance . These local units of government that were useful in their day as centers of local governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Investigations made by the Tennessee Valley Authority show that in some of them the work of an entire week can be done in half a day . In some courthouses , the officials are present only on Saturday , yet full-time salaries are paid . The people of such counties are straining themselves to keep up the cost of county government that is busy only one-tenth of the time . They are going without essential services in public health , and proper educational facilities for their children , where this money might be profitably used if the local governmental machinery were properly organized . Dr. Arthur E. Morgan says that " . . . the burden of taxation is almost impossible to bear . Three-quarters or seven-eighths of the counties should be eliminated . " " Footnote  | These social , technological , and cultural deficiencies and lags are reflected primarily in terms of social waste . The results of such deficiencies are summed up by the following examples:57 . homicides among both whites and blacks , exceeding that of the highest records of larger cities of the North , waste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wasted energies in factional and interstate jealousies , over-emphasis on intersectarian conflict , a large proportion of illiterates , absence of libraries , reading facilities , and reading habits , a lack of first rank universities , a lack of aesthetic influences , discouragement of original and creative work in literature , music , or other art , and a failure to regard distinguished effort ; lack of interest in social and political science , lack of trained leadership for the industries and professions ; poorly balanced work , strain on man power , waste in children and mothers on farm and in factory ; waste in race conflict , in personal and feudal antagonisms , in fighting over small things ; waste of intellectual power in emotional exhaustion , in stubborn opposition to progress ; waste of vast possibilities of youth undeveloped and untrained , born , living , and moving through life without ever gaining a knowledge of their power and possibilities . Thus , if Stuart Chase 's six fundamental factors in production be used as a measuring rod , the region excels in the first , namely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five , namely , the use of inanimate energy , the use of skilled labor , the employment of technical management , the presence of adequate culture heritage of technical arts , and the production plant itself . Or if another general type of comparative measure be sought , the region excels in two of the major sources of wealth ; that is , it excels in the abundance of its natural and human resources , and lags in the measure of its technological wealth , its artificial wealth , its industries , and its institutional modes of life and culture . This means that in all aspects of its potential resources it reflects the technological lag . For it does not afford the technical institutions for the development Footnote  | and use of its human resources any more than it does for its physical resources . In short , the region is an area of deficiency and scarcity in contrast with abundant possibilities.58 It is true that these influences , attitudes , deficiencies , and characteristics briefly sketched may have contributed to the formation of the thought patterns and personalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a transition and change is taking place in the region . There is rising a generation of youth which more and more tends to look the past in the face and objectively examine the forces that have influenced the present scene . Once having acquired an understanding , they tend to join with those who plan to build the " South of Tomorrow . " There are many aspects throughout the region which give promise of present and future success for the efforts of the Tennessee Valley Authority . Tremendous progress , within recent years , has been made in the application of the social sciences to human relationships and problems . Social welfare techniques such as child welfare societies , civic and social centers , maternity clinics , supervised playgrounds , and family case work are gradually being improved . New governmental techniques in the form of city , town , and county planning , city manager and commission forms of government , civil codes , and state and local administrative reorganization are beginning to take tangible form . Heretofore untried economic and business techniques such as consumer cooperatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of auditing and public accounting , are being urged and tried . Educational and cultural standards are being raised . In a score of other fields in which social and cultural technology figures , such as public welfare , social work , public administration , social insurance , banking , business organization , farming and the new agrarian culture , progress is evident . These elements of progress , of alert acceptance on the part of many of opportunities for further social and economic development , of constructive response to stimulus given by the Tennessee Valley Authority Footnote  | in the solution of many of their regional problems , emphasize the fact that no wholly consistent picture of this region of paradoxes can be drawn . The Tennessee Valley Authority must inevitably consider this cultural setting in the administration of its regional programs . Through them the Authority bids fair to change much of the cultural landscape of the entire region . 3 . Delimitation of the Area An appraisal of the resources and potentialities of the Tennessee Valley region gives rise to the question of the desirability of any watershed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic planning and development . Maps depicting the territory under the jurisdiction of the Tennessee Valley Authority show a compact area which represents the territory drained by the Tennessee River and its tributaries . What were the reasons underlying the selection of the drainage basin as a region for regional planning and development ? What are the advantages and disadvantages of such a choice ? Is the watershed area appropriate for the handling of regional problems ? These are questions which come to mind in analyzing such a conjectural and complex problem . The origin of the Tennessee Valley Authority sheds little light on the question under consideration . President Roosevelt , in his message to Congress , April 10 , 1933 , requesting legislation to create the Tennessee Valley Authority , spoke of a " complete river watershed " as a " great natural territorial unit . " He pointed out that the Tennessee Valley was chosen because it combined " all the climatic and geographic factors favorable to the scheme " and because " more existing data on its economic possibilities are available than in any other region . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley Authority bill reveal no careful consideration of the appropriateness of the watershed area for regional planning and development . There was little difficulty , however , in choosing the watershed as the most suitable area for an integrated and unified regional plan for river development . The Government-owned property at Muscle Shoals was the starting point and core of the plan . The desire to utilize the Wilson Dam power facilities and nitrate plants , which had been idle there for many years ; the growing interest in national and regional planning ; and the desire of the Administration for an actual experiment in national regional planning and development of a whole region culminated in the passage of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act on May 18 , 1933 . ? The watershed area was decided upon because of its relation to navigation , flood control , and power development . In order to make Wilson Dam at Muscle Shoals more efficient for navigation and power development , it was necessary to build an integrated system of dams at strategic points in the Tennessee River and its tributaries . In order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silt it was necessary to check soil erosion on the lands draining into the river system ; consequently it necessitated including all of the watershed in the area . The addition of planning functions and agricultural and industrial development to a program of flood control , navigation improvement , and power generation created a complex and difficult problem . For some functions of regional planning and development it became obvious that the watershed was neither a natural nor a logical region . It was possible that the Authority would be unable to dispose of all the hydroelectric power generated by its dams within the watershed and this made it difficult to determine the most appropriate area for the distribution of power . The Act , therefore , authorized the Tennessee Valley Authority to sell electricity " within Footnote  | transmission distance from the place where generated , and to interconnect with other systems , " leaving to the direction of the Board of Directors the actual area to be included.61 Even more difficult was the problem of delimiting the area for social and economic planning . Where was the line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the social and economic problems on one side of the watershed boundary and those on the other side . According to the Act and to Executive Order No. 6161 issued following the Act , the Tennessee Valley Authority is authorized to carry its regional planning and developmental activities into such " adjoining territory as may be related to or materially affected by the development consequent to this Act . " 62 This provision is broad indeed . It leaves the area indefinite , to be defined by regional experimentation . In fact , one of the conclusions which may be drawn in the not too distant future may be the delimitation and definition of the size and type of areal unit most suitable for regional planning and development . This lack of specification on the part of the framers of the Act , intentional or otherwise , has its advantages . It leaves the Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority free to expand the realm of their regional planning activities geographically as they see fit , and to study the problem of determining the most suitable region for planning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found it necessary to go outside the watershed area . Tupelo , Mississippi , the first Footnote  | town to receive electric power from the Authority , is more than thirty miles beyond the Valley boundary , while contracts have also been made with other towns outside the watershed for the sale of electricity.63 In the study of subregions based upon trade areas the boundaries seem to have little relation to the watershed proper . Furthermore , studies made by the Tennessee Valley Authority in the fields of transportation and industry also reveal the watershed as not the ideal area for regional planning and developmental purposes . From the viewpoint of those who consider the city the focal point and the boundary of the trade territory as the logical unit , the area includes six cities classified by the census as " metropolitan . " In Tennessee they include Memphis , Knoxville , Nashville , and Chattanooga ; in Georgia , Atlanta ; and in Alabama , Birmingham . In addition , parts of the trade areas of the following smaller cities are included : Bristol , Virginia ; Asheville , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mississippi ; Little Rock , Arkansas ; Cairo , Illinois ; and Paducah , Kentucky . This is an assortment of cities of varied sizes and interests , and not a homogeneous area with one trade and cultural focus . " If the homogeneity of socio-economic characteristics is adopted as the test of a region , the variety of soil , climate , agricultural products , mineral resources , topography and population pattern warrant the statement that the watershed area does not coincide with the concept of the " anthropo-geographers who Footnote  | define a region as that area where land , work , and folk fuse into a pattern coherent within and differentiated from other regions without . " 65 If we examine the watershed from this viewpoint , it appears that the majority of the area falls in the non-negro , non-tenant , non-cotton cultivated South . Still a fairly large portion in the southern and western parts of the basin is devoted to cotton culture and has heavy ratios of tenants and negroes . Professor Woofter points out that on the basis of " socio-economic indices " there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the major subregions of the South . Thus the Tennessee Valley watershed and its adjacent territory , if measured according to this criterion , does not constitute a homogeneous socio-economic area . It appears that the Tennessee Valley Authority has used the watershed merely as a nucleus and has expanded or modified its sphere of activity when functional and planning activities required it to do so . In this regard it is merely carrying out the express intent of the Act . " The watershed area has both advantages and disadvantages as a region for planning and developmental purposes . In the case of problems directly related to water control , no other area is perhaps more suitable . Even Dr. Woofter admits in spite of the fact that the watershed area " does not provide a unified region in any except an engineering sense , " that " navigation , flood control , and power may be co-ordinated in the area . " 67 Flood control , navigation , and water power development can be dealt with adequately only as integral parts of a unified plan for the watershed area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the water control program that the same area Footnote  | provides a suitable unit for their treatment . Other phases of regional planning and development are influenced by the unified water program , although less directly so . For example , hydroelectric power is vital to agricultural and industrial planning and development , and is a basic factor in the improvement of the social and economic well-being of the people in the Valley . On the other hand , many problems cut across watershed boundaries and should be treated accordingly . The National Resources Board report of December 1934 , states in this connection : 68 It is altogether too early to draw dogmatic conclusions regarding the best methods of organization for the protection and development of our national natural resources , and for the accompanying improvement of our American standards of living , but it is already plain that we must follow the problem wherever it leads , whether across State boundaries or into the intricacies of outworn local government or the equally difficult complexities of metropolitan life . This statement is applicable to a watershed area , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that electrical distribution is not applicable to a watershed boundary.69 Moreover , problems of land utilization , agriculture , industry , transportation , forestry , together with many social , physical , and industrial problems distinctly cut across the boundary of the drainage basin and are fragments of a larger Appalachian pattern interregional and national in character . The consensus of opinion among several regional geographers and regional scientists seems to indicate that except for a narrow range of developmental operation , the river basin is one of the poorest types of units which might be selected for regional planning and development . Some feel that different systems of regions should be devised for the different phases of Footnote  | activity involved . Others express a hope that one general regionalization can achieve the desired end . In commenting upon the Tennessee Valley watershed as a type of region , Professor Preston E. James , regional geographer of Michigan University , states , " The worst possible kind of a region would be a drainage basin , which . . . is seldom in any sense ( except drainage ) a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regional geographer of the University of Chicago , says , " The river drainage basin has the advantage of being easily and sharply bounded , but it has the much greater disadvantage of using a criterion which does not provide homogeneity in major problems . " 71 Professor Richard Hartshorne of the University of Minnesota states , " It seems to me almost obviously absurd to take a river basin as a fundamental regional basis . Take , for example , the Mississippi Basin or the Ohio Basin ; how can one find any regional similarity on such a basis ? " 72 Professor Woofter comments as follows : 73 A program designed to conserve water resources and control floods might readily be applied to hydrographic regions , but for broad social planning the divide between drainage systems has little merit . I have been fairly close to the activities of the T. V. A. but I have been unable to define or get them to define what they consider as their region . In some instances it is limited to the drainage basin , chiefly for engineering purposes , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sold power ( Tupelo , Miss. ) is not within the drainage basin . For other purposes they consider seven States as their area . This leads me to a negative hypothesis : viz , that except for engineering works , the drainage basin is the poorest type of region to deal with . This is true ( 1 ) because of the extreme irregularity of drainage basins ; ( 2 ) because they are topographical belts ; ( 3 ) because the upper part of one drainage basin is likely to be more similar to the upper part of its neighbor across the divide than it is to the lower part of its own watershed . I am not in favor of using the watershed for any other type of planning than engineering plans dealing with power , navigation , and flood control , because this geographic peculiarity has not been as determinant of homogeneous areas as have soil , climate , and type of original settlement . Footnote  | What has been said is sufficient to show that a watershed is not the perfect region for all regional planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the question of relative desirability may be more easily approached . In neither theory nor practice has the area of the Tennessee Valley Authority been definitely set at the watershed boundary . The President 's proposal to Congress , Sections 22 and 23 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act , and the Executive Order No. 6161 , issued in pursuance of Section 22 , employ the language " and adjoining territory , " the reference in Section 22 being to " such adjoining territory as may be related to or materially affected by the development consequent to this Act . " 74 This elastic clause has permitted the Tennessee Valley Authority to pursue its regional studies in such varied fields as transportation economics , industrialization , rural electrification , navigation , flood control , power development , soil conservation , fertilizer development , afforestation , local governmental administration , and numerous other social , economic , and physical problems without rigid adherence to the Tennessee Valley watershed boundary . In this way the disadvantages of the watershed area as a region for regional planning and developmental purposes have been materially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore that a unified water-control program has become the core of a regional planning and developmental program that embraces a wide variety of water and land uses , and has for its chief objective the improved " economic and social well-being of the people living in said river basin . " 76 Most phases of such a regional plan are materially affected by the water-control program , and the watershed , as a consequence , forms an appropriate nucleus . If the watershed boundary is not rigidified , and if individual social , economic , cultural and physical problems and studies may be treated without strict adherence to that boundary , the watershed appears to become a desirable area for regional planning and development.76 Footnote  | 4 . Summary A survey of the Tennessee Valley Basin 's resources and potentialities contrasted with its deficiencies reveals a wide range of problems . The variety of its physical resources is rivaled only by the variety of its inhabitants . Yet as has been pointed out , the region is an area of scarcity notwithstanding its abundant human and physical resource possibilities . Fortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the geographic boundaries of the watershed . The Tennessee Valley Authority has come into the region sincerely and honestly seeking means for its social , economic , and physical rehabilitation . Alone , of course , it can not succeed . It needs the active support and cooperation of those groups whose attitudes , traits , and deficiencies have been sketched . These problems and peculiarities of the people and their regional environment indicate some of the difficulties which lie in the path of the successful administration of the Authority 's regional objectives and programs . All of these factors seem to justify the remark that the region is an ideal " proving ground " for an experiment in national regional planning and development . If these and similar problems can be successfully met and solved in this limited area , the methods and results developed should be of value to the rest of the United States . For on the success in the Tennessee Valley depends the future development of other possible regional experiments in social , economic , and physical reconstruction . The following chapter will deal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems . Footnote  | ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS DEALING WITH REGIONAL PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT Examination of the Tennessee Valley Authority 's regional planning and demonstration departments reveals another process of administration , namely the actual operation of the organization . The Authority is a regional planning agency which has been given the coordinate power of putting its own objectives and programs into execution . This combination of authority was designed to achieve results . Planning in itself is not enough . Plans which are drawn up and forgotten , regardless of their merit , contribute little to progress . Hence , the distinction between planning and development . Development is conceived as a dual process , growing out of the effective execution of intelligent plans . It is with this distinction in mind that the full significance of the regional planning work of the Authority may be understood . Charged by executive order of the President issued in pursuance of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act with the duty of making surveys and plans " for the general purpose of fostering an orderly and proper physical , economic , and social development " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning function which is not isolated , but rather is inextricably tied up with its developmental powers . It has as a consequence become both a regional planning and a developmental agency . Soil erosion control , for example , is not only being planned but is actually in operation as evidenced by the afforestation , terracing , and agricultural and fertilizer programs under way . A water-control and hydro-electrical power program for the unified development of the Tennessee River system is being planned and executed . Progress is being made in land planning and housing , forestry management and development , agricultural and local industrial expansion , as well as in other Footnote  | socio-economic studies and activities . So much attention has been given both by the Authority and by the public to tangible results that the . regional planning function has suffered somewhat . An analysis of the functions and activities of the regional planning and demonstration units is necessary before considering the net effectiveness of the Tennessee Valley Authority 's regional work . 1 . Departments for Water Control in the River Channels The watershed of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region in which the Tennessee Valley Authority is to carry on its work . Since the Authority is primarily an engineering organization , charged definitely with dam construction and river control for the entire drainage basin , the Departments for Water Control in the River Channels occupy a central position in the regional program for the conservation , improvement , and proper use of the water resources of the area . The Departments for Water Control in the River Channels include the Water Control Planning , Design , and Construction Departments . These departments are generally responsible for formulating and recommending plans , designs , and policies , and for executing approved plans and programs relating to water control in the river channels . They are under the direction and general supervision of a Chief Engineer , whose duty is to develop and recommend an integrated plan of water control in the river channels related to and coordinated with plans and programs of water control on the land , and to direct and coordinate the engineering planning , design and construction work of these functional water-control units . The Authority is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instigated in this country . It does all of its own planning , designing , and construction work . Before actual dam construction can be undertaken it is first necessary to secure the fundamental information that is needed to carry through the projects involved . Hydraulic  | data including records of rainfall , flood history , and stream flow information must be obtained . Geological studies showing the structure of the region as it affects dam construction must be made . Maps and surveys of the topography of the land are necessary . It is with these aspects of the regional program that the Water Control Planning Department is chiefly concerned . The Water Control Planning Department is divided functionally into three basic data divisions and two planning divisions : Hydraulic Data , Maps and Surveys , and the Geologic Divisions , and the General Planning and Project Planning Divisions . These functional units make studies , investigations , surveys , maps , reports , and gather the necessary information on which general planning and project planning can proceed . The Hydraulic Data Division in cooperation with the U. S. Geological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on daily river stages throughout the Valley , prepares daily precipitation reports , and makes a record of the volume and height of flow in all important streams of the region . It also studies the ground water flow and flood history in order to accurately forecast floods ; and makes silt investigations to secure data on the extent of soil erosion , the probable life of storage reservoirs , and the total suspended silt burden of the Tennessee River and its tributaries . It maintains a laboratory for hydraulic model and soil testing . Accurate maps of the region are essential for the regional work of the Authority . The Maps and Surveys Division is responsible for surveys and mapping , including horizontal and vertical control surveys , land and boundary surveys , and aerial surveys , required for dam and reservoir construction . In cooperation with the U. S. Geological Survey , it is preparing topographic maps of the entire Tennessee River Basin . Although not yet complete , these maps are being used in various phases of the Authority 's regional river control program . The Maps and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land acquisition . In the early stages , as well as during construction , much  | depends on the geologists . Geologic investigations and studies upon conditions at dam sites are being carried on by the Geologic Division . Particular attention is paid to the character of foundation materials , watertightness , and other features affecting the safety of dams and similar structures . It studies and investigates the mineral rights and claims on land to be acquired by the Authority , and cooperates with other divisions in the settlement of these claims . Considerable study has been given to the location , prospecting , and sampling of mineral deposits useful in dam construction work , including sands , gravel , concrete rock , and materials for cement manufacture . This geologic information is then made available to other interested departments . These data are then turned over to the General Planning Division , which carries on the study of the Tennessee River and its tributaries in order to formulate the most satisfactory plan for its development with regard to flood control , navigation , hydro-electrical power development , and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations to reduce flood flows most effectively , to maintain sufficient depths for navigation , to generate hydro-electric power , and in general to facilitate the operations of the unified system . In addition , based on final cost records , it makes studies and computations for allocations of costs to the various programs of the Authority . The Project Planning Division continues the work by making detailed investigations such as test borings for each project designated by the Authority for construction in the near future , and prepares detailed reports covering the location and preliminary design . It also makes engineering investigations and reports on all reservoir problems arising from the construction of the reservoirs , involving land use , drainage , and protection from overflow by levee construction . After the general plan has been worked out and specific projects have been recommended by the Water Control Planning Department , the job passes on to the Design Department which works out the technical designs and specifications for  | dams , reservoirs , locks , powerhouses , and other structures and physical facilities required to complete the project . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the field where actual construction is in progress . In addition to its regular work , the Construction Department provides engineering supervision and inspection of construction programs . Close relationships exist between the planning and construction units from the inception of the project to its completion . ' 2 . Departments for Water Power Utilization Of equal importance in the unified regional program being planned and developed for the Tennessee River Basin is the conservation and utilization of the water resources of the area . The power of falling water in the Tennessee River and its tributaries , made available primarily by the development of the Tennessee system for purposes of navigation and flood control , is part of the property of the American public , and Congress definitely provides in the Act that this power be set to work for the general benefit . ' The Departments for Water Power Utilization consist of the Department of Power Planning and the Department of Operations . It is the duty of these departments to formulate and recommend plans and policies and to execute approved plans , programs , and operations relating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidental to the program of water control in the river and to make this power available to the public . These departments operate under the general supervision of a Chief Power Economist who is responsible for drawing up and recommending plans and methods relating to the disposal and sale of surplus power including rate schedules in accordance with the policies set forth in the Act . He also coordinates the power planning program with the program for the construction of dams , navigation and flood control activities being carried on by other departments ; and is responsible for the negotiation and administration of contracts with public and private agencies . The Department of Power Planning conducts studies , investigations , and surveys of available and potential markets for the disposal of surplus power among States , counties , municipalities , and corporations ; develops rate procedures and schedules ; makes hydro-electric investigations to assure an adequate power supply ; assists in the negotiation and administration with public and private agencies for the sale of power ; aids in drawing up studies of allocation of costs ; and conducts technical and engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Operations and other interested departments in problems relating to the generation , transmission , and utilization of water power . The Department of Operations is just what the name implies . It operates all gates , sluiceways , and other facilities for the impounding and release of water at the various dams of the Tennessee Valley Authority to assure maximum use of facilities and resources available for flood control , navigation , and other purposes consistent with the requirements of the Act . It also operates and maintains all facilities for the generation , transmission , and distribution of electric power ; plans , designs , constructs , and operates such communication and transmission systems as may be required ; assists in arranging contracts with States , counties , municipalities , and corporations for the sale of surplus power ; and in cooperation with other departments of the Authority and interested outside agencies renders assist-  | ance in the promotion of more extensive utilization of electricity by governmental agencies or other lay cooperative organizations of citizens or farmers organized primarily for the purpose of supplying electricity to their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Control on the Land The Departments for Water Control on the Land , under the direction of a Chief Conservation Engineer , include the Agricultural Relations , Forestry Relations , and Chemical Engineering Departments . These functional units are generally responsible for formulating and recommending plans , policies , and programs and for executing or coordinating approved policies and programs relating to national defense , tests and demonstrations of new forms of fertilizer for improved methods of agriculture , watershed protection , reforestation , and soil conservation as an aid to water control and the agricultural development of the region . These activities are carried on in cooperation with appropriate federal , state , and local agencies . The Chief Conservation Engineer is responsible for coordinating the development of this integrated program of water control on agricultural and forest lands with the Authority 's regional program for the control of the water resources of the Tennessee River and its tributaries . He is responsible also for coordinating and integrating the Authority 's programs of national defense , laboratory research , experimental production , and testing of fertilizers , agricultural demonstrations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments with the operations of the other functional units of the Authority interested in such work and with the activities of appropriate lay and governmental agencies operating in the Tennessee Valley area . In addition , the Chief Conservation Engineer advises and assists the General Manager Footnote  | and other departments of the Authority in all matters relating to problems of national defense , conservation , and the use of land resources . Under the provisions of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act , the Department of Agricultural Relations has two general functions : ( a ) to test new fertilizer materials produced by the Authority and to demonstrate their value under large-scale farming operations ; and ( b ) to effect changes in systems of soil treatment , cropping , land use , and farm organization , which will protect the Tennessee River watershed from erosion and silting of streams and reservoirs . ' It also is responsible for all cooperative arrangements with public agencies whose function is primarily to foster agricultural development . Accomplishment of these objectives requires extensive operations on the land which must be integrated with all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the various scientific and practical elements involved . While the obligation to protect streams and reservoirs is limited to the Tennessee Valley region , the testing and demonstration of the value of new fertilizer materials is not confined to this area . However , both involve the same types of changes in soil management practices . These changed methods must be economically sound to the farmer who owns the land upon which these operations are carried out , in order that he may be justified in their application . He must therefore be approached in a manner which will lead him to make these necessary changes in his own interest , as well as in the interest of the public welfare . Some of the problems involved in these changed practices require scientific investigations into such problems as the determination of characteristics of soils and the methods of measuring their fertilizer requirements . Others are of more immediately practicable character , such as methods of applying Footnote  | fertilizer materials to land , arranging cropping systems , and measuring results from a system of fertilizer treatment in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Relations in planning and executing its regional agricultural program is cooperating with and utilizing the facilities and personnel of the Experiment Stations and Extension Services of the seven State Land-Grant Colleges in the region and is maintaining close cooperative relationships with the U. S. Department of Agriculture . However , on account of the heavy burden which was placed upon the staffs of the Land-Grant Colleges , the Authority found it necessary to supplement their personnels by supplying funds whereby assistant county agents are employed on the specific projects involved . This arrangement relieves the Authority of the necessity of building up an elaborate supervisory staff and experimental facilities , while at the same time it makes for economy in the expenditure of public funds and prevents duplication of activities . As a unified whole , the agricultural program tests the value of new fertilizers in a well coordinated farming system , at the same time effects soil building and watershed protection . This program is being developed step by step . The first step is the more rapid , controlled soil investigations being made in cooperation with the State Agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies . The second phase is the extensive demonstration carried on through the State Agricultural Extension Services in cooperation with farm owners . Among the cooperative activities being carried on by the Department of Agricultural Relations are the experiments and test demonstrations with the new forms of fertilizer produced at Muscle Shoals ; surveys , studies and classification of soils ; land-use mapping and inventories ; soil erosion control by mechanical means and changes in cropping systems ; agricultural readjustment in reservoir areas ; and the compilation , analysis , and interpretation of the results of the agricultural program in its entirety for the two-fold purpose of ascertaining the progress of work done and of providing the basis for recom-  | mended legislative action so that the activities undertaken may be desirably supplemented or tentative arrangements may be made permanent . ' The forests , constituting fifty-two percent of the land surface of the Valley , are far from making the contribution that they should to the economic well-being and stability of the region . ' Water resources , hydro-electric power , and agricultural and fertilizer development are dealt with directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but forestry resources come within its sphere of interest only as they affect the problem of " fostering an orderly and proper physical , economic , and social development " of the area . The forestry program of the Tennessee Valley Authority is in part a phase of land planning and management , and in part an important demonstraticn activity . In addition to a general interest in forestry development , the Authority has a special interest in preventing the accumulation of silt in its reservoirs , which can be iaigely prevented by an adequate forestry program . The Department of Forestry Relations is responsible for coordinating , integrating , planning , and generally advising the General Manager and Board on the policies relating to forestry , fisheries and wildlife , and watershed protection by forestry methods . The work of the department is carried on by three divisions : the Forest Resources Planning Division , the Watershed Protection Division , and the Biological Readjustment Division . The Forest Resources Planning Division conducts studies , surveys , experiments , and demonstrations relating to the distribution , character , utilization , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region . It is also responsible for the preparation and coordination within the department of general and specific plans and recommendations as Footnote  | required for the management of forest lands of the Authority , and for the execution and appraisal of forest plans adopted by the Authority . A region-wide survey and study of the forest resources and wood-using industries was initiated in July , 1934 , at which time the need was strongly felt for basic data on the Tennessee Valley as a whole . More than twenty counties and two large forest regions ( the Clinch-Powell Watershed in Tennessee and southwest Virginia , and the Pickwick Region in west Tennessee and northern Alabama ) have been covered by this survey . The location , extent , type , and condition of forest areas were mapped on a broad scale . Information on forest land ownership of large private tracts was obtained . Areas in public ownership , or tracts seemingly in need of public acquisition and management , were located and described , and data on wood-using industries in relation to their raw material supplies were obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region 's forest resources , and serves as a cross section of forest conditions throughout the Tennessee Valley . This material is being assembled into economic regional reports to be used as the basis for a long range regional forestry program . In making management plans for Authority lands , a " master land use control plan " is first drawn up . Specialists in game management , forest recreation , grazing , and timber management are called in to work out the land use needs in their respective fields . After this land use plan has been prepared , the specialists turn to detailed planning in their particular fields . Fish and game plans for game management areas , fish hatcheries and rearing pools are planned in detail by the wildlife experts . Detailed development plans for forest recreation areas such as picnic grounds , trailer camps , and boat docking points are made by the forest management experts . The application of forestry land planning and administration is illustrated by the Norris Lake Forest project , an area of 115,000 acres around the reservoir , which was purchased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forestry Relations to administer March 18 , 1934 . It was selected as  | an area to demonstrate the feasibility of coordinated multiple land use management integrated with farm-forest community development . Timber growing , tree crop development , watershed protection , fish and game production , extensive recreation , and the use of suitable agricultural lands for cropping and grazing are being harmoniously developed . It demonstrates the concept of multiple land use , wherein given tracts of land may be used for several purposes at the same time . ' The Watershed Protection Division is chiefly concerned with the problem of maintaining and improving the soil protective cover on the forested and severely eroded non-crop lands in the Tennessee Valley . Similar work is also conducted on lands purchased by the Authority as a protective strip around its reservoirs . A program of erosion control and reforestation is being carried on in cooperation with the U. S. Civilian Conservation Corps and the U. S. Forest Service in various sections of the Valley . Arrangements have been made whereby farmers too far away from these camps to use their services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foresters and soil erosion engineers of the Authority . This division is also responsible for operating and maintaining forest tree nurseries for the production of necessary planting stock ; for conducting experiments and demonstrations involved in determining the best methods of erosion control and reforestation on non-crop land ; for discovering , developing , and encouraging the use of special varieties of trees and forest tree crops ; and for carrying on a cooperative forest educational and fire control program . Forestry experimentation revolves around the greater use of trees in the farm economy of the Tennessee Valley . Studies are being carried on with a variety of species to test their value as producers of specialized forest products , as forage trees in permanent pastures , and , in general , as food producers for farm livestock . Studies are being conducted to determine Footnote  | whether such feeding techniques can be economically applied and whether such use will aid in watershed protection , reduce the amount of tilling of the soil on critical areas , increase the number of acres maintained in permanent cover , and yield a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , investigations are being conducted with the view of learning what use can be made of food-producing trees on worn-out lands as a part of the technique of building up the site and returning it to productivity . Experimental work in the engineering and reforestation phases is being carried on to aid in the successful execution of the foresty program . Engineering experiments include such activities as testing various types of control structures , such as contour furrows , terrace outlets , check dams , and diversion ditches . Similar work is being conducted in proper methods of reforestation . An experimental area in the Norris watershed has been set aside for the specific purpose of determining the best techniques to be used in planting , and the species best adapted to erosion control . ' Forest fire control and forest education are still other activities being carried on under this program . In the field of forest fire control , the Tennessee Valley Authority has a definite obligation by virtue of its region-wide water control and development program . The Department of Forestry Relations is seeing that adequate organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in addition to cooperating with other agencies on actual fire suppression on Authority lands , it is carrying on a number of forest fire improvement activities , including the construction of telephone lines and fire trails . Similar work is being done on private lands in cooperation with lay and governmental agencies . Educational work in forestry is being carried on throughout the Valley in Footnote  | order to acquaint the people with the values and benefits to be derived from the scientific planning of the use of the lands , to stimulate an enlightened attitude toward conservation , and especially to show the part that forestry plays in the development of the region . The Biological Readjustment Division is responsible for the development and management of fisheries and fish life , and for game and wildlife . Rehabilitation of wildlife is being undertaken as an integral part of the forestry development program , with the realization that wildlife is a necessary part of multiple use forest management . The fisheries activities include the establishment of fish hatcheries for stocking the newly created lakes , the construction of small dams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant level fish rearing ponds , as well as scientific study of the development of newly impounded waters as a guide to the efficient attainment of fisheries objectives . The game management activities include the establishment of game management areas , refuge areas , wildlife sanctuaries , and other restricted localities in which quail , grouse , wild turkey , deer , and economically important furbearing animals may be increased for the benefit of the people of the Valley . ' The Chemical Engineering Department is responsible for the planning and development of a research program involving the development of new processes and products in the interest of both agricultural and national defense ; the design and construction of pilot and commercial size plants for demonstration of the processes developed ; and the operation of these Footnote  | plants for production of products in quantities sufficient for large scale tests and demonstrations of their value . It also maintains in stand-by condition Nitrate Plant No. 2 , for the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen and for the production of explosives in the event of war or national emergency , and in cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raw materials of the Valley to be utilized in case of war . Military metals such as iron ore , zinc , lead , copper , aluminum , manganese , chromium , phosphate rock , and limestone are being studied and analyzed with special reference to available tonnage and grade of deposits . The department is also attempting to ascertain the type and character of plant foods best adapted to the program of the Department of Agricultural Relations , the U. S. Department of Agriculture , and other national and state agencies interested in such work.1 ? 4 . Regional Survey and Demonstration Service Departments The Regional Survey and Demonstration Service Departments consist of the departments of Regional Planning Studies , Public Health and Safety , Commerce , Agricultural Industries , and Reservoir Property Management . They operate under the supervision of department heads who are directly responsible to the General Manager . Their ultimate objective as defined by Congress is to promote " the economic and social well-being of the people " living within the Tennessee Valley Basin , and to foster " an orderly and proper physical , economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions are to carry on surveys , studies , experiments , and demonstrations designed either to aid the Authority in its immediate administrative responsibilities or to serve as a basis for legislative recommendations as provided in sections 22 and 23 of the Act.12 Footnote  | A Regional Planning Council composed of the heads of the Regional Survey and Demonstration Service Departments , with the general manager as chairman , aids in drawing up and coordinating the planning division 's proposals into an integrated and working regional program for the Authority . It also makes recommendations and generally assists the board in its regional planning functions . Final responsibility for planning and administrative coordination of the regional work of the Authority , however , remains in the hands of the directors and general manager . The Planning Council is essentially a coordinating unit rather than a planning and administrative instrumentality . The Regional Planning Studies Department is chiefly responsible for general regional studies and plans required by the regional programs of water control , fertilizer demonstration , and distribution of surplus hydro-electric power . It is under the general supervision of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a Central Service Office and in technical matters by a Planning Staff . Execution of the work of the department is in charge of three divisions , the Social and Economic Research Division , Land Planning Division , and Community Planning Division , all administratively responsible to the Director . Its chief duties are to assist in preliminary investigations relative to the construction of dams , reservoirs , and related works ; determine the extent and character of lands to be acquired in connection with such projects ; work out the social and economic aspects of the displacement and relocation of families ; provide for the readjustment of communities wholly or partly flooded ; plan the layout and design of facilities for the housing of employees engaged in construction or other projects of the Authority ; prepare general plans and recommendations for the use and management of marginal properties surrounding reservoirs and other properties acquired by the Authority in the conduct of its work ; make studies and reports on social and economic questions involved in the regional work of the Authority ; and collect and coordinate other data relevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities of the regional work of the Authority bring it into close relationship with the programs and activities of other federal , state , and local agencies directed toward the same general purpose , the Department of Regional Planning Studies is authorized to cooperate with and use the facilities of these agencies engaged in similar or related work , and to encourage and facilitate the participation of such agencies in the preparation of studies and plans upon which the department is engaged.13 The Planning Staff assists the Director of the Regional Planning Studies Department in formulating the program of work for the department , in recommending the assignment of work to the planning divisions , and in giving technical guidance and review to the regional program . It is also available , at the discretion of the Director , for consukation in regard to other phases of the planning programs of the Authority and for contacts with other lay and governmental planning agencies throughout the region . If the regional plans and programs of the Tennessee Valley Authority are to succeed , the cooperation of the people affected must be secured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be studied and carefully analyzed . The cultural setting must be penetrated and utilized . It is the duty of the Social and Economic Research Division to make such social and economic studies and investigations . A satisfactory solution of many of the problems raised can be found in neither the exact sciences nor the social sciences alone , but must come from a synthesis of the two . As a consequence , the sociologist , economist , educator , and political scientist are found working and cooperating with the engineer , geographer , agriculturist , geologist , and forester in finding solutions for the problems arising from the various regional programs undertaken by the Authority.14 Footnote  | The research projects of the Social and Economic Research Division center around three general classifications . The first groups of studies is concerned with the resources available in the area ? the people , their institutions and their mode of life , and the physical resources and their utilization pattern . A second group of studies deals with the methods by which these resources are to be utilized . The third type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority ? that of raising the standard of living in the region to as high a plane as a full and wise use of the resources will permit . The dam construction program of the Authority necessitates further economic and social studies of several types . Data must be gathered concerning the families required to move from the reservoir areas , so as to facilitate the relocation of those families which require aid from federal or state agencies . Purchase of reservoir land by the Authority removes much property from the tax rolls , and in some cases seriously affects the financial status of counties . The Social and Economic Research Division is conducting studies to determine the exact effect of its purchases upon county finances , in order that a just policy of compensation may be adopted . Data are also being collected on local government finance in the territories selected for dam construction , such factors as assessed valuation and tax delinquency having an important bearing on the purchase price of land and other activities in the general regional program . Special surveys are being made in areas surrounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the necessity of providing housing facilities for workers , racial composition of the population , and other information essential to those in charge of construction work . In fact , a fundamental part of the work of the Social and Economic Research Division consists in cooperating with other departments and outside agencies in conducting the research necessary for the construction , management , and regional activities of the Authority . Tennessee Valley Authority officials are fully aware that their operations , to  | be successful , must be worked out in terms of the cultural environment.15 The Land Planning Division is responsible for surveys and studies relating to the planning of land use and development . Its chief objective is to determine the best use of land of all types for all purposes , to prevent waste such as the building of expensive improvements in the sites of future reservoirs , and to furnish guidance for both public and private use of land . Such a program is intended to assist the Board in formulating its plans for regional development , by supplying information and recommendations relating to the broad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical environment the center of its approach to the general regional plan , and looks toward the coordination of all public and private activities affecting the physical development of the Valley . The planning functions set up may be roughly grouped into two classes , the specific and the general . In the specific class may be mentioned the planning of the coordinated river development , the planning of the agricultural program , the forestry program , the electrical program , and the industrial program by the departments charged with responsibility in those specific fields . The Land Planning Division assumed from the outset that in land planning its field was essentially a planning rather than an operating field . Under this assumption it has outlined its work as that of collecting and coordinating information in the field of physical planning and of preparing recommendations which , taken in conjunction with similar work in the social and economic fields , would enable the Board to guide Footnote  | the physical , economic , and social development of the region along planned and orderly lines.16 The mechanics of the land planning program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land occupancy , indicating the relationships of various man-made patterns to their physical environment , and to each other , today and in the future . Such a program makes the composition of the regional life visual and graphic , provides a running check on the effect of current developments and proposals , and affords a means of outlining the elements of future plans in a manner revealing their relationships as components of a progressively developing regional program . Two general types of land planning activity have been undertaken by the Land Planning Division . One is concerned with the detailed planning incidental to construction and demonstration projects , such as highway and town relocation resulting from the flooding of reservoir areas , and other social and economic problems involving the land and life of the surrounding areas . The other is a general land planning program , aimed at a long range regional developmental plan for the entire Valley . A comprehensive region-wide land planning and occupancy pattern project has been outlined and work is under way on various aspects of the plan . Statistical data of all types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being gathered and prepared in usable form , so that the problems of the region as a whole may be visualized . This land use survey includes the assembling of all current proposals for land utilization from federal , state , and local agencies ; investigations of commodity sources and distribution ; recreational planning and development ; information on highways , transportation , and transmission lines ; and census material affecting the occupancy pattern of the area . When this survey is completed , most of the physical deficiencies and maladjustments in man 's occupancy pattern of Footnote  | his natural environment should become apparent and solutions for their rectification found. ? The Community Planning Division is primarily concerned with studies and plans relating to the layout and design of Tennessee Valley Authority properties and to the physical readjustments necessitated by construction operations under way or definitely projected . Camps and communities must be planned to house construction forces at the dams . The planning of the town of Norris , for instance , from a practically uninhabited area to a model community is typical of its work . The Community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and towns wholly or partly flooded or otherwise directly affected by the regional activities of the Authority . Plans have been made and carried out for the rearrangement and partial relocation of a small town , Carryville , Tennessee , flooded by the Norris reservoir . " It also gives architectural advice and assistance to the displaced population in the reservoir areas . The Public Health and Safety Department , under the immediate supervision of a Director of Health , is responsible for the planning coordination and execution of all health , safety , and medical service policies of the Tennessee Valley Authority , and for the development and administration of cooperative relations with other agencies in health and safety studies , surveys , demonstrations and services . The Authority from its inception realized its obligation to cooperate with the state and local health officials in every way because it has increased the health and sanitation problems of the counties and communities by concentrating population in those areas in which dam construction is in progress . Execution of the health and safety program is distributed Footnote  | among five divisions administratively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Malaria Control Division is responsible for laboratory and field studies and technical advice on control methods of malaria ; studies and technical supervision over procedures relating to biological control ; and studies and engineering services relating to mosquito control by engineering methods such as drainage , reservoir preparation , and water fluctuation . The service of the division begins with the preliminary planning of impoundage structures and extends through construction and reservoir preparation to include the life of the reservoir . These studies and control activities are being planned and executed in close cooperation with the U. S. Public Health Service , and the State and local departments of health in the region . ( b ) The Sanitation Division carries on stream sanitation studies ; prepares studies and renders technical advice on problems of environmental sanitation including water supply , food supply , and sewage disposal ; and makes the necessary sanitary surveys for the Authority 's construction camps and communities . ( c ) The Safety Division prepares studies and reports relating to service injuries , accidents , and methods for their prevention ; renders advice on safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and develops through other lay and governmental agencies a sound safety program for the region . ( d ) The Occupational Hygiene Division is responsible for the program of health guidance , including employment and periodic health examinations , immunization service , and studies of the hygiene of work ; the control of communicable diseases in protection of employees ; and the program of industrial hygiene . This work is performed through stations located at geographical points best adapted to serving employees of the Tennessee Valley Authority . ( e ) The Construction Medical Service Division renders medical service for Authority employees for injuries and diseases in cooperation with the Federal Employees ' Compensation Commission , hospitals of the U. S. Public Health Service , and private physicians . It also furnishes health guidance including employee examinations , and immunization and occupational hygiene services ; and provides family medical  | care for employees and their families at major construction areas under voluntary group participation plans where normal medical facilities are not available . " The creation of a Commerce Department , August 13 , 1937 , marked another step in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial use . Headed by a Director of Commerce , it has as its broad general function the development of water transportation services and facilities on the Tennessee River and its tributaries . Its duties include the preparation of economic studies on water transportation and its relationship with rail , highway , and air transportation ; fostering the development of terminals and other facilities in connection with water-borne commerce ; rendering advice and information to commerce and industry concerning the existence and availability of transportation facilities within the Tennessee Valley ; the formulation of rules and regulations governing the construction , maintenance , and operation of navigation facilities ; and the making of technical and economic research , experiments , and studies of ceramic , mineral , and non-metallic resources in order to formulate means of increasing commerce . Through such a program , the Commerce Department is promoting and encouraging the development of water transportation services and facilities in connection with commerce in the Tennessee Valley , and is attempting to integrate the transportation systems of water , rail , highway , and air , into a regional transportation pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development , Footnote  | water power utilization , land and community planning , forestry and wildlife conservation , and improved types of plant food , the Tennessee Valley Authority Act contemplates the further development of the region 's resources through an agricultural industries program . Section 22 of the Act provides that as the activities already authorized are carried forward , plans shall be prepared which will round out the program of regional development . Provisions are made for cooperation with public agencies and institutions in the conduct of general surveys of the resources of the area and for special studies , experiments , and demonstrations incidental thereto . " The Agricultural Industries Department under the direction and general supervision of a Director , is responsible for conducting studies , technical developments , and demonstration activities which relate to engineering , industry , and business as they affect the rural economy of the region . It is a further responsibility of the department in connection with its activities to stimulate other public agencies to make their contribution toward the effectuation of water and soil conservation practices on agricultural land of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of determining what resources are available , and the most practicable means by which they may be conserved and utilized in the interest of the people and looking toward the social and economic rehabilitation of the region . The functions of the department are carried on by three divisions , the Agricultural Engineering Development Division , the Cooperative Research and Experiment Division , and the Engineering Research and Processing Division . It early became apparent that such a program would depend in large measure upon the successful application of continuous technical research . In this connection , it was necessary to assist in mobilizing upon a permanent basis the facilities of public agencies situated in the region and capable of engaging in various phases of technical research . Through contractual and informal agreements with the Agricultural Experiment Stations Footnote  | and Engineering Experiment Stations of the seven Land-Grant Colleges of the area , research and demonstration projects are being carried on contemporaneously with general surveys of natural resources . The Agricultural Engineering Development Division in cooperation with these agencies is concentrating on finding methods for the adaptation of rural electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farms . This program involves the making of technical studies , testing , design , and field demonstrations of income-producing rural electrical equipment , as well as the development and stimulation of rural electrification education in its farm and home management phases . Projects are nearing completion which involve the use of electricity in pumping water at minimum cost for irrigation on the farms ; in electric breeders to facilitate poultry raising ; in hotbeds to stimulate rapid growth of seedlings ; and in the operation of small unit feed grinding mills . Of even greater importance are demonstrations of the feasibility of cold-storage units adapted to the requirements of farmers in rural communities . It is also working on designs and equipment leading toward the adaption of agricultural machinery to use on the farms of the region in order to facilitate better water and soil conservation practices on agricultural land . Designs for simple and inexpensive machinery which will simultaneously distribute the concentrated plant food and seeds ; machines designed to enable the farmer to harvest the seeds and then to clean them adequately for planting purposes ; and designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples of the type of work being done along this line . The Cooperative Research and Experiment Division is studying cooperative business organization techniques in the region , with special reference to the means whereby such cooperative business might become more effective , and in particular in connection with the activities of the Tennessee Valley Authority . It is also investigating the needs of cooperatives for technical and business advisory services . These studies are supplemented by observation of actual experience of certain cooperative or-  | ganizations with which the Authority has contractual agreements and from which reports of operations are received . The Engineering Research and Processing Division with the assistance of a number of public agencies is working on the adaptation of industrial equipment and processes to the rural economy of the region , including the necessary technical research in processing the region 's agricultural raw materials ; the design , development , and testing of new machinery for this purpose ; and economic investigations of the utilization of these farm raw materials in local industry . It is also making studies of distribution methods and markets available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on by this division are experiments to determine the adaptability of flax to local soil and climatic conditions to determine the feasibility with which flax fiber may be processed on cotton textile machinery ; experiments in the processing of sorghum sirup of standard grade and quality on a sufficiently large scale to make industrial methods possible ; and the development of facilities for the processing of cottonseed so that the nitrogen and mineral element can be recovered more effectively for use both as a fertilizer and as cattle feed . Moreover , its experiments with the use of electricity in the processing of agricultural products are significant in stimulating the development of small or local industries . In this connection , a new type of equipment is being developed and demonstrated for the quick freezing of fresh fruits , berries , and vegetables . The economic value of such experiments is apparent in the case of special crops which are profitable except for their extreme perishability . A further example of this type of project involves the dehydration of fruits and vegetables through the use of electricity . Work on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only of preserving a product of uniform grade and quality but likewise to insure a profitable return from the sale of such by-products as flour for use by bakeries . These projects undertaken by the Agricultural Industries Department have a twofold significance . Their successful conduct will greatly facilitate the regional programs and activities  | in which the Authority is engaged , and the experience resulting from the procedure by which they are being undertaken will perhaps provide a basis for a sound and permanent legislative policy in coordinating public agencies of research.22 The Reservoir Property Management Department , under the general supervision of a Director , is responsible for the proper management , operation , and execution of all policies relating to real estate acquired by the Tennessee Valley Authority except such property that is allocated to other departments for management and operation . The Director is assisted in technical details of management programs by an Advisory Staff whose duty is to coordinate the special-use programs of management with research , studies , and plans made by other departments of the Authority and outside agencies , and to check @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are adopted by the department . In addition to making preliminary investigations and recommendations relative to the extent and character of properties to be acquired by the Authority , the Reservoir Property Management in cooperation with the Construction Department approves the general location and layout of each construction camp as well as the number , size , general design , and estimated cost of all structures and other improvements on lands under the management of the department . It manages and operates all construction camps , towns , villages , and reservations of the Authority and furnishes police and guide service for them . It assists in the removal , relocation , and readjustment of the population displaced by the purchase of lands acquired by the Authority in carrying out its regional programs ; and makes recommendations Footnote  | for the disposal of properties that have accomplished the purpose for which they were purchased and for which there are no other plans and projects actually decided upon requiring the use of such property . The department also advises the General Manager and acts as his representative with respect to problems in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Property Management program in the various areas . In administering these properties under its jurisdiction , it is the duty of the department to coordinate its program with the programs of other departments of the Authority working in the region . The policies of the Reservoir Property Management Department are determined in view of the fact that properties acquired and managed by the Authority are public properties acquired in the name of the United States for the purposes outlined in the Tennessee Valley Authority Act , and that all plans and programs for the use of such properties shall be directed to secure the maximum of public benefit consistent with such purposes , with due regard to sound economy of operation.23 Footnote  | REGIONAL INTER ? GOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION Among the processes of administration is that of maintaining relationships with other groups or agencies . This process is increasingly important today , so numerous and so interacting are the current human groupings . One of the most important problems arising from the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority has been that of working out the proper cooperative relationships with the existing federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the unified development of the Tennessee Valley Basin , in order to be most effective and economical , must have in view not only the functions of the Federal government , but also the proper relating of these functions to those of the State and local governments , and the activities carried forward under private initiative , to the end that the best total regional development may be achieved . Many of these governmental units have been , and still are , dealing with matters falling within the scope of the Authority which has been superimposed upon the existing political structure . The danger of duplicating effort , of formulating regional plans and programs in disregard to those of other agencies with similar functions , is a critical one , particularly in the case of a young and ambitious organization just entering the comparatively new and unexplored field of national regionalism . On the other hand , the knowledge and experience that come from long years of study in a particular governmental sphere and which are necessary to the successful consummation of the Authority 's regional program can be found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or failure of the Authority 's regional activities depends to a considerable extent upon the effective cooperation and collaboration with these pre-existing governmental units . 110  | With reference to Federal agencies , the Tennessee Valley Authority Act expressly authorizes the Board of Directors : 1 To request the assistance and advice of any officer , agent , or employee of any executive department or of any independent office of the United States , to enable the Corporation the better to carry out its powers successfully , and as far as practicable shall utilize the services of such officers , agents , and employees . The Act further authorizes the Authority : 2 To cooperate with National , State , district , or county experimental stations or demonstration farms , for the use of new forms of fertilizer or fertilizer practices during the initial or experimental period of their introduction . The Authority is further directed to : 3 . . . cooperate with State governments , or their subdivisions or agencies , with educational or research institutions , and with cooperatives or other organizations , in the application of electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources of the region . Section 22 , in addition to authorizing the President to make such surveys and general plans as will foster an orderly and proper physical , economic , and social development of the region , provides that : . . . the President is further authorized in making said surveys and plans to cooperate with the States affected thereby , or subdivisions or agencies of such States , or with cooperative or other organizations . With these clear statutory mandates for inter-governmental cooperation , the Tennessee Valley Authority is carrying on a multiplicity of regional activities , most of which are of direct and immediate interest to one or more governmental agencies Footnote  | dealing with identical or similar problems in the region . The attitude of the Authority officials toward the importance of such relationships and the benefits to be derived therefrom , was brought out by Chairman A. E. Morgan in a communication to the President , May 10 , 1934 , stating : 5 In cooperation with the educational , health , highway , public safety , and other authorities of the Federal Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Authority has undertaken to promote understanding and common effort to work out solutions to the common problems of the region . These efforts to bring about cooperation should continue . Dr. T. Levron Howard , Senior Social Science Analyst says that it is essential " in undertakings such as these that full cooperation of National , State , and local agencies be secured . It is through the interest and combined efforts of these agencies that the social development program will fail or succeed . " 8 Mr. E. S. Draper , Director in charge of the Regional Planning Studies Department in advocating the assembly of all plans and proposals , Federal , State , and local , dealing with land use in the region , commented that " this work is designed to insure that different proposals for physical improvement , both within and outside the T. V. A. , will not be nullified by lack of coordination among the programs affecting this area . " 7 The Tennessee Valley Authority , through the powers given it by Congress , has developed a regional program unusual in nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and character never before entrusted to a government corporation in the United States . The regional activities of the Authority are divided into seven programs ? water control , agriculture , forestry , land planning , industrial , electricity , and social and economic . Federal , state , and local inter-governmental cooperative Footnote  | relationships are exemplified in almost every branch of the regional work of the Authority , for as both an operating and a regional planning and developmental agency it must contact and cooperate with the existing governmental agencies in the execution of its regional activities . Much of the regional work of the Authority depends upon successful cooperative relationships with these agencies . It is with this problem that the remainder of the chapter is chiefly concerned . 1 . Cooperation in Water Control Program In carrying out its regional plan for the unified development of the water resources of the Tennessee River system , the Tennessee Valley Authority has benefited from the advice , cooperation , and assistance given it by a number of governmental agencies as Chart A , page 114 , indicates . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Authority by the Corps of Engineers of the U. S. War Department . The first Annual Report , issued in 1934 , states : The first action of the Authority was to make contact with the Secretary of War and with the Corps of Engineers , at the St. Louis office , where plans for the Cove Creek ( Norris ) Dam were being prepared , at the Chattanooga office , from which surveys for that dam were being directed , at Muscle Shoals , where the Wilson Dam and power plant and the nitrate plants are located , and at the Washington office of the corps , with reference to increasing the height of the navigation lock being constructed at the site of the Joe Wheeler Dam . Preliminary plans for the Norris Dam were received from the War Department on July 20 , and on August 1 , 1933 , most Footnote  | of the personnel engaged in surveys in that area was taken over by the Authority . Many valuable studies and investigations completed by the War Department 's Corps of Engineers were turned over to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of geologic characteristics of the various dam sites in the Tennessee Valley Basin , as well as navigation , flood control , transportation , power development , erosion control , and commercial surveys . The report of the Corps of Engineers on the Tennessee River and tributaries published as House Document No. 328 , 71st Congress , 2nd session , has been of particular value to the Authority in carrying out its regional water control and utilization program.10 Both agencies are working together on a study dealing with the proposed canals in the TombigbeeWarrior River basin . The two agencies are cooperatively studying and investigating the potentialities of the region 's resources for national defense purposes as provided for in Section 5 of the Act.1 ' Wheeler lock was designed under the direction of the Army engineers who also planned the lock under construction at Pickwick Landing Dam . The War Department is further cooperating with the Authority in matters pertaining to the location of bridges across navigable streams , and navigation problems . The designs for the first two dams constructed by the Authority , the Norris and Wheeler Dams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. S. Bureau of Reclamation , under the direction of the Chief Designing Engineer . The Authority has also had consultation and advice from the Bureau of Reclamation in regard to the design of power plant installation for its dams . Both in the construction and in the operation of projects for the unified regional development of the Tennessee River Basin , accurate and adequate engineering and planning data are of primary importance . In the preparation of foundation maps of the Tennessee Valley area , the Authority has secured the cooperative assistance of several governmental agencies . An agree-Footnote  | ment was worked out with the U. S. Geological Survey whereby this agency agreed to prepare and complete , in the shortest practicable time , aerial photographs , flat base control maps , and planimetric and topographic maps of the areas selected by the Authority . The U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey is rendering data and advice on this work . The U. S. Federal Emergency Relief Administration and the U. S. Civil Works Administration have furnished financial assistance for this survey control work , while the U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition to furnishing the Authority geological data on mineral resources of the area of Tennessee , the Tennessee Geological Survey Department is aiding in running control surveys and preparing special maps of counties under its jurisdiction . The labor and money for this work have been furnished by the Tennessee Emergency Relief Administration . The University of Tennessee is furnishing computers and is providing laboratory facilities for engineering tests and demonstrations . Although not yet complete , these surveys and maps prepared by these agencies in conjunction with the Tennessee Valley Authority are being utilized in many phases of the regional work of the Authority . Other scientific work of importance to the general regional water control and utilization program includes rainfall studies throughout the entire drainage area . Records of rainfall , evaporation , stream flow , and silt carried by streams , are being made in cooperation with the U. S. Weather Bureau , and other state agencies . The Authority is utilizing the existing weather bureau stations for the measuring of rainfall and river stages , and has installed additional stations with the aid of these agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing information on water resources data , the Authority entered into a cooperative agreement with the Water Resources branch of the U. S. Geological Survey for the collection of data regarding stream flowage in the Tennessee Valley . The existing 114 stream gaging stations along the rivers were supplemented by the construction of fifty-four new recording gage stations . Locations were approved by the Geological Survey ; materials ,  | tools , and instruments were furnished by the Authority . Such records and data are necessary in the safe and economical planning of dams , in forecasting floods during and after construction , in the operation of a unified system of river control , and in advising States , cities , and industries on problems of flood control , stream pollution , and water supply . Flood forecasting is also important in relating flood control by the Tennessee River reservoirs to flood conditions on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers . 2 . Cooperation in Agricultural Program Any consideration of water resources leads inevitably to the land and to the people who occupy the land . A regional water control program involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be controlled . Congress recognized this problem by directing the Authority to provide for the proper use of marginal lands in the Tennessee Valley and to control soil erosion . It directed the Authority also to operate the nitrate plants at Muscle Shoals for the production of fertilizer and fertilizer ingredients , and to arrange with farmers and farm organizations for large scale practical use of the new forms of fertilizer under conditions permitting an accurate measure of the economic return they produce , for the general purpose of promoting agricultural improvement.12 In the development and administration of its agricultural program , the Authority has been working with a number of governmental agencies dealing with similar problems . It has been the policy of the Authority to utilize , encourage , and assist those agencies already working in the field of agricultural readjustment , rather than to set up an expensive and duplicatory organization of its own . Chart B , page 120 , shows the extent of these inter-governmental relationships . Close cooperation has been maintained particularly with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and the seven Land-Grant Colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a written agreement between the Department of Agriculture , the Tennessee Footnote  | Valley Authority , and the agricultural colleges of the States of Virginia , North Carolina , Georgia , Kentucky , Tennessee , Alabama , and Mississippi was signed . This agreement , relative to a " systematic procedure for a coordinated program of agricultural research , extension , and land-use planning within the region of the Tennessee Valley Authority , " has the declared purpose to " coordinate those phases of research , extension , land-use planning , and educational activities of these agencies which are related to a unified regional agricultural program . " 13 According to the agreement , the colleges concerned are to designate a State contact officer to be selected jointly by the director of the experiment station and the director of extension . The duty of the contact officer is to familiarize himself with the agricultural work of the Authority and that of the Department of Agriculture , especially the Planning Division of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration , and to make this information available to the experiment stations and extension staffs in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representing the Department of Agriculture , the Tennessee Valley Authority , and the State Agricultural Colleges , respectively , was set up in order to facilitate the desired coordination . In this way have been eliminated many of the dangers of duplication in the agricultural work being undertaken in the Tennessee Valley . " In pursuance of this collective agreement , contracts have been negotiated between the Tennessee Valley Authority and each of the Agricultural Colleges involved , for the purpose of defining more clearly the details of cooperation . The agricultural experiment stations are cooperating with the Authority in making soil surveys of the counties of the region ; are furnishing information as to the types of soils and fertilizer needs in their areas ; are aiding in the research for new forms of plant food ; and are Footnote  | making available their research laboratories , experimental farms , facilities , and trained personnel . The Tennessee Valley Authority furnishes the funds for additional personnel and expense incurred . The Tennessee Valley Authority has made arrangements with the Alabama , Georgia , Kentucky , Mississippi , and Tennessee agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with seed furnished by the Authority . Other contacts are maintained , particularly with the University of Tennessee Agricultural Experiment Station , which has assisted the Authority in a dairy survey of Sevier County , in experimental work with sorghum sirup and dehydrated sweet potatoes , and in other studies . The cooperative assistance of the Agricultural Extension Services of the seven Land-Grant Colleges in the program of agricultural readjustment has taken the form of demonstrating better farm practices , rotation of crops , soil erosion control , and the proper use of fertilizers . To aid in this work , the Authority has adopted the policy of subsidizing assistant county agents responsible to the extension services , for the sole purpose of expediting agricultural readjustment.15 The Tennessee Valley Authority has had the cooperation of the extension services in other directions . These agencies are assisting the Authority in the removal and relocation of farm families in reservoir areas , and in the agricultural training program extended to reservoir clearance employees . Although the Authority fulfills its legal obligation to displaced families when it purchases the land in connection with dam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is able to assist such families to make the wisest possible choice of new locations and the most advantageous expenditure of funds to the end that they may reestablish themselves where they will be both happy and prosperous to the greatest possible degree . This assistance is properly the function of the Agricultural Extension Services Footnote  | working through their local county farm and home agents with the organized groups of the various communities . The Authority , in order to carry out such a plan , is supporting the efforts of the Land-Grant Colleges and their Agricultural Extension Services in reimbursing them for funds expended for the employment of assistant county agents whose specific duties are to supervise this particular work . Inasmuch as those persons engaged in reservoir clearance work are employed on half-time basis , it was felt by the Authority that an intensified agricultural training program might , with much profit , be carried on with them during the time which was spent on their farms . The purposes of such a program are to train the employees in the practices of soil conservation and watershed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of plant nutrition , soil and farm management , judicious expenditure of funds received from part-time employment and the principles of self-containment in farm operations . This work is likewise the function of the State Land-Grant Colleges , but the Authority is supporting their efforts through the Agricultural Extension Services by reimbursing them for funds expended for the employment of assistant county agents whose specific duties are the supervision of this work . " The securing of accurate soil data for the Valley area is basic to the agricultural program of the Authority . North Carolina and Alabama have been largely covered by State soil surveys , but in the five other States few surveys have been made . The Authority with the cooperation of various governmental agencies is taking steps to remedy this lack of information . Arrangements have been made for the State Agricultural Experiment Stations and the United States Soil Survey to work jointly with the Authority in conducting soil surveys throughout the Tennessee Valley . The Authority agreed to contribute approximately $50,000 per year to the survey , in consideration of the agreement of the other agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and facilities they are now using in each of the several States . In this way a complete soil survey of the region will be available after three or four years . ' The U. S. Bureau of Chemistry and Soils has made available its county soil survey reports , and has furnished the Authority technical advice and information on soil and fertilizer problems . In carrying on its fertilizer experiments , the Authority has borrowed equipment from the Bureau of Chemistry and Soils nitrogen research laboratory in Washington . On October 10 , 1933 , a small blast furnace used for experimental production of phosphorus , was made available to the Tennessee Valley Authority by an agreement between the two agencies . " The U. S. Soil Conservation Service and the U. S. National Resources Committee are likewise furnishing information on soil problems and have made available their studies and reports on land use problem areas . Both the U. S. Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the U. S. Farm Security Administration are rendering advice and data on the purchase of submarginal lands and on the appraisal of land projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Bureau of Dairy Industry of the Department of Agriculture sent a dairy expert to Knoxville to consult with the University of Tennessee in preparing a recommendation on plans for a Sevierville creamery and cold-storage house . The Bureau of Dairy Industry and the Bureau of Plant Industry are furnishing the Authority information and advice on dairy products , and on plants and seeds . Agricultural and county surveys have been carried on by the Tennessee Valley Authority with funds furnished by the U. S. Civil Works Administration . " 3 . Cooperation in Forestry Program The forestry activities of the Tennessee Valley Authority are guided by recognition of the fact that an adequate forest cover Footnote  | is essential to flood control , and that soil erosion is a threat to both navigation and agriculture . In the development and administration of a forest policy for the Tennessee Valley area , the Authority is working in close cooperation with the U. S. Forest Service , the State Forestry Departments , and a number of other agencies which are indicated by Chart C , page 126 . The Authority has found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use program , to make a broad classification of all present and potential forest lands in the region . The aim is not only to secure the first adequate inventory ever made of the forest resources of the area , but also to locate areas where erosion and insufficient forest covers are aggravating the problems of silting and flood control . The U. S. Forest Service , upon a request from the Authority , has both aided and benefited in carrying out this portion of the forestry program . Up to the present time , the two agencies working jointly have covered almost the entire Valley area . Maps have been prepared showing the major forest areas and the seriously eroded regions . Areas aggregating four million acres have been designated as suitable for acquisition by the U. S. Forest Service . An exhaustive timber survey of the Clinch-Powell Watershed has been carried out . In the conduct of this study , data and assistance have been furnished by the Tennessee Valley Authority , and the two agencies together have prepared a chart showing the requirements of the Tennessee Valley for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennessee Valley Authority , the U. S. Forest Service , and the U. S. Civilian Conservation Corps have been very close in the program of erosion control and reforestation which is being implemented through the Civilian Conservation Corps camps . The plans are drawn up by the Authority , and the work is supervised and executed by the U. S. Forest Service with Civilian Conserva-Footnote  | tion Corps labor . An average of twenty-five camps with a quota of 200 men to each camp has been engaged in this type of work in the Tennessee Valley since October , 1933 . Since the inauguration of this program , over one-half million acres of land have been reclaimed by the building of check dams , diversion ditches , the spreading of brush matting , and the planting of more than 50,000,000 trees by labor furnished by the Civilian Conservation Corps . " In doing this work , the value of simplifying the methods of erosion control and reforestation to the point where the private operator may be able to do most of his own work at a minimum cost , is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservation work has left the making of plans for the forestry and soil erosion work to the Tennessee Valley Authority and has given whole hearted support to their fulfillment . This is an extensive regional program by which improved forest practices and soil erosion control methods are demonstrated and actually put into practice in the Tennessee Valley Basin . Its educational significance is apparent . The waters of the reservoirs and of the rivers below them , largely freed from a heavy load of silt , are rapidly becoming favorable breeding places for game fish . Similarly , the surrounded wooded banks and forests are furnishing refuge areas for birds and wildlife . Agreements for cooperative efforts in regard to the preservation and rehabilitation of fish and wildlife in the region are being negotiated between the Authority , the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries , U. S. Biological Survey , and the State game authorities of the Valley States . In cooperation and under a cooperative agreement with the U. S. Bureau of Fisheries , fish hatchery projects are being planned , developed , and run by this agency , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fishery problems throughout the area upon which scientific and intelligent management must be based . The U. S. Biological Survey and the State game officials are working with the Authority in the establishment of game management areas and wildlife sanctuaries , and are studying the best methods Footnote  | for conserving the wildlife on and around the reservoirs and in its wooded areas . These agencies are also cooperating with the Authority in any phase of the development of these areas that may be desired.22 The Tennessee Valley region has important scenic resources , as anyone will testify who has been there . Easy accessibility , agreeable climate , picturesque highways , high mountain peaks , clear lakes and streams , waterfalls , caverns , and dense forests are tangible recreational assets of which the people of the Tennessee Valley may well avail themselves . Realizing this , the Tennessee Valley Authority has conducted a survey of the recreational resources of the area in cooperation with the U. S. National Park Service , the National Forest Service , and State and local agencies to locate the areas of greatest beauty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their destruction or abuse , and to guide the nature of their development so that their values shall be preserved and their fullest possibilities realized . In connection with the scenic resources inventory , recommendations have been submitted by these various agencies as to desirable legislation for recreational land use . Investigation has also been made of expenditures for recreation throughout the Valley , and an estimate made of the possible amounts and distribution of additional income to be derived within the region from this source.23 Through the united efforts of the Tennessee Valley Authority , the National Park Service , the Civilian Conservation Corps , the National Forest Service , and the State and local recreational authorities , the land bordering the Authority 's new reservoirs is being developed as demonstration parks of the wilderness type with comparatively small areas set aside for intensive use . Footnote  | Located at widely separated points extending from Norris Reservoir in northeast Tennessee near the Kentucky-Virginia border , to Pickwick Landing Dam almost 400 miles downstream along the **29;1361;TOOLONG border , this system of parks is being planned and developed in relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic points convenient to both tourists and the local population.24 Because of the interstate nature of the Authority 's program , including as it does portions of seven States and parts of two National Forest regions , there is need for unification and coordination of activities as far as the Valley is concerned . An adequate forest fire control program necessary to furnish an efficient region-wide protection for the 13,500,000 acres of wooded land in the Valley has been worked out by the various agencies involved . Through the facilities and cooperation of the States , the U. S. Forest Service , and the U. S. National Park Service , daily forest patrols are made over the region . Under this activity is included the actual suppression of fires in areas adjacent to Civilian Conservation Corps camps which participate in this activity . As part of the fire control work , the Authority has underway an active educational program in specific areas in cooperation with the various State Forestry Departments . Forest fire control educational projects are designed to accomplish definite aims such as extension of the State Forestry organizations into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in areas of high risk and hazard . The State Forestry Departments are also cooperating with the Authority in carrying on a general program of forestry education touching different activities engaged in by the Authority . Through motion pictures , lectures , and demonstrations , these agencies are attempting to show the part forestry plays in the development of Footnote  | the Valley , and to motivate active participation on the part of the people in the conservation work.25 The forest management planning projects and studies of the Department of Forestry Relations of the Authority have been undertaken to provide a basic knowledge on which any wellconceived program of forest reconstruction must be founded in order to achieve its aims . The knowledge obtained from cooperative surveys and studies by the various agencies involved has proved immediately useful not only to the Authority but to them as well . For instance , the information is being used by the U. S. Forest Service in connection with national-forest acquisition , particularly on the Cumberland Plateau ; by the Land Policy Section of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in connection with its selection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the location of desirable areas for national parks ; and by the State Planning Commissions and the State Forestry Departments in shaping their land use programs . 4 . Cooperation in Land Planning and Housing Program In any planned region , the construction of dams and the development of natural resources bring about physical changes in land use , population distribution , transportation , and other activities which make it necessary to plan for the adjustment of the affected areas and the surrounding areas to the new conditions . Obviously , land planning is not a " one man job . " It deals with diverse problems of land use , highways , housing , railroads , agriculture , forestry , industry , parks , and other interrelated activities . Planning in such a large number of specific fields can not be carried on independent of other agencies and group organizations without producing conflicts , which lie in differing proposals for the use of the land . It thus becomes necessary as a practical accompaniment of regional planning to make certain that local area construction is properly related to Footnote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agencies working in these fields . Coordination in land planning is recognized by the Tennessee Valley Authority as absolutely essential . The land planning program of the Authority includes the following : 26 The assembly of all current proposals for construction or land occupancy change . Specifically , there will be assembled State agency plans , as for highways , airports , institutions ; Federal agency plans , as for national forest extension , resettlement colonies , submarginal land purchase ; T. V. A. plans , as for dam construction , transmission lines , industrial decentralization ; local , county , and municipal plans , as for water supply , sewage disposal , institutions , and any other information similar to the above . The Authority acts to coordinate the planning activities of agencies within the region by keeping in touch with , and indicating on charts and maps , all proposals by Federal , State , and other agencies for new highways , reservoirs , bridges , public land acquisition , resettlement colonies , submarginal land purchases , parks , and other proposed developments . This type of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems pertaining to land planning and utilization , the Authority is working cooperatively with governmental agencies , the approximate extent of which is indicated by Chart D , page 132 . Especially helpful has been the assistance given the Authority by the State Planning Boards of the seven Valley States . Each of these agencies is contributing useful planning advice and Footnote  | information covering a wide range of fields . Studies and reports on the natural resources , including minerals , forests , fish , wildlife , and water , have been made . Investigations of land planning and utilization , agriculture , industry , recreation , public health , public works , local government , taxation , and rural electrification have been undertaken and their findings made available to the Authority . The Authority has sponsored a number of joint conferences of these State Planning Boards for the exchange of planning ideas ; for the proposals of future land utilization ; and in order to discuss and study forms of legislation needed for the continuation and furtherance of State planning activities and to assist the Authority in developing its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority and the Tennessee State Planning Commission have been close since so much of the regional work of the Authority has been concentrated in that area . The first cooperative action of the Authority and the Tennessee State Planning Commission pertained to the passage of numerous laws which would provide the means of effectuating the Tennessee Valley Authority program in the State . The Authority and the Commission after a number of conferences arrived at an understanding concerning the proposed laws and after they were drafted by the Authority the Commission secured their adoption by the Legislature . Then too , the State Planning Commission has sought to be mutually cooperative in assisting the physical developments of the Authority by the use of county and regional planning commissions . The Tennessee law which established the State Planning Commission provided the Commission with authority to create county Footnote  | planning commissions or regional planning commissions without reference to county boundary lines . Of four such commissions established by the State Planning Commission , two were created for the purpose of cooperating with the Tennessee Valley Authority , and at the request of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Northeast Tennessee Regional Planning Commission , was established for the five counties in the northeast corner of the State . The area embraced is one of the most important industrial and agricultural areas in Tennessee and covers an area of approximately 1,600 square miles . It was thought that such a regional commission would be of material assistance to the Tennessee Valley Authority in drawing up industrial development plans , in highway planning , in land use control , and that it might also serve as an agency through which to effectuate improvements in local government . The Commission is studying such problems and making available its reports and investigations to the Authority . A second regional planning commission , the Hamilton County Regional Planning Commission , has been created for Hamilton County , in which are located the city of Chattanooga , and the Chickamauga Dam of the Tennessee Valley Authority . Since important parts of the Authority construction program are being carried out in Hamilton County , the work of this agency has been extremely beneficial to the Tennessee Valley Authority . The Commission has drawn up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the County Court has secured the enactment of an interim zoning law . A comprehensive zoning plan is now being formulated , and more detailed studies are being made of highway relocations which will be necessary because of the Chickamauga Dam and reservoir . With an active and interested group of citizens on the Commission and with financial support from the Tennessee Valley Authority and the State Footnote  | Planning Commission , the Hamilton County Regional Planning Commission is effectively demonstrating the potentialities of the work to be done by such an agency.30 Through the cooperative work of these local regional planning commissions projects of a local nature are being coordinated with the broad regional program of the Authority . Such agencies offer an excellent opportunity of giving services to the citizens in the State , which they could not otherwise obtain under the present form of county government . The State Highway Departments in the seven Valley States often confer with the Authority in matters pertaining to the relocation and construction of state roads in reservoir areas . In addition to furnishing the Authority up-to-date highway maps and data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority in the building of the roads and contribute grants of money to complete the work . On the other hand , after a conference with the State Highway officials , sometimes the Authority builds the roads and bears the expense . Generally these problems are settled through contractual agreements between the agencies involved . For instance , a written contract Footnote  | has been concluded between the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Tennessee Highway Department whereby the road to Norris is to connect with the new highway constructed from Knoxville to Hall 's Crossroads . In this instance , the Tennessee Highway Department and Knox County furnished the funds and constructed the road . In the construction of the Big Ridge Recreational Park and the developmental work in connection with the planning of other demonstration parks , the National Park Service is furnishing supervisory personnel and labor , and is bearing a part of the expense of building materials , with the Authority also contributing . The National Park Service is also cooperating in the development and construction of Monte Sano Park , for which , upon the proposal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alabama , agreed to purchase 2,000 acres of land.31 The Tennessee Valley Authority has utilized cooperative contacts with several Federal and State agencies in connection with its housing program in the building of Norris and the community centers around each of its reservoirs . Advice and information regarding house design and plans have been exchanged with such agencies as the U. S. Federal Housing Administration , the Division of Rural Rehabilitation of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration , the U. S. Bureau of Home Economics , the Housing Division of the Public Works Administration , the Tennessee Home Economics Department , and the Rural Rehabilitation Committees of the Tennessee and Alabama Emergency Relief Administrations . In giving architectural assistance to the displaced population in the Norris reservoir area , the Authority has had the cooperation of the University of Tennessee Extension Service . The U. S. National Resources Committee is maintaining close relationships with the Authority and has placed at its disposal Footnote  | its land use problem area maps of the Valley region and its numerous studies and reports on land planning and utilization . In this connection , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed to review existing material on land use planning and land policies , and to keep in contact with other Federal agencies dealing with similar problems . 5 . Cooperation in Agricultural Industries Program The Tennessee Valley Authority in carrying out its agricultural industries program is specifically authorized to stimulate and enlist public research agencies and institutions in a general program of practical agricultural industrial research and demonstration in specific projects directed toward the development of facilities and equipment in support of soil conservation and the processing of the raw materials of the region.32 This program has been somewhat preliminary in character . It has been necessary to collect and analyze a mass of materials concerning the agricultural industrial resources , known possibilities , and probable developments of all areas of the region . A substantial amount of technical research has been carried on to develop improved or new types of products , processes for using native southern materials in industry , and types of agricultural and home equipment suitable for manufacture by small industries . In the execution of such a broad general program , the cooperative assistance of numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , enumerates these agencies and their cooperative activities . The U. S. Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce , at the request of the Authority , drew up and submitted a statement on the industrial development of the Tennessee Valley . This analysis included lists of products worthy of consideration in connection with the economic development of the region . Data and advice regarding the processing of meats , preservation of dairy products and other foodstuffs , and the seed potato co-Footnote  | operative development in North Carolina have been received by the Authority from the U. S. Bureau of Animal Industry , the U. S. Bureau of Dairy Industry , and the U. S. Bureau of Plant Industry all of the Department of Agriculture . Especially helpful has been the assistance given by the Agricultural Experiment Stations and Engineering Experiment Stations of the Land-Grant Colleges of the area . Through written agreements , the Tennessee Valley Authority has secured the cooperative support of these agencies which through their facilities and personnel are aiding the Authority in various instances in carrying out its agricultural industrial program . A foods Iaboratory has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power refrigeration for the quick freezing of fresh fruits , berries , and vegetables , the dehydration of sweet potatoes , walnut products , and the processing of cottonseed and soy beans . Development work for the construction of satisfactory low cost cooking and farm equipment such as electric pumps , grinding mills , and electric breeders , is being carried on in cooperation with the Agricultural Engineering Department at Blacksburg , Virginia . Experiments in soil heating are in operation at the University of Tennessee experimental farm . A practicable refrigerating unit , designed by the Tennessee Engineering Experiment Station for community use , and which can be sold for about $650 , or about $55 for each farm family , is being demonstrated throughout the Valley.33 These tests and demonstrations are being accompanied by an educational program carried on by the Authority with the assistance of the Agricultural Extension Services of the seven Land-Grant Colleges . This program involves active work in the field by specialists in rural electrification . Farmers are being instructed how to use electricity constructively for the improvement of living conditions , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily be discredited if farmers are oversold on conveniences which do not contribute to farm income . For this reason every effort is being made to inform the farmer as to those conveniences best suited to his requirements . These include such equipment as water systems , milk coolers , and feed grinders . It is the intention of the Authority to help make rural electrification a part of the regular program of county and home demonstration agents and Smith-Hughes teachers . To aid in increasing the degree of economic self support of the region , the Tennessee Valley Associated Cooperatives , Inc. , was organized on January 23 , 1934 , and a fund of $300,000 was allocated to it by the Federal Emergency Relief Administration with the understanding that these funds would be used in establishing cooperatives to relieve or prevent distress . The corporation has general powers to promote , organize , manage , coordinate , and finance cooperative enterprises in the Tennessee Basin and contiguous areas . Prior to the establishment of this agency , the Authority in cooperation with the State extension services was making investigations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its creation , this agency has taken over this work and is making available to the Authority its findings and suggestions . For instance , it is carrying on a survey of the cooperatives functioning in the region , designed to disclose their volume of business , methods of operation , and needs ; provide a basis for legislation and standards of future development ; and indicate additional types of cooperative organizations which may be successfully developed . Through the information derived from such investigations , the Authority is studying the possibilities of effective organization in local community industrial development.34 Footnote  | 6 . Cooperation in Electric Power Program The conservation and use of water power is part of the unified regional program of the Tennessee Valley Authority . The Act authorized the corporation to distribute and sell surplus power generated and not used in its own operations or for other governmental purposes , to give preference in the sale of power to public bodies or non-profit cooperative organizations , to construct or purchase transmission lines in order to place the corporation upon a fair basis in disposing of its power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic and rural consumers , with use by industry a secondary purpose.35 Prior to the creation of the Authority , Muscle Shoals surplus power had been sold at the switchboard to the Alabama Power Company , the only company which had a transmission line to the power plant . The Act , however , gave the Authority a clear mandate to secure a wider distribution for this power , and in the power policy adopted by the board on August 25 , 1933 , there were selected for initial distribution the areas around Muscle Shoals , around Norris Dam , and along the route of the proposed Wilson Dam-Norris Dam transmission line.36 In accordance with its announced policy of avoiding the construction of duplicate physical facilities , the board entered into negotiations with the Commonwealth and Southern Corporation for the purpose of acquiring its power properties in the selected areas . On January 4 , 1934 , the Authority contracted with that company to purchase the following properties from its subsidiaries ? all of the Alabama Power Company low tension transmission lines , substations , rural lines , and rural distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northwestern Alabama for $1,000,000 ; the entire generating , transmission , and distribution properties of the Mississippi Power Company in nine counties in Northeastern Mississippi for $850,000 ; and the transmission Footnote  | and distribution properties of the Tennessee Electric Power Company in four East Tennessee counties and part of another for $900,000 . The Mississippi Power Company properties were the first to be conveyed to the Authority , the purchase being completed on June 1 , 1934 , and it was in that area that the Authority 's power policy was largely developed . The Authority delivers power at wholesale by the following methods : ( a ) Cities which own their distribution systems may secure power from the Authority over transmission lines acquired or constructed by the Authority . The cities are required to enter into contracts agreeing to the Authority 's schedule of retail rates , and promise to administer their systems , keep their accounts , and apply their revenues according to the Authority 's specifications . ( b ) Cooperative non-profit electric power membership corporations , usually organized on a county basis but in some cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first organization of this type was formed to purchase from the Authority the power properties in Alcorn County which the Authority had bought from the Mississippi Power Company . The properties acquired by the Authority are being transferred to similar cooperative organizations , which secure power for retail distribution under contracts similar to those negotiated by the Authority with municipalities.37 ( c ) Power is disposed of at wholesale to private power companies , principally the Alabama Power Company . Such sales are authorized by section 10 of the Act , but must be subsidiary to sales to public agencies . Numerous local , State , and Federal agencies are cooperating with the Authority in the execution of its regional electric power Footnote  | program . Chart F , page 144 , lists these agencies . The chart shows the municipalities and county cooperative electric power associations which are purchasing power from the Tennessee Valley Authority . More than a hundred other cities and towns have manifested an interest in obtaining lower electricity rates for their citizens by distributing Authority energy through municipally owned plants , and have officially made application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Authority on the matter.38 In its relations with these cities , the Authority early laid down two guides from which it has not deviated : ( a ) Whether a city should acquire a system to distribute wholesale energy from the Authority 's dam was entirely a local question for the community to decide for itself ; and ( b ) once a city had decided to acquire a system for distribution of Tennessee Valley Authority power , the Authority took the position that every possible effort be made by the city to purchase existing facilities rather than construct a new and competing system . In some instances , rather than allow negotiations between city and utility officials to fall through , the Authority has sought to cooperate with them in ironing out their legal and financial difficulties . Many of the cities and towns in the region have sought to own and operate their distribution systems in order to purchase power from the Authority , but except in a few cases have had little success in their attempts to acquire existing distribution systems.3 " Footnote  | The cooperative inter-governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Power Associations are numerous and may be best illustrated by a general description of one of them . These associations are private non-profit membership corporations organized by interested citizens , usually on a county basis , for the purpose of acquiring and operating distribution systems . Members are supplied with electricity which the corporation purchases from the Tennessee Valley Authority at wholesale rates . The first organization of this kind was the Alcorn County Electric Power Association chartered under the laws of the State of Mississippi as a non-profit , civic improvement corporation on January 17 , 1934 . Membership is open to all electric consumers served from the electric system of the association . The membership fee is $100 , which may be paid in cash subject to a twenty percent discount , or over a period of years by means of the accrual of an amortization surcharge , which is computed monthly and made a part of the electric bill . On June 1 , 1934 , she corporation entered into a contract with the Authority for the purchase of the electrical properties in the county which had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time , the corporation entered into a contract with the Authority for the purchase of electric energy at wholesale . Under the terms of the contract , the association is to pay for the Footnote  | system over a period of years by means of earnings from its operations . In addition , the Authority is constructing on behalf of the association approximately 100 miles of rural lines , which upon completion will be transferred to the association and made an integral part of the Alcorn County Electric System . The association further agreed to carry out the Authority 's schedule of rates and charges and keep its accounts according to the Authority 's specifications . ' ? All of the property of the association belongs to its members and each member has an equal voice in the management and an equal share in the financial and other benefits accruing from the operations of the association . The affairs of the association are managed by a board of five managers elected by members of the association . This board of managers holds meetings once a month for general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and management of the property and business of the association , subject to the direction of the board.41 In the majority of instances , however , these County Electric Power Associations are constructed and financed through the cooperative activity of the Tennessee Valley Authority and the U. S. Rural Electrification Administration . This Administration furnishes the funds while the Authority builds the systems . The County Electric Power Associations then pay the Authority for building the lines , and reimburse the Rural Electrification Administration for financing the system over a period of years , varying according to the contract . The formation of County Electric Power Associations as nonprofit making corporations operated solely for the benefit of their members represents a significant development in the organization of the electric business . These associations tend to unite the interests of farmers and rural communities and make Footnote  | possible an unusually broad development in the utilization of electricity . These agencies together with the cities and towns cooperating with the Tennessee Valley Authority in its regional electrical program are gradually setting a higher standard of living in the Tennessee Valley . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm groups and city dwellers throughout the United States . The Electric Home and Farm Authority has been cooperating with the Authority in several ways . Established by executive order December 19 , 1933 , with a $1,000,000 capital and a $10,000,000 credit with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , this Federal agency undertakes extension of power facilities by financing prospective consumers in the purchase of electrical appliances , such as ranges , refrigerators , water heaters , pumps , and electrical farm machinery . The Electric Home and Farm Authority does not sell equipment but merely finances its purchase by consumers through regular dealers . Arrangements have been made with manufacturers of these electrical appliances for delivery to current users . The Electric Home and Farm Authority stands back of the purchaser as a sort of guarantee finance company and recoups itself through the collection of the price of the appliances on a long-term installment system . Inasmuch as the more power consumed , the lower the rate to each consumer can be reduced , it is in the interest of all that the Electric Home and Farm Authority functions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financing the purchases of electrical equipment , this agency is cooperatively supporting the electrical education and demonstration program being carried on by the Authority with the aid of the Agricultural Extension Services of the Land-Grant Colleges.42 There is every indication that the market for power will continue to grow steadily , and that the problem in the Tennessee Valley region will not be to find a demand for power but to produce enough power to meet the demand . The increase of Footnote  | nineteen percent in power production by all agencies in the region between May 1935 and May 1936 is an indication of what may be expected . In cooperation with the National Power Survey of the Federal Power Commission , the Authority has made a power survey of the area which shows that the power demands in the Tennessee Valley will soon exceed the existing dependable supply , and that the provisions made for further installations at the other dams seem amply justified . Power studies and reports as well as advice and data on cost accounting procedure of electric energy are being furnished by the Federal Power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to homes and farms throughout the region has been due in large measure to the enterprise of these agencies working in cooperation with the Tennessee Valley Authority . The mass production and mass consumption of electricity is still in its experimental stage . If fully developed and utilized it may open a new economic era. 7 . Cooperation in Social and Economic Program In the development and execution of its broad regional social and economic program , touching as it does many phases of the life of the region , the Tennessee Valley Authority has come in contact with a number of governmental institutions which , as Chart G , page 152 , shows , are actively supporting and working with the Authority toward the realization of its social and economic objectives . In the conduct of its health and sanitation services , the Authority has been working in close cooperation with the U. S. Public Health Service , and the State and local departments of public health in the region . It is recognized that a genuine obligation rests upon the Authority to use every known means to eradicate malaria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | this disease is associated with standing water in which the malaria mosquito may breed , the creation of reservoirs and the measures taken to increase the water retaining characteristics of the soil are significant in relation to the complex problem of malaria control . Studies of this problem are being made by a small but highly trained staff in the Health Section , with the advice and cooperation of the U. S. Public Health Service . Not only have advice and information been liberally given , but the U. S. Public Health Service has assigned two medical officers and one sanitary engineer to aid the Authority in its work in malaria control and rural sanitation . " In addition to malaria control , there are other health and sanitation problems of which the Authority is attempting solution , and the proper relations and cooperation of the State and local health officials is of the utmost importance . Cooperation is felt to be necessary because the Authority has increased the health problems of the counties and communities by concentrating population in the areas in which dam construction is in progress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper sanitation control , and other problems resulting from the flooding of reservoirs , are being worked out in advance by strengthening the public health service in the counties affected . The Authority contributes funds and direction , and the U. S. Public Health Service and State Health Departments are giving support both directly and indirectly to the development of these county health units . Relations with the county health units are carried on through State health officers with whom the Authority enters into contractual agreements , covering the general scope of the work to be done . In addition , individual agreements are drawn up as needed in order to cover specific tasks . In these are laid down the administrative and technical work which the county health departments are required to carry out . Perhaps even more significant is the health education program being carried on under the direction of the Authority in coopera-Footnote  | tion with the University of Tennessee , the State Teachers ' Colleges , and the county health departments . There are few persons trained for this type of work . Arrangements have been worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health education are being given in order to train teachers in this type of social service . A coordinator has been appointed to coordinate the work being done at the University of Tennessee with that of the State Teachers ' Colleges throughout the areas . The State Departments of Health are furnishing field facilities in counties in which these Colleges are located . This work is then tied in with the local health units . A trained nurse who is also a teacher both by training and experience , is placed in charge of the health education program . The task of the preparation of the materials used in the counties is hers . These are in the form of manuals , two of which are now in use , on malaria and tuberculosis . The manual is put into the hands of leaders in the community , selected by the county health officer . In addition to factual materials concerning health problems , the manual contains tests , meeting suggestions , health plays , and other aids to adult teaching . After having studied the manuals , the community leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The function of the leader then is to act as a teacher of public health in his community . By means of meetings and discussions , the leader brings to the entire community much needed health information . In this way public health education is made a part of the community . Each leader as a member of the community can inspire confidence and make his teaching something in which each individual feels he has a part . These cooperative health relationships between the Authority and the State and local health agencies have for the most part been most satisfactory , for they are characterized by such a degree of flexibility that the greatest possible contribution from the agency , community , and citizen is possible . Most of the health officials have cooperated very willingly , not only because the Authority advances sums of money designed to cover additional costs , but because the staffs of these agencies are usually of high integrity and  | welcome the opportunity to undertake additional work , previously denied them due to limited budgets.45 Instances of contact and cooperative relationships with the State Departments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrated . Regulations of State Health Departments govern basin clearance requirements . However , in the case of the Wheeler Reservoir , approval was obtained from the Alabama Health Department for certain modifications in these regulations which resulted in more effective malaria control and a saving of $225,000 in clearance work on that particular reservoir . The Tennessee Department of Health has cooperated with the Authority in the formulation of bills to be introduced in the legislature in the preparation of a sanitary code for the town of Norris , in a study of sanitation problems at Pickwick , and in a survey of the public water supply at Tazewell , Tennessee . The Knoxville City Health Laboratory aids the Authority in making medical tests in connection with medical services to Tennessee Valley Authority employees , while the Authority is aiding the local health departments in the region by making available treatments for all persons found infected with malaria . In the Authority 's medical service program , all service-injury compensation claims are being handled through the U. S. Employees ' Compensation Commission , and the U. S. Marine Hospitals are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Employees ' Compensation Commission has designated 120 local physicians in the area to care for and treat government employees injured in line of duty . In no other field has the Tennessee Valley Authority established more harmonious and beneficial cooperative relationships than in that of health and sanitation , where through associations and assistance of the U. S. Public Health Service , State and local health departments , and other agencies , valuable aid and advice has been given and duplication of effort avoided.46 Footnote  | The social and economic research program of the Authority has been carried on with the assistance of the State Land-Grant Colleges , universities of the area , various State departments , Federal agencies , and research foundations . No attempt is made to give in detail the services rendered the Authority by these agencies , but specific examples will serve to illustrate the work being done by some of them which is typical of the whole . The Institute for Research in Social Sciences of the University of North Carolina , with the assistance of the Authority , has carried out a comprehensive study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Experiment Station has conducted a reconnaissance survey of the same area with special reference to the human and social factors in soil erosion . Extensive archaeological investigations in the reservoir areas have been made with the assistance and cooperation of the Smithsonian Institution , the Universities of Alabama , Kentucky , and , Tennessee , and the Archaeological Departments of the respective States . The Extension Services of the University of Tennessee and the Alabama Polytechnic Institute have assisted the Authority in relocation studies of the reservoir areas , and the results have been made available to the Rehabilitation Divisions of the State Emergency Relief Administrations . The Authority with the assistance of the University of Tennessee is studying the effect of the Authority 's land purchases upon the financial structure of the county units in order that a fair financial agreement may be worked out without seriously affecting the financial conditions of the counties . In studying the problems of local and county indebtedness , conferences have been held with local officials in order that the proper information might be secured , and that any questions and suggestions which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research projects carried on by the Authority with the assistance of these various agencies have been expedited by an allotment of Civil Works Administration funds to the Authority.47 Footnote  | Research of this sort grows out of the necessity of solving specific social and economic problems arising from the construction work of dams and their off-river developments . The significance of such research can not be overemphasized . This brief analysis of the Authority 's research program shows that this activity , like the others , is in line with the Authority 's policy of working with and through existing agencies wherever possible rather than setting up duplicating facilities . One of the most interesting phases of the Tennessee Valley Authority 's social and economic program is its sponsorship of recreational and educational activities for its employees . There are a number of reasons why such a program is important in a regional undertaking of this magnitude . Leadership , cooperation , and special skills are essential if the regional objectives of the Authority are to be accomplished . In the improvement of agriculture , the coordination of agriculture and industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and proper utilization of natural resources , skilled men and trained leaders are needed . Training is essential also to provide efficient skilled labor for the rapidly expanding construction program , and for the program of maintenance of power plants and transmission lines . Furthermore , recreational activities provide diversion for employees , and assist them in making use of their leisure time in a way that will be truly beneficial to the individuals concerned , thereby increasing morale among employees . High morale means more efficient work on the job ; more efficient work means lower cost . Moreover , such a program enables the employee to attain a better understanding of the social , economic , and governmental problems which the Authority is attempting to solve . In administering its educational training program , the Tennessee Valley Authority has had the advice and assistance of a number of State and local institutions . The educational program of the Authority is not administered through any one section or division . There is a training section in the Personnel Department that administers directly a part of this program , and cooperates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally important function of the train-  | ing section is to serve as a coordinating agency for the entire educational program . It is also a function of the training section to secure proper support and coordination between the Authority and State and local educational agencies . To secure this support and coordination , a variety of methods has been employed . The Authority has worked out an agreement with the University of Tennessee whereby it agreed to provide certain courses for Tennessee Valley Authority employees . Such courses include health education , public administration , accounting , and regional planning . Dr. Lee S. Greene , Training Supervisor of the Authority , teaches one-fourth time at the University and devotes the other three-fourths of his time to studying the educational needs of Authority gmployees . The Authority pays threefourths of the expense , the University of Tennessee the other fourth . At Norris , a cooperative arrangement has been worked out with Anderson County so that the Norris High School is made available to county students living outside Norris . This has been brought about through a contract between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made between the Tennessee Valley Authority and Hardin County , the county in which Pickwick Landing Dam is located . At Wilson Dam the Authority and the city of Sheffield have cooperated in developing an elementary and high school program . The superintendent of the Sheffield schools is also on the pay roll of the Authority . He is responsible for the general supervision of the elementary and junior high school maintained by the Authority in that area . The State Teachers ' College at Florence , Alabama , has from the beginning cooperated with the Authority in developing an adult education program open both to employees of the Authority and to citizens of the community . In the area of the Pickwick Reservoir the educational program is administered through a cooperative arrangement with the training section of the Personnel Department , the Agricultural Relations Department , and the Reservoir Family Removal Section ? all of the Tennessee Valley Authority  --  and the Agricul-  | tural Extension Services of the Alabama , Mississippi , and Tennessee Land-Grant Colleges . This reservoir area includes lands in all three States . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training staff to deal with the agricultural aspects of the training program . The training section of the Authority provides a program that includes visual education , library service , and other forms of general adult education and recreation . At Chattanooga , a job training program is conducted by the Chattanooga Vocational School for Tennessee Valley Authority employees with funds supplied by the Tennessee Department of Education administered under the provisions of the SmithHughes Act . The Authority merely acts in a supervisory capacity . The U. S. Office of Education and the State Departments of Education of the seven Valley States are aiding the Authority in carrying out its educational training program by furnishing educational data and advice . Through such a program , employees , after having terminated their work with the Authority , will be prepared to make a larger contribution to the development of social and economic conditions in the area . ' $ Footnote  | 8 . Summary The evidence presented here indicates that the Tennessee Valley Authority has been successful in working out intergovernmental cooperative relationships with the various governmental agencies and institutions ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , assistance , personnel , and services of numerous administrative agencies , for the general purpose of better carrying out its regional activities in a harmonious way and without duplication of effort . In matters of agriculture ; land planning and utilization ; in water control and hydroelectrical power development ; in forestry , wildlife conservation , and recreation ; in municipal and industrial problems ; in fact , in all the social , economic , and physical problems growing out of the region with which the Authority must deal , it is contacting and working with the existing units of government . The table below shows the number of governmental agencies ? local , State , and National , ? in various functional capacities found to be aiding the Authority in the execution of its regional tasks . Table Footnote  | It is upon such successful cooperative relationships that much of the regional work of the Authority depends . Considering the numerous programs and activities of the Authority ; considering the fact that no past experience of a regional authority was available to guide it ; and considering the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this record of close inter-governmental cooperation appears highly commendable.48 However , if the regional objectives of the Tennessee Valley Authority are to be realized to the fullest extent , the active support of the people and their voluntary agencies is necessary . To what extent , then , has the Authority utilized and benefited from the cooperation of the voluntary lay organization in the performance of its regional activities ? The following chapter will be devoted to an analysis of this problem . Footnote  | THE ROLE OF THE LAY AGENCY IN REGIONAL PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 1 . Approach to the Problem The numerous administrative and governmental agencies of the State are but few compared with the multitudinous associations and organizations which go to make up our national life . The student of the present social , economic , and political scene is amazed by the enormous number of interest groups of every kind , political , economic , artistic , educational , literary , recreative , scientific , philanthropic , religious , and professional , which today more than ever before , enrich our communal life . Each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and meaning in our complex social structure . The State , which has as its peculiar function the task of giving unity to the whole system of social , economic , political inter-relationships , is merely one of them . ' Yet except in sporadic instances , lay cooperation through the use of the voluntary agency has been scarcely utilized in governmental administration . The rich field of lay activity and cooperation with government has never been fully explored . In fact , except by a few acute students of governmental affairs , it has been virtually ignored . ' The importance of the cooperation and support of these voluntary associations to the successful realization of regional Footnote  | planning and development is readily apparent . An essential of regional planning is the dealing with natural and human resources , and these resources are best understood in the localities . Any attempt at regional planning that leaves the localities and their group organizations out of the picture tends to bring about defeat of the use of the plan when finally adopted . Regional planning and development to be successful must attempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the various levels of government , but also between government and the ordinary citizen . Planning and administration can not proceed far ahead of public understanding . Progress of the planning movement is dependent upon popular and legislative support . Public officials are responsible for the execution of the regional plans , but its success or failure depends upon the attitude of the citizenry . The citizen must be made to feel that he has a real opportunity to contribute to , and benefit from , regional planning and development . This effective liaison between the citizen , his organization , and governmental agencies is of the essence of democratic planning . As a competent authority in the field of public administration states : " When citizen participation and interest is lost , the foundations of popular government have disappeared . " 2 . Lay Cooperation with Regional Planning Commissions One of the significant contributions made by these regional planning organizations to the field of public administration is the recognition of , and cooperation with , the citizenry and lay associations functioning within their particular areas . Each of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the citizenry and a wide variety of unofficial agencies is essential to its success , and each is attempting wherever possible to utilize the fertile field of lay cooperative participation . The Ohio Valley Regional Planning Commission created in March 1936 was the outgrowth of active public interest in the Footnote  | movement to reduce the pollution of the Ohio River . A number of voluntary lay agencies such as the Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce and the Ohio Valley Improvement Association are cooperating with the planning commission in the execution of its regional activities through the exchange of data and advice . The St. Louis Regional Planning Commission grew out of a citizen planning federation formed in 1926 . In 1933 , soon after the commission was organized , the board of directors recognized that careful analysis of data and formulation of broad planning recommendations were necessary . The board invited a large number of representative citizens and officials from all portions of the region to accept membership upon special committees dealing with important phases of the program . There was a generous response to the invitation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of voluntary service has been performed by the membership of the committees ? a service which for pecuniary reasons would have been impossible to secure in any other way . Through the activities of these committees it has been possible to secure different viewpoints , valuable data , and advice . The result has been a more widespread interest in regional planning . Trained politically for many generations in the town meeting system , the people of New England responded quickly to the regional planning idea . The New England Regional Planning Commission , organized in March 1934 , was the result of a long period of planning interest in New England which had been sponsored by Chambers of Commerce , numerous civic organizations , and interested citizens . Supplementing the official agency , the Regional Planning Commission set up an advisory committee of some 500 citizens with which it keeps in constant contact through the press , bulletins , and meetings in all parts of the area . The membership of this advisory committee includes government officials , engineers , architects , lawyers , bankers , officers of Chambers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public works , representatives of parks and forest associations , university professors , and many other individuals interested in planning . The commission feels that an  | interested , well informed , cooperative citizens committee is its most valuable asset in maintaining contact with the New England public and in securing the proper support for a regional plan . The task of the advisory committee , in addition to furnishing advice and information is to make regional planning a living issue for the rest of the people who make up the New England public.4 In addition to the officially constituted town and city planning boards , there are many unofficial groups engaged in furthering the ends of regional planning in New England . Town improvement associations , local Chambers of Commerce , and other civic organizations are keeping in active touch with the New England Regional Planning Commission in regard to local planning problems . These voluntary lay agencies often function more effectively than could an official planning board . The Commission emphasizes the importance of decentralized action by the people most concerned , combined with cooperation and coordination through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Pacific Northwest Regional Planning Commission began functioning in 1934 . Little if any regional planning activity preceded the present organization . The planning commission is the result to a great extent of the desire of the people to hasten the realization of their commercial and industrial potentialities . Like its companion organization in New England , the Pacific Northwest Regional Planning Commission is utilizing advisory committees in formulating and executing its regional plans and activities . These advisory committees consist of individuals representing many lines of human activity . Among those participating in the advisory work are Footnote  | delegates of Federal , State , and local governments , educational institutions , Chambers of Commerce , public as well as private service corporations , railroads , agricultural and forestry associations , and port authorities . The planning commission has urged these advisory committees to enter more vitally into the commission 's work and suggests that each committee should be more definitely composed of representatives of organizations interested in the particular work of that committee . Before drawing up its regional report for the future planning and development of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain a cross section of public opinion and attitude , conducted a series of informal hearings at various points in the region , including Helena , Montana ; Spokane and Seattle , Washington ; Boise and Pocatello , Idaho ; and Pendleton and Portland , Oregon . Officials of commercial , industrial , utility , argricultural , forest , and transportation interests were represented at each meeting . Expressions independently given covered wide divergence of attitude , some being strongly opposed to any additional form of operating authority , others as definitely in favor . The views expressed were helpful to the Commission , and the hearings represented value in the opportunity afforded for expression , the exchange of preliminary ideas , and the awakening of interest in what inevitably must be an important subject of consideration in the Pacific Northwest as well as throughout the entire country . ' 3 . Lay Cooperation with Tennessee Valley Authority The Tennessee Valley Authority early recognized that the actual acceptance and execution of its regional objectives and activities could be realized only through the desire and active participation of the people and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to impose from above a corn-Footnote  | prehensive plan for the social and economic life of the region . In the words of one of its directors : ? Regimentation has no place in TVA , for if it occurs in the operation of TVA ? which God forbid ? we will have destroyed one of the greatest of our national assets , for in the Tennessee Valley we have a regional culture which is unique and precious . Cooperation , not destructive competition ? Federal responsibility in Federal and interstate matters , with local initiative and self reliance in matters of a local nature ? are the policies by which the regional development of the Valley is being guided . In short , the Authority repudiates any " superman " theory of government , and as Chart H , page 168 , indicates , encourages the active participation and cooperation of the lay agencies in its regional activities . Instances of the cooperative relationships between the Tennessee Valley Authority and private groups are numerous . The methods by which these agencies are brought into effective cooperation are largely personal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the circumstances in which they have been found useful . Often the organization itself has volunteered its services and support in carrying out certain aspects of the Authority 's regional activities . In executing its agricultural program , the Tennessee Valley Authority has had the cooperative assistance and backing of a number of lay agencies whose support is necessary if its agricultural objectives are to be achieved . An important part of the agricultural program is concerned with the testing and demonstration of the super-phosphate fertilizer produced by the Authority at Muscle Shoals , Alabama . Under the arrangement worked out , assistant county agents have been employed by the State Agricultural Extension Services to assist farmers in each well defined community throughout the region in the organization of County Soil Conservation Associations . After the Association has been formed , the members develop detailed plans Footnote  | for test demonstrations on their farms and present them to a committee of the association with a requisition for Authority fertilizer . The committee reviews the plans , and , if approved , they are forwarded to the State Agricultural Extension Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are sent on to the Tennessee Valley Authority . When the plans are finally approved by the Authority , fertilizer is shipped to the Soil Conservation Associations and distributed to the farmers in quantities large enough to bring about the changes in land use and erosion control specified in the regional agricultural plan. ? There are more than 120 Soil Conservation Associations now operating throughout the region , or at least one in each county . Approximately 22,700 farmers are participating in the program through their farm unit test demonstrations . A practical farm unit test demonstration consists of a farm considered as one operating unit and planned so as to properly relate each enterprise to the other and to the whole farm in order to contribute the greatest good to the people operating it . The primary purpose of such a demonstration is to obtain information concerning the value , effect , and best methods of use of the phosphatic fertilizer applied to a practical system of farming . ' In some cases , these County Soil Conservation Associations have been federated into regional associations such as the Southwest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a group of leading farmers of Southwest Virginia February 10 , 1935 , for the purpose of cooperating with the Authority in a demonstration program of soil conservation , agricultural development , and watershed protection . It is hoped that through such a regional association Footnote  | the agricultural plans and work of the county associations will be speeded up and developed as a unit . ' The farmers along the small streams and creeks running through the Tennessee basin have organized about 240 largescale Area Test Demonstration Associations . These projects comprise a watershed confined to a compact geographic area , wherein one or more unit demonstrations are located , in which farmers proceed to readjust their agricultural problems by the application of the results secured on unit test demonstrations . Fertilizer is made available to the farmers through the association , which handles all financial matters connected with its use . The purpose of such demonstrations is to determine the economic return from fertilizer and to improve agricultural methods and practices . " In the terracing program is found another good example of voluntary lay cooperative work with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In those sections of the region where erosion is extensive and where mostly intertilled crops , and especially cotton , are grown , terracing is advocated in addition to readjustment of crop cover to combat erosion . More than sixty County Terracing Associations have been organized by the farmers throughout the region with the aid of the assistant county agents . These associations are incorporated under the laws of the States , and are therefore able to work for the individual farmers on a contract basis . The associations purchase the power grading machines , hire the operators , and contract the outfits to individual farmers by the hour . The charge to the farmer for the terracing is $2.50 to $3.00 per hour for a forty horsepower tractor unit and its operator . The money that is left from the collections after all operating expenses are paid , goes toward liquidating the equipment . The assistant county agents train the operators , supervise the ter-Footnote  | racing , promote the work , and look after the maintenance of old terraces . They also assist farmers who prefer to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Associations and their work serve to bring home in a tangible way the problem of soil erosion which the Authority is seeking to solve.1 ' Soil Conservation Associations were originally organized under the leadership of the Tennessee Valley Authority , but apart from the contact of the assistant county agents who are paid by the Authority under contract with the State Land-Grant Colleges , they are independent of control and influence by the Authority . Only after the farmers have thought through their problems does the county agent attempt to give advice and to correct their mistakes . It is believed that independent consideration of the problems of soil conservation and agricultural practice and technique is one of the best possible means of instilling an appreciation of the Authority 's regional agricultural objectives . The farmers of the Valley have been almost unanimous in their support of these projects . The American Farm Bureau Federation at its eighteenth annual convention in Pasadena , California , December 11 , 1936 , adopted a resolution pledging its continued support to the present plant food program of the Authority with particular reference to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bureaus throughout the region to take a more active part in aiding the Authority to carry out its agricultural program . These agencies are all cooperating with the Authority through the exchange of agricultural information and advice.12 In fostering research in the ceramics field , a number of private industries and organizations are cooperating with the Authority in furthering its industrial program . The United States Potters ' Association is rendering technical ceramic information and advice , while the Homer Laughlin China Company , one of the largest china manufacturing concerns in the country , and two kaolin refineries in North Carolina , are testing Authority kaolins . Footnote  | An association known as the Cooperative Extension Service of Health and Dairy Interests was organized in Alabama , March 25 , 1937 , to cooperate with the Tennessee Valley Authority in bringing about an increase in the production and consumption of safe milk and milk products and to improve livestock and dairying in general.13 Local cooperative associations , such as the Southern Highlanders , Inc. , a cooperative handicrafts association , and the Land 0 ' the Sky Mutual Association , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority cooperative data relative to their particular fields and problems . Such information includes production and distribution statistics , data on the development of marketing production methods , and general information relative to future development . This cooperation enables the Authority to have available the information and experience derived from the activities of a number of cooperative associations in their endeavors to curtail relief demands and permanently rehabilitate individuals with substandard incomes.14 A number of lay agencies are cooperating with the Authority in its program to improve health and labor conditions throughout the region . The American Red Cross and the Rockefeller Foundation , for instance , are furnishing public health data and advice . The latter institution is also represented on a Medical Advisory Board which has been set up to aid the Authority in its attack on malaria . In drawing up its employee labor relationship policy which was adopted on August 28 , 1935 , a series of conferences was held at which time representatives of the various Footnote  | labor organizations were called in for suggestions , advice , and criticism . Among the labor organizations participating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government Employees American Federation of Labor Boilermakers ' Union of America International Association of Machinists International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers International Union of Operating Engineers Knoxville Central Labor Union National Association of Certified Welders Tennessee Valley Workers ' Council United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Jobbers Several preliminary drafts based on the cooperative suggestions and criticism of those attending the conferences were studied and analyzed by the Board of Directors . The policy as finally adopted by the board met the unanimous approval of these organizations mentioned above . The important point is that every employee and organization , regardless of position , was given a chance to help in drafting the policy . It was not a compromise , nor the result of a bitter fight . It was the result of collective conference and understanding of the group organizations and agencies involved . " A Tennessee Valley Trades and Labor Council was organized in January , 1937 , to facilitate effective action and coordination on the part of the various crafts in the region working on Authority projects . The council consists of seventeen different trade unions functioning in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects throughout the area . Conferences with the Authority on aspects of labor problems , and exchange of labor data and advice , are frequent . In carrying on its educational and training program for employees , the Authority has benefited from the advice and assistance given by a number of voluntary agencies . In the earlier Footnote  | phases of this program , the Superintendents of Public Instruction and Commissioners of Education of the seven States comprising the Tennessee Valley region organized themselves into a committee to aid the Authority in coordinating and furthering its educational objectives . The chairman of the committee serves as educational advisor to the Authority . Its primary purpose is to provide a means for cooperation and coordination of the Authority 's educational and training program . The methods used to accomplish its ends are conferences , and exchange of advice and information . The Tennessee Valley Workers ' Council furnishes an inspiring example of lay cooperative support in the work of the Training Section of the Tennessee Valley Authority . The Council is a body of existing American Federation of Labor unions formed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Relations Counsellor as a unit rather than as separate unions . Among the objectives of the Council are to help carry out more effectively the aims and purposes of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of Congress than is possible without labor organization ; to do a better job of familiarizing Authority workers with the necessity of insuring the success of the general purpose of the Tennessee Valley Authority enterprise ; and to prepare and encourage organized groups of workers to take more social and economic responsibility . The Council has on its own initiative developed a broad program of workers ' education which includes forums and discussions dealing with social and economic problems . " The Knoxville-Knox County Adult Education Council as well as the Parent Teacher Associations in the seven Valley States are furnishing educational information and advice . The library has become the center of the educational program . Library facilities have been developed in all the areas where Authority projects are being carried on . Arrangements have been worked out between the Authority and the public libraries Footnote  | located near the reservoir areas whereby the Authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ libraries serve as distributing points . Such an arrangement keeps the Authority from duplicating facilities and furnishes an excellent medium for lay cooperation . In exchange for the servicing of books , the citizens of the respective communities are permitted to avail themselves of the books furnished by the Authority . Typical of such cooperation is the action taken by the directors of the Lawson McGhee Public Library of Knoxville , Tennessee , who in the spring of 1933 passed a resolution offering the services of the library for the advancement of the Tennessee Valley Authority 's educational program . Arrangements were also made whereby Miss Mary U. Rothrock , librarian of the Lawson McGhee Public Library , would devote part of her time to coordinating the library activities of the Authority throughout the region , and at the same time serve as consultant on library matters.17 Lay organizations are rendering valuable aid and advice as well as actively cooperating with the Authority in the performance of its forestry and recreational activities . In the Cumberland Mountains there are more than a million acres of badly eroded and deteriorated forest lands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cumberland Mountain Timber Protective Association has been formed by private owners to work with the Authority in the conservation and improvement of this land . The American Forestry Society is furnishing the Authority data and advice relative to many of its forestry problems . The American Federation of Sportsmen and the Alabama and Tennessee Federations of Sportsmen are cooperating with the Authority in its wildlife rehabilitation program by furnishing game and Footnote  | fisheries data and advice and by holding conferences with the Authority in connection with the establishment of fish and wildlife management areas . For the effective coordination of forestry and conservation work in the Tennessee Valley region , the Tennessee Valley Technical Forest Council has been organized . It is composed of a representative from each of the seven State Forest Departments , the United States Forest Service , the National Park Service , and the Forestry Department of the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs , with the Chief Forester of the Tennessee Valley Authority as chairman . Its work is purely advisory in nature , but through conferences it affords a fine opportunity of expression for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Authority . Its work has . been largely that of a coordinating agency . The greatest concentration of flood damage in the Tennessee Valley occurs at Chattanooga , where the average annual damage prior to the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority was estimated at $687,700.18 The citizens of this city have organized the Chattanooga Flood Control Commission to keep in close contact and to cooperate with the Authority in order that the local flood control plan may be adjusted to fit into the broad regional water control plan being developed for the entire basin . The Cumberland Valley Association , an organization set up by citizens residing in that area , is working with the Authority in an attempt to bring the Cumberland River under the jurisdiction of the Tennessee Valley Authority.15 A similar organization , known as the Lower Tennessee Valley Association , is cooperating with the Authority in an endeavor to secure appropriations authorizing the construction of a dam on the Tennessee River near Paducah , Kentucky . The Mississippi Valley Waterways Association is furnishing the Authority water and transportation information and advice . These agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources.20 In the execution of its land planning and utilization program , Footnote  | assistance has been given the Authority by a number of voluntary agencies interested in such problems . The National Association of Planning Officials and the American Planning and Civic Association frequently furnish the Authority planning advice and data relative to the regional problems involved . Two lay groups known as the Campbell County Citizens ' Committee and the Hamilton County Citizens ' Committee are cooperating with the Authority in working out plans for the development and management of county parks in those particular areas . The American Automobile Association , and the Traveling Bureaus in the cities of Asheville , Chattanooga , Knoxville , and Nashville , are contributing travel and highway information useful to the Authority in planning for the relocation and construction of highways around the reservoir areas . The Municipal Leagues of Alabama , Georgia , North Carolina , Tennessee , and Virginia have appointed special committees to cooperate with the Authority and furnish advice and information pertaining to municipal problems in order to prevent duplication and to coordinate municipal projects into the broader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , a Public Power Managers ' Association has been created to aid the municipalities in securing Tennessee Valley Authority power . The Tennessee Municipal League has even sponsored a meeting of Tennessee Mayors to discuss ways of cooperating with the Authority in the execution of its regional power program , while an organization known as the West Tennessee Contact Committee has been set up by local citizens to extend cheaper power to all towns and cities in Western Tennessee . The majority of Chambers of Commerce throughout the region are actively supporting and cooperating with the Authority in many of its regional activities , especially those of a local nature . The Knoxville Chamber of Commerce , for example , has set up a Committee on Cooperation with the Tennessee Valley Authority , and its executive vice-president , Mr. Clarence F. Holland , averages a number of hours weekly in conference with Authority officials on municipal problems . So strong has been the support of this organization , that on November 5 ,  | 1935 , at the closing session of the United States Chamber of Commerce Southeastern Convention held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in protest to a resolution condemning government competition with business . " In the recruitment of its personnel , the Authority has not relied entirely upon applications sent in voluntarily to build up its registers . It is a definite policy of the Authority to contact sources where qualified professional and technical personnel can be recommended , such as professional associations , colleges and universities , private industry , and governmental agencies . A number of these institutions and group organizations are aiding the Authority in the location of competent personnel in the occupational fields where the demand is greatest . For example , names of foresters who might be interested in employment have been secured from the American Forestry Society , and forestry schools . Appraisers have been suggested by large private banks and insurance companies , and real estate boards . Right-of-way men have been recommended by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , and private engineering firms and professional engineering societies have supplied the names of qualified engineers . Listed below are names of professional agencies known to be conducting cooperative activities of this type . American Forestry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Civil Engineers American Society of Electrical Engineers American Society of Mechanical Engineers American Telephone and Telegraph Company National Association of Planning Officials Southern Economic Association Southern Sociological Association Through the cooperation of these agencies , the Authority has Footnote  | been able to employ the services of many qualified persons whom it would have been impossible to secure unaided.22 4 . Summary Tennessee Valley Authority officials feel that an understanding attitude and active cooperation on the part of the people and their social institutions is fundamental to the execution of sound regional planning and development . In carrying out its regional objectives it has been necessary for the Authority to overcome not only inertia of prejudice and ignorance , but to secure the active interest and support of the people and their organizations . Reliance has naturally been placed , to a great extent , on the cultivation of happy and harmonious relationships between the Authority and the officials of lay agencies as well as governmental institutions . As Chart H , page 168 , indicates , the Authority is emphasizing the importance of cooperative activity and decentralized action on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , according to the writer 's findings , some eighty lay agencies cooperating with the Authority in the planning and execution of its regional programs . The table below shows the number of lay agencies in various functional capacities found to be contributing to the work of the Authority . Table The desire on the part of the Authority and these human groupings to integrate in non-coercive fashion the objectives of Footnote  | the Tennessee Valley Authority with the life and experience of the Valley , tends to revitalize the spirit of democracy by providing a medium for the effective expression of public opinion about issues and problems in which the people are directly and vitally concerned . The movement , properly sustained and implemented , may make government more responsive to the popular will even while its field of activity is expanding in response to public need . Such cooperation aids in the democratization of administration and constitutes an important guaranty against overcentralization in governmental planning and against decay of local governmental interest . The roles of governmental agencies and voluntary associations are enhanced , not diminished in importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between a governmental agency and our social institutions is a hopeful portent in the struggle against bureaucratic centralization and domination . In this aspect of its work , the Tennessee Valley Authority is blazing a new path in governmental administration which other units of government might well afford to follow . As Professor Ernest S. Griffith points out : 22 Voluntary agencies should strive more and more to cooperate with the agencies of . . . government . Each has much to learn of the other . Nor must either worry too much about distinctions separating them . Associative action is in accord with the times , and one need not be too logical as to the particular agency performing or gaining the credit for a task . Footnote  | TECHNIQUES AND METHODS USED TO SECURE COOPERATION Any Federally created regional authority must inevitably face the difficult problem of working out the proper public relation techniques and methods which shall govern its intercourse with the governmental and voluntary agencies which it must contact and cooperate with , and upon which , in the final analysis , depends the success or failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority has used various techniques and methods to secure the cooperative assistance and support of the numerous agencies and institutions whose relationships and activities have been described in the past two chapters . The bulk of these cooperative techniques and devices may be summarized in the following categories : ( a ) exchange of data , information , and advice ; ( b ) the written agreement ; ( c ) the gentlemen 's agreement or mutual cooperative understanding ; ( d ) direct cooperative joint committee and conference ; ( e ) exchange of personnel ; and ( f ) financial assistance . An analysis and examples of each of these devices will be given . 1 . Exchange of Data , Information , and Advice One of the most helpful devices used by the Authority in the execution of its regional program has been that of exchange of knowledge and advice . Often the experience and data so necessary to the successful performance of certain regional activities are to be found only in existing Federal , State , and local agencies of government . The importance of this fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diligent in securing and utilizing such data and advice from these governmental agencies . The exchange of data and advice has been frequent , but a few examples will suffice to show the importance of this technique . ' Footnote  | Mention has been made of the useful engineering studies and reports turned over to the Authority by the U. S. War Department Corps of Engineers . Its comprehensive survey and report on the Tennessee River Basin has been used extensively by the Authority in developing regional plans for water control and utilization . The War Department has also furnished advice and data on national defense problems , bridge construction and location , and matters pertaining to navigation problems . The U. S. Geological Survey and the U. S. Bureau of Chemistry and Soils have contributed useful soil data , soil maps , and county soil survey reports , which are being utilized by the Authority in carrying out its agricultural and land planning programs . The Agricultural Experiment Stations of the seven Land-Grant Colleges are making available their studies and reports on agricultural problems and furnishing information on the types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The U. S. National Resources Committee as well as the State Planning Boards in the region are furnishing information on land utilization and making available their investigations on land use problem areas . The U. S. Forest Service and the State Forestry Departments are rendering data and advice on forestry problems . This information includes among other items forestry charts and maps , timber survey reports , and tree crop planting and production data . The U. S. Biological Survey , the State Game Authorities , and various voluntary sportsmen associations are contributing helpful information and advice on wildlife conservation work which is being undertaken as an integral part of the forestry development program . The U. S. Bureau of Fisheries is furnishing the Authority its studies on fishery problems and fishery projects for the region. , while the U. S. National Park Service is giving valuable advice and information on the recreational developmental activities of the Authority . In carrying on its industrial activities , the Authority has received profitable advice and data pertaining to the industrial possibilities of the area from the U. S. Bureau of Foreign and Domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  