@@774396

txtp50tance , seems all the more remarkable when one takes note of the slender scale of rations on which these physical feats are performed . They have also begun to exploit a new kind of mobility by following the Russian lead in forming parachute units . In mountain warfare these may have notable effect , as a pass or narrow valley can be held by a few men against many , so that by dropping these parachute units to seize such points in the enemy 's rear his reinforcement may be prevented , his supplies interrupted , or his retreat cut off . By a curious contrast , the higher training of the Italian Army had until recently a tendency to restrain rather than exploit the use of its natural assets . Tactical methods were even more deliberate than in the French Army . In part , this was inspired by the aim of correcting the haphazardways of the past by a rigorous mental discipline attuned to the new national trend . If it served a practical purpose , it certainly had the less beneficial effect of cramping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and detailed that , after reckoning the time for writing and reading them , they seemed to leave little time for executing them  --  if the enemy were not to be allowed too much grace . It was thus , in form and in outlook , an old-style army which was shipped out from Italy to Eritrea in 1935 . Mechanized vehicles and aircraft were no more than a trimming to the masses of infantry . Yet the trimmings , coupled with the primitive enemy 's similar obsession with mass , saved the Italians from the impasse , and even peril , to which their own old-fashioned ideas had brought them . In the outcome , the campaign was determined byp51the progressive success of the machine in overcoming human and natural obstacles . As the data of the campaign have become available , analysis has tended to confirm the contemporary inference that the machine-gun and the gas-projector proved the decisive weapons , aircraft the decisive arm , and mechanization in general the foundation of the Italians ' success . It forms a striking vindication of those who , in the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance of these new factors . For Europe this war is a writing on the wall ? and the more significant because it has been engravedon a remote mountain-wall . For here was a theatre of war so wild and rugged , and so strategically inaccessible , that aircraft and landcraft were operating under an exceptional handicap . The handicap on their action was at first increased by a handicap on their effect which sprang from the methodsof the Italian command . They began the invasion of Abyssinia after the style of the invading hosts in 1914 . By relying on mass they impeded their own mobility , so that what was gained by the advent of mechanized means of movement was largely offset by using them merely to feed and maintain great masses of infantry . The supply of such large forces as were employed demanded a welldevelopedsystem of roads . The building of these roads called for a great number of labourers , together with the troops to protect them . To feed and otherwise maintain them caused a great increase in the transport demands and in the traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roads almost as fast as they werep52built . So the difficulties were multiplied by the very means taken to overcome them . Thus the Abyssinian War began by providing a fresh illustration , in a somewhat different form , of the lesson of the last European war ? that armies are impeded more than helped by their own growth , so that quantitative superiority of force carries its own antidote . That experiencemerely confirmed the neglected warning of the famous eighteenth century master of war , Marshal Saxe , that " multitudes serve only to perplex and embarrass " . He saw , like Sherman a century later , that there is a limit , determined by mobility , to what one may call the economic size of an army . It takes unusual art to gauge ? mass and mobility are hard to reconcile . Unless the mean , or means , can be found , the use of force is liable to be stultified by its own forces . It was fortunate for the Italians that there was no air force to oppose them . That missing factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the end of 1935 , after three months ' campaign , the Italian masses were at a standstill with nothing to hit , while the overburdened communications needed to feed them were providing a target for guerrillas ? itwould have been much worse if these narrow mountain routes had been bombed from the air . In this state of stagnation , discontent was growing in the territoryaround them and among their native allies . Then the Abyssinian leaders came to their rescue by attemptinga series of massed attacks , thus providing a target for machine-guns on the ground and overhead . In exploiting the Abyssinians ' recoil , the Italian command turned theirp53infantry masses into road-makers and relied for their own thrust on relatively small motorized spearheads , while mustard gas was sprayed to shield their own communicationsagainst the enemy 's interference , and also to demoralize the troops and populated areas behind the enemy 's front . The advance of these mobile columns was covered by a long-range and flexible barrage of air bombers , while their supplies were in part brought up by air transport . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the campaign , they combined it , almost as consistently , with the tactical defensive . In the four battles which mainly contributed to turn the scales of the war , and settle the fate of Abyssinia , the defeated side attempted most of the attacking . The first three , even Amba Aradam , seem to have been a tale of repeated Ethiopian assaults to forestall or stem the Italians ' advance ; and in the final battle the Emperor'sarmy shattered itself against the Italians ' firedefence . Thus while the campaign superficially suggested that modern armament gives new power to the attack ? at any rate where one side has a definite superiority of arms ? its deeper lesson lies in the way the Italians profited from the power of modern defence , applied in a manoeuvring advance . The Abyssinian Campaign should have given the GeneralStaffs of the world other cause for thought . It has shown the fallacy of their argument that machines are not a substitute for men ? by which they mean the weight of the many , not the quality of the essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World War , thatp54mass has become a dangerous encumbrance when the attemptis made to concentrate it on the fighting front . Under modern conditions , and especially the growing menace of air attack , the larger the army the weaker a country may prove in war . Technical quality counts , not drilled quantity.  |p55THE  FRENCH ARMY HAS FOR LONG EXEMPLIfiedthe fallacy of the old standards of gauging strength . If its total numbers were counted , it appeared the " strongest " in Europe , apart from the Russian . That idea was reinforced if trained reserves of men and stored reserves of war material were reckoned . And the impressionhas thus been spread that the French Army was , at any rate until recently , a serious potential threat to Germany . But the numbers had small offensive meaningunder modern conditions ; a large proportion were abroad ; and most of the war material was old . Although twenty-two tank battalions have been maintained in France most of them were , and still are , equipped with machines of the last war , slightly renovated . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet with a very limited obstacle-crossing capacity for that purpose . The Army comprises twenty infantry divisions , five cavalry divisions , and five colonial infantry divisions which serve as a " mobile force " ready for despatchto deal with trouble overseas.  |p56The  total " strength " of the French Army is some 640 , - 000 , but of these nearly 200,000 are serving in North Africa and other colonies . Conscript service is still nominally for one year , but contingents are now being held for an extra year . This is due to the threat of the German military expansion combined with the shrinkageof the annual contingent of young men reaching military age ( caused by the fall of the birth-rate during the last war ) . The shrinkage , together with the need for adequately trained personnel in the mechanized arms , has also led the French to enlist an increased proportion of long-service professional soldiers , who form a corps of specialists . A maximum of 117,000 has been legally sanctioned , although only some 8o,000 have been obtainedhitherto , as the terms have not been sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributing to the transformation of the French Army . Two recent visits to France afforded me the opportunityof renewing , after an interval of some eight years , my acquaintance with that Army . They were also an opportunity of gauging the trend of its military thought . Such actual contact is apt to produce stronger impressionsthan any perusal of a country 's service papers . For even in a country such as France , which has a great traditionof military literature , military ideas are no longer expressed with the freedom of the eighteenth century : that most vital age of military thought , when men like Saxe , Bourcet and Guibert paved the way for the revolutionin strategy which the young Napoleon Bonaparte was able to achieve with the leverage of the Revolution . Because of that age of fertilizing ideas , the intellectualp57homage of every military student is due to France . Since then she has suffered as much as any country from the sterilization of thought which came with the increasing professionalization of armies . It is true that in the years preceding the World War , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but such minds did not guide her strategy in 1914 ? as history too clearly tells . Nor did the shattering experiences of the war , which at least brought appreciation of the sober common sense of a Petain , seem to succeed in breaking the fetters on thought even to the extent that was seen elsewhere . In France perhaps more than anywhere the subordination that must prevailin the sphere of action was extended into the sphere of conception , with a consequent barrenness . Orthodoxy was exalted to such a pitch that it became the most powerful of contraceptives . Thus when I last saw the French Army it seemed to me almost the most backward in ideas among the armies of the Great Powers . After eight years for reflection upon the experience of the last war it showed small sign that reflection had borne fruit . Its horizon was bounded by 1918 . If war should come again it apparently intended to resume where it had left off . That was better than the cry of " Back to 1914 " which had echoed in some other armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to move forward subsequently , if only in thought , whereas French thought had , in general , remained stationary , despite the bold leap into the future that was made in the immediate post-war utterancesof some of the leading soldiers of France . The cause may have been that in France these original ideasp58were sprinkled from above , by generals who soon disappeared , whereas in Britain they were like springs wellingup from below . In French military doctrine and training all else was subordinated to the production of a great volume of fire , by methods that were as studiously deliberate as the rate of movement they promised . The best thing that could be said of the doctrine was that it recognized the importance of material factors , especially the effect of fire , and recanted the fallacious belief of 1914 that the unshieldedwill of the soldier was proof against bullets and shells . But it seemed to ignore the truth that fire is a means to movement , and that the effect is lost unless it can be followed up quickly . The division was still the profusely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to have conceived of nothing more than the preservation of a powerful but rigid fightingmachine , a machine which was likely to break down from its own internal friction if it should ever be called upon to make a prolonged advance or retirement . I could not help thinking that the French had renovated their steam-roller by fitting an extra roller , but had forgotten to consider its motive-power . Since this visit , what I had heard from other observers had tended to confirm the impression . They spoke of the extreme deliberation of operations , of detail carried so far that it became an encumbrance . More recently , I had heard rumours of development , but not sufficient to prepareme for the change which I found . By contrast with eight years earlier , it struck me as a remarkable evolution ? much greater than our own in thep59same period . And the development has been not only in ideas but in application . If even to-day military thought in France does not leap forward quite so boldly as among the most progressive British soldiers , practical steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanized , mainly with armoured fighting vehicles , although they have a proportion of " motor-dragoons " in light cars and on motor-cycles . A heavy mechanized division is to be created in 1937 , to provide a still more powerful punch , particularly for a counter-stroke against any hostilemechanized forces which might penetrate , by surprise , the fortified frontier . In addition , some ten infantrydivisions have been motorized ; their artillery is all tractor-drawn , their infantry regiments are provided with little armoured carriers for mortars , machine-guns , and ammunition , and can themselves be moved by lorry convoy . As regards supply , it is significant that the French now consider the possibility of maintaining the divisions at a much greater distance from railhead than the British have yet contemplated . The creation of these new-type formations , so different from the rest of the active forces , and from the bulk army of mobilization , is naturally leading the French towards a new picture of warfare . It tends to resemble the vision which General von Seeckt and others cast on the screen of the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although modified to suit the technical , geographical , and political conditions of France . General mobilization is a process that works slowly inp60putting an army into the field : so slowly indeed , that if mobilization and concentration were made as in 1914 , the army would court the risk of never reaching the field . Air pressure on the congested traffic arteries might cause a premature collapse . Even at the best , an interval of a week or two must elapse before these forces can come into action . But the new-type formations , helped by their special composition as well as by their rail-free mobility , may be ready within a time that we commonly count in hours . To keep them in waiting while the bulk army was assembling would be a precarious discount of the time-factor , even if the enemy 's action allowed the attempt . Thus , in the new picture , the first phase of a war is fought out by the mobile forces together with the frontier garrisons . The second phase , of conflict between the mass forces , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a doubtful one . Naturally , the picture is clearer in the minds of the younger men who are now rising to positions of influence than it is among those whose minds are filled with memories of how they conductedwar in 1914-18 . But the fact of this changing outlook is unmistakable , and it has a bearing on British military problems which deserves attention . I have referred earlier to the modifications in the French picture produced by national conditions . They become most manifest in regard to the employment of the new-type formations . French thought revolves more than ever around the particular problem of safeguarding France against invasion ? a problem essentially defensive . And French military thought inclines to share thisp61tendency , certainly more than at times in the past . Thus the new-type formations seem to be visualized , above all , as a means of strengthening defence ? by switching fire more quickly to a threatened spot and by developing a counter-offensive more promptly . To many there may be novelty in this " defensive " view of the value of mechanized forces . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase of offensive power conferred by mechanized forces , the reinforcement of the defensive may well prove greater still , indirectly . On a long view , it might even be said that this has been the trend of the growing mechanization of war through the centuries . From the contemporary point of view , it is politically as well as militarily significant that the French should be mainly concerned to fit the new development to their defensive problem ? of resisting the invasion which they apprehend . I had the impression that their ideas on this aspect were much clearer than on any wider aspects . That reflection made me cast my mind across the frontier ; I thought of those who in Germany have been haunted by fear of invasion ? a feeling that is widespread if not so deep-rooted as in France . If they could have shared in my contact with the actual scope of French military ideas , their fears might have been allayed . Statesmanshipmay suffer as much by failing to grasp what soldiers are thinking as by ignoring public opinion . The former is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said of the Kellogg Pact that its effect was not to abolish war , but merely the declaration of war . So also , in the world to-day , " defence " is a conven/tional euphemism which embraces offence . The embrace , however , may be willing or reluctant . If one follows the trend of military thought in the different countriesone may get as shrewd an idea of the predominant attitude as in following the more fluctuating course of policy . To gauge it one must go beneath the surface : for the offensive is so much a part of the military tradition , and so much more appealing than the defensive to the soldierly spirit . On the surface of the training grounds , attack exercises predominate . Indeed , to a casual observer , the armies of the least warlike countries might well seem the most belligerent ? since the more shadowy a country 's military problem , the more probablethat its army will spend its time in practising the type of action it is unlikely to fulfil . Armed forces are most ruled by force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a truer expression of purpose when political conditions produce concrete possibilities . The fact that the French Army shows a firmer grasp of defensive contingencies than of offensive ones would seem a reasonable clue to the attitude of its leaders . The preponderance of the defensive finds expression in the frontier fortifications to which so much of their money and attention have been devoted in recent years . That newly fortified line , for the most part.running just inside the frontier , has been widely discussed . It consists , as is well known , of a chain of forts and casemates ? the proportions varying not only according to the ground but to the money available . The " forts " ( according to details which have appeared ) themselvesp63consist of a mushroom-like cluster of concrete casemates linked by underground galleries ; these lead to the living quarters , magazines , and power stations which serve each cluster , and are likewise buried deep . The sector first constructed was from Longuyon , opposite Luxembourg , to the Vosges ; this covered Metz and the Briey industrial area , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sarre River between St. Avoid and Bitche , where a succession of streams parallel with the frontier helped to form a natural barrier . Subsequently this gap has been filled , in part at least , and the chain of fortifications has been extended along the Rhine to the Swiss frontier , to supplement this river barrier . The defence of the approachesthrough Belgium and Belgian Luxembourg has also been taken in hand , work being carried out along the line of the frontier towards Maubeuge and Lille . Accordingto plan , the intervals in the chain were to be covered by the interlacing fire of the casemates , but could also be more substantially filled by field entrenchments and the whole covered by wire entanglements . This , I believe , is now being done . And the fortified chain is to be extended to Dunkirk in the north , and to the Jura in the south , along the Swiss frontier . Such a fortified line , although better designed , naturallylacks the depth of protection afforded by the vast trench systems which developed in the war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to gain time rather than to be a final barrier . It is , above all , a shock-absorber , to cover the process of mobilization . Its effectiveness thus depends on the adequacy and readiness of the forces which normally garrison it , and on the promptness withp64which support can be given . The main danger lies in a surprise attack which might overwhelm a sector before the emergency was realized ; a further danger now on the horizon is a penetration of the intervals by mechanizedforces , which might disregard the forts or leave them to be " mopped up " by a second wave of invaders . It is for this reason that the French are so concerned with the new risks of the attaque brusquee . Some of them visualize the possibility of hostile mechanized forces crossing the old demilitarized zone by a swift bound duringa single night and delivering their stroke early next morning . All of them now appear to realize , from this point of view at least , the great acceleration of the tempo of warfare which modern developments foreshadow . The technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advantage of the defence , and to discount the numerical superiority which an invader may possess . Thereby they have much diminished the chances of successful invasion . In consequence , however , they have largely concentrated the remaining chances in the possibility of achieving an initial surprise . Unless a decisive advantage is gained in a short time , the paralysis of the offensive is likely to be established more firmly than ever ? unless the endurance of the defender should be undermined by pressure from behind , through the internalcollapse of the country and the cessation of supplies . In 1914 a fortnight elapsed after mobilization before the advance of the main armies began . An aggressor who nowadays waited so long would have a poor prospect of gaining a decision . If this knowledge , when assimilated ,  |p65may  prove a powerful deterrent to aggression , it inevitablytends to focus the thought of a would-be aggressor on the ways of achieving a short-time penetration by surprise . There are some in France who fear it so much , and become so absorbed in contemplation of their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible invadershave the organization or the means to execute it . The General Staff , with their superior sources of information , preserve a firmer grasp of existing possibilitieswithout overlooking the future . Meantime the problem of immediate concern is to adapt their own organization to the current of changing conditions . One need is to remodel the mobilization scheme so as to produce an effective force in support of the frontier garrisons in the shortest possible time ? a time that we must now count in hours rather than in days . That mobilization scheme must also take account of the new risks threatened by hostile air attack during the main process of mobilization and concentration . Concentrationmust not spell congestion . It should be in the current but not on the surface . Rail and road movements must be more flexible , and the whole must be more distributed . The other need is to develop mechanization as a means of saving time in arrival and intervention . The fortified region itself is garrisoned by units of varying compositionwhich are " hand-made " to suit the sector allotted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short notice with reservists drawn from the neighbouring district . But for the prompt support of the region , and forp66manoeuvre based on this pivot , mobile formations are necessary . The need is now being met . As a start , the 4th Cavalry Division was transformed into a light mechanized division , and the 5th is now being converted . The fighting part of the division consists of what are called auto-ritrailleuses ? light and medium armoured vehicles on tracks which we should describe as tanks ? cavalry tanks . They are all fast machines . The other part is of mixed composition to fit its mixed role of reconnoitring the enemy and seizing " stepping stones " ; it has a regiment of auto-mitrailleuses , at present on wheels , and a regiment of dragons pones ? cavalrymen mounted in light and handy unarmoured vehicles that are capable of moving across country . Each has a strong infusion of motor-cyclists ? a type of the troops which the French have developed notably . In the infantry divisions which have been motorized the artillery is entirely tractor-drawn ? light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with our own mechanized artillery it has a marked advantage for strategic road movements , owing to the fact that the guns are carried on a low trailer , from which they can be dismounted in half a minute on reaching the battlefield . The use of these trailers , lifting the gun-wheels off the ground , enables the artillery to travel long distances at speeds up to 40 m.p.h. without damaging the more delicate mechanism of the gun . Chenillettes ? armoured carriers somewhat similar to the British Carden-Loyds ? are being introduced in these divisions for the transport of the infantry mortar , machine-gun , and ammunition . Motorization is at presentp67only partial in the infantry , although they are commonly embussed for long moves . But several regiments have been completely motorized for the trial of a new organization . Here one may interpolate that the tank units , as distinctfrom those of auto-mitrailleuses , still belong to the infantry arm . This is partly explained by their low speed , but is also due to the fact that the French have never gone back to the belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispense with armoured support . Realization of the difficulties of supplying the artillery with sufficient ammunition for the creeping barrages of the last war has also tended to emphasize the need for tanks . Where employed , a section to a company is allottedto aid each infantry battalion . Twenty battalions of so-called light tanks are maintained at home , but most of them are still equipped with renovated war-time machines ; only a few have been provided with the newer type Renaults which weigh I r tons ( their armour being of 30 millimetre thickness ) and have a maximum speed of r i m.p.h . There is also one independent tank battalion , the embryo of the new heavy mechanized division . The monster 7o-ton tanks which were introduced some years back did not give satisfaction , and the French are still looking for an efficient heavy tank of rather less weight ; but a large medium tank of some 25 tons is said to be now in production , and a heavy tank of 37 tons under trial . The development of mechanization in the army is creating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time achieved by the present system of train/ing , and to the admirable simplification of drill , the ordinaryinfantry attain a remarkably high standard in proportion to the shortness of their service . But it is more difficult to provide adequately trained personnel for the mechanized supporting weapons and the mechanized services in general . For these needs , the French are tendingto rely on the increased professional element , which now forms a corps of specialists . Here , however , a fresh problem arises ? not only how to recruit sufficient numbersbut how to recruit a sufficiently high grade of man . The trend of modern warfare emphasizes the importance of finding a solution . For the unskilled man , in the servicesas in industry , is losing his utility . Quality outweighsquantity on the modern battlefield.  |p69THE  BRITISH ARMY AS VOTED BY PARLIAMENT consists of some i 68,000 officers and men , and of this total 38,000 are serving abroad . But a further 57,000 , stationed in India , belong to it , although while serving there they are not paid for by the British public . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even in quiet times . The troops at home are organizedin five infantry divisions ? one less than before the war , owing to the disbandment of the Irish regiments . Behind the Regular Army there is the Territorial Army , composed of civilian soldiers who spend a fortnight annually in camp , besides training in the evenings at their local drill hall . Its establishment is 203,000 but its strength at present is under 150,000 ; it has been recently rising , however , after years of decline . The British Army has many points of difference from those of the Continent . While they are large , it is small ; while they are raised by conscription , it depends on voluntary enlistment ; while they have short-service , it has long-service ? seven years is the normal ; while they are raised from all classes , it is drawn from the poor.  |p70In  the past it largely depended for filling its ranks on those who were too uneducated and resourceless to find better-paid employment ; and while the officers were drawn from the other social extreme it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those sons who were not likely to shine in other professions . If there has been some change in this basis , it persists sufficiently to be a handicap in days when the trend of warfareplaces an increasing premium on intelligence . Moreover , its social tradition tends to make the British Army highly conservative . On the other hand , it has in a measureescaped the narrow professionalism which marks some of the Continental officer corps through the fact that so many of its officers had independent means , and also through the variety of its service . This brings us to the greatest difference between the British and the Continental Armies . While their primary purpose is the defence of their own country ? a euphemismwhich embraces the attack on a neighbouring country ? thatof the British Army is the defence of , and maintenance of order in , the British Empire . These duties have governed its basic organization . In the nineteenth century it became so predominantly a colonial service army as to become quite unfit , both quantitatively and qualitatively , to face the contingency of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State for War , established the principle that there should be a battalion at home for each one maintained abroad . Under the " Cardwell System " the units at home provide drafts for those on foreign service , and the regiment , instead of being a fighting organization as in other armies , consistsp71of linked home and foreign battalions , which never serve together but merely interchange officers and men . Besides finding drafts for the overseas garrisons , the home army has also to provide a potential expeditionary force , either to act as an Imperial fire-brigade in guarding a serious outbreak in the overseas territories , or as a contribution to the collective forces ranged against an aggressiveEuropean power . This last role , if deeply rooted in British history , was only revived a few years before 1914 , when an expeditionary force of six divisions was erected as part of the Haldane Reforms . If its size was puny compared with the armies that the Continental powers could mobilize , and its equipment barely as good as theirs , it had a definite qualitative advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boer War it had learnt the value of markmanship , and thus in 1914 its volume of aimed rifle-fire took the Germans by surprise and . created the impression that it possessed quantities of machine-guns . This fire capacity gave it a weight beyond its numbers , and , combined with the natural " sticking-power " of the British soldier , enabled it to renew its traditional record in repelling attacks . But it showed less aptitude for the offensive , and as its numbers grew through expansion on a national scale , it tended to expand them prodigally but unprofitably . In the tank , however , it produced the most important new offensive weapon of the war ; and in the last phase this weapon , together with the improved technique which developed with experience , helped it to gain distinction in forcing entrenched positions . After the war Britain gave up conscription , and wentp72back from her war-time army of millions to one even smaller than in 1914 . Yet in one respect this post-war army took the lead among the European powers . Instead of being content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of military thought arose which went back to an older tradition and thence went forward , via its war-time experience with tanks , to a fresh conception of mobile mechanized warfare . These ideas , although at first regarded as heresy or fantasy , gradually made headwayand eventually won acceptance . They also focussed the attention of the military world on the experiments carried out by the British Army , and have now borne fruit in the general mechanization of armies . But in this translation of theory into actual equipment Britain herself has fallen behind . The political desire to postpone measures of rearmament , the inherent conservatismof the senior military chiefs , the inelastic requirementsof the Cardwell System and the retarding power of India ? these are some of the factors that have put a brake on material progress . Another is the characteristic British tendency to seek technical perfection instead of going into production as soon as it has found something that will be fairly effective . The result is that the chief foreignarmies have already a far larger quantity of modern mechanized troops when Britain , despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-equipment . It was not until the end of 1935 that the War Office reached the point of embarking on a big scheme of reorganizationand modernization . The cavalry were to be mechanized , part being equipped with light tanks and part , provisionally , with a new kind of light motor ve/hicle , with large wheels and oversize tires , that can travel across country ? it looks like an adaption of the Irish jaunting car , the seating being so designed that each man on board can jump out easily , and go instantly into actionon foot . It is intended to create a Mobile Division ? to take the place of the old Cavalry Division ? which will consist of two mechanized Cavalry Brigades , mainly composed of light tanks , with a Tank Brigade ( the BritishArmy has only one ) attached and detachable . At the same time twenty-six battalions of infantry out of a hundred and thirty-six are being converted into mechanized machine-gun units . It was originally intended to have one of these battalions in each infantry brigade , but it has now been decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the infantry brigade will be reduced to three " rifle " battalions . These , being relieved of their heavier and more complex weapons , will be easier to handle and to train , while their manoeuvring power is being improved by the motorization of their transport . Although called " rifle " battalions , each of them will have fifty-two light machine-guns ? one in each little sectionof half a dozen men ? thus increasing their firepower . The past two years have thus been marked by some definite steps towards the modernization of the Army . Hitherto the post-war period had seen much activity of ideas ? there is abundant evidence that British military thought has for the first time commanded the attention of , and blazed the trail for , the armies of the world . That development of ideas produced in turn a growth of practicalexperiments in mechanization , tactics , and organiza/tion . But the experiments had less consistency and tenacitythan the ideas ? sometimes they were ill-planned ; sometimes discontinued because of some contrary current , and then renewed after a needless loss of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on almostunchanged ? in a pattern that might serve for Imperialpolicing ? with some improvised help from motor transport ? but became ever less suited to the conditions of modern warfare . So long as money was lacking , and no foreign danger was on the immediate horizon , the authorities preferred to postpone modernization in order to keep intact the number of men and of units . They might have reorganized the Army on a smaller scale and newer pattern ; but this alternative course was hinderedby the system of financial control , by the CardwellSystem , by mistrust of what the " politicians " might do with money thus saved for re-equipment , and by a natural reluctance to embark on changes of uncertain issue . On the existing scale of units , the margin of money available for new equipment was inevitably small . Experimentscontinued , but no serious attempt to apply their results was feasible until an increase in the total money became likely . That change of prospect took place in 1935 ? The sum available for " warlike stores " was doubled ? being raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 43,500,000 ) . Although nearly half of this had to be devoted to the replenishmentof ammunition reserves , the balance enabled considerable progress to be made in providing units with mechanized transport and other up-to-date equipment . As a light machine-gun the Czechoslovakian " Bren "  |p75was  adopted , and arrangements made for its production in England , to supersede the war-time Lewis gun . The Army also heard that it was , at last , to be equipped with anti-tank guns : two types were adopted ? one a " hand gun " and the other a heavier weapon , but both have a penetrative power much higher than those formerly tried . With the mechanization of the infantry mortars , the task of giving close support to the infantry was handed over to this weapon , in place of the light howitzer . At the same time , the artillery support , and its fluidity , were increased by the conversion of the " light " ( formerly " pack " ) artillery brigades into additional mechanized field brigades . The cavalry were also the subject of an experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their horses replaced by a new type of light motor vehicle , capable of travelling across country , and from which the men could jump out instantly . The progress of the Army was thus mainly directed towards improving the general mobility of the older arms ? in contrast to the latest trend abroad , where efforts were being made to create a number of " mechanized " divisions in the full sense , basically composed of armouredfighting vehicles . In the British Army the one Tank Brigade continued in existence , but was not yet completely equipped with up-to-date light tanks and had no modern medium tanks . The Territorial Army was still left waiting for any general modernization of its equipment or organization , but it was given an increased responsibility in the defenceof this country against the danger of air attack.  |p76Part  of the new anti-aircraft units required for this purposewere to be formed by the conversion of existing infantry units . A number of battalions in London were already converted to anti-aircraft artillery or searchlightsbefore the end of the year . At the end of the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army reorganization since the war . One was the mechanization of the cavalry . This had been decided on in preference to their reduction and the expansion of the Royal Tank Corps . If this was rather hard on the newer arm , which had borne the burden of developing the means and methods of mechanized warfare , it enabled the preservation of the Cavalry tradition , general and regimental . Some doubt must remain , until experience proves the contrary , as to the ability of horse-minded soldiers to become mechanically minded and to get as much out of their machines as a corps who are natural enthusiasts for machinery . But the mechanizationof the cavalry was at any rate in significant , if somewhat ironical , contrast to the fervent declarations of continued belief in the value of cavalry which the spokesman of the War Office had made in Parliament only two or three years before . Cavalry , if viewed with a sense of reality , have been ghosts on the battle-field ever since they were reduced , by modern fire , to dismountedaction as a normal course on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be moved in motor-vehicles , the distinction between cavalry and infantryis becoming artificial , except in the case of cavalry who are converted into armoured car or light tank regiments . These alone retain the basic historical charac/teristics of the cavalryman ? the man who fights mounted . The tankman and the airman are the true heirs of " cavalry " in their mode of action . Early in 1936 further decisions were taken towards the modernization of the infantry . They involved the complete mechanization of its first line transport , horselimbersbeing superseded by the new 15-cwt . Morris trucks , while even the officers ' chargers were to be replaced by light cars or motor-cycles . In addition , troop-carrying companies were to be created as part of the Royal Army Service Corps , equipped with motor coaches or lorries sufficient to move the men of a whole infantry brigade . There was to be one of these troop-carrying companies for each infantrydivision . Their provision promised to increase the mobility of the infantry , while further increasing efficiencyby economizing energy . Hitherto the value of the mechanization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bulk of the personnel still had to march . The new divisional organization ? with its three infantrybrigades of smaller size and its heavier infantry weapons under divisional control ? is expected to improvemanageability and to diminish road congestion , while allowing a more flexible power of concentrating extra fire support at the vital points . This accords with the principle already adopted with the artillery , wherein the artillery permanently allotted to the division is kept on a minimum scale , while its potential support is on a maximum scale . Just as the increased proportion of " army " artillery enables the divisions which have thep78harder nuts to crack to be heavily reinforced for the moment , so the infantry brigades can be treated similarly in giving them machine-gun support in accord with their need . The reorganized rifle battalions , divested of their heavy machine-guns will consist of four homogeneous companies , each with twelve of the new Bren guns . The new infantry organization constitutes an official recognition of the growing value of the light machine-gun in modern warfare compared with the rifle . It has raised the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitations of the rifle as a factor in modern battle , some soldiers consider that it is now only of use for hill warfare and sniping . Others who agree with them in principle would not go so far . A rifle can be a deadly weapon in the hands of a man who is both an expert shot and skilled in the use of ground : it can be used , and one has seen it used , most effectively in stalkinghostile machine-guns . Yet to concede its value as a fine weapon in expert hands does not affect the basic point . For we can not expect the bulk of the men who are recruited for the Regular infantry to attain the necessaryexpertness . It is a still more improbable assumption that the mass of the Territorial Army , or the men who are hastily raised in war , will become experts . Thus there is a strong case for re-examining the foundations of tacticalpower in the light of modem conditions . It is uneconomic to send into action more men than can contribute effectively to the issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If it were not for ammunition supply , one man would suffice , andp79two would be ample , for handling each light machinegun : as mechanized means of carrying ammunition on the battle-field develop so the uneconomic call for more human carriers will disappear . Here it is not without significance to recall that in the Palestine campaign Lawrence , a most expert rifle-shot , came to discard the rifle for a stripped light automatic as his personal weapon ? his camel served as the carrier , enabling him to make the Lewis gun a one-man weapon . To send into action , as at present , seven men with each light machine-gun is certainly uneconomic as a general rule . Two would be enough where extra ammunition can be brought up easily in a carrier ; even where it could not , three men to aid the light machine-gunner could carry as many magazinesas the present six men if they were relieved of their encumbering rifles . For close quarter fighting an automaticpistol would suffice : a " gangster " gun might perhapsbe still better . There are many occasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only two men should go forward with the section 's light machine-gun ; the others being kept under cover , to go up later . In certain conditions ? forexample , at night and in other forms of obscurity , an increase of man-power in proportion to weapon-power is desirable . Even here it is questionable whether the present scale is not uneconomic . A smaller section would be less of a target , while its higher controllabilitywould add to its effective strength . Moreover , the apparent reduction would be further offset by an increase in the number of units.  |p80The  manufacture of all the new equipment required for the British Army , as it is now being mechanized , is likely to take some years . Meantime the successive emergenciesin Egypt and Palestine during 1935 and 1936 have stripped the home army of equipment and men , leaving the expeditionary force a skeleton . This state has strengthened the case of those who argue that the home army should be designed for use as a mobile Imperial Reserve , not as a potential field army for the Continent . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employing a small but highly mechanized force in suitable circumstances , where its quality might turn the scales , while doubting the wisdom of any large-scale participation in a Continental land struggle . Others would prefer that Britain definitely eschewed the idea of playinga part in Continental warfare , leaving to the Air Force any such intervention if it should be called for by her obligations.  |p81THE  APPEARANCE AND ATMOSPHERE OF ENGlandshow but a slight reflection of the armament race now in progress throughout Europe . There is none of the bustle of military preparations which is so manifest on the Continent . The landscape is not coloured by uniforms . But unobtrusively there is a considerable measure of activity . The most noticeable sign , perhaps , is the number of new military aerodromes ? there are forty more than at the end of 1934 . Some of the great motor factories , too , show large extensions for the building of aircraft . The British Air Force is fast , if not furiously , expanding to a formidable scale , while the other forces are more gradually acquiring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time ? and Britain has much leeway to make up . Meantime her defence problemshave developed faster . The conquest of the air has laid low her old sea-wall of seclusion , and brought her into uncomfortably close neighbourhood with the Continent . The rebirth of Germanyin arms has affected her situation indirectly even more than directly , because of its impetus to the generalp82expansion of forces , which works to the widespread disadvantageof a scattered empire which has so many points of contact with the domains of other nations . And her situation , from a military point of view , is more complicated than it was before 1914 . She was committed by post-war engagements to a generalized effort to resist any aggression against other countries , and to a more specific guarantee in Western Europe : although recent events have loosened the former tie it remains a potential source of entanglement . Meantime old friends have become estranged , while becoming more formidable as military powers : with this development goes an appetite for new territory which , accentuated by their martial tastes , threatens a clash of interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East , through the Mediterranean and the Red Sea . Japan is encroaching on its eastern extremity , thus imposinga two-way stretch on British resources which is all the more of a strain owing to the increased length of her communications and their intermediate susceptibility to pressure . And there is the still more uncomfortable possibility of a new combination of pressure at the point where Britain 's Mediterranean and Cape routes converge . Even when goodwill prevails it is not easy for countries , in which an essentially different form of government and basis of society exists , to reconcile their respective aims . Britain 's coasts and causeways are now lapped by totalitarian tides . After the World War the British forces were rapidly reduced , and the country returned to the traditional system of voluntary enlistment which it had temporarilyp83abandoned when the war was in its second year . The Army was brought back to less than its pre-war size , which had naturally been much smaller than the conscriptarmies of the Continent . The Air Force , which had been built up to the highest level of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a skeleton ? from 185 squadronsto 28 , of which only three were available for the defence of the home country . With the Washington Treaty Britain gave up her long-standing claim to predominanceon the seas , and agreed to a condition of paritywith the next strongest naval power . In 1922 the Geddes Committee , appointed to consider economies in national expenditure , went so far as to suggestreducing the Air Force to a mere eight squadrons . The older services ? conservative in a double sense ? were more than content to see their young sister 's allowance cut down if it saved a little more for themselves . But a check was imposed after strong Press criticism initiated in The Times by General Groves , a former member of the Air Staff . And just afterwards a state of tension developedwith Britain 's former allies , when the French marched into the Ruhr to impose their will on conquered Germany . The British , making plain their dislike of this invasion , felt a strong sense of personal discomfort when they awoke to the fact that a considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach of their own coast . The outcome was the announcement by Mr. Baldwin in 1923 that , apart from overseas requirements , " British air power must include a home-defence force of sufficientstrength adequately to protect us against air attackp84by the strongest air force within striking distance of this country " . He stated that the force was to consist of 52 squadrons , to be created as quickly as possible . The expansionstarted promptly , but was checked in 1926 when still a long way from completion . Three years later the official spokesman of the Air Ministry disclosed to Parliamentthat Britain had sunk to fifth place among the world 's air powers . Yet the incomplete programme was again suspended , first to meet the economic crisis , and then to meet the hopes of a general limitation raised by the Disarmament Conference which assembled in 1932 . During these years all service expenditure had been steadily pared down . If the Navy suffered least , as the favourite child of British tradition , the modernization of its capital ships was put off longer than in either the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least cherished child , the Fleet Air Arm , had to be content with crumbs . The Army , faced with a shrinking purse , conservatively preferred to save on new equipment rather than at the expense of historic units . Although younger brains had given the British Army a technical lead in the means and methods of mechanized warfare , to the older heads modernization seemed less important than the maintenance of infantry numbers . In this endeavourthey even allowed the reserves of ammunition to sink below what would be needed if the Army had to take the field . Nevertheless the Army and Navy together were taking six times as much money as the Air Force from the total allotted for defence ? a little over a hundredmillion pounds a year . The disproportion gave a curious reflection to the Government 's admission that :  | " The advent of the air weapon has lost us our age-long security as an island nation , and has left the greatest city in the world more open to the dangers of air attacks than any of the other capitals in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while fostered by the urge for economy , was justified by the Government 's formal assurance to the heads of the services that no major war need be anticipatedwithin a period of ten years ahead . The ruling was renewed annually ? until it lapsed , and the country suddenlyfound itself confronted with the possibility of a war within much less than ten years . The strengthening and re-equipment of the British defencescontinued to be postponed so long as some hope , if a diminishing hope , hung on the Disarmament Conference ? althoughwell before this the Continental powers and Japan had obviously begun rearmament . The pace of this quickened with the advent of the Nazi government in Germany , and its unconcealed measures . Eventuallythe British Government took account of the danger and made a detailed examination of the state of their own forces . The result awakened them to many deficiencies ? and the impression would have been worse if they had studied the technical trend of modern warfareenough to gauge the more serious qualitative defects . Even as it was , their confession of national deficiencies contrasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Parliament year after year in answer to a few critical voices . The immediate result of this enquiry was that in July , 1934 , the Government adopted a five-year programmep86for increasing the Air Force , and raising the home defencepart of it to seventy-five squadrons . They were soon led to quicken their step , and shorten the time of their programme , owing to evidence of Germany 's rapid development in the air and the expansion of other air forces . Early in 1935 , France had 165o first line machines , Italy 1050 , and Russia over 2000 , while Britain had 1020 , of which 688 were at home . By the end of the year she now aimed to have 118o altogether , and in 1936 to have 1310 . Ground defences against air attacks were also increased . Until then London alone had any such defences , and they were provided by merely two skeleton brigades of Territorial anti-aircraft artillery and searchlight units ? composed of citizen volunteers , who go to camp for a fortnight a year and do occasional evenings ' training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to break up two Territorial infantry divisions and convertthem into anti-aircraft troops , to man a long belt of defence running from the south coast up the east coast , so that it would cover the north country industrial areas as well as London . This conversion is not yet completed , nor the provision of the necessary guns and searchlights . A research committee of scientists has also been formed to study new means of countering attacks . At the same time that this immediate defence of Great Britain was thus taken in hand , extra money was provided for beginning the modernization of the Army and Navy , although their actual size was not to be appreciablyincreased . Indeed the Army found difficulty in recruiting up to the existing strength of approximately 200,000 , and by the end of the year was io , 000 short.  |p87Although  ? 4,000,000 was added to the Army vote ? a 10 per cent increase ? a large part of this was absorbed by the need to make up depleted reserves of ammunition , and barely half a million was allotted for modern mechanizedequipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the construction of new ships was limited to normal replacement : it included three new cruisers . But during recent years the already difficult problem of guarding the immense length of the trade-routes with naval forces smaller than before the war , has been complicated by the development of submarinesand of torpedo-carrying speed-boats in several of the Continental navies , notably those of Italy and France . On top of this looms the menace both to merchantshipping and their naval guardians , as well as to the ports on which they depend , that comes from shorebasedaircraft ? anywhere those trade-routes are within the ever-growing range of the air-weapon . The new programme had barely been decided when a new series of shocks caused its upward revision . In March , 1935 , Germany startled the world with the announcement of her reintroduction of conscription and the formation of an army of thirty-six divisions , or some 600,000 men ? fifty per cent larger than the French . It was followed by Hitler 's intimation , to the British ministerswho had gone over to Berlin for friendly negotiations , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was aiming at parity with France ? which meant a superiority to the prospective British air force . If there was some doubt about his first assertion , his second was plain . And a fortnight later the Germanp88Government disclosed that it was again building submarines . The sequel was that in May , 1935 , the British Governmentdecided to raise its own intended air strength by fifty squadrons , and to have a home defence force of 1500 first line machines within the next two years . This involved the construction of an additional thirty air stations beyond the eighteen new ones already planned , and also the training of 2500 new pilots as well as of 20,000 other personnel . Although still hoping for any agreed limitation , the British Government was no longer content to let preparedness wait on hope . But the process of expanding the Air Force and renovatingthe Army was to suffer an unforeseen complication ; it came from Italy 's invasion of Abyssinia and the tension this act of aggression caused with Britain . As the chief upholder of the League Covenant , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If she was better placed than any of the other powers to hinder the despatch of Italian forces to Abyssinia , should the League 's intervention go so far , her own communicationswere also exposed to possible interruption by Italy . A sudden realization of this awkward position ( which is discussed at more length in Chapter 9 ) led the British fleet to leave its Mediterranean base at Malta , which lay close to the Italian air bases , and move to the far end of the Mediterranean . At the same time the militarygarrison needed strengthening . But the position in Egypt , also , became precarious in view of Italy 's increase of force in Libya ; the assembly there of mechanized divisionsand powerful bombing squadrons was an obviousp89threat to the security of Egypt and the new harbours of the British fleet . It led to a hasty despatch of air and army units thither , which imposed a severe strain on existing British resources . It temporarily upset the expansionof the Air Force by taking away the experiencedofficers and N.C.O. 's who were needed as instructorsfor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barely the equivalent of one division , out of the nominal five maintained at home , the rest of the army had to be scraped of equipment in order to make that detachment an effective fighting force . All the modern type tanks , a mere hundred or so , were sent out , leaving the home forces to carry on with long obsoletemachines , supplemented by ordinary light trucks masquerading as tanks , until the manufacture of war material could catch up with the needs that had too long been neglected . The available stocks of mechanized transport , wireless sets , and many other kinds of modem equipment , were almost as badly drained . The whole army at home was left bare of what it needed for war until manufacture could overtake deficiency . The emergency revealed not only the shortage of men and material but a failure to make adequate arrangements beforehand . Hasty improvisation had to make good the absence of plans . The impression produced by these deficiencies , coupled with the uncertain state of service opinion on various technical issues , such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , in deciding upon measures of rearmament , had any clear picture of their aim . There was widespread anxiety lest the increasing outlay of money should failp90of its purpose through faulty distribution ; lest it was being governed merely by the endeavour to satisfy the demands of the three services , and based on a compromisebetween their separate interests , instead of being laid out on a fore-thoughtful plan . That anxiety found voice in The Times , which urged the need of viewing defence as a whole , and co-ordinating the activities of the three services as well as their supplies . This lead was supported by a growing volume of authoritative opinion , which included the testimony of several former service chiefs to the limitations of the existing system and its tendency to work by mere compromise . The proposal to develop a more powerful organ of co-ordination was strongly resisted in some quarters , but the Government eventually yielded to the weight of public opinion and in March , 1936 , appointed a Minister for the Co-ordination of Defence , as well as three permanent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at which the representatives of the three services meet . The Minister was not to be in charge of a department , but would act as the Prime Minister 's deputy on the Committee of Imperial Defence , preside when necessaryat the meetings of the Chiefs of Staff of the three services , and would also be in supreme charge of the supply organization and industrial planning . This was a step forward , if it did not go as far as was desirable : there was a danger that the new Minister might become too absorbed with the problems of providing the fightingservices with equipment to have time for adjusting and combining their respective plans . Sub-committees by the dozen have been set up to dealp91with the different items of munition supply , with the provision of raw material and its manufacture , with man-power , food-supply , grain storage , as well as with such questions as the protection of merchant shipping , the development of anti-aircraft . defence , and precautionsfor the protection of the civilian population in air raids . A detailed survey has been made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , operative and technical resources of the country . Hundreds of engineeringfirms have been inspected to see whether their plant is adaptable to munition production in war-time . Production for present needs , however , has been delayed by lack of the necessary machine-tools and gauges . The maintenance of the population itself is an even more complex problem . Two-thirds of the food required is at present imported from overseas ? a total of some 50,000 tons a day . Agricultural production has been increased about 14 per cent in the last few years , and the country could be self-supporting in potatoes , eggs , vegetables and milk . But this is not possible with meat and cereals . In Britain there are , at any particular moment , only about six to twelve weeks ' stocks of some of the main kinds of foodstuffs required . The renewed portents of war have reawakened the British people to the risks they run through their dependence on imported food , and consequentlyon the sea-routes by which those essential suppliesare brought . It is this realization which , more than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hasten the repair and expansion of its forces . It has also governed the direction of their main effort.  |p92With  the Air Force the interruption caused by the Mediterranean emergency was soon overcome , if not overtaken . The production of new types of machines , of much higher performance and greater range , has been speeded up so much that they are being delivered long before the date originally contemplated . The intended strength of the force at home has also been raised to 1750 first line aircraft , exclusive of the Fleet Air Arm , which is to be increased to at least 450 machines . The creation of the new squadrons , however , has been slower . Of the 72 which were to be raised by the end of March , 1937 ? to make a home defence total of 124 ? only about 26 will now be complete , with a further 22 formed on a one , flight basis . The remainder should be formed , if not at full strength , by the late summer . With the Navy , which had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickened to the extent that some of the new ships are expected to be ready nearly half a year earlier than the scheduled time . Five of the new class of 9000-ton cruisers are expected to be ready within the next year : they have a speed of 32 knots and an armament of twelve 6-inch guns , as well as eight 4-inch anti-aircraft guns . Similar progress is being made with the building of destroyers , while two new 35,000-ton battleships were laid down in January 1937 , with three more to follow shortly . And the completion of the Singapore Base is being hastened . Last winter the Government decided to raise the cruiser strength from 50 to 70 ? the number which has for years been claimed as a necessary minimumby those directly concerned with the defence ofp93the sea-communications : in 1914 there were 125 cruisers , new and old , available . The situation is less comforting in regard to the deficienciesof the Army . The belated official acceptance of modernization and mechanization has caught its munitionplants in a state of inadequacy for large-scale production , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even to-day it lacks any anti-tank guns , any modern light machine-guns , any assault tanks , any fast medium tanks that are fit for war . The motorization of its transport will take some time to complete . A new light machine-gun , the Bren , has been adopted to replace the wartime weapons that are still in use , and deliveries are expected to begin late in 1937 . Some of the new antitankguns and anti-tank rifles may be available earlier . But the Territorial Army is even worse off and will have to wait longer . A realization of the defective state of the Army has helped to give a new emphasis to an old theory ? that Britain , even if she can not avoid entanglement in Continentalissues , should at least eschew the idea of landing an army on the Continent . A small field force from Britain , inevitably late in arrival , would seem to have littlechance of influencing the issue or retrieving any advantagewhich an invader might gain by surprise in the first days of a new war ; and the necessary peace-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make without causing offence . By contrast , the air force could act from its own shores and could intervene in the first hours . The promise of such help would bep94more comfort to a threatened neighbour , and more deterrentto a would-be aggressor , than any force of the 1914 pattern ? a mere drop in the bucket of a Continental struggle between mass armies . This view made headway in Government circles last winter , but in the end the force of past custom prevailed , and the idea of sending a field force was again adopted . Since then , however , there have been fresh developments , both in the international and in the technical sphere , to strengthen doubts of its wisdom . And the fresh strain caused by the Palestine emergency has shown how limited are the resources of the Army for dealing with Continental in addition to colonial problems . That experiencehas given renewed force to the argument that Britain should limit her Continental commitments to possible action by air and sea . On this question largely turns the trend of her strategic policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ HIGH TO COUNT on any programme of rearmament and mechanization to bridge the gulf that now separates armies from their desire ? forsuccessful attack . My own view is that these potentialdevelopments in offensive power are far exceeded by the actual growth , largely unrecognized , of defensive power : and that the progress of mechanization hitherto has already reinforced the capacity for resistance more than it has any good prospect of strengthening the capacity for attack . Not only fire , but the means of obstructionand of demolition , may now be moved more swiftly to any threatened spot , to thwart a hostile concentration of force . The question which armies must face is whether they have any chance of overcoming resistance on present lines , even when developed . An alternative way of approaching the problem is to seek a tactical solution , not merely a material one . If we are doubtful of overcoming the defence by an increase of offensive strength , as we have cause to be , is there any prospect in a differentp98solution by an improvement of art ? So heavy are the present odds against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the art of the individual generalis needed . Even if an army could breed Napoleons , which no army can be expected to do under its peacetimeprofessional conditions , they would make no headway without an antidote to the paralyzing machinegun . Armies need to develop a new technique , and , then , to develop their tools to suit this new type of art . Four years ago a committee composed of the younger generals was appointed to investigate the lessons of the war , and to see whether they were adequately applied in the training of the British Army . The experience then sifted and collated should have shaken satisfaction with customary methods .. It is common knowledge that this re-examination of war experience led to the conclusion that surprise was of paramount importance , both in attack and in defence , and that the greatest lesson of the last war was that no attack on an enemy in action was likely to succeed unless his resistance was already paralyzedby surprise in some form . It is known too , that this committee expressed the emphatic opinion that tactical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too stereotyped ; also that the vital importance of surprise and of the indirect approach ought to receive greater attention in the training of the army . There has been some evidence of efforts , both in Britain and elsewhere , to apply this admonition ? but they have not gone wide enough . Exercises have too often become a competition in obviousness . Instead of developing ingenuity , the main effort has too often beenp99towards simplifying the enemy 's problem in defending himself . This tendency was the sequel , paradoxically , to the fresh concentration of attention on training for Europeanwarfare ? the very type of warfare in which investigationhad shown the paramount importance of surprise . Under the influence of this " European " keynotemethods became more stereotyped rather than more subtle . Instead of going forward to the trial of new ideas , they went back to the repetition of old practices . If this is the best we can hope for , there should be no hesitation in bowing to the present paramountcy of the defensive , and resigning ourselves to the conclusion that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a lesser evil than their futile sacrifice . There have been , however , some features in the work of the troops , as contrasted with the ruling ideas , which hold out some promise of greater effect . One is the increasedskill and subtlety which many of the troops show in concealing themselves from air observation . Another is the cultivation of night sense and increased use of attacks in the dark ? by some commanders at least . These developments point a path by which further progress is possible . By the skilful use of obscurity , in its various forms , the attack might recover some of its lost power . Whereas to-day a mass attack merely spells massacre , a " masked attack " , under cover of darkness or fog , natural or artificial , has potentialities that have scarcely been tapped . Obscurity is a strong antidote to the defensivemachine-gun and may prove a better protection than armour . Its risks are mainly those of confusion ; they are certainly less than those of annihilation by machine/guns with a clear field of fire ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority of well-trained troops over normal troops is much more pronounced in the dark than in daylight . The use of obscurity , however , requires judicious adaptation to the type of troops , and a recognition of its limits . Darkness is a better cloak than artificial fog to attacking infantry because , if skilled , they can see through it ; when moving in fog the man on foot has difficulty in keeping his direction , while he becomes a target the moment he emerges . Thus artificial fog would seem to have greater promise as a cloak for armoured fighting vehicles , equipped with direction finders . But night , despite its advantages for infantry who are trained in night fighting , has the disadvantage of limiting the effective depth of their attack . They may storm a positionunder cover of it , but if they press on , the risks of confusion are likely to increase disproportionately to the distance travelled . For control can hardly be kept once advancing troops are engaged in actual night combat . The actual assault may go well ; the difficulty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of exploiting the night attack , and extending its reach , may eventually be solved by some form of floodlightingthe battlefield when the enemy 's position has been stormed . In places that afford plentiful cover ? woods , villages and rough ground ? infantry may be able to overcome hostile machine-guns and make headway by the use of what one may call the " stalking attack " . It is a method which puts a premium on individual skill , and it offersp101considerable scope for development . But enthusiasm for it should not blind us to its limitations . It is a method which only fits special conditions ; it is bound to be slow if it is to be efficiently executed ; and it can not be counted on to produce large-scale results . It is of its nature a preparatory or supplementary part of the attack rather than a separate form of attack . We are thus left with the " masked attack " or the " armoured attack " as the two main forms of the offensivethat seem to have any promise of breaking into an enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more ways of overcoming the enemy 's army than by storming its positions , just as there are more ways of winning wars than by winning battles . It is for the art of war to find them , and the need is the greater now that the strength of the defensive has made the storming of positions such a dubious proposition . The enemy may be forestalled on positions ; he may be levered out of them by manoeuvre ; he may be left in them while his general situation is weakened by developing pressure elsewhere , in directionsthat his position does not cover . As a sequel or otherwise , he may be caught in motion , without having time to take up a defensive disposition . There may be more scope for such alternative forms of action than is realized by those who still think of another war in terms of the last . The present trend of conditions is by no means favourable to the formation of continuous fronts , at any rate in the early stages of a war . Mass armies do not lend themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available earlier than the rest , there is a likelihood that the crucialp102first phase of a war will be fought out between these opposing fractions ; thus we should see relatively small forces on large fronts . Furthermore , the assembly of the masses on the frontiers will be hindered by the danger of air attack on the marching columns , and by the jeopardyof supply when their communications are exposed to interruption over so large an area in rear . A factor common to all these alternative courses is the time factor . If the advantage is to be gained there must be an acceleration of action . The scales of war are incliningnot to the side which has the " big battalions " but to the side which " gets there " first . I would suggest that it is an axiom of modern war that " a hundred men with machine-guns who arrive at a spot first are stronger , at least in daylight , than five hundred and sometimes a thousand who arrive second " . This , in turn suggests the value of using any fragment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be motormoved , to jump ahead and secure key-points . Nothing has been more disappointing in recent years ' exercises than the way that mechanization has been wasted by moving units and formations at the pace of their slowest portion , owing to the desire to move complete . It shows a too complete disregard of another modern axiom , arisingfrom the advantage of defence over attack , which we may express in the phrase that " possession is nine-tenths of the war " . Soldiers to-day are predominantly concerned with the problem of attack , so dubious of solution . They might wisely spare a little time to study the possibilities of a form of action which would throw the burden of thatp103problem on the enemy . I refer to what I would term the " baited offensive " , the combination of offensive strategy with defensive tactics . Throughout history it has proved one of the most effective of moves , and its advantages have increased as modem weapons have handicapped other types of move . By rapidity of advance and mobilityof manoeuvre , you may be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will be constrained to attack . Thus you will invite him to a repulse which in turn may be exploited by a riposte . Such a counterstroke , against an exhausted attacker , is much less difficult than the attack on a defended position . The opportunity for it may also be created by a calculated withdrawal ? what one may call the " luring defensive " . Here is another gambit of future warfare . Whatever form of action be adopted , its effectiveness will depend on concealment of intention . The mystificationof the opponent acts upon him like a paralyzing drug . The surest method of producing it , as centuries of experience have shown , is that of wide extension . It is a method unsuited for use by military mediocrity . But in skilled hands its risks are far outweighed by its advantages . By operating on a wide front , one thickens the fog of war for one 's opponent yet minimizes it for oneself . It is a psychological smoke-screen which disturbs the mind and may shake the nerve of the stoutest adversary . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seizing points of leverage . The introduction of mechanized mobilityhas added to its potency while increasing its safety . But of itself it aids rapidity ? by reducing the congestion inherent in the practice of operating on narrow fronts.  |p104There  have been some instances in recent exercises of a tendency towards movement on wider fronts , but it has not gone nearly far enough for its promise to mature . The greatest hindrance is the dogma of " concentration " , imperfectly understood . It is not easy for the simple mind to grasp that concentration is in essence a matter of effect and not of form . The adaptation of methods to changing conditions is retarded by the soldier 's customaryreluctance to change his traditional terminology . By putting new ideas in old potted terms we cramp the growth of this understanding . I learnt this lesson when compiling the post-war infantry manual . To eradicate the practice of a rigid linear advance and of direct reinforcement ? a " building up of the firing line " which merely piled up the casualties ? it was necessary to replace the terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from habit or sentiment , desired to retain . The benefit of their disappearance was unmistakable . But to-day , in a higher sphere , we still suffer such needless handicaps . We still call the preliminary distribution of forces , howeverwidely disposed , the " strategic concentration " . We ought to drop this terminological absurdity . Again the idea of advancing on a wide front is cramped by the term " advanced guard " , which is associated with the practice of moving on a narrow front ? with the whole division on a single road . We are likely to be fettered to this obsolete method until we strike out the term . The greatest need to-day is to recognize the evolution that is in process . Until the end of the 18th century , a physically concentrated approach , both strategic ( to the battlefield ) and tactical ( on the battlefield ) was thep105rule . Then Napoleon , exploiting Bourcet 's ideas and the new divisional system , introduced a distributed strategic approach ? the army moving in independent fractions . But the tactical approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the nineteenth century , with the development of fire weapons , the tactical approach became dispersed , i.e. in particles , to diminish the effect of fire . But the strategic approach had again become concentrated ? this was due partly to the growth of masses , and partly to the misunderstanding of the Napoleonicmethod . To-day we must recognize the need of reviving the distributed strategic approach , if there is to be any chance of reviving the art and effect of strategy . But two new conditions ? air power and motor power ? seem to point to its further development into a dispersed strategic approach . The danger of air attack , the aim of mystification , and the need of drawing full value from mechanized mobility , suggest that advancing forces should not only be distributed as widely as is compatible with combined action , but be dispersed as much as is compatible with cohesion . And the development of wireless is a timely aid towards reconciling dispersion with control . If there is to be any hope of reviving an army 's effectiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of such new methods ; methods which aim at permeating and dominating areas rather than capturing lines ; at the practicable object of paralyzing the enemy 's action rather than the theoretical object of crushing his forces . Fluidity of force may succeed where concentration of force merely entails a helpless rigidity . The sea isp106stronger than a steam-roller , and should replace it as our military ideal . The main difficulty is the doubtful ability of soldiers trained on present lines to rise to the level of this new technique . Unless they can do so , it would be wiser to abandon any dreams of attack , and resign ourselves to the present fact that the defensive is the only role an army can effectively play in a modern war where both sides are fairly equal in equipment.  |p107THE  CAPITAL COST OF THE LAST CAPITAL ships Britain built before the Washington Treaty was some $35,000,000 apiece . Since then constructional costs have risen ; whereas that of H.M.S. Nelson was $88o for each standard ton , compared with a pre-war battleship cost of $390 , the constructional cost of the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1914 . The cost of new battleships will be at least $40,000,000 each . Beyond that must be reckoned fully two and a half million dollars a year for its direct maintenance , apart from the cost of graving docks and repair plant . Since the building of battleships will absorb so large a proportion of the money that can be found for defence as a whole , it is essential to enquire whether the result promises to repay the cost . Because of the high valuation which Englishmen have come to place upon sea-power , from centuries of experience , there is a tendency to shirk this question . It would be a happy thing for the British as a people if the conditions of sea-power had not been affected by new developments . For that reason they should be specially onp108their guard lest the wish should father any unjustified assumption ? as it certainly did before the Mediterranean emergency produced an awakening . Is it a full awakening ? Has Britain taken the measure of her present sea problems ? The question whether aircraft can sink battleshipsis but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fulfil its strategic role . Under the conditions now developing , has a rebuilt battle-fleet the promise of contributing in a way commensurate with its cost to the security of her sea communications and the flow of supplies upon which the nation 's life depends ? Is it still the necessary foundation of the operations of the lighter craft which actually execute this task ? In considering these questions we have to take into account the fact that twenty years ago the submarine attack on Britain 's shipping routes nearly brought her to disaster despite the unassailable supremacy of her battl : - fleet . If she is disposed to forget this , other powers do not . And it would be folly to ignore the fact that they are counting on aircraft and high-speed surface craft to multiply greatly the past potentialities of the submarine for direct attack on sea traffic . We should take account also of the fact that before a new battle-fleet less susceptible to air attack can be built several years must elapse : during that time the means of attack may be improvedproportionately . Moreover , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed to-day as safely out of reach may be within easy range of air attack three years hence . The problem is a bundle of complexities . In default of a better answer , the commentis frequently heard that so long as some countriesp109proclaim their intention to build large battleships others must follow suit . This merely shirks the real question . It may also play into the former 's hands , by enabling them at some cost to cause a naval power like Britain to divert a much larger proportion of her expenditure into a channelwhich potential opponents inwardly regard as irrelevant to the vital issue . In deciding upon its defence programme in 1935 , which included the laying down of two new battleships , the British Government was naturally guided by the case presented by the Chiefs of Staff Committee , as then constituted . Of its members , it could hardly be expected that the Chief of the Air Staff should have opposed the claims of the others . And it would be strange if the representatives of the older services , after a lifetime spent in dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is nothing like leather " . Men rarely reach such a position , especially in peace-time , unless they conform to the accepted ideas . Even in the slow changing past , accepted ideas have commonly proved out of date when tested by war 's reality . The likelihood is greater to-day . Since the Services are separatethere is no such thing as a professional " Combined Serviceman " ? trained in studying war as a whole . The nearest approach to it in Britain is in those who have been through the Imperial Defence College , which has only been established eight years . And it is significant that its first Commandant , Admiral Richmond , has strongly questioned the value of the big battleship under modern conditions . In a letter to The Times on December2 1st , 1935 , he pointed out that the real question isp110not whether the battle-fleet may be sunk by air-bombers but whether it can fulfil its functions ? whether , as effectivebombing range extends , it will " be able to take up and maintain a position close enough to its opponent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that that enemy can not move without the risk of being brought to action " . For if that can not be done " the fleet becomes incapable of exercising control " . Here is a question that deserves enquiry . It bears on a point made by the then First Lord of the Admiralty , Lord Monsell , that " in the last war our Battle-Fleet in the North Sea was able to prevent the German Fleet from getting out into the Atlantic " and " destroying our trade " . It is by no means certain that such a danger was prevented only by the battle-fleet , but even if it be accepted we have to remember that Britain was greatly favoured by her geographicalsituation . Would it apply to-day when spaces are greater , bombing ranges ever increasing , and bases more distant from an enemy 's naval ports ? To meet the doubts which were widely felt and expressed , the British Government in the spring of 1936 belatedly appointed a sub-committee of the Committee of Imperial Defence to investigate the question of the vulnerability of capital ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraction of the issue . The Sub-Committeeconsisted of four ministers ; with the First Sea Lord ( the Chief of the Naval Staff ) and the Chief of the Air Staff as expert advisers . Their report was published in November 1936 . The conclusion is of a cautiously negative kind , as was to be expected in view of the limited state of knowledge at the present time on manyp111of the points at issue , and the natural reluctance to-make grave decisions on a basis which is largely speculative . The dominant feeling of the sub-committee is obviously expressed when they dwell on the risks of a false decision , ask whether Britain ought to take the lead in doing away with capital ships , and answer : " Surely not , unless the question is settled beyond all possible doubt . " A question which remains , however , is whether it would have been possible to have gained more light on the problem without waiting for the actual experience of war . In regard to determining the effect of bombs on ships , the sub-committee declare that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps to that end " , but go on to recommend further experiments , emphasizing that the provision of funds and material should not be allowed to stand in the way . In view of the immense sum of money that is to be sunk in the building of new battleships , surely it should not have been impracticable to have carried out adequate bombing tests on those which have been sent to the scrapheap ? Again , on the question of the accuracy of bombing , the sub-committee remarks that some of the factors are " at present a matter of opinion , but we do not think it need so remain . We recommendthat experiments , jointly agreed and jointly analyzed , should be carried out to determine the facts . " It is clear there was cause here for dissatisfaction . On the effects of anti-aircraft fire , the report refers to " the unrealconditions " under which tests have " hitherto taken place " ; it suggests that the difference between the Admiralty'sand the Air Ministry 's point of view might be " con/siderably narrowed down by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely to war conditions " . It urges that the two staffs should work in closer touch " for their joint benefits " . The impression is left that the eighteen years since the war have not been adequately utilized for objective research . The neglect may be to the joint detriment of the country and the taxpayer . The many elements of doubt on these technical and tactical issues must have increased the sub-committee 's difficulties in studying the broader issues . For they found it necessary . to go beyond their terms of reference , since a strict interpretation would have made the field of enquiry artificially narrow . It would , as they justly point out , " be unsatisfactory to deal with the vulnerability of capital ships to air attack without taking account of the extent to which they may become liable to this form of attack " . At the same time the sub-committee " tried to confine within necessary limits " their survey of the wider aspects . To determine what are necessary limits , however , must have been difficult . There is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values . In historical experience , nothing is more upsetting to calculations than the tendency , natural though it be , to consider the problems of war in bits . At every step the bit needs to be related to the whole . The report bears evidence of the difficulty which this investigation found in endeavouring to keep within limits . It wanders into the field of strategy and out again ; the excursion was necessary , but its extent is too short . In concluding it the sub-committee remark : " It is possible to state thep113matter in its simplest terms . The advocates of the extremeair view would wish this country to build no capital ships ( other Powers still continuing to build them ) . If their theories turn out well-founded , we have wasted money ; if ill-founded , we would , in putting them to the test , have lost the Empire . " While there is much truth in this contrast , it is too simple strategically . Britain was in peril of losing the war in 1917 , although she had a far larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparatively small number of submarines played with her trade routes , and because the destroyers which were wanted to combat that threat were being kept to safeguard the battle-fleet . If Germany had invested in submarine building earlier , some of the money which she devoted to battleships , that menace might well have proved fatal . That is an example of the strategic factors which should be borne in mind when weighing the capital ship question . The sub-committee , while recognizing the risks which the battle-fleet may run in the narrow seas , rightly emphasizesthe importance to us of free passage for our trade on the oceans , which " can not at present be covered by our own land-based air forces " . It then remarks that " it would not be impossible for the capital ships of a hypotheticalenemy , in the absence of a powerful British fleet , to place themselves , without interference , across our trade routes " . Here , certainly , is the strongest argument for the maintenance of capital ships . Yet it is well to consider the degree of possibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a battle-fleet at a great distance from its bases . For a practical estimate ,  |p114too  , it is desirable to avoid too vague an hypothesis , and to ask what Powers there are which possess battleships that could be used to interrupt any vital section of Britain 's trade routes . Two of them lie at distances which seem to minimize the possibility of interrupting any vital route ? apart from the fact that only one of these can be regarded as a possible foe . The others lie in land-locked areas from which emergence would be very hazardous to them in face of strong flotilla and air forces . If there was an outstanding feature of the last war at sea it was the general reluctance to hazard irreplaceable battleships in waters where submarines might be lurking , thereby imposing a marked strategic limitation on the use of battleships . Those hazards are , at the least , multiplied to-day by the development of aircraft and high-speed motor torpedo boats , which might be carried on the defender 's ships , and perhaps also of his ocean-going submarines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a venturebeing attempted and succeeding , Britain may be justified in building battleships to meet it . Even so , there are further considerations worth attention . The navies of to-day are seeking to increase the speed of their battleships . What if Britain was to find , too late , that the enemy 's battleships , which had reached the oceans , outpaced hers , and were able to sweep the trade routes without being brought to battle ? Might her peoplenot regret that the money spent on battleships had not been invested in more aircraft-carriers and flotilla craft ? The whole question of future war is shrouded iii uncertainties , deeper than ever before in history . Becauseof the risk of enemy battleships placing themselvesp115on the ocean trade routes , it may be the safe course to build battleships likewise ? although the insurance premiumwould seem high compared with the risk . But it is well to realize that in covering this risk a risk is inevitablybeing taken in other aspects of the strategic issue , since the total money that can be devoted to defence is not unlimited. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead . This habit is carried to a pitch that can only be appreciated by anyone who has enjoyed an insideview of the workings of the machinery of government . It seems to be beyond the understanding of foreigners , especially of the Latin or Teutonic kinds . They find it not only disconcerting but incredible . Hence the undiminished , because perpetually reinforced , currency of the phrase " per fide Albion " . If you try to give them a realistic picture of the way that British policy works , they treat the explanation with a politeness that barely conceals their suspicion . To them it is but one more manifestation of the subtlety with which the British pursue their long-range designs . I have often quoted Harold Nicholson 's novel , Public Faces , as a perfect picture of how the machine works and great issues are apt to be decided . But to a Continental reader , its humorous treatment of the subject seems to convey the idea that it is mere fantasy , instead of , as it really is , proof of the power to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inability of foreign statesmen and diplomats top117comprehend the " immediacy " of British policy leads them into many pitfalls . They misjudge its course by crediting it with a long-term plan ; and then stumble again because they fail to realize that underneath its opportunisticsurface is not a plan but a principle ? or , rather , an instinctive pattern formed by tradition . Sometimesthese Continental misjudgments turn out to the benefit of Britain ; sometimes otherwise ; but they are usually detrimental to Continental plans . And Britain herself has undoubtedly benefited by the elasticity and adaptability which have been preserved by her reluctance to plan ahead . But this tendency , although often an advantage in the sphere of foreign policy , increases the strain on defence policy . Few emergencies have found Britain adequately prepared to meet them . Here is the clue to the familiar saying that in a war she " only wins one battle ? the last one . " The military disadvantages of this dislike of looking ahead were forcibly brought home to the British by the situation produced in the Mediterranean in the early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defiance of the League of Nations . As a leading member of the League , Britain was committed to an endeavour to arrest Italy 's course . It placed her in a predicament which few had foreseen . The post-war friction between France and Italy , followed by the growth of Fascist Italy 's armed power , had focused attention on the conflict of interests between the two Latin powers . In this , Britain saw the need of her services as mediator , and likewise recognized the divergent possibilities of a clash between Italian and German interestsp118in Austria . She took little account of possible trouble between herself and Italy ; Italian propaganda in Malta was an irritation , but seemed a local symptom that could hardly develop in view of the long-standing tradition of friendship between the two countries and Italy 's dependenceon imported raw materials , together with her obvious susceptibility to the pressure of sea-power . These old-established assumptions helped to obscure the newly roughened edges of Britain 's own position in the Mediterranean . Her repose was abruptly disturbed in 1935 . When the reality of the Italian threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of popular indignationalmost comparable to that caused by the violation of " little Belgium " ; and the effect , in pushing the Governmentforward , was accentuated by the backsliding of the Laval Government in France . Forced to give a lead at Geneva in upholding the Covenant , the British found themselves thrust still more into the foreground by their strategic position astride Italy 's sea route to East Africa . This made them the natural target if sanctions were to culminate in war . Italy emphasized the point by despatching mechanized divisions and powerful bombingsquadrons to her Libyan colony , close to the borders of Egypt . Britain hastily strengthened her forces there , thought it meant a temporary interruption of her Air Force expansion at home and stripping the Army of most of its still meagre supply of modern equipment . More precarious still was the position of her main fleet base at Malta which lay within easy range of the Italian air bases ; to keep the fleet there , liable to a surprise onslaughtby bombers or to lurking submarines was a riskp119that made the Admiralty hurriedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which they had been but recently indulging ; the fleet was withdrawn from Malta to the far end of the Mediterranean . Here , certainly , it might block the passage of Italian transports , if the League issue was pressed thus far , but how far it could keep a free passage for Britain 's own sea traffic was a question that left the British public wondering . Some twelve years ago , in a little book on The Future of War , I suggested that the controversies over the bomb versus the battleship , or the torpedo versus the gun , tended to overlook the end in their ardour over the means ? and that , instead of becoming entangled in an interminable dispute over technical values we ought to " direct our course by the compass of grand strategy " . While the power of the fleet might still be paramount on the oceans , it was clear that it had been strategically affectedin the narrow seas by the newer weapons . " The vital question of the future is how this transfer of power over the narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain , which is concerned with both spheres of sea-power . " After studying its bearingon the seas around the British Isles I passed on to " the Mediterranean , another long and narrow sea channelthrough which runs our artery with the East , and where our main naval force is now concentrated . Note that our ships , naval or mercantile , must traverse the length of this channel , and worse still , have to filter through a tiny hole at each end ? the straits of Gibraltar and the Suez Canal ? while midway there is a narrowp120waist ' between Sicily and Tunis barely ninety miles across . " After pointing out how the potential radii of submarine attack from the ports on the European and African coasts intersected this long single line of British sea communications , the question was posed : " Is it not obvious that if in a future war any Mediterranean power was numbered among Britain 's enemies , her fleet would find it difficult enough to protect itself against submarines , let alone protect merchant convoys and troop transports ? When to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of aircraft attack against shipping in the narrow seas , it is time the British people awoke to the fact that , in case of such a war , the Mediterranean would be impassable , and that this importantartery would have to be abandoned . Thus , as a strategical asset , the Suez Canal has lost a large part of its value in face of modern naval and air development ? for in such a war we should be driven to close the Mediterraneanroute , and divert our imperial communications round the Cape of Good Hope . " It is worth quoting this , not to prove that the writer was wise before the event , but because of its continued bearing on a problem that is not yet solved and on events that may be still to come . I was by no means the only critic who drew attention to the new dangers in the years that have intervened . Yet when the Italian crisis arose , not only was the main British fleet still stationed at Malta , but practically nothing had been done to preparea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under pressure of the emergency , part of the traffic from the East which normally passes through the Suezp121Canal was actually diverted round the Cape , and hurried steps were taken to send out reserves to the bases along that route . But it became clear that bunkering and port facilities would have to be considerably enlarged if the whole of the traffic was to be sent that way . Also that the naval bases would have to be renovated and developed . The mentality which had been responsible for the neglect of such obvious precautionary needs can perhaps be best epitomized by an extract from a letter which I received in August , 1935 , from one of the highest officers of the Empire : " You have evidently been crammed up , as I fear that both the Government and the public at home have , by the Air propaganda . . . . There is only one way in which the Air can win a war and that is by bombing women and children ; and that will never bring a great nation to its knees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy laughs at the Air now . They have got protected decks , and with their blisters ' and multiple machine-guns and multiple antiaircraftguns , they do n't fear them in the slightest . " Close on the heels of this letter the Fleet abandoned Malta ? for fear of what it had n't feared . The letter is significant not merely as an example of the obscurantism induced by the military prejudices against novelties ; it shows how the very men who are concerned with the bigger problems of defence are apt , through their training , to focus their attention on mere tactical details , so that they can overlook the fact that the security of a fleet depends on the security of its bases , not merely on its guns and armour . Also , the bigger fact still , that thep122purpose of a fleet is not merely its self-preservation , but to preserve the security of the sea-routes . It is questionable whether these facts have been fully impressed even by the alarm of that autumn . Since then , Britain has exerted herself to remodel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thereby she will be in a better position to deal with any recurrence of an Italian threat to her fleet . But it is not easy to see how any reliance can be placed on the use of the Mediterranean route for her own sea-traffic , if such a conflict should arise . Britain 's Mediterranean problem has two main aspects . First , that of ensuring the safe flow of the traffic from the East which uses this short cut . Second , that of maintainingher sphere of influence in the Eastern Mediterranean , and the forces which safeguard her position there . There is a tendency to regard the second as a corollary of the first , but historically the order of developmentwas the reverse . This fact should be borne in mind when considering the treatment of the problem under the new conditions of to-day . Britain 's concern with the Eastern Mediterranean was forcibly demonstratedthroughout the first half of the nineteenth century , not only in the struggle against Napoleon ; but it was not until late in the second half of the century that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East . The Suez Canal was the child of a Frenchman 's imagination ; and Ferdinandde Lesseps 's scheme was stoutly resisted by Lord Palmerston who , seeing it merely as a French attempt to repeat Napoleon 's design of conquering Egypt , in/structed his diplomatic agents throughout Europe to do all they could to prevent the construction of the canal . In the end the British Government remained the solitary opponent ? and failed . Few failures have been more richly compensated . For this shortening of the route to the East resulted in a tenfoldincrease of Britain 's trade with the East . It also went a long way towards securing her military position there ? by accelerating her power of reinforcing her garrisons . The Canal , begun in 1859 , was opened ten years later . And within five years , Britain became the chief shareholderthrough the foresight of her un-British Prime Minister , Disraeli , in purchasing from the Khedive sevensixteenthsof the total share issue , at a price of ? 4,000 , - 000 . This stroke of Imperial policy was extended in 1882 by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suppress Arabi 's anti-foreign rising . The occupation , intended to be temporary , became permanentin the process of reforming the administration . It brought great compensations , but also a chain of complications . It assured the security of the Canal , that hundred-milepipe through which now passed Britain 's main line of communication with the East , but it imposed a great and growing burden in protecting both the Canal itself and the rest of the homeward route , since , unlike the Cape route , this passed through a sea bordered by other naval powers . Henceforth the British had to maintaina considerable proportion of their naval strength permanently in the Mediterranean as custodians of the route . The strain became severe under the indirect pressurep124of Germany 's naval expansion in the decade before 1914 . The growth of their fleet in the North Sea faced the British with a difficult choice between weakness in one quarter and vast expenditure to maintain predominance in both . They found a compromise in an understanding with France whereby they concentrated their strength in home waters and France concentrated hers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had realized in the crisis of 1914 , since , with the first threat of war between Germany and France , they found themselvesmorally committed to the duty of safeguarding the northern coast of France against the German Navy . And in the war the dangers of the Mediterranean route were demonstrated by the high percentage of commerce destruction that was achieved there in proportion to the small force employed by the attacker ? there were rarely more than half a dozen submarines operating at any one time . One U-boat alone attained a total " bag " of half a million tons of shipping . A German naval historian records that " U-boat commanders going into the Mediterraneanwere much envied by their comrades in home waters owing to the extraordinary possibilities offered by operations in the Mediterranean " . Yet this campaign was carried on at an immense distance from their home bases and under the great difficulties caused by the hazardous passage past the British Isles and the lack of convenient bases in the Mediterranean . After the war , with the collapse of Germany 's naval power , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its main fleet was based at Malta . On the surface it seemed to re-establish the old security ofp125the route to India , and although the continued attention given by the French and Italians to submarine constructioncaused some uneasiness , the ultimate conquest of the U-boats in 1918 tended to make British naval opinion forget the extreme handicaps under which the U-boat campaign had worked , so that the confidence bred of success in the final issue caused an undue discount of the future prospects of the submarine when employed under more favourable conditions . Such conditions are certainlyoffered to a guerilla campaign in the Mediterraneanwaged by a naval power which is there in home waters . It is the advent of air power , however , which has most affected the Mediterranean situation . Its influence did not develop early after the war , although its shadow began to stretch across the inland sea . Italy had no serious air force until Mussolini rebuilt it . Spain has never had one . France herself was too remote from the trafficroute , and although her African colonies bordered it , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources of aircraft supply . Even if a war between Britain and France had been politically conceivable , the British fleet and its aircraft carriers might have had a powerful effect on the strategic situation of the French by interruptingthe passage of trade and reinforcements between France and French North Africa . Moreover , the scope of shore-based air attack was limited by the comparativelyshort radius of the machines possessed by the postwarair forces . The situation has radically changed with the rise of Italian air power , the development of bombers that havep126a radius of 400 to 500 miles , and the promised attainment within a year or two of double this radius . Thereby the 100-mile canal from Suez to Port Said has been extended into a z000-mile " canal " from Port Said to Gibraltar . Port Said itself lies less than 400 miles from the Italian air bases in the Dodecanese , off the south-west corner of Asia Minor . While limited at present , they are being developed . On emerging from the Port Said bottle-neck , shipping might have a short run of sea-space with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the route then passes through the mere zoo-mile channel between Crete and Libya , dominated by the Italian air-base at Tobruk . An alternative route is round the north coast of Crete , but this passes within a bare 100 miles of the Dodecanese islands . Beyond Crete the routes inevitably converge on Malta , a mere 70 miles from the coast of Sicily and less than 200 from Tripoli . Thereafter the channel narrows until it is less than 90 miles across betweenSicily and the African coast at Cape Bon . Before any shipping could emerge from this danger zone it would be in a fresh one , created by the Italian air bases in Sardinia , which lies within 100 miles of the African coast . Thus for more than half the length of the Mediterraneanshipping passes within easy bombing range of Italian air bases , and for fully three quarters might run the risk of attack . The danger will soon grow as the new types of bomber recently designed , and in process of accelerated production , come into general use . But a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one free stretch of the route ? and the bottleneckat the far end . This is the possibility of a militaristicp127Spain , filled with the desire to renew its Imperial role which is already reflected in some of the interviews given by General Franco , and linked with Fascist Italy by a common ambition as well as by the sense of help received in the course of the present rising . In that quarter , too , Nazi Germany might find scope for developing an indirect leverage on her own neighbours in favour of her ambitions . A powerful Spanish Air Force , supplied or constructed by foreign aid , could be a serious menace to the last lap of the Mediterranean route . And Gibraltar in turn might become as untenable as a base for the British fleet as Malta proved in the last emergency . Strategically , the danger is so obvious that it is difficult to understand the eagerness with which some of the most avowedly patriotic sections of the British public have desired the rebels ' success . Class-sentiment and propertysensewould seem to have blinded their strategic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of air and submarine bases in the Balearic Isles ; and extendedstill further , by the similar use of the Canary Isles ? since this would threaten Britain 's use of the Cape route . There have been reports , formally denied , of a secret promise of these two strategic points to Italy and Germanyrespectively in return for help rendered . Though the denial may be accepted , this does not remove the potential danger . The availability of bases in these islands for the possible use of a strong sea and air power would be scarcely less ominous than the actual cession of the territory . The prospect deepens the dark hue of the Mediterranean'snew complexion . It jeopardizes the outlook forp128France as well as for Britain . France hitherto had , on the whole , more scope for exerting pressure on Italy than the other way round . Her dependence on imported raw materials , and thus on sea communications , was less than Italy 's ; unlike Italy , she had ports outside the Mediterranean ; her sea-traffic from Africa could diminish the chance of interference by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avoid the sea passage by using the Spanish railways . Moreover , Italy 's industrial centres , lying close to the northern frontier , would be more endangeredby air attack than those of France . A Spain in league with Italy , and developed into a formidable militarypower , would change the balance heavily to the disadvantageof France ? who may find increasing cause to regret the tacit encouragement she gave to Italy 's successfuldefiance of the League over Abyssinia and the consequent enhancement of Italy 's military prestige . But the potential effect on Britain 's position strategicallystretches further . The Spanish development can hardly fail to have an influence on the steps that have been taken to reorganize the British dispositions in the Mediterranean . When the tension arose over Abyssinia last autumn , the main part of the British fleet was withdrawn from Malta to Alexandria . But this has defects as a permanent base , apart from being in Egyptian territory . Also it lies within bombing range of the Italian airbasesin Libya and the Dodecanese ? some 350 miles from the former and 400 from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible bases . Cyprus is one . Disraeli secured possession of it at the Berlin Congressof 1878 and presented it to Queen Victoria withp129the remark : " Cyprus is the key of western Asia " . But four years later its value was eclipsed by the occupation of Egypt , and ever since Cyprus has lain in strategic neglect . After the war , however , the harbour of Famagusta , on the south coast , was improved and enlarged , while in 1931 Imperial Airways temporarily made Limassola stopping place on their Middle East service . The salt lake near here is suitable for flying boats while the great central plain forms a natural air-base . Another possibility is Haifa , the Palestinian terminus of the oil pipe-line from Iraq . Haifa is at present the most secure from air attack , lying some 66o miles from the nearest air-base in Libya , and 450 from the Dodecanese . But with the rapidly increasing range of aircraft even the most remote base would be brought within bombing range before its development and fortification could be completed , while the farther @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posted the more its own power of action against an enemy is handicapped . Confronted with this dilemma , the present inclination of the British Admiralty would seem to be " to damn the risks " and trust in the superiority of its own offensive power . Preparations along these lines are foreshadowed by the recent statement of the First Lord of the Admiraltyon returning from a tour of inspection in the Mediterranean . He declared that there was no intention of " abdicating our position in that sea , or of scuttling from Malta " , and added : " It is simply a question of adapting ourselves to the new conditions , and of making the fullest use of our own air power " . The question may not be so simple to answer , satisfactorily , when all thep130conditions are appreciated , but the determination is clear . Malta is to remain the primary base of the British Fleet , and its defences are being strengthened , while the potentialitiesof Cyprus as an air and naval base are being developed . Cyprus lies 270 miles distant from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and since it offers accommodation for a larger force , while the British also have a superiority in sea-borne aircraft , there is a prospect of converting any threat from the Dodecaneseinto a boomerang . With superior naval and air force , too , the islands of the Dodecanese might be effectively isolated from support and supply from Italy . So might Libya , while the Italian colonies , old and new , in East Africa are largely dependent on the goodwill of the power which holds the gateway from the Mediterranean into the Red Sea . These aspects of the situation are worth recognition . Likewise in the western half of the Mediterranean , the new danger to which the French communications with North Africa are exposed does not lessen the inherent weaknesses of Italy , due to her immense length of coastline , the accessibility and vulnerability of her focal points , and her greater need of sea-borne supplies . If she strikes she can hurt , but she runs even more risk of gettinghurt . Besides the formidable naval and air power of France , there is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exert if they are used with good judgment , and avoid being trapped in harbour . With so great a length of coastline , the protective screen afforded by submarines and shore-based aircraft might not prove impenetrable , while the strain on Italy 's armed resourcesp131is increased by the number of her detached territories . The British Mediterranean Fleet has already been strengthened and a large proportion of the new ships now under construction at home are likely to be sent to reinforce it further . It is a bold bid which Britain is thus making to maintainher threatened position in the Mediterranean by establishing a more formidable deterrent to interference . Inevitably it has some element of a gamble , because of the uncertainty which veils so many of the technical issues of modern warfare . But its chances will certainly be increased or decreased according to the " load " that her forces carry . If they are called on to maintain the use of the Mediterranean as a mercantile traffic-route from the East the odds will be heavily against the attemptsucceeding , while the effort will dissipate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abandon this route and divert all normal traffic by the Cape route , its forces in the Mediterranean may play an important strategic part . The diversion increasesthe distance from Bombay to England by nearly eighty per cent ? from 5900 miles to 10,400 miles ; from Singapore by over forty per cent ? from 7900 miles to 11,400 miles ; but from Melbourne , only ten per cent ? from 10,700 miles to 11,800 miles . The increased distancewould cause delay , and a consequent check in the flow of supplies unless and until more shipping was employedon the route . But even a delay would not have very serious effects on Britain 's supply situation . For only twenty per cent of her imports at present come through the Mediterranean . And of these eleven per centp132come from countries within that sea , so that a readjustmentin the scheme of supply regarding these commoditieswould in any case be inevitable to meet the conditions of war . But the use of the Cape route for the remainder of the Eastern trade would simplify the strategicproblem of the British in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sea as a traffic-route it might be more effectively utilized as an area of offensive operations against an opponent who could not disencumber himself similarly . A people who are anxious for peace and a quiet life are naturally inclined to look at a strategic problem from the point of view of their own security , and thus to overlook the disabilities of a potential opponent . The way that Italy has enlarged her forces and extended her bases of offensive action has undoubtedly complicated Britain 's problem in assuring the security of her trade-routes and overseas territories . But in the process of extending , Italy has entangled her bases with those of Britain to an extent that is awkward for herself . This strategic entanglement may prove a check on aggression , and thereby become an unforeseen " bond " of peace . A new disturbing factor has been foreshadowed by the possibility of Spain 's development into a military power with warlike tastes and Fascist ties . This would be a potential threat not only to the French communicationswith her African colonies , but to Britain 's power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval force could hardly be maintained at Gibraltar in face of a hostile air force on the mainland . These possibilities inevitably increase the insecurity ofp133the British position in the Mediterranean , while they also introduce a new insecurity into the Cape route . Even so , the fresh complications might not prove wholly adverse . When so many heavily armed powers are confined in so narrow a space , each with their bases interwoven , and that space is being continuously narrowed by the growth of modern weapons , to start a war there would be like shutting up a bunch of mad cats in a cage . The picture , and the uncertainty of any calculations , might deter even the most warlike statesman.  |p134THERE  IS A TENDENCY IN ALL COUNTRIES FOR the people to congratulate themselves on the security they will gain by their present programmes of rearmament . The notion was carried furthest by the recent assertion of Herr Rudolf Hess : " Every new gun , every new tank , every aeroplane , gives an additional security to the German mother that her children will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realistic view would tell us that any country 's situation is , and is likely to be , far less secure than it was before the new armamentrace began . And it is all too likely that the completion of a programme will be more than a stage in an extendingprogramme . Nevertheless , there is no security in remaining weak when surrounded by those who believethat virtue rests with the violent . Arming becomes unavoidable for those who are unwilling to be victims . The question is , then , how to arm to the best effect proportionatelyto the expense . It requires not only a clear idea of the aim but a sure gauge of the resources and their relative values . In such a trial of strength a nation 's capacity to standp135the strain depends not merely on the extent of its resourcesbut on their economic distribution . That lesson is engraved in Britain 's history . Where Spain , Holland , and France broke down in turn under the double strain of spreading their military effort in the attempt to bestrideboth the land and the sea , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on superiority in one element . To-day the two elements have become three by the addition of the air , which brings the consequent risk of a triple strain . It lies with her defence policy to minimize this , by maintaining a sense of proportion . Security in the air is as necessary to her as security on the seas ; she can not safely concentrate on one at the expense of the other , although by wise distribution and combination she may be able to diminish the total burden thus created . Moreover , in each case there are standards by which she can gauge her needs ; it is true that if she stands alone these representan appalling effort and expense , but they can be scaled down on the basis of collective security , in proportionas such a basis can be established . In the sphere of the land forces Britain is , fortunately , free of any standards imposed by the strength of the Continental armies . The only essential requirement is to maintain forces sufficient to defend , and maintain order in , her overseas territories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anything beyond this is not a strategic obligation , although it may be prompted by political considerations . The use of a field force to preventhostile air and submarine bases being established close to her own coast may be desirable strategically , butp136is not strictly essential . Its value must be weighed against its cost ? lest it be at the expense of the necessities ? and against its risks both political and military . Its practicabilityshould also receive due attention ? can it be providedwithout detriment to the essential function of the army ? Can it be sufficiently effective under the modern conditions of war , and the limitations imposed by geography ? To answer such questions we must try to estimatethose conditions and the fitness of the British Army to meet them . The experience of the last war left the defensive still superior to the offensive in land warfare . For it would be rash to draw different conclusions from the last phase when morale was crumbling and resources were becomingexhausted . Thus anticipations of a change are merely built on hope ? the hope that the subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may suffice to overcome the power of defence , even though this has also been developed . Military history is such a tale of misplaced hopes that we need to examine such assumptions with care before building a defence policy upon them . The one factor which is clear is that an expeditionary force , should Britain use one , will need the power of attackin order to fulfil its purpose under the conditions that can be foreseen . For , if it is to be sent complete with all its arms and transport , it can not be transhipped to the Continent and brought into action until some time has elapsed ? in 1914 this was three weeks , and although accelerated mobilization arrangements may reduce it to some extent there is the question whether the modernp137risk of air attack will allow it to be moved by as direct a route as in 1914 . By the time it arrives , the war , owing to the accelerated tempo of modem plans , is likely to have taken a definite turn . The aggressor may have been stopped on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no purpose except to be used in an offensive against his frontier . The aggressor may have penetrated some distance and then have been stopped ; in this case the force would be called on to help in ejectinghim by an offensive . The aggressor may be still pressingon ? even in this case , the counter-offensive is the most likely form of action it would be called on to undertake . All these prospects imply that an expeditionary force , if it is to be sent , should possess the power of attack . Is there any adequate prospect of its possessing this power ? Before attempting an answer , it is worth while examining the basic elements of the tactical problem that the force would have to solve if it gets to grips with the enemy without its strategic advance being interrupted by air attack . The predominant condition of the last war , on land , was the superiority of the defensive . During four years this superiority amounted to supremacy . The main cause was the machine-gun . In the spring of 1918 the Germans were able temporarily to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new technique , but even more through the unforeseen help of fog , which blanketed the opposing machine-guns at the outset of their first three offensives . Later , when there was no fog , their offensives failed . And even their successful offen/sives petered out in face of slender opposition when this was reinforced by their own difficulties in maintaining momentum . In the late summer and autumn of 1918 the German defence in turn was overcome by the combination of tanks with natural and artificial fog . Even so , the Allies never succeeded in solving the problem of exploitinginitial success , not even as far as the Germans had done . The cause of their greater , and conclusive , success lay in the moral and physical bankruptcy of the foe , whose military ruin could be traced to the expense of his own spectacular offensives earlier , and was completedby the sickness , physical and mental , of his troops which was produced by economic pressure . The coming of the Germans ' collapse found the Allied armies baffled , at least for the time , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these conditions provides no warrant for the belief that the offensive , save locally , had succeeded in reducing the superiority of the defensive . They rule out the idea that infantry who have to attack over the open can , even locally , be expected to overcome infantry whose machine-guns are ensconced behind cover , so long as the defending side is morally unshaken . The new light machine-guns are certainly an improvement on the cumbersometypes of the past , for use by advancing troops , but there is no ground for supposing that they are going to make a decisive difference against an enemy who is below ground . High-angle fire , since it drops the projectilesover the cover , is more promising ; but we cannotexpect a decisive difference to be made by the infantrymortars , against fifty or sixty machine-guns on anp139opposing battalion front . There were mortars in the last war . The possible scale of artillery support is a trifle compared with what it was in the offensives of the last war , and we know how little it achieved then . By contrast , any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine-guns to check the attack than it had then . Moreover , if motorization has quickened the applicationof fire-power in the attack , it promises to help the defence even more by enabling him to rush machinegunsto any threatened spot and counteract any surprise that the attacker achieves . The defending machine-guns will be able to fire from behind cover , whereas the attackers , at any rate in the immediate future , will have to be brought forward in unshielded vehicles . They might make more difference if they were mounted in armoured vehicles and could bring their fire forward to close ranges . What further possibilities are there of overcoming the established superiority of the defence ? Leaving gas out of the reckoning , we have to pin our hopes of a solution to obscurity , armour , and art . Attacking infantry have at present a good chance of overcoming the machinegunin the dark , although art and high training are required to profit by the opportunity and avoid the risks of confusion . Even so , they can not safely press the attackmore than a short distance ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available , or some form of flood-lighting the battlefield must be invented . Also , it would be unwise to bank too heavily onp140the attack in darkness , for the defence may find means of keeping their front continuously lighted . The attack in fog has perhaps greater possibilities , on the basis of experience ; but we can not count on enjoying a natural fog when we need it . Smoke-screens are a usefulsubstitute , but those of the past were too local . More hope lies in the development of artificial fog , capable of being projected in larger volume than is possible with artillery smoke-shell . Even so , the defence may not be long in finding means of dispersing it . Armour is another well-proved aid . The armour may be carried , as in the war , by relatively slow tanks accompanyingthe infantry . It may be carried by fast tanks acting like cavalry in earlier wars and relying on the speed of the charge or on rapidity of manoeuvre . It may be carried , also , by little low-built machines manned by infantry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantryman more protection at least than he would have when advancing on foot ? the possibilities of such true " mechanized infantry " have not yet been fully explored . The value of armour can also be increased by combining it with the use of obscurity . Armoured troops , if equipped with direction-finders , may be more suited to profit by natural or artificial fog than are men on their feet . In darkness , too , they are more formidable , if adequately trained for such tactics . And the progress that may be made in dispersing obscurity on behalf of the defence should affect tanks less because of their speed , so long as some obscurity remains . Nevertheless , the post-war development of anti-tank weapons is a serious and increasing threat to the tank ,  |p141es|pecially  when coupled with the new technique of obstruction . How serious , it is not easy to gauge . We can at least be clear that the chances of the tanks increase with their quantity ? and decrease disproportionately when they are few . At present the British Army contemplates no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machines ? which may form part of a mobiledivision otherwise possessing small power of attack ? and four battalions of infantry tanks which have still to be built . With such a small quantity of tanks , the chances of successful attack might well be zero . Against the multiplying anti-tank weapons of to-day , it is certain that hope lies only in swarms ? to swamp the defence . For the rest of the army , the ordinary infantry divisions , there is just a possibility that the development of a new technique in combination with the new equipment might give them some prospect of successful attack , up to a point . This possibility depends on progress in the art of war rather than on its material side . Here , unfortunately , we have to face the fact that the Army 's present lack of modern equipment is not the sum of its qualitative deficiencies . Because of their small size the British forces need to excel in technical and tactical skill . At present they do not . Hampered by the poor type of recruits it has attracted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peace-time tendency to give staff work preference over leadership , by the lack of men and new means with which to develop the art of command , and by years of an atmosphere in which boldness of thought and freedom of expression were dis/couraged , the Army as a whole is not up to the standard of skill demanded by the more exacting conditions of modern warfare . It may be no worse than other armies , but it does not stand out like the army of 1914 , while the true standard required is relative to the conditions of warfare , not merely to the level of others . Its weaknessesare apparent not merely to the onlooker , who is said proverbially to see most of the game ; they are realizedby many of the officers concerned with its training . It will be easier to make good the material deficiencies than to remedy these failings . The energy now being exerted may complete the re-equipment of the Army within two or three years . Even under the best guidance , and a better sense of how to promote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outgrow the legacy of the post-war period and raise the general level of tacticalaptitude . There are a fair number of officers who are real tacticians , whose natural aptitude has survived an unfavourable climate , but the proportion to the total is too small . They are like currants in a pudding . There has been an unpalatable abundance of suet in the exercises seen in recent years . " Safety first , " seems to have largely superseded Danton 's , and Napoleon 's , motto " l'audace , l'audace , toujours l'audace " . Conformityto the manuals , the confusion due to constant changes of detail , and the excessive emphasis on meticulous orderwriting , have produced a slow-motion habit which is inimical to the exploitation of opportunities . Instead of building tactical art on a basis of battle-drill , thus quickeningits application , we have turned tactics into a drill in slow time . The effect is seen in an attitude of whatp143can only be described as " reckless caution " . It is the opposite of real security , while it stultifies the possibility of achieving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being masters of surprise . Without a far more highly developed battle-craft there can be but a dim prospect of shaking the sovereignty of the defence . When all the conditions are carefully weighed , the balance seems to be heavily against the hope that a Britishfield force on the Continent might have a military effect commensurate with the expense and the risk . I can not see an adequate prospect , even when the present programme is complete , of its possessing the power of attacknecessary to wrest from an invader any ground he may have gained before it could arrive . To fit the pictureinto the actual frame , formed by the zone between the Meuse and the Channel , serves to deepen this impression . And I do not see that a larger force would have a better effect , nor that subsequent reinforcement might make a great difference , for the limiting conditions have little to do with numbers of men . They are essentially qualitative and technical . Moreover , beyond all the difficultieswhich face the attacker on land lies the danger of his approach being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger the force the greater the danger . It may still be considered that the force is worth while on political grounds . That may be a just opinion . But those who decide ought to do so with their eyes opened to the fundamental military limitations . Moreover , the latest turn of Belgian policy may well give pause to those who are inclined to assume the need of a field force for the Continent without being clear as to the way itp144will act and the end it will serve . It has been argued that the action of the field force should be directed to preventan enemy 's establishing air bases close to England 's coast , and to cover the bases which the Air Force might establish abroad in order to lengthen its range . But the increasing range of aircraft promises to diminish the value of such cover . Apart from this doubt of its need , the type of force required for the particular duty is different to that of 1914 , when the plans of the General Staff were dominated by the idea of contributing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French field armies in their main offensive campaign . Even if a general offensive of this kind were practicable to-day , the distant and disconnected cover it would give might not suffice to protect the air bases under modern strategic conditions . For that function a specially designedforce might be more effective , and less precarious . Its design is indicated by the prevailing conditions and limitations of land warfare ? a force small in numbers of men but amply equipped with fire-weapons of the light and handy kind , and coupling this power of resistance with high strategic mobility . Its action , too , should be adjusted to these conditions , making the most of the inherentadvantages of modern fire-defence , and applying tactics of elastic resistance and riposte . If , now , there is a doubt as to Belgium 's attitude , the difficulties of using a field army effectively may be augmented , and its risks also . If , on the other hand , Britain should decide to give up the idea of intervention with an army , her military problems would be greatly simplified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anp145adequate Imperial Reserve , for the reinforcement of the overseas garrisons , the mobile defence of the overseas territories , and for such expeditions , truly so-called , as may be needed to fulfil her historic strategy under future conditions . This would avoid the wide , and increasing , divergence between what is required for offensive warfareon the Continent and what is best suited to mobile defence , to Colonial warfare , and Imperial policing . The forces Britain has would need far less development . Since Marlborough the British Army has rarely shone in the offensive , not through want of courage , but from lack of aptitude . It has been superb in defence , and unrivalledas an agent in maintaining order . Those qualities will have enhanced value in proportion as strategic mobilityis added . Wherever the Army is used , and whatever decision may be taken as to sending a force across the Channel , its mission and action ought to be adjusted to tactical realities . It should not be allowed to waste its strength by becoming engaged in an allied offensive carried out on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its action would , or could , always be confined to pure defence . But where a strategic advance was necessary to fulfil its mission , it should normally combinethis with tactics of elastic resistance , varied by a lightning riposte to exploit a disordered recoil on the enemy 's part , and by dislocating counter-moves . It is folly , nowadays , to attempt direct attack on a properly equipped foe , except at points where the opposition is particularly weak . Even in the past ages of warfare , it has been rare for a strategic offensive to be crowned byp146a successful attack ; modern conditions have emphasized still more the superior promise of the luring defensive or the combination of offensive strategy with defensive tactics . Yet at present , as in the past , the training of armies is predominantly devoted to practising tactics which are essentially unreal , under the spell of a soldierly dream of attack which can only end in nightmare assaults . The adequacy of the Army depends on the question of its functions . When introducing the Army Estimates in 1935 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the defence of the home country , the defence of the naval bases , the maintenance of order in the territories of the Empire and the defence of British interests abroad ? the last being the function of what was called an " expeditionary force " and is now called a " field force " . He went on to say that these four purposes were " all equally important " , a statement which might obscure the problem of proportion . For any defence policy in peace , like strategy in war , must necessarily be a reconciliation betweenconflicting claims . To be equally strong everywhere , against an opponent with equal resources or a superior sense of proportion , entails being too weak everywhere . The impossibility of covering everything is the rock upon which many national policies have foundered . There is a need to classify the purposes in order of importance , and then to see how far the organizationthat best serves the major purpose can also serve the others . Changing conditions affect all four purposes . Al/though the fear of invasion held a considerable proportionof the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no justification in anything that is known of the enemy 's intentions , nor in the actual conditions : and now , with the development of air power , these conditionshave made such an attempt still more improbable . The approach of a fleet of transports to , and the disembarkationof troops on , a hostile coast have become far more hazardous in face of a shore-based air force . Conditions , therefore , would seem to have diminished the importance of the defence of the home country as a functionof the Army , although the Army may well be called on to maintain order and restore internal communicationsin the dislocation caused by a hostile air attack . Actual defence from the ground against an air attack is a new duty , but one of a specialized kind . The defence of naval bases is a duty for which only a small fraction of the army is needed . In fulfilling it , troops have always been subsidiary to the naval forces themselves , and may now be considered subsidiary to the defence by air also ; if these are worsted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precarious than ever in the past . More important , certainly , is the Army 's duty of policing the overseas territories . In keeping quiet uncivilizedor thinly populated territories , and also in checking invasion of frontiers , especially the more remote , air power may play a primary part . But for maintainingorder in thickly populated lands nothing is likely , so far as we can foresee , to replace the need for troops on the ground . If the Empire is to be maintained , andp148unless special policing forces are to be created , this duty must take precedence in the Army 's functions , even though it is not so definitely an army 's function as that of waging war . But the question remains how this duty can be reconciled with that of providing an expeditionary force . Now there is a fundamental difference between the qualities required for the first three functions and those required for the last . The development of automatic small arms and of mechanized mobility has increased the power of defence , and also the power of trained troops to quell insurrection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to need the power of attack , in order to overcomethe resistance of hostile troops with similar armament . The additional armament , and the new types of it , which have been symbolically represented in recent exercises indicate the steps that are now being taken to resuscitate this moribund power . There are other means that may be tried , some of a less material nature . But will such developments suffice to overcome the existing superiority of the defensive , and its probable developments ? Unless there is stronger reason than at present to think so , it might be wiser to modify prevailing ideas on the employment of the Army in a modern war . And to spend the money on equipment that will fit this modifiedrole . What does this reflection imply ? At present , one clear factor in the problem is that the offensive is as much at an advantage in the air as it is at a disadvantage on land . This comparison , in conjunction with present deficien/cies , has suggested that the offensive role , of an expeditionary force , might be entrusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of effect , it could be conducted from Britain 's own shores or from bases more easy to secure and more remote from the enemy than the zone an army requires . And it would avoid many of the complicationsinvolved , and evolving , when an army is landed on the Continent . The possibility of simplifying our military problems by such a redistribution of duties certainly deserves serious consideration . An essential preliminary is a thorough investigation , so far as practicable , of the prospectsof reviving the power of the offensive on land . One deduction we can draw from the experience of the last war is that any attempt to restore it which is not radically different from the methods tried then is foredoomedto failure . If it might be unwise at this stage to decide that the offensive activity of armies is beyond resurrection , that can not be said of an interim arrangement in accord with the existing situation . One strong argument is that such a resurrection can not yet be predicted with any assurance . A still stronger is that the British Army has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pinned . In the interval , it would seem more reasonable to entrust the old expeditionary role to the Air Force than to dream of sending an army into the field with new means that only exist in imagination . The release of the Army at home from the precariouslyillimitable duty of providing a field force for the Continent would ensure that it was better able to fulfilp150its necessary duty as an Imperial Reserve . That purpose requires not only adequate numbers but a force which is thoroughly up-to-date , if not so heavily armed as would be required for the dubious attempt to force entrenched positions on the Continent . This would seem the course best fitted to the existing realities of warfare on land . It will not suit those who desirethe totalitarian training of the nation for war , as well as the preparation of a potentially unlimited army for intervention on the Continent . Since such ideas are growing in many circles , it is well to consider them at a time when cool reflection is possible , instead of under the stress of emergency . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land struggle , with its exhausting demands , was determined in August , 1914 , should be a warning to this generation . To-day , owing to technical and tactical conditions , the despatch of a field army to the Continent does not seem to offer any promise of effect adequate to the risks involved . Since the blankness of the prospect is due to the inherent superiority of modern defence once this has had time to consolidate itself , it is hard to see that in preparing larger forces , to send still later , there is any greater prospect ? except of greater waste of lives and resources . On the other hand , with a larger army the risk of its being hamstrung by air attack on its communicationswould be much increased . The advocates of a field force themselves recognize that the difficulties of transporting it and maintaining it overseas to-day would be much greater than in the past . And there is a further aspect to the problem . The more troops that are sentp151overseas the more shipping has to be diverted from the essential task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more targets are offered on the narrow sea passages ? which are the most exposed to air and submarineattack . The problem of feeding the country in war is difficult enough without adding to the burden by superfluous and unpromising land campaigns on the Continent.  |p152STUDY  OF THE PROBLEM OF SECURITY , UNDER modern conditions and in present circumstances , tends to the conclusion that it is technically unattainable along customary lines . Augmentation of national armaments can no longer promise an adequate insurance even where superiority is possible . Any such superiority is apt to be far more fleeting than it was under past conditions : more easily forfeited by some technical development . Nor is that all that we have to consider . The incalculable factorsin warfare have multiplied immensely . To evaluate forces and national degrees of security , in terms of numbers , is an obsolete convention . The instruments of warfarehave become so intricate and their effects so hypotheticalthat the most profound calculation may prove no better than a guess in the dark . In the past , uncertaintyturned mainly on the human factors ; to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who handle them may become their sport . If the tendencyof the time is towards turning men into robots , the machines themselves promise , or threaten , to produce a fresh variability.  |p153While  this may eventually frustrate any scheme of security , it has definitely upturned the old foundations . It is not in the nature of mankind to remain shelterless with content . Rebuilding must be attempted , so new ground must be sought . There are two courses , both convergingto the same end . One is on the lines of collectivesecurity ; the other on the lines of technical limitation ? tolimit the dangers from instruments that have already outstripped our powers of comprehension . It is easy to point out the uncertainty of either means , but difficult to suggest any alternative that is more than a mere acquiescence in , indeed a hastening of common devastation . If , in experience , agreements have often been broken , that bare fact does not nullify their value . The more deeply one probes into historical records the more one comes to appreciate the restraining influence which agreements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are justified in deducing that assurancesof help , prohibition of certain forms of action , and limitation of weapons , may be an effective check , if not a complete one . Their effect may even persist after they have been broken . Moreover , although each tie separately may seem a fragile strand , when interwoven they may form a powerful check . It is important that each should be as definite as possible . The cause of peace has suffered much from idealists who , in their enthusiasm , put forward airy solutions that can be easily pricked by technical objections . And it would be a mistake for Governments . to accept any prohibitions or limitations so wide that the unscrupulousp154can evade them ? at the expense of those who keep the letter as well as the spirit of agreements . There is often more restraining power in the cumulative effect of a number of small but practicable checks than in a single sweeping measure formulated in vague terms . From this point of view the proposals made by the German Government in May , 1935 , appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too general , and the opposite mistake of defining each point too rigidly for adaptation in discussion . While the economic situation of Germany , together with the difficulties of quick-time production , may have had an influence on her willingness to accept limitation of the more expensivetypes of armament , the prospect of a race in such weapons is not to be welcomed elsewhere . Apart from the financial strain , the military advantage of a superiorityis doubtful . It is too much like a race of indefinite extent for an unknown stake . This reflection is emphasized if we consider the proposalsin their bearing upon the military problems in Western Europe . A superiority in the size of warships and the calibre of naval guns is of very dubious advantage in the narrow seas . If theoretically possible on the assumption of a limitless purse , in reality its maintenance would be at the expense of the lighter craft needed for defence in these waters . On land the technical arguments are no less strong for " abolition of the heaviest arms , especially suited for aggression " ; these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often been said that one can not distinguish between offensive and defensive weapons . This is true ?  |p155if  so loose a definition be used . All weapons are offensive , obviously , in the sense that they inflict injury , and all can be useful to the defence as well as to the attack . But not all can be as useful . Here is the crux : not that certain weapons are more offensive in themselves , but that they give a better chance , under modern conditions , of enabling attack to overcome defence . And so their abolition or limitation would at least promise a check on aggression by reducing the chances in favour of a wouldbeaggressor . In general it would increase the security offered by a fortified frontier . Though the risk might still remain of this being breached by some form of surprise , it would be a diminished risk . To circumscribe the chances is worth attempting , and the more so because the defensive is already superior to the offensive on land . In the air it is otherwise , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prompt retaliation in superiorforce . Hence the importance of measures to ensure this by collective action . But it is also worth exploring subsidiary checks . Arguments for outlawing certain methods of war , such as the bombing of the civil population , have more support in experience than they may have in pure logic . The laws that were broken in the last war had , on the whole , more restraining force than the public appreciated . It may prove difficult to fulfil , or even to frame , an effective prohibition of " the dropping of gas , incendiary , and explosive bombs outside the real battle zone " , but before dismissing the conception its practicable adaptation may well be considered . The unlimitedhorrors of the Thirty Years War produced an effective limitation of methods by common consent inp156the century and a half that followed . That example might be repeated . The experience of the last war and the omens of the next unite in a warning of what otherwiseawaits us . Practical wisdom may restrain what strict logic unleashes.  |p157MILITARY  TRAINING , WHETHER UNDER HIStoricalor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two spheres , a higher and a lower ? the training of the commander and the training of those who act under command . In the actual practice of trainingthe division has often been ignored or confused , especially in the early preparation of future leaders . The consequence has too often been their ultimate stultificationas leaders . This is shown in the rarity of inspired and creative leadership in the organized armies of history . Generals have been legion ; artists of war few . Many more , and infinitely greater military genius can be traced in the scantier records of irregular and guerilla forces . The natural explanation is that the natural gifts of these leaders who have emerged straight from the womb of conflict , instead of a professional incubation chamber , have not been cramped or warped by convention . To acknowledge the genius of many of these irregularleaders does not imply that they would have been equally successful if placed in command of a more highly organized type of force , at any rate until they hadp158gained experience of its organization and different application . But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders in organized armies . It is significantthat in the American Civil War , which was the most fruitful field of generalship in modern times , most of the outstanding leaders were men who after an apprenticeship in the Regular Army had gone into some field of civil activity , which in varying degree freed their minds from the fetters of military convention and routine , while they retained a useful experience of the functioning of the military machine . The adage that it is necessary to learn to obey before one can command , although it contains an element of truth , has been greatly abused in its actual application to the education of leaders . There has been too little differentiationin it between the spirit of obedience to a common purpose and the mechanical form of obedience . Many of the greatest military leaders have shown themselvesexceptionally restive in their early career under the restraints of conventional discipline . One may cite the candid confessions of Grant and Sherman as to their behaviour when cadets at West Point , and their critical reflections in old age on the system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In British history , such men as Wolfe , Wellington , and Nelson showed themselveseven less amenable to the outward forms of discipline . It is only too evident that these and many others became great leaders not because of but rather in spite of their early training ? because , instead , their personalities were too strong to be forced into the conventional groove . Thus there is unconscious humour in the factp159that such men have been held up as exemplars to the young officers of later generations who were undergoing the same kind of training . Only ignorance of history , or excess of varnish , can explain such unwitting irony . If there are signs of change in the military educational system , a much greater change is needed , and a much clearer distinction , before schools for officers can truly be regarded as an aid towards preparing officers for leadership . That change must be towards the university ideal of education , of training young men to think for themselves , instead of moulding their minds to a sealed pattern . The obvious difficulty , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that officers , although in all grades called upon to exercise command , have also to act under command except in the highest grades . But the problem is not so difficult as it may seem so long as the system of education is based on a true understandingof the spirit of discipline , and the system of discipline is elastic rather than rigid . The training of those who simply act under command , and merely handle the inanimate tools of war , is a simpler problem . Not so simple as it used to be before weapons became complex mechanisms and before their long-range effect compelled the dispersion of the combatants on the battlefield , but still simple in comparison with the trainingof a leader . The object of the soldier 's training is threefold . To make him skilled in handling his weapons under battlep160conditions . To make him an interlocking and frictionless cog in the military machine , which implies the development of automatic obedience , of instinctive combination according to some practised system of action , and of physical stamina . Thirdly , and above all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Military exercises and military discipline have been the two main agencies used to produce the trained soldier . But they have had a purely moral accompaniment in the cultivation of a distinctive military spirit ? springing from comradeship and bound up by the strands of esprit de corps . The form of military exercises has naturally varied with the changing nature of weapons and the consequentchanges in the fighting formation of military bodies . These exercises may be classified as individual and collective . In their application to the training of the soldier both classes have in the past been predominantly , and still are to a large extent , based upon drill ? that is , the repetition of certain movements until their performancebecomes instinctive . If such drill has the primary purpose of developing working efficiency , it has also been of use , especially in the past , as a . supplement to discipline and the military spirit . By a discipline of the muscles the reflexes of obedience were developed so that the soldier could continue to act effectively even when his mind was numbed by fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term , is the enforcement of instant obedience to orders through the threat of punishment , supplemented by the control of the reflexes established through drill . In the widerp161sense it is bound up with the soldierly spirit . So far as this is susceptible to analysis , its components appear to be the pride of manhood , the pride of arms ( of being an initiate in the martial cult ) , the confidence that comes from skill at arms , the sense of comradeship , the sense of duty , and the sense of loyalty ? to comrades , commander , corps and country . The proportions of these components have certainly varied . Thus in the citizen-military armies of the Greek city-states and the Roman Republic , patriotism would seem to have been the dominant element ? at any rate in the willing soldier 's spirit . The same has been true of the armies of the French Revolution and of the " national " armies subsequently . In the army of ancient Sparta , the influence of its martial cult would seem to have risen to at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the time of Marius onwards patriotism counted for little , and personal loyalty to a commander took its place . It was in the early part of the first century B.C. that the old oath of allegiance sworn annually was replaced by a personal and permanent oath of loyalty to the commander . As for the mystical sense of membership of a cult we can see its power in Caesar 's ability to quell a mutiny by addressing his men as quirites or civilians . These two elements continued to be predominant throughout the Middle Ages , first in the feudal forces , then in the " free companies " who hired themselves out collectively , and later in the swelling volume of mercenarieswho enlisted in the army of any sovereign willingto pay them . When standing armies became general , from thep162seventeenth century onward , the element of personal loyalty to the general declined in importance , to be succeededby loyalty to the corps ? the regimental spirit . Patriotism naturally revived as a motive factor when armies were raised from natives of the country . Yet in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained as powerful influences on the soldier 's spirit . No student of war is likely to underrate the strength of the military spirit as a cement to armies , especially those whose ranks are filled with men of some intelligence . Yet , equally , no scientific historian will fail to perceive how much of their fighting power and fortitude especially in the past , was due to a severely punitive discipline , which inspired a fear that overcame fear of the enemy . Spartan discipline is proverbial , yet it had a larger moral element in its application than that of most armies until recent times . Those who ran away were punished by shame ? they could hold no office , could receive no wife , were exposed to insult or blows without the right of reply , were compelled to wear patched and particoloureddress , and were only allowed to shave one side of their faces . Roman discipline , in comparison , was far more physicalin its deterrents , the death penalty being frequently inflicted . When a body of troops failed in the hour of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death of every tenth man . But it is interesting to note that the Romans subtly appealed to the military spirit in some of their disciplinary measures , by givingp163them the semblance of punishment for a crime against comradeship and the corps rather than merely against the state . Thus the delinquents were punished by a form of running the gauntlet in which the other soldiers of the legion , armed with sticks and stones , normally battered them to death . On the other hand , the Romans , as an offsetto these merciless penalties , created a regular system of rewards for distinguished service , apart from the ordinaryincentive of loot . We find the Roman practice of decimation revived by Wallenstein in 1642 to punish a regiment which had led the flight from the battlefield . If the enforcement of disciplinevaried greatly in the armies of the seventeenth century , the scale of punishments were very severe . In that of Gustavus , however , they were employed as much to ensure good behaviour in quarters as bravery in battle . And the Swedish Army was certainly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its conduct towards the people of the territory it passed through . In Marlborough'sarmy discipline was tightened , running the gauntlet and , for lesser crimes , whipping being the chief forms of punishment . The rod , however , was now used to punish many offences for which death or mutilation had formerly been inflicted . In 1712 there was a case of a soldier being sentenced to 12,600 stripes in seven applications . It was left to Frederick the Great to produce the most severely drilled and disciplined army that the world has perhaps yet known , with the calculated purpose of turningmen into automatic machines that could fire five volleys a minute ? with a flint lock musket ! ? while ad/vancing and manoeuvring at a slow march under the enemy 's fire , and that could be relied on to keep up these rolling volleys while their rigidly dressed ranks were being torn by bullets and cannon balls . It was a triumph of merciless discipline and drill over human nature . Blind obedience was the keynote of a system in which the death penalty was introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sergeant 's exacting orders . It was only by comparison that other armies seemed less severely disciplined . Thus in the British Army and Navy the cat-o ' - nine- tails , superseding the rod , reigned throughout the eighteenth and far into the nineteenth century , as the regular penalty for offences great and small ? a hundred lashes being regarded as quite natural for the latter , and anything up to fifteen hundred for the former . We learn that in the 28th Foot in 18o6 any man who failed to pass the inspecting officer 's scrutiny of his turn-out was flogged on the spot , and that from ten to twenty men used to be punished at a single parade . If some commanding officers were reluctant to flog , the power was grossly abused by many . Not until the Royal Commission of 1835 was a systematic limitation imposed , and not until 1881 was flogging finally abolished . Every effort towards reform had been fiercely opposed by senior officers who declared that any limitation would ruin the discipline of the Army . We should recognize that the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slums , so that some excuse may be found in their vicious tendencies for the drastic measures taken to ensure good behaviour . We must recognize that so long as men fought in close for/mations ? from the Spartan phalanx of spears down to the serried lines of Frederick 's grenadiers ? wherein each man must move in dovetailed uniformity with his neighbours to ensure cohesion , there was a military value in a disciplineand drill that turned men into machines . It was as much due to the growing effect of firearms , which compelled looser formations , as to a growing humanitythat in the nineteenth century the methods of discipline became gradually less severe . Even so , old habits die hard and even in the armies of the early twentieth century discipline remained predominantly punitive as a means of subduing the independent will of the soldier and as a means , perhaps overrated , of enabling him to face danger through the conscious or subconsciousfear of the more certain penalties that awaited him if he failed . Even to-day there are military students who maintain that instinctive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is wiser to impose courage through the impress of a martinet discipline . Yet a different way was introduced , and vindicated , more than a century ago in what is known as Sir John Moore 's system of training . Its origin was partly tactical , partly humane . The more intelligent British officers who fought in America were impressed by the impracticabilityof pitting stiff-ranked formations against the forest craft of the Red Indians , and the need of combating them with a new type of resourceful light infantry . On Christmas Day , 1755 , took place the birth of a corps , the both Royal Americans ( now the King 's Royal Rifle Corps ) , which became a light to the whole military world . It developed not only a new style of infantryp166tactics , but under Colonel Bouquet , a new form of discipline , in which the self-respect and self-confidence of the men was fostered by an atmosphere of trust and brutalityreplaced by sympathy . In preference to imposed discipline there was a cultivation of all the elements of the soldierly spirit to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Revolution and the hard lessons taught by the colonists acted as a spur to this new tendency , and eventually led , first , to the formation of the Experimental Rifle Corps in i800 , and then to the training of the Light Brigade at Shorncliffeunder Sir John Moore . It gave a new spiritual meaningto discipline and added a moral to a merely physical cohesion with results that were proved in the Peninsular War , where the Light Division was the salt of the Army . Its triumphs were the more remarkable because the salt was damped , the light dimmed , by many conservativesoldiers who lacked the insight and the courage to place their trust in the new system . This adulteration continued in the generations that followed , although partially offset by the rising level of humanity in the peopleat large . At the present day , one can say that the methods of discipline , if not its spirit , are virtually equivalentto those of Sir John Moore 's system . But they should have made a century 's progress . By comparison with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can see that there is far too much stress on physical deterrentseven in the most enlightened codes of military discipline . And too little emphasis on intelligence . Todaythe revolutionary changes in warfare point the urgent need of a fresh change in discipline . The increas/ingly mechanical nature of weapons demands the intellectualdevelopment of the men who handle them ? at any rate of those who act individually or in little groups . When battle was waged essentially between physical bodies there was a value in turning men into machines . Now that battle is being waged more and more between machines the object of military training should be to produce men who will be masters of the machine ? by developing their mental powers . THE TRAINING OF THE COMMANDERIf executive intelligence is becoming more and more needed in the soldier , creative intelligence is and always has been the supreme requirement in the commander ? coupled with moral courage . War is a two-party affair , and thus conventionality of thought inevitably tends to confirm this equality of kind , conducing to stalemate . The best hope of tilting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in originality ? to producesomething unexpected that will paralyze the opponent'sfreedom of action . But , in historical fact , such creative intelligence has been rare in the operations of war . And rarer still in preparation for war . Military history is filled with the record of military improvements that have been resisted by those who would have profited richly from them . Between the development of new weapons or new tactics and their adoption there has always been a time-lag , often of generations . And that time-lag has often decidedthe fate of nations . The explanation lies not only in the system of trainingp168but in a psychological attitude underlying it . The officer has never been taught to approach his problems , and the investigation of experience , in a spirit of scientific enquiry . His early training is directed , above all , to the cultivationof unquestioning loyalty ? multiple loyalties ? to sovereign , country , service , corps and his superiors . To strengthen him for his fighting function , and for the tremendoustrials of fortitude this entails , the development of an intense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it becomes an obstacle when the man so brought up turns to investigate the facts of warfare . His compoundloyalties create prejudices which inevitably colour his vision and bias his judgment . They may be essential to the soldier in action , but they are a hindrance in reflection ? wherefacts should be analyzed in a scientific spirit , with complete detachment from all loyalties save that to truth . To understand this fundamental difficulty of the military mind not only helps to explain its historicalrecords of myopia but may help many who feel bitter at the consequences to judge the case more charitably . But charity does not imply contentment . It may be that only a philosopher could reconcile the opposing loyalties harmoniously , but something could be done to help the normal soldier in adapting himself to the conflictingroles of loyal executant in war and truth-loyal student of war . The first need is a change of attitude towards criticism and independence of thought . It would be helped if there was a recognition of the psychological commonplace that men of personality and originality ? in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are inherently critical . And in fact the great leaders ofp169the past who are taken as examples were critically minded . A second need is for a new attitude to knowledge , and the encouragement of a spirit of enquiry . Satisfactionwith present knowledge is the chief bar to the pursuit of knowledge . It has been so in all branches and professions . If the military profession is no worse than others , that is no just cause for contentment . Nor does the history of armies yield any cause for self-satisfaction to any soldier who digs down into it . In these conditions lack of criticism is a proof of virgin ignorances . Those who have studied war the most can not avoid becoming acutely conscious that the exploration of war as a scientificsubject has scarcely been begun . These can be summarized briefly , or otherwise require a comprehensive historical survey , not possible here . The effects have naturally been far-reaching wherever compulsorymilitary service has been the custom . They have been correspondingly insignificant save indirectly among those peoples who have depended upon mercenaries or upon permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people naturally tends to give the soldier a sense of isolation that in time accentuates the natural caste spirit arising from pride of arms and the mystical bond of comradeship between men who have faced danger together . The physical benefit of military training is very marked , so long as it is accompanied by good feeding and housing conditions . Its value , however , lies in the openairlife and exercise rather than in the specific forms ofp170military drill , which are certainly inferior to gymnastic exercises . This can be seen in the present Italian army where open-air gymnastics and physical training are carried out extensively . The physical development and activity of the men who have done their military service is remarkable . The moral benefit of military training varies with the system of discipline in vogue . It is highest when the predominantemphasis is placed on an appeal to the soldierly spirit , and lowest when unthinking obedience is imposed through fear of the consequences . The purely punitive form has little more than a negative value and then only as applied to the lowest form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the soldierly spirit are in proportion to their development a foundation of good citizenship . The mental benefit is more doubtful , save in so far as it provides opportunity for practising leadership or for developing specialized knowledge . Military training certainlytends to stimulate quickness of thought . On the other hand , it inevitably tends to uniformity of thought , if this may be relieved by the diverse tests and intense experiences of active service . These influences together with the educational facilitiesthat now commonly exist in an army may contribute to a definite increase of mental capacity in a backward community or when applied to backward types of men . In Russia , for example , the idea of using the army as a lever through which to raise the intellectual level of the masses lies at the base of a noteworthy educational experiment.  |p171The  wider effects of military training upon society , and the political effects , can be gauged in past history . Thus in the city-states of Greece , whose armies were citizen militias , it seems reasonably clear that the duty of military service did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it undoubtedly strengthened the sense of citizenship . Moreover , the restrictionof military service to free citizens tended to enhanceits moral significance . Decay began when , under the strain of the long-drawn Peloponnesian war , slaves and mercenaries were enlisted . On the other hand , it is clear that the drawbacks of military training outweighed the advantages in the case of Sparta , where the nation was turned into the equivalent of a military corps , and the unmarried men lived entirely in barracks . The civilizationof Sparta was stunted and the poorness of its contribution to the intellectual and artistic achievements of ancient Greece is only to be explained by its military " life " as a nation . If early Rome was almost barren in the arts , its highly developed civic virtues and its contribution to political science can not , in analysis , be separated from its system of military service . Under the Tullian organization the army comprised all citizens from seventeen to sixty years of age , those under forty-seven being used for service in the field . They were enrolled for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant a summer 's campaign only . But the expansion of " empire " which followed the Punic wars broke down the old citizen levy system . Marius abolished the restriction of service to men of some property , and from that time onward the army became pro/fessional and long-service , with an increasing dependence on the men of subject races and eventually on alien " barbarians " . If the change assisted the growth of civilization in Rome , it unquestionably contributed to the decline and fall of Roman civilization . In modern times also , notably in the eighteenth century , the discontinuance of the duty of military service , and the consequent dependence of states upon an isolated military caste , can be seen to have paved the way to disaster . Sometimes it has been internal , through the overthrowof a government by a minority who alone possessed and knew how to use the lever of force . More often , it has been external , as when the professionally dependent states of Europe were overthrown by the nationalarmies of Revolutionary France . The latter danger is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of small account . The former danger remains , as may be seen in the state of Germany to-day . This danger is reduced where there is a militia system , voluntary or otherwise , as well as a professional army . But beyond these deductions , it is too early to make any prediction as to the social effects of abandoning or continuing compulsory military training in civilized states of advanced civilization.  |p173IN  EXPLORING THE HISTORY OF 1914-18 , THE impression grows that the personal performance of commanderswas often far better than its actual effect . Many of the attacks that have been levied against them miss the real point by overlooking this difference . It was to a large extent the natural consequence of the conditions which bounded the exercise of high command in a war of masses . The remoteness of the higher commanders from the battlefield made it even more difficult for them to gauge the real situation there than it was for them to influence that situation . Whereas in Napoleon 's time it had been true to say that the best general was the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth now that the best general was the one who caused the least mistakes . Actual command was split into myriad fragments , resting in the hands of the company and platoonleaders : the higher commanders had changed into company directors . Deprived of personal experience of battlefield reality , they were handicapped in correcting the inevitable discrepancies of pre-war theory : in check/ing the theory with the facts , and in adjusting it to the new developments . It is not easy to determine the effect of recent developmentson this 1914-18 condition , but the present probabilityis that this psychological remoteness may be increased in more ways than it is decreased , at any rate in the sphere of the higher command . And it may be further complicated by the freshness of the problems which confront the local commanders of the new-patternforces . Mechanization is inevitable ; the European country that places its faith in old means and methods might find its faith even more misplaced than was that of the Abyssinians , who had the asset of a remote mountainfastness . Yet mechanization carries with it risks that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not food-supply but mind-supply . There is serious cause to doubt whether we shall find sufficient officers capable of directing and handling these high-mobility forces until a new generation , born in the motor age , has grown up . And without the necessary mental adjustment to the new conditions , chaos may resultwhen these forces are launched against those of a similar type . The Italians suffered serious congestion and disorganization in the early months of their campaign , yet they had no modern opponent equipped with aircraftand landcraft to make that confusion worse confounded . The dangers of inadequate mental adjustment have been increased by the years of delay in beginning the process of mechanization and in providing the means of training . For unless there has been time to develop a mechanically mobile sense in peace-time , we are invitingp175breakdown if we have to attempt a hurried transformationunder the stress of war . But the problems that call for attention go far beyond the sphere of mechanization . In Britain , this has been recognized by the latest edition of Field Service Regulations , which emphasizes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlook and knowledge , of socialas well as of military questions . War is now more than ever a social problem : a major war affects the whole of the national life and every class of citizen , and there is a corresponding civil influence on the conduct of militaryoperations . " There is also an essential similarity between the principlesor common-sense precepts which lead to success in war and those which govern any affairs where active opposition or competition has to be overcome . Both the military commander and the ordinary citizen who is planning a business transaction have to take into their calculations the possible schemes of rivals . Too many military plans have broken down through the failure to realize that war is essentially a two-party affair . The very principle of concentration , that was so continually on the lips of the dominant soldiers in 1914-18 , becomes meaningless unless the enemy 's concentration is prevented by well-devised distractions , which require detachments from your own . Applied without comprehension , this " principle " too often proved in practice no better than an unpractical catchword . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the enemy 's shoes and to see things from other points of view . Nor/mal service training in peace-time has hitherto done little to develop such qualities , or the habit of applying them . While the new British Field Service Regulations emphasizesthe fundamental similarity between the qualities required for military and civil leadership it suggests , more questionably , that a difference arises owing to the fact that " the conditions of war are utterly unfamiliar to the ordinary civilized man " . It may well be asked what opportunity the professional soldier has in peacetimeto become familiar with the stresses of battle . Past experience he may have , but so now have millions of civilians . But even this may be of little service as acclimatizationfor the conditions of a new war . A better ground for arguing the regular soldier 's advantage over the ordinary citizen is that he becomes so habituated to military processes that he can perform them instinctively in the heat of action , so that his functional efficiency is apt to be less affected by the " friction " of war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applies , however , in far less degree to the higher sphere of war , where it may be outweighed by handicaps that are inevitable in peace-time soldiering . The politicianis always " at war " , and the business man commonlyin competition with others . They have constant practice in conflict , and unceasing experience of its psychologicalconditions . Soldiering , in comparison , is a shelteredoccupation save in war . The ease with which the will of the superior prevails inside an army becomes a handicap in preparation for dealing with a hostile army . Always revolving between the poles of authority and obedience , the soldier gains little or no psychological ex/perience as a fighter . Exercises in mimic war , regulated by umpires , can not compare with the exacting tests of the political or the business field . An appreciation of these conditions may arouse sympathy for the generals of the last war who , from the isolationof a headquarter office , had to direct armies of millions composed of the people in arms , and were pitted against an active foe in a warfare which embraced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no cause for surprise that they failed so often to gauge their steps , or the enemy 's ; rather is it remarkable , when all is weighed , that they adapted themselves even as well as they did to conditions for which they were , by training and environment , so little prepared . Yet this reflection leads to another , on the way that square pegs were placed in round holes . Although it was a war of nations , and many of the best brains of the nations were drawn into the forces , they were excluded from those military spheres in which " the broadest possibleoutlook and knowledge " were needed . The custom of all the forces erected the principle that no one was fit to have a voice in matters of strategy unless he had nearly forty years ' experience of the military machine . It was certainly a novel principle , since it would have excluded nearly all the great commanders of history , from Alexander , Hannibal and Cxsar , down to Cromwell , Marlborough and Napoleon . And it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with many more non-military factors . But although the principle flew in the face of historical experience and modern knowledge , the records show that it was rigidlyp178maintained ? except in the Australian and Canadian forces ? throughout the four years of war . By a practical paradox , the civilian was invited to take over the most strictly professional functions of soldieringwhile he was viewed as an intruder in the higher and hence less technical posts . Any intelligent citizen with administrative experience found it easy to master the details of staff-work ? as soon as he had " learnt the language " his past experience here became a strong asset . In comparison , it was far more difficult for him to become an efficient regimental officer . Proficiency in the operative technique of an infantry or artillery unit , in a regular army , is the product of habit as well as of specializedtraining . The higher the plane of war , the more the solution of its problems depends on wide knowledge , broad outlook , and depth of thought : and the less , comparatively , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technique is unnecessary : without it , the ablest man would be handicapped , especially in dealingwith forces which have a long-established system of operation . The principles of fighting are based on common-sense , but something more is needed to apply them effectively in the handling of armies . The better a man 's mental equipment , however , the less time he will take to acquire an adequate knowledge of such technique . And in acquiring it quickly he will have an advantage over the man who has taken thirty or forty years in climbing the military ladder . Instruments and methods will have changed , and often be entirely new , since the other man served his apprenticeship to arms . It is difficult for thep179older soldier to have a sure grasp of weapons he has never handled , and of methods he has never carried out . Moreover , if his technical experience lies several steps back , it becomes more difficult for him to gauge the next step forward . What he gains by having prolonged experience of command may be offset by lacking first-hand knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Dominion Forces that the F.S.R. definition had a chance of test . Its results are significant . Since technical proficiency and executive habit count for more in the lower grades , it is to be inferredthat a non-professional soldier who proved himselfbarely the equal of many regulars as a battalion or brigade commander might prove outstanding when , and if , he reached a higher command . That inference was confirmed by actual experience in the Dominion Forces , notably in the case of General Monash . When the conditions of the war are analyzed , it becomesclear that in the qualifications for high command , and still more for strategic direction , there was little in pre-war professional experience that helped a man , while there was much that might handicap the development of his personal qualities . One important qualificationremained which could not be quickly acquired ; the man who had spent a lifetime in the military professionmight here have had a special advantage . An objectivestudy of the past would have been a guide to the conditions that were in development . But for such study professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of uncomfortable facts had never been encouraged in armies , who treated their history asp180a sentimental treasure rather than a field of scientific research . Thus the potential asset was left a " buried talent " . All were amateurs in that war from the moment when the opening moves broke down , and the real nature of the war emerged from the artificial mould of convention in which the pre-war plans and forces had been cast . The question which remained was how quickly they could learn , and whether their minds could expand to the scale of the problems . The chances of this adaptation , as well as the opportunity for fresh minds , were diminishedby a delusion ? that they were professionals in the larger sphere . In retrospect , it can hardly be considered that the resultswere satisfactory , or that the power of adaptation equalled the need . The question remains whether it will be adequate if another emergency comes , under conditionsthat are still more complex , even less " military " and far more difficult to gauge . At present there is small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It would seem essential both to give professional minds greater opportunity for development and to make more use of other minds . Here is a problem that is inseparable from all calculation of what is " an adequate standard " of defence.  |p181IS  THERE ANY SOLUTION FOR THE PROBLEM outlined in the previous chapter ? An obvious one is to raise the standard of intelligence and education required of the prospective officer , but its achievement is not easy . In Britain the question of the education and training of officers was examined in 1924 by a committee under Lord Haldane 's chairmanship , which included two of the ablest soldiers then in the War Office as well as a leading member , and future Vice-Chancellor , of CambridgeUniversity , Mr. Will Spens . That Committee pointed out that the problem had two aspects : " It is much to be desired that first-rate brains should be attractedinto the Army . It is not necessary , nor is it wholly desirable , that all , or even the majority , of regimentalofficers should be intellectuals . . . . In consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part by attracting a certain number of boys of high intellectualability and in securing the proper opportunities of further education for these , and for the rest by attractingand educating a large number of boys in regard to whom stress is laid on character rather than on high in/tellectual qualifications . " The Committee also declared that " any adequate improvement in the quality and quantity of candidates must depend upon a larger numberof parents being induced to regard the Army as an attractive career for their sons . This implies the necessity of convincing parents that the Army provides openings for brains and character comparable with those provided in the Civil Service or in the other professions . The task of convincing parents may in the end become a matter of propaganda ; but propaganda will be valueless unless the system can fairly be said to have been so adjusted as to make it true that such openings exist in fact . Nor is this all . Conviction is only likely to be secured on a sufficient scale by changes in the present system , which will not only provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking to attract attention . " It has been represented to us by the many authorities that we have consulted that if it is desired to make the Army attractive as a profession to men of good intellectualattainments , certain conditions are essential : ( i ) Work must be provided of sufficient intellectual interest . ( 2 ) There must be real opportunities for advancement by merit . ( 3 ) The remuneration must be adequate . " Besides emphasizing that a genuine system of promotionby merit was " essential " if the officer corps was " to be prevented from stagnating " , the report suggested that university candidates should be given special facilities for entering the Staff College early in their service and that the system of proficiency pay should be extended much beyond its existing limits , to encourage the ac/quirement of special knowledge of some particular militaryor scientific subject . The Committee , in conclusion , stated : " We attach the greatest importance to the whole question of providing at every stage adequate rewards for exceptional capacity . We believe liberal provision in this direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become officers , and we are unanimous in our opinion that a great opportunity exists at the present time to initiate the suggested reforms . It is not too late to convince the public that the lessons of the war are being taken seriouslyto heart by the military authorities , and that it is their firm intention to make the Army an attractive career for men of talent . If we wait much longer the public will feel that the Army is such a hopelessly conservativeinstitution that no vital change is possible in the principles on which the post-war Army is organized . " More than a dozen years have passed since the HaldaneCommittee made its report . Its concrete recommendationshave been fulfilled only in small degree , and its intentions still less . For adequate effect , in attracting " first-rate brains " to the Army , it would be necessary not only to offer greater inducements but to dispel longstandingassumptions , both within and without the militarysphere . We should have to change the way that the Army looks at itself , and also the way it is regarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in the education and training of officers , none would seem to have gone far enough to fulfil the Committee'scondition of being " sufficiently striking " to at/tract attention and carry conviction ? of an adequate change . Schoolmasters , in general , have tended to view with pained surprise any boy of scholarship standard who expressed the intention of entering the Army , and to deplore such a waste of his gifts . And in most public schools where an " army class " existed it has not stood high in the estimation of the boys themselves , being commonlyregarded as the refuge of those who have more brawn than brain . Only a few years ago a headmaster candidly told a soldier who was seeking his aid in improvingthe supply of officers : " I only advise boys who would be quite impossible in any other walk of life to go to Sandhurst " ? the British equivalent to West Point . The effect of an opinion so wide-spread and long-standinghas naturally been to keep the standard of recruitmentlow , and , naturally also , the opinion was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war when the army absorbed the nation , and the " old boys " who came into the army for the duration of the emergencyfound themselves in subordination ? permanently , and not merely while they were serving their apprenticeshipto arms ? to the low-rated " army class " of their schooldays . Only a dynamic proof of professional efficiencycould have altered such an old-established view ? and that , in general , was hardly forthcoming . In some ways the military profession , if it tenaciously maintained its claims to privilege while the war lasted , has been more ready than most to abandon its preconceptions . That progress is apt to be concealed by a habit of " trade-union " loyalty which leads its members to deny publicly , often in tones of the utmost indignation ,  |p185the  faults they not merely admit but castigate privately ? soldiers are rarely true to their better selves in public speeches . But since the war there has been a remarkable concurrence of opinion among the heads of the British Army on the need to broaden the basis of military education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object , they all have a " University " keynote . The old prejudice against officers who entered the Army through the Universities instead of through the Military Colleges has disappeared , and been replaced by a desire to obtain as many as possible . Under present conditions , however , the supply is limited ; partly becauseof the greater cost to parents of this mode of entry ; partly because the career has not been sufficiently attractive to young men capable of taking a good degree . Even now , the antedate given to University candidates is so limited that a man who has taken first-class honours starts at no advantage , even at a disadvantage , in senioritycompared with the cadet who has passed through Sandhurst . Until this is changed we can hardly expect more candidates from the Universities , or those candidatesto be of the best . As an alternative there has been an effort to widen the educational basis of the Royal Military College at Sandhurst , and to remodel the system on university lines . Addressing the Headmasters ' Conference in 1930 , the ( lief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes : " Warfare was becoming more and more complicated , requiring brains and ability of the officers , and we found that we had to build up the brains and personalities ofp186the officers from the very beginning . We realized that in the Great War some of the greatest mistakes of officers were made in their dealings with civilians and in their lack of knowledge of civilians , and we realized that a great war needed broadmindedness on the part of its leaders . " The old regime at Sandhurst aimed at turning out purely military specialists , and this was not what the Army or the public wanted . The curriculum which was going on undoubtedly deadened a boy 's intellect and led his thoughts into narrow channels . A boy was asked to have an active mind when his body was really exhausted . He was never taught to think out things for himself . We made him spend hours taking his rifle to bits and still more hours putting it together again . " The Sandhurst curriculum has to be drastically overhauled , and in the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-development . " Where the object of old was to turn out a cadet who on joining his regiment would be a perfectly trained private soldier ? it was even laid down that there was to be no attempt to train him as a leader ? the aim is now to give him an idea of the elements of leadership and some practical opportunity of exercising it ; weapon-training has been reduced to an outline knowledge , and general subjects increased in variety , while teaching in class has been supplemented by providing more time for private study . Through these changes there has been a marked improvementin the educational value of a Sandhurst course . Yet the closer approach to the University systemp187has tended to emphasize the gulf which separates the intellectualatmosphere of a military college from that which characterizes a university . It is easy to provide company officers who are good sportsmen , but difficult to find instructors who combine deep knowledge with the ability to create a thirst for it . It is still more difficult to develop the power of independent thought in an establishmentsteeped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enthusiasm shown in pursuing this aim , the result has fallen short of the original hopes . There has been , partly in consequence , a recent revival of the suggestion that the military colleges should be abolished and entry into the Army be entirely through the Universities . For this system to produce the required number of officers it would , of course , be necessary to subsidize the University course of accepted candidates . Even so , the cost would be an inconsiderable fraction of the Army budget , a fraction so small that if viewed with a sense of proportion it should not weigh against the prospective benefit . The trend of modern warfare gives ever-increasing point to this suggestion , as a University offers a broader educational basis and also more opportunity for specializedstudy , both of which are needed to meet the growing complexity of warfare and its tendency to be more and more influenced by non-military factors . Again , to make entry through the University general would help to diminish the difference of outlook , as distinctfrom a difference of ability , between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who may be employed in the higher direction of forces.  |p188Modern  warfare demands an ever greater power of adjustment to new conditions ; the effect of the higher direction may be paralyzed unless the executants also acquirean increased degree of mental adaptability . Another potential advantage of a general University entry might be in offering the means of fulfilling one of the most important recommendations of the Haldane Committee : " It is desirable in every profession to have a foundationalbasis on which the insight of those who practise it rests . To change the metaphor , it is always helpful to the practitioner , old or young , to have a background for his reasoning against which he can set or estimate it . For the physicist , pure mathematics performs this role , for the student of philosophy , the history of past systemsis the background against which he sets and estimateshis ideas ; for the physician , physiology and pathologygive him what he needs of this kind , just as anatomy gives it for the surgeon . Is there any subject which can bring the study of military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects in such a way as to illuminate that study , render it more interesting , and develop not only its significance , but the direction in it which must be looked for in new ideas ? " We believe that the study of military history in a wider and less restricted form than has hitherto been current in establishments for military education may do a great deal in this direction . The strategy of a particular nation must always be in large measure the outcome of its geographical conditions and of its history . Great Britain and the British Empire consist largely of posses/sions surrounded or in large measure bounded by the sea . Their military history has therefore been based on sea-power . This fact has exercised a dominating influence on British strategy and on British history . Apart from this history and the strategical necessities which it has disclosed neither the science nor the art of British warfareare intelligible . They require an intelligent and comprehensivestudy of history to bring out their meaning , and to guide the officer in his military studies . With France and Germany the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the study of them , . while very valuable from a general standpoint , can not take the place of that of British military institutions , and of the fashion in which with us land-power is conditioned by sea-power . " Such a truly educative use of military history has not proved possible under the present system . It demands , in the first place , the study of books which treat the subjectscientifically instead of sentimentally : as history , not as a pleasantly flavoured fairy tale or an uplifting moral story . Books of the former kind are rare in this field ; there has been little encouragement to produce them . It demands , in the second place , the development of a critical mind in the student ; to this there has been even less encouragement . A few instructors , inspired by the university ideal , have done their best to bring it into the military colleges , but their effect has been overborneby the weight of authority ? well-meaning but uncomprehending , saturated in pious traditions , and anxious lest discipline might be impaired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancestor/worship . It is not necessary to depreciate the moral help they gain from this devotional practice in order to appreciateits mental hindrance in seeing the facts of experienceclearly and gauging the trends of the future . So long as history is regarded as sacred ground , military science must remain where science as a whole was centuriesback . It has not yet emerged from the Middle Ages . With a general broadening of outlook among those who are now rising to the higher places of the Army , there is hope of similar progress at the military colleges , but the latter is conditioned by the former , and we can not expect it to be as fast as is necessary . It might be quickened if the process of education was moved to places where the desired atmosphere already prevails . A suggestion of a different kind , but with the same aim of making the Army a career attractive to talent , is the creation of a special Staff Corps . It might be recruitedfrom university graduates who had taken a good honours degree , forming an intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in turn be recruited ? withthe double advantage that they would have been trained from the outset for the work , and have escaped years of deadening routine . Such a system would enable better use to be made of the university route of entry than at present , without necessarily enlargingits scale . It would apply to the Army the longtestedmethod by which the Civil Service provides its higher , administrative class . It might be made more elasticby providing opportunity , for subsequent entry into the Corps , to regimental officers whose gifts had been late in maturing , or even to Territorial officers of out/standing military ability who had found , as not infrequentlyhappens , that their natural hobby should have been their chosen profession . The creation of such a Staff Corps would enable permanent rates of pay to be offered sufficient to attract the ablest university products , and to keep them in the service ? whereas , to-day , the ablest of the younger staff officers are being tempted to leave the service early by the slowness of promotion and the poorness of the pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can command outside . The obvious danger in forming a separate Staff Corps is that its members might become out of touch with the problems and difficulties of the ordinary soldier , leading to consequent friction and to the issue of unpractical directions . But this danger already exists , and has long made itself felt , in the present system . To-day , perhaps more than ever , the gates of the Staff College control the level of advancement , and its hallmark is a badge of separation . Moreover , nothing is more conducive to frictionbetween the Staff and the Line than the fact that many an aspiring soldier ultimately finds the gates of the Staff College closed to him , and is filled with a bitter sense of having wasted twelve or fifteen years in a professionwhich now has no future for him . With a Staff Corps recruited direct from the Universities he would have a fair idea of his destiny from the outset , while being able to keep a hope of joining the elect , instead of , as at present , hanging under a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Staff Corps an understandingof regimental conditions , and to prevent themp192losing it , it would certainly be necessary for them to do spells of duty with a unit at intervals throughout their career . Except at the outset this would merely be a continuation of the present system , with the nominal differencethat they would be seconded from the staff to a unit , and the beneficial difference that their departure , for return to the staff , would be no cause of grievance to the regiment . They might also gain in experience by doing their spells of regimental duty with different arms , thus becoming better equipped for the direction of combinedforces . The drawbacks of a separate Staff Corps are obvious ; they tend to diminish , and the advantages to become more manifest , in reflection . Here I must confess that , for my own part , I have hitherto viewed with disfavour anything which might widen the gulf between the Staff and the regimental soldier , having seen so much of the troubles which arise under the presentsystem . Thus when I originally referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corps , I had the halfformedthought that it would suffice to point out the drawbacks ; it was only as I continued to think about it , and the possibility of utilizing it as a development of the university entry , that I began to change my view , becoming more impressed by its potential advantages . The ills are already inherent in the existing staff system ; a higher extension of that system might lessen them while improving its value ? on the principle of cure by " the hair of the dog that bit him " . Whatever the merits of these several suggestions for raising the level of military ability , it is well to realize that it will be a long time before their application canp193appreciably improve the situation . Even if any of them were adopted forthwith , many years would pass before the officers educated in such a fresh atmosphere would rise to the high places of the Army . During those years they would be affected by the successive layers of their seniors , and be passing on the effects to their juniors . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would be still too much to expect that in another forty years the atmosphere there would become as clear of traditional dust as their own had been when they left the university eighty years before . To gauge the implications of that time-lag is a check on optimism . Nor is it the only one . We may recognize the value of a university training as a means of broadening the mind , but we should avoid the mistake of overestimating the effect . If it raises a hope , it is by no means a guarantee of freedom from prejudice and the capacity to weigh questions impartially . An hour in some common-rooms would suffice to dispel such illusions . By contrast , some of the broadestminds have passed through the narrowest grooves . The man is more than the system . The best system of education is no more than a help , although a bad one is a hindrance . Thus , any of the suggested reforms that might be made in the education of officers are , at the most , only hopeful forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? of developing adequate adaptability to the conditions of future warfare . This turns on the simple yet fundamental question of attitude . To cope with the problems of modern war we need , above all , to see them clearly and analyze them scientifically . This requiresp194freedom from prejudice combined with the power of discernmentand with a sense of proportion . Only through the capacity to see all relevant factors , to weigh them fairly , and to place them in relation to each other , can we hope to reach an accurately balanced judgment . Discernmentmay be primarily a gift ; and a sense of proportion , too . But their development can be assisted by freedom from prejudice , which largely rests with the individualto achieve ? and within his power to achieve it . Or at least to approach it . The way of approach is simple , if not easy ? requiring , above all , constant self-criticismand care for precise statement . It is easier , however , to find an index of progress , and consequently of fitness to bear the responsibility of exercising judgment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which he has an interest , watch whether his first question is as to its fairness and truth . If he reacts to any such criticism with strong emotion ; if he bases his complaint on the ground that it is not in " good taste " , or that it will have a bad effect ? in short , if he shows concernwith any question except " Is it true ? " he thereby reveals that his own attitude is unscientific . Likewise if in his turn he judges an idea not on its merits but with reference to the author of it ; if he criticizes it as " heresy " ; if he argues that authority must be right because it is authority ; if he takes a particular criticism as a general depreciation ; if he confuses opinion with facts ; if he claims that any expression of opinion is " unquestionable " ; if he declares that something will " never " come about , or is " certain " that any view is right . The path of truth is paved with critical doubt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any question subjectively is self-blinding . There is nothing more astounding , if amusing , than the way many a soldier , for example , in his heated denunciation of some criticism of soldiers ' limitations , will prove out of his own mouth that it is at least correct in his own case . So , to end on a lighter note , I would suggest to my readers that they may learn something by watching how various soldiers , and themselves if soldiers , react to this discussion of the problem of developing the scientific approach to militaryproblems . And if they are not soldiers , they may gain additional profit by observing their own and their fellows ' reaction to a critical examination of their own profession.  |p199IF  SOME COUNTRIES ANNOUNCE THEIR SCHEMES of rearmament as a regretful necessity , while others announceit in tones of martial pride , a feature common to all is the air of confidence that the measures are technicallysound . They all appear satisfied that the fact of rearmaments is equivalent to efficiency . Is such confidencejustified ? Past experience hardly supports it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions which surround any future war . Any reasonable than must hope that war will have no future : but a reasonable man must know that reason plays small part in human affairs . And experience does not lend much encouragement to the hope of no more war . " What will the next war be like ? " " Will it be anything like the last ? " These are questions that , in the presentstate of apprehension or resigned curiosity , are almost daily hurled at anyone who is a student of the grim branch of knowledge which is sometimes called the science of war . Such a description is far too flatteringthe neatest comment upon it that I have seen was one by Rebecca West to the effect that : " Before a war mili/tary science seems a real science , like astronomy , but that after a war it seems more like astrology . " Those who have progressed furthest in exploration realize that its scientific study has barely begun . They will also be the least inclined to venture upon detailed predictions . Confident prophecy is best left to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it , and as prophets have no reputation to lose . We have only to recallsome of their prophecies that stand on record . If there was one feature of the half-century preceding 1914 that would seem impossible to misjudge , it was the increasing advantage of the defensive , due to the growingpower of infantry firearms ? first the magazine rifle and then the machine-gun . An obvious corollary was the limitation placed on cavalry action . The American Civil War , as it advanced , made these new factors plain . It was not to be expected that European generals would profit by this second-hand experience , since the great Von Moltke dismissed it as no more than " two armed mobs chasing each other round the country , from which nothing could be learned " . But the Franco-German War , despite its brevity , demonstrated at Gravelotte and elsewherethe same change of conditions . Nevertheless in 1883 we find the German protagonist of the " Nation in Arms " , the future Field-Marshal von der Goltz , declaringthat " the idea of the greater strength of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War might surely have suggested a doubt of this dictum , yet in i9o3 the future Marshal Foch , already acting as the official mould of French military ideas , committed himself to the con/fident prediction that " any improvement in firearms is bound to strengthen the offensive " . He at least had not been a participant in any real test , but the future Field-Marshal Haig , called upon by the Royal Commission , when fresh from the South African battlefields , to give account of the light that he had gained , was confident that " cavalry will have a larger sphere of action in future wars " . His forecast might have been more intelligible if he had been thinking merely of mounted troops , which had been necessary to cope with Boer mobility . But he showed that his mind was fixed on the cavalry charge by the stress he laid on mounted action , and he confirmed this subsequently by the severe measures he took to curb the tendency to turn cavalry into mounted riflemen . His view was shared by the military authorities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1914 Germany , France , Russia , and Austria each deployed over a hundred thousand cavalry . With what result ? The French relied for their information mainly on their cavalry , but , as has now been officially related : " This immense mass of cavalry discovered nothing of the enemy 's advance . . . and the French Armies were everywheresurprised . " The most important effect that the German cavalry achieved was that , by their reckless destruction of telegraph lines everywhere , they did much to paralyze their own command during the advance into France . The Austrians ' advance was " preceded by a great mass of cavalry " ; their official history records that most of them never came within sight of the enemy , owing to their horses being disabled through sore backs.  |p202They  at least were luckier than those who did make contact . For since the Russian cavalry stayed behind , the remaining Austrian cavalry bumped into the Russian infantry ; poor shots as these were they did not fail to hit such a target , and the Austrian cavalry came back with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was overshadowed by the drama that followed , when the main armies clashed , but it was perhaps the hugest farce that has ever been enacted in a theatre of war . The generals were no more fortunate in gauging the possibilities of newer instruments . Not many years before1914 , when the attention of a member of the British Army Council was drawn to a note on the development of aircraft , he endorsed it thus : " We are no nearer the solution of the conquest of the air than we were in the days of Montgolfier 's Fire Balloon . " A more comprehensivedisbelief in change was expressed by General Sukhomlinov , the Russian War Minister who warned the instructors at the Staff College that he could " not hear the words modern war ' without a feeling of annoyance . As war was , so it remains ; all these things are vicious innovations . " Sukhomlinov was disappointed of his ambition to command the Russian Armies in the war , but he could at least content himself with having helped to ensurethat they marched blind and little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but fundamentally similar in nature , was the assurance of the French Commander-in-Chief , Joffre , when on August 6th , 1914 , he serenely declared : " It may be concluded that the Germans are executing ap203plan of which we have knowledge . " Hence it was with ample confidence that he launched his forces eastward into Lorraine , and into a trap , while the Germans were sweeping through Belgium . If the German Command thus scored an initial surprise , they threw away the advantage through an overconfidencethat verged on intoxication . They told the Austrians that if the French Army took the offensive they counted on attaining a decision " on the 21st day of mobilization " , i.e. August 23rd . If the French Army stayed on the defensive behind its frontier defence , they might take a week longer to achieve a decisive victory . I hey would then transfer their forces to the Russian front where they " should arrive on the 41st day of mobilization " . obilization " . The decision had not come when August 22nd came , although that day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans in the Ardennes , and were thrown back . Although mauled , they slipped away . Yet the German Command was sufficiently persuadedthat the decisive victory had already been won that , on the 25th , it began transferring forces to Russia from the right wing . By the time this reached the Marne , it was much weaker than the forces opposing it . And on the 41st day of mobilization , September I ith , it was in full retreat ! The decisive turn had come with the penetration of the British Expeditionary Force into a thirty-mile gap between the two German armies of the right wing . This gives an ironical turn to the fact that the German Commandhad rebuffed the offer of their Navy to interfere with the shipment of the British force , saying that " itp204would be of advantage to settle with the i 6o,000 British at the same time as the French and Belgians " . The blindness of generalship , especially towards new developments , was not cured by sharp contact with reality ? partly , perhaps , because that contact was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battlefield for months when Haig , resisting a proposal for increasing the British strength in these weapons , remarked that : " The machine-gun was a much overrated weapon and two per battalion were more than sufficient . " Called upon for his judgment , Kitchener concededthat four per battalion might be useful , but anything " above four may be counted a luxury " . Long before the war ended , there would be a scale of more than forty heavy and light machine-guns per battalion ? but that was due to the foresight and forceful pressure of a civilian minister , Mr. Lloyd George . Military myopia likewise prevailed when means were mooted to overcome the defensive barrier formed by the hostile machine-guns . When the project of building tanks was submitted to the British Engineer-in-Chief in June , 1915 , he icily remarked : " Before considering this proposalwe should descend from the realms of imagination to solid facts . " Eight months later , when the first tank performed in front of Lord Kitchener , his comment was : " A pretty mechanical toy . The war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such machines . " Most of the generals were confident that it would be won long before such unnecessary aids could be produced . They had been equally confident from the earliest months , and they remained so despite constant disproof.  |p205On  September 13th , 1914 , General Wilson , the right hand of the British Commander-in-Chief , unwisely noted in his diary a conversation he had had with the guiding brain of the French : " Berthelot asked me when I thought we should cross into Germany , and I replied .. . in four weeks . He thought three weeks . " That very day the Allied armies were held up on the line of the Aisne , where they remained for the next four years . The following June , Poincare , the French President , pathetically complained to Kitchener : " Joffre and Sir John ( French ) told me in November they were going to push the Germans back over the frontier ; they gave me the same assurance in December , March , and May . What have they done ? The attacks are very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be imagined that these optimistic forecasts were merely , if rashly , uttered to encourage ministerial morale , one must record a few more prophecies in which the generals indulged in their own circle . Thus , in November , 1914 , Sir John French asserted that all the hard fighting of the war was over ; in January , 1915 , he expressed the opinion that the war would be over before June ; in February , Joffre said that it would be over by July ; in March , Haig felt sure that the Germans would be wanting peace before the end of July ; in August , he declared that he would not be surprised to see the enemy give in by November , and that in any case they could not go on after January , 1916 . When it came to preparing the great offensive of July 1st , 1916 , Haig and his chief executive , as the British Official History records , " impressed on all , at con/ferences and other times , that the infantry would only have to walk over and take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on July ist was a complete failure on the greater part of the front , with a loss of 6o,000 men in a single day . At the end of 1916 , continued disappointment led to the replacement of Joffre by Nivelle , who planned a great offensive for 1917 , declaring : " We shall break the German front when we wish . " When his executive subordinate , General Micheler , reported that the enemy were building a new third line of defence out of reach of his artillery , Nivelle lightheartedly retored : " Do n't be anxious , you wo n't find a German in those trenches ; they only want to be off ! " He confidently asserted that he would break through the Germans ' first two positions " with insignificant loss " , that in three days at most his armies would be in open country , beginning the great pursuit to the Rhine . The offensive was duly launched and at nightfall had progressed about 600 yards instead of the six miles anticipated in Nivelle 's programme ; its continuation on subsequent days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 120,000 . The chief effect was to strain the morale of the French troops to breakingpoint , producing a dangerous series of mutinies in the attack-sickened army . It was crippled for the rest of the summer and had to be nursed carefully for the rest of the war . Notwithstanding the paralysis of his allies , Haig told the British Cabinet in June 1917 , that " if the fighting were kept up at its present intensity for six months Germanywould be at the end of her available man-power " .  |p207By  such assurances he gained a dubious sanction for his own continued offensive at Ypres . On August 2ISt he reported to the Government that " the time is fast approachingwhen Germany will be unable to maintain her armies " . On October 8th , arguing for permission to press deeper into the Passchendaele morass , he declared that the enemy might collapse " at any moment " . With obviousdoubt , as if making a concession to pessimistic politicians , he prefaced his view of 1918 prospects with the remark : " Even if they hold out until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and were able to transfer troops from the Russian front , he did not contemplate any serious check to his offensive . Not by a single word did he suggestthe possibility that the Germans might take the offensive . As late as January 7th , 1918 , when he came home to see the Cabinet , he expressed the opinion that the Germans would not attack . But on March 2ISt , they refuted his prophecy , by breaking through his front to a depth of nearly forty miles . If the series of crises that followed were retrieved , and the scales of the war turned , by the arrival of American reinforcements , it was the pressure of sea-power that undermined Germany 's resistance and ensured her collapse . This fact lends significance to the French Com'nand'spre-war estimate of the help that the British Navy would afford . Colonel Repington , the military critic , had written in The Times that it was " worth 500,000 bayonets to the French " . General Wilson , the strategic brain of the British War Office , retorted that " Our Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading French soldiers , he wrote : " Castel/nau and Joffre did not value it at one bayonet . . . Foch is of exactly the same opinion . " This catalogue of misjudgment by the highest professionalopinion should serve as a warning for the future . It should be engraved on the walls of every War College . Even if it does not cure the habit of prophecy among military chiefs , it should make us wary of accepting dogmaticassertions , especially where novel developments are concerned . But there is a further lesson . Such a cataloguegoes far to show that Rebecca West was right , and that military science is " more like astrology " . Perhaps that conclusion is rather hard on astrology . There is , doubtless , a science of war ; but we are a long way from discovering it . Apart from the mere technique of utilizing weapons , what passes for " military science " is hardly more than the interpretation of conventions nurtured by tradition and warped by sentiment , patriotic and professional . Sentiment and science are incompatible , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . Only two years ago Field-Marshal Sir Philip Chetwode , the Commander-in-Chief in India , reminded an audience at the Quetta Staff College of Marshal Saxe 's verdict two centuries ago : " Custom and prejudice , confirmed by ignorance , are the usual foundations of the so-called science of war . " Sir Philip Chetwode added that this applies still . If his " military testament " should shake the complacency with present knowledge which tends to make any profession a mere profession of knowledge covering unexplored depths , it may prove not the least , indeed the greatest , of the services he has rendered.  |p209But  can we expect that any man 's words , however forceful , can strike off the fetters forged by centuries of custom , and riveted by human concern for career , as well as by discipline ? Few men , even of such calibre , would venture to be so candid until their careers were complete . And then , too often , their confessions will be pushed aside with a shrug of the shoulders , and the slightingcomment : " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominates war ; too appropriately , it rules the professionof arms . There is perhaps none where the dicta of the man in office are accepted with such uncritical deference , or where the termination of an active career brings a quicker descent into careless disregard . Little wonder that many of them are so affected by the sudden transition as to cling pathetically to the trimmings of the past , and so to justify the stage and printed-page caricaturesof their class , caricatures which evoke the mirth of audiences blind to the tragedy . Yet a proportion of such men use retirement as opportunity for reflection , and there is much historical evidence to show that from this section has come more accurate prognostication of future warfare than from the reigning occupants of the seats of authority . The philosophic historian may deduce that truth emerges as ambition recedes . It is not correct to say that the trend of warfare is impossible to gauge ? at least of warfare hitherto . Marshal Koch was making an appropriate confession rather than a scientific statement when he declared in 1926 : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be on the same lines as the last . That has never been the case and never will be . " One can well understand that inp210retrospect the war looked different to him from anything he had ever conceived , or prophesied of it , beforehand . But the conditions that dumbfounded him and his fellows were only the climax of an evolutionary process which they could have detected , but did not . Every war for half a century , since 1861 , had made it plainer . Other minds did perceive them . M. Bloch , a civilian banker of Warsaw , gave a remarkablyaccurate diagnosis of their essential elements in his War of the Future , published on the eve of the twentieth century , before he had even the data of South Africa and Manchuria to confirm his deductions . There were also military minds , if these belonged to bodies not in the seats of authority , that foresaw the coming stalemate and pointed out its chain of causation . Captain Mayer , the French military critic , was provoked by Foch 's fiery advocacyof the offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would engulf generals who were dreamingof mobile war without the means of mobility . He was boycotted for his audacity . So was the eminent military historian , Lt.-Colonel Grouard , when he turned from the past to the future , and forecast in 1911 exactly what would happen if the French Command adopted such a plan as they did , in 1914 . And , as we have seen , the British military critic , Colonel Repington , had a far wider grasp than either the French or British General Staffs of the factors that would influence the issue of the war . While the trend of the future in the past could have been gauged ? and was , by those who could study it in detachment ? it has become far more difficult to foreseep211the course of the next war . Apart from the immense development of weapons since 1918 , so many of the innovationsof 1914-18 are still unassimilated . The military corporation , indeed , is in a state of acute indigestion . In 1914 , the armies marched to the battlefield on foot as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were taken part of the way by rail , and that their reserves could be switched from one flank to another by that same mechanical means . The main effect of this change was that such large numbers were vomited on to the roads beyond railheads as to impede their own manoeuvre , while a supplementary effect , due to more rapid switching , was that an enemy 's manoeuvre could be more easily blocked . The war gave a tremendous impetusto the growth of mechanical transport , both road and roadless . Motor lorries multiplied by the thousand , but this acceleration of movement only improved the capacity of supply ; it did not markedly affect strategy since it could not alter the immobility of fighting troops who had already been driven , by the machine-gun , to bury themselves in trenches . The possibility of moving at 30 m.p.h. was of little avail to soldiers who had been reduced by a tactical obstacle to o m.p.h . To resurrect movement in face of fire , the fire-support of the attackers was developed by multiplication ? of guns ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the mortar , the grenade , together with gas , smoke , and flameprojectors . Some of them contributed to defence as much as to the attack , and none of them succeeded so far as to revive war of movement . Eventually the roadless armour-clad machine , knownp212as the tank , was introduced ; this went further than any other means to overcome the machine-gun obstacle , and by German confession proved the most important militaryfactor in the final phase of the war . But the end came , after a gradual withdrawal , before the tank had been developed far enough to produce more than a local acceleration of movement . In the army that retired , and in the armies that followed it up , a mass of motor vehicleswere mingled with a greater mass of horsed vehicles . It is a question whether movement as a whole could have been much quicker even if the machine-gun brake had been lifted . Retardation may have averted confusion . On the other fronts ? Bulgarian , Turkish , and Austrian ? the brake was less effective , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And under its blows the retreating armies dissolved in chaos . The post-war armies are left with this necklace of novelties , now much developed in quantity and quality ? so much developed that calculation of the effect , if war should come again , is more difficult than ever . And the force of tradition has led them , at the same time , to keep their old tools . There has been no scientific redesigning of the structure of armies . Modification has come mainly by accretions due to imitation . Not as a reorganization inspired by a sense of proportion and guided by a revaluation . In most of the armies horses are still mingled with motors , unarmoured road-bound vehicles are linked with tanks , the cult of the bayonet is wreathed around the use of automatic firearms and gas . Soldiers may go into action at any pace between 3 m.p.h. and 30 , while from overhead they may be attacked at 300 m.p.h . Is itp213not possible , even probable , that when these differing rates of movement are added together the sum may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance on the past than the armies . They were also less tested . Battleshipsand cruisers were the natural heirs of the old wooden ships of the line and frigates , but through steam and armour they had been so transformed that their properties were difficult to gauge owing to the paucity of naval actions since the mechanized age of naval warfarehad dawned . With the invention of the torpedo they had been confronted with a new menace , at first projectedby the torpedo-boat ? to which the destroyer , developedas a counter ? became a successor . If the new weapon had a certain likeness to the old fireship , it had much wider possibilities . These were increased by the advent of the submarine , while the movement of fleets suffered a fresh restriction by the development of mines . It was more difficult to estimate the change of conditions because of the controversy that raged round the torpedo . The conflict of enthusiasm and prejudice produced an atmosphere in which scientific study was suffocated ? if it was ever possible among a class who were men of action and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The natural result was a compromiseby which the maintenance of the existing order was mixed with concessions to the new idea . Detroyers were added to the battle-fleet , but were tied to its protection rather than applied to an offensive role . As for submarines , at the outbreak of war in 1914 , Germanyhad only twenty-eight , and by 1917 little morep214than a hundred , out of which only about a third were operating at any particular time . Yet , even apart from their deadly action against commerce , the effect of their latent menace to battleships was such that by the summer of 1916 the British naval authorities were agreed that the Grand Fleet must be kept out of their reach . To quote the British Official Naval History they had " so restrictedthe movements of a fleet of super-Dreadnoughts ? each one of which could steam several thousands of miles without refuelling ? that the waters opposite onethirdof the eastern coastline of Great Britain , and about half of the North Sea , were outside its zone of effective action " . The Germans ' paucity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet when the available submarines were wanted for the new unrestricted campaignagainst merchant shipping . The farcical result was thus reached that " for the future the two great battlefleetscould but lie inactive , watching one another across a kind of No Man 's Sea ' , where attack and defence were concerned only with transport and commerce " . This direct action against the supplies upon which Britain dependedfor her existence , was carried so far that by the following spring she was in sight of collapse before the danger was brought under control ? through the introductionof the convoy system ? which in turn depended on the additional destroyers provided by America . This near-fatal menace was created by a comparative handful of submarines , operating under most **27;647;TOOLONG conditions , and in waters guarded by 3000 destroyers and light craft ? odds of 30 to i against the submarines.  |p215When  these facts are weighed , they seem to impart a somewhat low gravity , and illogically , to the voices of those naval authorities who , ever since the war , have been proclaiming the ineffectiveness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the single menace offered by the submarine has now become a threefold menace ? below the surface , above the surface , and on the surface ? through the development of aircraft and of high-speed light craft . Battlefleetsmay still be safe and supreme well out on the oceans , but their primary strategic purpose is to secure their country 's coasts and ports . Although it is important that a country 's merchant ships and transports should be able to sail the oceans safely , such safety will not suffice if they are sunk as they approach harbour . It is in the narrow seas and within reach of coasts ? where most of the naval battles of history have been decided ? that aircraft , light craft and undersea craft have their opportunity . It may be more than an opportunity ; a supremacy , indeed ? but there are too many incalculables for anyone to gauge this before the test comes . It is clear that the value of a battle-fleet is now much restricted , while it is by no means clear that the necessity of having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has in any way diminished . The burden of defence has increased while the security afforded has decreased . Insteadof speaking of the " command of the sea " , we can only refer to the " conundrum of the sea " . The evolution of war at sea , as on land , has been towards multiplicity of means and complexity of methods . Simplification is not yet in sight . Moreover , the corn/plexity is augmented by the increasing dependence of the fighting forces upon industrial resources . As a consequence , all the countries are developing schemes of economicmobilization , as a necessary foundation for their military , naval , and aerial mobilization . But this economicmobilization introduces numberless new factors that complicate strategic plans , while it is liable to dislocationby the new types of military pressure that are simultaneously evolving ? especially that of air attack . Are the problems of future warfare becoming too complexfor solution , at any rate by strategists who have been professionally trained to prefer simple solutions and traditionally nurtured in a preference for familiar means ? Reflection on these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next war ? or that the safest prophecy is ? that it will prove a greater muddle than the last . That it will begin in confusion and end in chaos . It is not that generals and admirals are incompetent , but that the task has passed beyond their competence . Their limitations are due not to a congenital stupidity ? as a disillusioned public is so apt to assume ? but to the growth of science , which has upset the foundations of their technique . They are like men who cling to their little wooden huts in an earthquake . The only way of salvation would be to get out in the open ? to survey the problems in complete detachment and from the widest point of view . But a scientific habit of thought is the last thing that military education and training have fostered . Perhaps that is an unalterable condition , for the services might hardly survive if they parted company with sentiment ?  |p217if  the bulk of their members detached themselves from the loyalties which are incompatible with the singlemindedloyalty to truth that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last war , General Ludendorff , has recently set forth his ideas on future warfare , and his creed of nationallife in preparation for it . He seeks to expound the doctrine of " totalitarian warfare " which should be the natural accompaniment of the Totalitarian State . Addressedto his countrymen , his message deserves attention by other peoples . It also requires examination by scientificstudents of war . He opens with a heavy attack on the theories of Clausewitz which , as he emphasizes , were the foundation on which the German plans in 1914 had been built . Clausewitz , who had died nearly a century before , moulded the minds of the leading soldiers and statesmen , not only in Germany but throughout Europe , during the generations which led up to the World War . Since then his theories have suffered some searching criticism , especiallyfrom Anglo-Saxon analysts , for their tendency to make policy the servant of strategy , and strategy little more than a strait lane to battle . The theoretical extravaganceof Clausewitz 's idea of " absolute war " ? " vio/lence pushed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To use force without limit and without calculation of cost may be instinctive in a hate-maddened mob , but it is the negation of statesmanship . Germany 's exhaustion in 1918 was the natural consequence of this delusion . The conductors of her war-machine , less wise than Bismarck , did not know when to stop ; they went on until they tumbled into the abyss . Although cause and effect here seem so clear , Ludendorffis still unable to see it . Through his coloured glasses the fault of Clausewitz 's teaching is not that it lent itself to such extremes , but that it did not go far enough . It allowed policy too much importance , not too little . As typical of Clausewitz he cites a passage concluding : " The political goal is the end , and warfare is a means leading to it , and means can never be thought of without a certainend . " To Ludendorff this is old-fashioned nonsense . The totalitarian principle demands that in war a nation should place everything in its service ; and , in peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest expression of the national " will to give " , and politics must therefore be subservient to the conduct of war . It becomes clear that the main difference between Clausewitz and his successor is that the latter achieves what seemed unthinkable to the former , and " thinks " of war as a means without an end ? unless making the nation into an efficient army be considered an end in itself . This is hardly so new as Ludendorff appears to imagine . Sparta tried it , and the end of her existence lies two thousandyears back . With the aim of developing the nation for war , ofp220creating a super-Sparta , Ludendorff 's first concern is to ensure " the psychical unity of the people " . For him " the Christian faith , and the life shaped by it , are the prime causes of a national breakdown in the totalitarian war " . This faith must be replaced by one " built on racial convictions , where life is rooted in an affined knowledge of God peculiar to itself " : to put it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From this will spring a healthy nationalism in which all women will accept that their noblest task is to bear vigorous sons to " bear the burden of the totalitarian war " , and all men will develop their powers for that purpose : in short ? to breed , and be bred , for killing . The other positive suggestions which Ludendorff offers towards this problem of creating psychicalunity boil down to little more than the age-old prescription of suppressing everyone who expresses , or even entertains , views contrary to those of the High Command . The next need insisted on is for a sound and selfsufficientnational economic system suited to the demands of totalitarian war . Ludendorff thus seems to realize that military power rests on an economic foundation . Yet , curiously , when he dwells on the crippling difficulties suffered in the last war , and gives striking evidence of the effect of the Allied blockade , he does not see how this reflects on his belief that wars are decided by battle between the armies . For the only point of praise which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annihilation of the hostile armies in battle " . To Ludendorff this remains " an immutable principle " , although it is a theory which has rarely been borne out inp221practice during the century since Clausewitz died . Happilyfor Ludendorff he is not troubled by historical facts when they present obstacles to his faith . Let us now study his picture of the way that the totalitarian war will be waged . It should open without a declaration of war ? lest the people of the nation which declares war should feel any guilty sense of being the aggressors . Within a few hours of the decision to make war , air , land and sea striking forces must reach their full war readiness . The rest of the air force and navy will complete their mobilization by the second day ; and the rest of the land forces , a few days later . Hostilities will have already begun with the despatch of the mechanized divisions near the frontier to force an entry into the enemy country . On the seas the surface and submarine attack on the enemy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focussing point of the war now lies in sending air formations to gain air superiority over the enemy , to strike at the advance of the enemy 's army by rail and otherwise , and also at aerodromes . Air battles will ensue . " It may be worth while also to bomb importantindustrial towns . Within forty-eight hours or less , the navy should sail to seek decisive battle with the foe . " The main land advance " may begin a little later , becauseof the masses that will have to be brought up ? and these will have to come by rail since motors will be inadequate to carry the numbers . " There is no doubt that by the end of the second week of war , operations will be in full progress everywhere . " Battle will follow battle till the enemy is finally crushed , or till reserves of men and material run out . " In the wars waged by continentalp222countries the decision lies on land . " The air force must first be used to help in beating the opposing army ; only then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force " against the enemy country in the rear . Land , air and sea action all have in common the fight to bring about a superiority of fire over the enemy . Nevertheless this will not suffice " to bring about the annihilationof the enemy " . " The final decision on land will lie in the fight of man against man , tank against man , or tank against tank " ? how a tank can destroy a tank , any more than a warship can destroy a warship , except by fire , Ludendorff does not explain . For him , the land battleis still a process in which the infantry is helped forwardby artillery , machine-guns , mortar and tank support until it " overwhelms the enemy in a man-to-man fight " . Furthermore , " attack is always the deciding factor in battles " . Army battles with army , supported by aircraft ; navy battles with navy , supported by aircraft ; and " in air battles air squadrons fight one another " . All movementsshould lead to battle ; mechanization simply quickens the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ striking direct against the enemy people . " The demands of totalitarian warfare . . . will ever ignore the cheap theoretical desire to abolish unrestricted U-boat warfare . " And aircraft will now combine with submarines in sinking every vesselwhich tries to reach the enemy 's ports , " even vessels sailing under neutral flags " . Likewise on land a time will come " when bombing squadrons must inexorably and without pity be sent against " the people in the enemy country . But on military grounds , which are the rulingp223considerations , that time should normally be delayed until the battles have been won . Ludendorff declares that technical means are becomingever more important , yet clings to the old belief that strength lies in numbers ? " it is a fact that victory goes to the big battalions ' . " Hence " the totalitarian war demandsthe incorporation in the Army of every man fit to bear arms " . He admits that the conditions of war require the fighting man to be increasingly individualistic , yet assumes that this is compatible with the strictest discipline , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the soil in which such individualism can flourish . He has a welcome for every new weapon and instrument , but rarely appears to consider how they may affect each other . He conveys no clear picture , and seems to have none himself , of the different factors of war in relation to each other . His message would seem to beniultiplyevery kind of force as much as you can , and you will get somewhere ? but where , he neither worries nor wonders . The one thing on which he is really clear is that " the Commander-in-Chief must lay down his instructions for the political leaders , and the latter must follow and fulfil them in the service of warfare " . What is offered in return for this claim to unlimited power for the military chief , this demand for a blank cheque on the resources of the nation ? A faith , certainly  --  - if it requires limitless faith to swallow it . The main articles of Ludendorff 's creed might be phrased thus : " I believe in a pure German God , the maker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commander-in-Chief , his only son and representative on earth . I believe in the almightyp224power of numbers ; in battle , as the means to winning war ; in attack , as the means of winning battle ; and in the hand-to-hand fight as the ultimate means of overcoming the enemy 's resistance . " While it is clear that Ludendorff 's faith is built on the traditional military theory , despite his sweeping repudiationof the theorists , and that it is essentially derived from the past , it is difficult to find solid support for it even in past experience . It is easier to find the wars where battle did not prove decisive than where it did . Take the first great war of modern history ? the Thirty Years ' War . There were many battles in which one army was virtually destroyed , yet none had any decisive influence on the struggle . The mutual exhaustion had such effect , however , and made so deep an impression on military thought , that for nearly two centuries the average generalwas chary of fighting battles at all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when , by chance or by strategy , the dice were loaded heavily in their favour ? when , as Saxe said , there was " all imaginable reason to expect the victory . . . without trusting anything to accident " . There was a change when Napoleon came on the scene . A Corsican , not a Frenchman ; a supreme careerist , not a true patriot ; he was unchecked in pursuing his ambitionsby any sense of responsibility for the ultimate welfare of his country as apart from himself . If his dreams were boundless , he took short views , since his horizon was his own life-span . Time was always against him ; and he needed quick results . Now , whatever be the difficulties of winning a war by a battle , it is the quickestp225means ? if it can be achieved . Hence Napoleon 's predispositionfor this means . In adopting it , too , he was helped by new assets . First was the newly introduced organization of the army in independent divisions ? whereby , instead of being a single body , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy at one point while it struck him elsewhere . This made it easier to force a battle on the enemy , to take him at a disadvantage , and to concentrate strength against weakness ? whilehindering the enemy 's concentration . Anotherasset was the new mobility . The revolutionary armies could no longer maintain , or be maintained by , the old elaborate supply system . They had to find a new and flexible system ; they had to secure their supplies where they could ; they had to learn to live sparsely and march light . The troops themselves could not be kept in the old stiff-drilled formations , nor restrained to a slow pace for the sake of symmetry . But they could cover the country much faster than their opponents , and made rings round them on the battlefield . A further asset was the new artillery method ? of concentrating fire rapidly against key-points ; of disorganizing the resistance by this blasting fire before the assault was launched . But even in Napoleon 's hands , unlimited battle ultimatelypr1oved an unlimited liability . The military splendourof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yoke round the neck of soldiers . Yet the later Napoleonic wars were not decided by battles . Napoleon destroyed the Spanish armies only to find his trouble beginning . And it was not by battles that the Spanish guerillas undermined his power in Spain , and started hisp226general ruin . Napoleon beat the Russian armies , but he did not beat Russia . The Russians wrecked his army by avoiding battle until Generals Hunger and Winter could get to work , and his real downfall was consummated in 1814 ? when the Allies sealed his fate by swooping on Paris while he was trying to tempt them to meet him in battle . The American Civil War saw plenty of battles ? and Lee 's failure to win a victory at Gettysburg certainly damped the hopes of the South . But it was Sherman 's back door entry into the South , his strategic march through Georgia and the Carolinas , which undermined the will of the Confederacy by an attack on their suppliesand the morale of the people . The last war was filled with battles , yet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were a contributoryfactor ? one of many ? the main factor in the collapseof Germany being economic pressure . On this point there is Haig 's own confession , at the end of October , 1918 : " Germany is not broken in a military sense . During the last weeks her armies have withdrawn . . . in excellent order . " The Allied armies were exhausted and needed to be reorganized before they could follow up . But Germany was broken internally by hunger , sickness and despair . Her breakdown developed directly from military disappointment , from the depression which spread when her own offensive in the spring failed to bring the victory that Ludendorff had promised . But the foundations of her resistance had been undermined by the Allied blockade . The abortiveness of battle as a means of winning warsp227can be traced to the declining power of the attack to overcome defence . This condition was due to the growingpower of modern firearms , and had been long in evolution . It was first manifest in the American Civil War , where it came to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal to three or four in an assault . In Europe the wars of r866 and 187o brought fresh evidence of the paralyzing influence of fire , although the brevity of both wars tended to obscure it . Nevertheless , after the second , the winning strategist of those two wars , Moltke , drew the conclusion that his victory could not be repeated , and enunciated the lesson that : " As a result of the improvement of firearms , the tactical defensive has acquired a great advantage over thc offensive .... It seems to be more advantageous to proceed to an attack only after having repelled several attacks by the enemy . " His warning was lost on his successors . Their optimistic view , as expressed by von der Goltz , was : " The idea of the greater strength of the defence is a mere delusion . " The optimism was shared in France where , near the end of the century , the future Marshal Foch coined the axiom that " any improvement in firearmsis bound to strengthen the off ensive " ? and proved it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the war against the Boers showed the fallacy of such assumptions , but was merely regarded in l ? urope as evidence of the frailty of the British attacks . Then came the Russo-Japanese war which foreshadowed nearly all the factors which upset military calculations in 194 ? the paralyzing power of machine-guns , the hopelessness of frontal attacks , and the consequent re/lapse of the armies into trenches . But military optimism was even more impregnable ? to the assault of facts . To ardent soldiers war was unthinkable without successful attack , so that they were able to persuade themselves that attacks could succeed . The delusive basis of that faith was quickly exposed when the World War began , and was made clearer still when the trench deadlock set in ? for four years . And it is significant that the only great battles which had far-reaching results before morale had broken down were those which took the form of a counter-stroke after the enemy had spent himself in vain attacks ? the Allied victories in the first and second battles of the Marne , the German victories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the commanders at the outset , and hardly any later , showed remembrance of Moltke 's advice , or were willing to delaytheir own offensive dreams until they had dispelled the enemy 's . The historical basis of the belief in the hand-to-hand fight is equally false , and it reacts on the belief in numbers . For a century the military manuals of Europe had continued to emphasize the decisive importance of physicalshock , echoing Clausewitz 's dictum : " The close combat , man to man , is plainly to be regarded as the real basis of combat . " The French doctrine of 1914 fervently declared that the object of all attacks was " to charge the enemy with the bayonet in order to destroy him . " ( That idea would still remain in the British manuals until 1924 . ) Something might be claimed for it if the emphasis had been on the psychological effect of a close-quarter threat , but the time and attention devoted to **26;676;TOOLONG that the bayonet-fight was regarded as a reality . Yet even in the eighteenth century a practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was but one of a number of witnesses of the Napoleonic battleswho said that , except in villages and defiles , he had " never seen two forces cross bayonets " . Half a century later Moltke would point out the fallacy of the French assertion that their victory at Solferino had been won by the bayonet . In 1870 their troops were to pay heavily against Prussian fire for this delusion among their leaders , yet Boguslawski records that in actual fact " bayonets were never crossed in open fight " . Only in conditions where shock was a practical possibilitycould the theory of massing superior numbers be effective . It was difficult to adjust it to conditions where one man with a machine-gun might count for more than a much larger number who were advancing upon him with the bayonet . As the capacity to make such an adjustmentproved to be lacking , the formula of victory became merely a formula of futility ? and death . The fallacy was proved most emphatically of all by the Germansagainst the Russians ; by their superior weapons and technique the Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponent . There the " big battalions " merely made big cemeteries , burdenedtheir own communications to breaking point , and bankrupted their own country 's power , yet the lesson is largely lost on the man who directed the German forces . After twenty years for reflection he resuscitates these delusions for application in another war . Nevertheless we should be unwise to ignore them , andp230to accept instead the popular assumption that the next war will be waged in the air with the contending powers each seeking to destroy the enemy 's capital and bomb the people into surrender . It is worth while to approach the problem of future warfare along Ludendorff 's path , not because his idea of the result is likely to prove real , but because it shows what is likely to be attempted . It is a guide to the outlook which still prevails among many of the military chiefs of Europe , to the persistence of obsolete conceptions along with new weapons , and to the consequent confusion of military thought . The general trend of the rearmament race now in progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military chiefs with more means than their minds can assimilate . Ludendorff 's is a fair representation of what may occur at the outset , if not in the issue , of a future war . Mechanization has given the general staffs a new ground for belief in mobile warfare ? the picture to which armies always revert in peace-time ? along with a renewedconfidence in the speedy success of their own attacks . Prolonged as was the resistance which the militaryauthorities everywhere offered to the idea of mechanization , now that they have embraced it they build expectations on it which dumbfound a sober and longstandingadvocate of this inevitable evolution . In many countries they have burst out into prophecy that trenchwarfareis a thing of the past , and that the wars of the future will be fought and finished with a quickness hitherto unknown . For the initial movements mechanized troops certainlyp231offer a great advantage over those who have to march on foot or be brought forward by rail . This is the more importantbecause of the growth of new fortifications along the frontiers ; the prospects of an invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man these with the reserves that become available on mobilization . Thus there is little doubt that the new mechanized divisions which the European armies now possess will be used in the first hours of war with the aim of penetrating the enemy 's frontier and opening the way for the subsequent general advance . All the general staffs are trending towards this new picture , in which the first phases of a war are fought out by the mechanized part of their forces actually available , instead of waiting , as in 1914 , until the main strength of the army has been assembled . But there is reason to doubt whether this mechanized spearhead will produce the decisive advantage which is sought . The chances are against this , unless the enemy is not only taken unaware but is himself unmechanized . For , in the first place , obstruction is the natural antidote to the power of delivering mobile strokes which mechanizationhas revived . By utilizing rivers , canals , and railwaysas barriers , by demolishing bridges and blocking defiles , the defender may go far to nullify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of obstruction and demolition to be moved more swiftly to any threatened spot . And the defenders ' mechanized troops , having less risk of being checked by hostile obstructions , may be switched to meet the danger faster than the mechanized attackers can develop it.  |p232Des|pite  the apparent advantage that mechanization has brought to the offensive , its reinforcement of the defensivemay prove greater still . While the prospects of this initial stroke by the mechanizedforces are slight , they are bright compared with those that await the main masses of the European armies . Even if these come close enough to strike , what ground is there for expecting that they will make more impression on the defence than in the last war ? The main weapon that then stopped them was the machine-gun : there is now a far higher proportion of machine-guns , light and heavy , in all armies . The weapon on which the attackers mainly relied to overcome the defending machine-gunin the last war was artillery : there is far less artillery now in all armies than in 1918 . Even if this could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapon that , when used in mass , tends to block the path of the infantry it is trying to help by ploughing up the ground . It acts as an automatic military brake . Furthermore , it increases the encumbrance by the mass of transport required to supply its heavy appetite for shells . Armour , in the form of the tank , proved a better means in the last war of helping the attack forward : but armour used in a direct assault against organized defence would now seem to have lost much of its value , through the great and widespread development of armour-piercing weapons ? there are now highly efficient anti-tank machine-guns , and even rifles , as well as guns . There are greater possibilities , as I have elsewhere suggested , in the skilful use of obscurity as a cloak to the attack . Fog , natural or artificial , and darkness are the bestp233antidotes to the defensive machine-gun . The risks of obscurityare mainly those of confusion ; they are certainly less than those of annihilation , by machine-guns with a clear field of fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The superiority of highly trained troops over normal troops is much more pronounced in the dark than in daylight . Such a level of training , however , is difficult to attain during peace-time in mass armies raised by conscription . But the greater question that affects these mass arniies is whether they will ever reach the battlefield . Their approach must be made by roads and railways ; they will crowd these arteries which now , for several hundred miles back , lie under the menace of air attack . Their immensedemands in food and ammunition supply require a continuous circulation along these arteries ; thus the strain and the susceptibility to interruption are maintainedall the way back even when the armies themselves have passed on . To gauge what might happen it is worth studying the process of mobilization and assembly in 1914 . Despite all the care and effort devoted to its machinerythere were hitches which caused serious trouble , and threatened worse . Yet in 1914 there was no interferencefrom the enemy such as is certain to-day through the intervention of air-power ? from bombs on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and marching columns themselves ; probably also from mustard gas sprayed over the roads , stations , bivouacs , and supply depots . There is no need to assume that the devastation will be as overwhelming as popular imagination and air enthusiasm picture . The complexity and delicacy of 