@@773455

txt Zoo Apes , Men , and Morons European extraction in this type are predominantly Scandinavian , English and Welsh , and British Canadian , while the ethnic groups poorly represented are those also deficient among the Predominantly Nordic criminals . The criminals of this type are especially distinguished by being found in prisons rather than in reformatories , have disproportionately few previous convictions , and seem to have no very particularized offense propensities except a marked disinclination to rape and assault , a ranking above the mean in murder , and a high position in forgery , fraud and bootlegging . Among the criminals the Predominantly Nordic group is occupationally differentiated by its leading position in extractives ( agriculturalists , miners , cattlemen , etc . ) . Its urban residents rank second in clerical occupations and in transportation , and are very low in unskilled labor and personal service . In educational qualifications it ranks third . The Predominantly Nordic type in the Boston check sample ranks second in clerical occupations , as in the criminal series , is high in skilled trades , and low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the Century of Progress series , this group is high in extractives , as among the criminals , but it is also very high in professional men . It ranks sixth of the nine types in proportion of college and professional school men . Dinaric . The Dinaric type is fourth in combined ranking with 13.33% of the total males . In the Boston civilian sample , it is , however , the most numerous type with 23% , as against 13% in the criminal and 11% in the Century of Progress series . In the criminal series this type is markedly deficient in native Whites of native parentage , and has an excess representation in the native Whites of foreign parentage , and in the foreign Whites . In both civilian series it is almost proportionately represented in all three parentage categories . This Dinaric type consists of brachycephals with nasal indices under 63 and includes pigment combinations from dark to near blond . ' It is a rather composite type which perhaps ought to be broken up into subtypes , but it has a certain physical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // nals it has an excess representation in Wisconsin and Massachusetts , whereas Kentucky , Tennessee and North Carolina yield unduly few . In the Century of Progress series it is excessively strong in the East North Central district and to a lesser extent in the Middle Atlantic district . Among criminals the Dinarics of recent European derivation are particularly of Polish-Austrian , Teutonic , French Canadian , Scotch and Asia Minor birth or parentage . The same is true of the Boston civilian check sample and of the Century of Progress series . The Dinaric is a type rare in the Old American males . Criminologically the Dinarics rank second in forgery and fraud , and second also in rape and bootlegging ( an offense against public welfare ) . In all other offenses this type is consistently low . Occupationally the group ranks first in clerical and semi-professional pursuits , second in the professions and in public service , third in skilled trades . It is low in unskilled laborers and appears to be a mainly urban type . Among the criminals the Dinaric type is the best educated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a somewhat lower economic status and is the most poorly educated of all , probably because it is composed largely of recent immigrants from the Central European and Near Eastern region , who are still suffering the disadvantage of transplantation into a new country with a totally different language . The criminal Dinarics are more largely of Teutonic descent . The Dinaric type in the Century of Progress series resembles the criminal type occupationally in that it ranks first in professional and semi-professional pursuits , and first in public service , and is high in skilled trades . It is fourth in percentage of highly educated men . Keltic . The Keltic type consists of long-headed men with red hair and blue eyes , red-brown hair and blue eyes , and dark hair and blue eyes . It comprises 8.48% of the combined series and ranks fifth in each . This type is rather more strongly represented among the criminals than among the civilian check samples . It is in excess among the Old Americans , whether criminal or civilian , less conspicuous and proportionately deficient in the native Whites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ born Whites . Among criminals , the Keltic type is outstandingly present in Kentucky and North Carolina and is significantly rare in // Tennessee and in Texas . In the Century of Progress series , the Keltic type is especially strong in residents of the South Atlantic district ( Delaware , Maryland , District of Columbia , Virginia , West Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , Florida ) and in the East South Central district ( Kentucky , Tennessee , Alabama , Mississippi ) . It is also strong in New England . The Keltic criminals of recent European descent are strongly Irish , and indude also a significant excess of Scandinavians . In the Century of Progress civilians , the English , Irish , Welsh , British Canadians , and Scandinavians provide nearly all of the members of the type who are not Old Americans . The Keltic type of criminals is excessively married as contrasted with most other types . It has a marked predilection for assault with intent to do bodily harm , and it is singularly indisposed to commit robbery . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in crimes against public welfare ( principally illegal manufacture and sale of liquor ) . It is high in burglary and larceny and in both kinds of murder , but low in rape . As a matter of fact , its mean ranking for all crimes is first . It has no occupational peculiarities except a marked excess of persons in the extractive pursuits ( farming , cattle raising , mining ) . Educationally this type of criminal ranks sixth of the nine racial types . In the Boston civilian sample the Keltic type is much more strongly Irish than in the general criminal series . Furthermore , the Boston civilians of the Keltic type include far more in public service and in skilled occupations , and fewer farmers and unskilled laborers . Instead of being in sixth place educationally it is in second place , being , as a matter of fact , nearly fifty times as well educated as the criminal Keltic type , according to a ratio which need not be explained here . The Keltics in the Century of Progress series lead in trade , and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type ranks third in higher education . Pure Mediterranean . In the combined series the Pure Mediterranean type ranks sixth with only 402 individuals , or 4.38% of the total . It ranks sixth in both the civilian check sample and in the criminal series , and seventh in the Century of Progress series . This group consists simply of all persons with cephalic indices under 8o ; hair black , dark brown , or red brown ; eyes pure dark // brown or light brown . It is most strongly represented in the Boston civilian check sample , and least in the Century of Progress series . In the criminal series and in the Boston check sample the Mediterranean type is relatively deficient among the Old Americans and in excess in the foreign born . This-condition does not obtain in the Century of Progress series . The heavy contributors to the Mediterranean type of criminal are the states of Massachusetts , Colorado and New Mexico . Apparent deficiencies of this type occur in Kentucky , Tennessee , North Carolina and Texas . In the Century of Progress series the census @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type are Middle Atlantic and East North Central . The type is rare in the West North Central district . Ethnically , in the criminal series , the Pure Mediterranean type shows an excessive representation of Spanish , Portuguese and Italians . It is notably deficient in Old Americans and in Polish-Austrians . In the Century of Progress series there are almost no persons of Spanish or Italian origin and the Pure Mediterranean type consists of long-headed brunets from a wide variety of European descents . In the criminal group the Pure Mediterranean type is outstanding for crimes of violence against persons , being first in second degree murder , first in rape , second in assault and robbery , and third in first degree murder . It is last in burglary and larceny and next to last in forgery and fraud . Occupationally , it is essentially an urban type of low status , ranking very high in unskilled labor and personal service . Educationally , the criminals of Pure Mediterranean type rank eighth of the nine types . In the Boston civilian check sample the occupational status of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational attainment the civilian Mediterraneans move up to sixth place . The Pure Mediterranean type in the Century of Progress series is totally unlike the same type among the criminals as regards occupation . It is not occupationally outstanding among the various types and ranks fifth in higher education . East Baltic . The East Baltic type ranks seventh in the total series , with 3.02% . It is more strongly represented in the civilian series than among criminals . This type consists of all pure blonds with nasal indices above 63 and cephalic indices of 8o and above . It thus includes persons with pure blue or pure gray eyes and ash204 Apes , Men , and Morons blond or golden hair , who are round-headed and rather broadnosed . The East Baltic type shows an excess representation in the Old American and first generation American criminals , and is deficient in the foreign born criminals . However , in the Century of Progress series the exact reverse of excess and deficiency obtains in the three parentage groups . Among the criminals the East Baltic type is unduly strong in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other states it is somewhat poorly represented . In the Century of Progress series , this type is outstanding among natives of the East North Central district and possibly of the Pacific and Mountain districts . The East Baltic type of criminals of recent European origin shows excesses of persons of Russian and Polish-Austrian descent and is deficient in those of Italian ancestry . In the Century of Progress series this type is of strongly Teutonic and Polish-Austrian derivation . The East Baltic criminals are notable for their low average age and their high rate of celibacy . In offense they are outstanding by reason of their primacy in burglary and larceny , and their low rank in every other type of crime except rape . Occupationally , this criminal type holds first place in trade , but has no professional men , no public servants , and few semi-professional and transport ' workers . It is rather high in unskilled labor and in factory workers , but low in extractives . It is essentially an urban type . In education it ranks second among criminals and first in the civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Progress series ranks next to the last in college and professional school men , and is lowest in professional occupations . It includes no transportation workers . Alpine . The Alpine type ranks eighth of the nine types in the combined series , since it includes only 2.68% of the total . It consists simply of all brachycephals with dark hair and eyes or redbrown hair and dark eyes , whose nasal indices are above 63 . It is somewhat stronger in the civilian series than in the criminal series . In all native Whites of native parentage , civilian or criminal , this type is the most poorly represented . The Alpine type is in strong excess among the native Whites of foreign parentage in all series and has its maximum representation among the foreign born // Whites . Of all racial types it is the least characteristically American . In the criminals the Alpine type is excessively numerous among the inmates of the penal institutions of Massachusetts , Wisconsin , New Mexico and Colorado , and is rare in Kentucky , Tennessee and North Carolina . The East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish an excess of this type in the Century of Progress series . Ethnically , among criminals , the Alpine type has its greatest excess in persons of Italian birth or parentage , but also is disproportionately strong in French Canadians , Balkans , Spanish , Portuguese , Polish-Austrians and persons of Asia Minor extraction . In the Boston civilian series , this type is overloaded with Near Easterners as well as with persons of the other extractions mentioned . In the Century of Progress series , it is similarly constituted , but with a great strength of Russians and fewer Italians and Portuguese , practically none of whom seem to have visited the Harvard Anthropometric Laboratory in the Hall of the Social Sciences . Among the criminals this essentially alien type is easily first in robbery and last in forgery and fraud . It is high in assault , low in murder and rape , but high in sex offenses other than rape . Occupationally it is very deficient in farmers , miners , and cattlemen , but excessively strong in unskilled laborers . It ranks first in public service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last in extractive occupations , in transportation and in skilled trades . It is evidently composed of urban dwellers from the highest and lowest economic levels . Nevertheless , among the criminals it is the most poorly educated type . In the civilian check sample it ranks eighth in education , of the nine types . The Alpine type in the Century of Progress series resembles the same type among the criminals in that it is last in extractives , and has no transportation workers , and is first in personal service . In other occupational categories it bears little or no relation to the criminal type of similar physique . Also in the Century of Progress series the Alpine type is highest in college and professionally educated men , whereas it is at the other extreme in the criminal series and in the Boston check sample . Pure Nordic . The Pure Nordic type is the scarcest of all types in the combined series here studied with but 2.44% of the total . // It is less common among criminals than among civilians . It is proportionately twice as numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series . It consists of long-headed men with golden or ash-blond hair and pure blue or pure gray eyes . These are the classic Nordics and they are very rare indeed . In the criminal series they are strongly in excess in the Old Americans and in first generation Americans , but disproportionately few in the foreign born . In the Boston check sample the Pure Nordic type is somewhat deficient in the Old Americans , but strong in the first generation Americans . In the Century of Progress series , this type is proportionately by far the strongest in its Old American parentage , and successively more rare in the first generation and the foreign born . Among the criminals the Pure Nordic type is excessively represented in New Mexico , Kentucky and Colorado , and is somewhat deficient in Wisconsin , Tennessee and Massachusetts . In the Century of Progress series it is particularly strong in natives of the West North Central region ( states unrepresented in the criminal series ) . Ethnically , among the criminals , the Pure Nordic type shows an excess of British Canadians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progress series it is also strongly British Canadian and markedly Scandinavian , but still more strongly Old American . This type among the criminals is notably youthful , celibate and distinct in its offense proclivities . It is last in both kinds of murder , assault , and robbery , and eighth , or last but one , in sex offenses other than rape . On the other hand , it is easily first in forgery and fraud and a close second in burglary and larceny . It is a type with which the pen seems considerably mightier than the sword in a criminological sense . This result hardly accords with popular impressions of the characteristics of the Nordic blond . Among the criminals this Pure Nordic type is too small to show significant occupational differentiation , but ranks first in skilled trades and transportation , last in trade and in personal service , and has no professional men or public servants . Educationally , it attains fourth rank in criminals and third in the Boston civilian check sample . The Pure Nordic type ranks first in extractives in both of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranks first in clerical occupations , and in the Chicago series it has the highest proportion of students . In neither series does it include personal service workers . Nevertheless in the Century of Progress series - this type has the smallest percentage of highly educated men . Females in the Century of Progress series . The adult females used for this racial type sorting in the Century of Progress series number 296o , of whom about 6o% are native born of native parentage , 33 % native born of foreign parentage , and 8% foreign born . Thus the females include some 4% more of Old Americans than the males of this same series , about 2% less of first generation Americans , and 5% less of foreign born . The distribution of the racial sorting types in the females is not very different from that of the males . The principal divergence of the females from the male distribution of types lies in an excess of about 11% in the Dinaric type of the female series , largely at the expense of the Predominantly Nordic type . As in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Old American females of the Century of Progress series , but in the females the most distinctively Old American group is the Predominantly Nordic or near blond long-head , instead of the Pure Nordic as in the males . The distribution of the racial types among the females shows , in general , an excess of about iz% of brachyccphals ( mainly of the Dinaric type ) as compared with the males . Age . In mean ages of the types there are no consistent differences between the criminal and the civilian series . The general average is about 30 years . In all of the series native Whites of native parentage tend to be youngest , native Whites of foreign parentage intermediate , and foreign born Whites considerably the oldest . There is no age differentiation in the types , with the exception of a marked inferiority in mean age in the criminal Pure Nordic and East Baltic types , which is to some extent substantiated in the civilian series , especially in the Old American group . Since these are the pure blond types , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strains tends to transfer Pure Nordic individuals into the Predominantly Nordic class , and East Baltics into Dinarics or Nordic-Alpines . This effect seems more marked in the thoroughly blended Old Americans than in the native born of foreign parentage and the foreign born . // Weight . Civilian types are consistently heavier than the same types among the criminals . Mean criminal weights center about 15o pounds , whereas civilian means for corresponding types exceed these by various amounts , usually S pounds or more . The racial types seem undifferentiated with respect to mean weight , which increases with mean age . Stature . Type for type the criminals are considerably shorter than the civilians of the Boston check sample , and still further below the means of stature of the Century of Progress series . The differences in mean stature between the criminals and the Boston civilians vary about i cm. , and between the criminals and the Century of Progress series the average type differences approach 3 cm . Ineach of the series the native born of native parentage tend to be the tallest , the native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortest . Evidently , within the same morphological racial type , stature increases with elevation of social and economic status , and with length of residence of the type within this country . Further , the younger the group , the taller it tends to be . However , throughout the three series and the several parentage groups , the nine racial types tend to maintain more or less the same statural ranking . Thus the Predominantly Nordic , near blond , long-headed type ranks first in nearly all of the series , and the Pure Nordic type second . The Keltic type of long-head is less consistent but ranks in general third , the Nordic Mediterranean long-headed and middling dark type fourth , the round-headed blond East Baltics fifth , the round-headed long-nosed Dinarics sixth , the Pure Mediterranean brunet dolichocephals seventh , the brachycephalic moderately pigmented Nordic Alpines eighth , and the brunet round-head Alpines are invariably last . Cephalic index . There is a general tendency for the criminal racial types to be very slightly more brachycephalic than the corresponding civilian types . In the Century of Progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variations from the total mean in the cephalic index , the first generations are intermediate , and the foreign born are most differentiated . For example , the actual means of dolichocephalic and brachycephalic types differ most in the foreign born and least in the Old Americans . In other words , the Old Americans tend to be the least variable . // General conclusions on the racial types . The types which have been sorted out on the basis of combinations of physical criteria and which have been described incompletely in the foregoing discussion , have been called " racial types . " The use of the term " racial " is justified by the fact that the physical features used as the basis of sorting are generally regarded as , in the main , hereditary and racial characters . Nevertheless , I make no claim that these types constitute , singly , bodies of individuals of exactly the same ethnic derivation , each group composed of persons whose proportions of the several ancestral strains are identical . All that can be claimed is that mutual physical resemblances of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are , on the whole , more closely related to each other than they are to the groups of individuals belonging to different types . It is perfectly obvious that , in such a racially mixed population as ours , individual brothers might be assigned to two or three different racial types . So far as our data permit us to judge , the ethnic origins of the several types distinguished are identical or closely similar for the same types in all three of our series , civilian and criminal . The European antecedents , where ascertainable , confirm anthropological tradition as to the existence and provenience of certain physical races . Our series represent fairly large samples from three markedly diverse levels of our population . The criminals are socially , economically and biologically the most debased element . The Boston civilian check sample is composed , for the most part , of urban residents representing a respectable working-class population , which has enjoyed , presumably , few of the advantages conferred by wealth and by social position . The Century of Progress series proves to be a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the whole , economically and socially superior classes . Undoubtedly this selection arose from the situation of the Harvard Anthropometric Laboratory in the Hall of Social Sciences . Probably few persons visited this hall intentionally unless they happened to be interested in education and in social problems . It required a certain intellectual curiosity and a certain pertinacity for these persons to book and to fulfill engagements for anthropometric examinations . If the laboratory had been operated 2 z o Apes , Men , and Morons in that part of the Exposition known as " The Streets of Paris , " the character of the sample studied might have been somewhat different . It is a very remarkable fact that our imperfectly segregated and classified physical types , called by courtesy " racial " types , should exist in practically identical proportions in these three widely divergent series , and that these types should show individually certain consistencies of a sociological nature , certain occupational and educational resemblances , whether they are drawn from the cream of the population , from the middle of the draught , or from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreted as a substantiation of any of the ridiculous and pernicious doctrines of racial inequality which have become a menace to the peace of the world and which have brought tragedy upon millions of blameless and worthy individuals . Every one of our so-called " racial " types in these series is represented by a substantial body of convicted felons at one end of the scale and a group of eminently respectable and intelligent citizens at the other . There is no anthropological ground whatsoever for selecting any so-called racial group , or any ethnic or national group , or any linguistic or religious group for preferment or for condemnation . Our real purpose should be to segregate and to eliminate the unfit , worthless , degenerate and antisocial portion of each racial and ethnic strain in our population , so that we may utilize the substantial merits of its sound majority , and the special and diversified gifts of its superior members . Racial purity is desirable and attainable in one sense only . Every racial strain in our country should be purified by the sterilization of its insane , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extinction would not be selected on the basis of Aryan or Semitic descent , blond hair or black skin , but solely on the score of their individual physical , mental and moral bankruptcy . One does not need to be an anthropologist to recognize that there is rampant , not only in this country , but elsewhere in the world , a selfish stupidity which reeks of human decay and degeneration . It manifests itself in some countries by brutal oppression of minorities selected for ill-treatment on account of religious , What Is an American ? 2 z I linguistic , or fancied racial differences . Elsewhere it is expressed in shameless aggression against defenseless primitive peoples or peaceable civilized nations which social disorder has weakened . Here in the United States it is horribly evident in a maudlin sympathy for criminals and in the toleration of crime which seems to characterize the mass of our population , in the looting of our national treasury in the name of patriotism , the wasting of our resources for political patronage , and even perhaps in muddle-headed efforts at national planning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfortunate economic status of those fabled inhabitants of the Scilly Islandswho were " forced to eke out a precarious livelihood by taking in each other 's washings . " Something has to be done to stem this rising tide of human stupidity . It can not be accomplished by social Passamaquoddy projects impulsively initiated by little political King Canutes , who succeed only in getting themselves and us all wet . We must abandon hope of sociological palliatives and face the necessity of dealing with biological realities . 15 . THE RELATION OF PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY // I THINK that most great men have something of the anthropologist in their make-up , and an anthropologist ought to have a certain quality of universality if he is to approximate greatness . Such a quality radiates from the mind and personality of Dr. R. R. Marett  --  a great teacher who , by some ingenious alchemy , has succeeded in transmuting a great deal of more or less base undergraduate metal into good anthropological gold . The assay of the product may vary , but it generally rings true . I suppose that Aristotle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all anthropologists . His mantle ultimately fell upon Charles Darwin , and thereafter was divided into tattered but precious shreds worn by such men as Broca , Morgan and Tylor . All of these retained some measure of universality in their investigation of the human animal . Inevitably the period of spacious generalizations belongs to the infancy of a science , albeit some of the infants are 212 Physical to Cultural Anthropology 2 r 3 veritable giants . There follows of necessity a long period of grubbing for facts to test these generalizations  --  a phase of specialization which involves the talents of men of diminished imagination , but rigorously trained , and with a cold passion for accuracy and a deadly persistence in the acquisition of data and more data . These Middle Ages of Science are not dark , but it must be confessed that they are rather dreary . If they are prolonged indefinitely in our science they are sure to produce generations of micro-anthropologists , who examine man one cell at a time and make nothing of him . Primate evolution begins with a lowly lemuroid which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ snout . The fields of vision are distinct ; the animal sees one thing with one eye , and another with the other . The next evolutionary stage is the tarsier , whose eyes have swiveled around toward the front so that the fields of vision converge and overlap . From , this animal it is but one long jump to the monkeys and apes , both of whose frontally directed eyes are focused upon the same visionary field ; they have stereoscopic vision which gives depth , perspective and understanding . Now , unfortunately , anthropology seems to reverse the normal course of visual evolution in that it begins by seeing man as whole  --  stereoscopically  --  and then reverts to a monocular type of vision in which it sees only one aspect of man at a time , and that without depth , perspective or clear understanding . This walleyed outlook upon man and his affairs must be corrected by the spectacles of correlative and collaborative anthropology which focus the physical and cultural anthropological eyes simultaneously upon the same field of man and his behavior . The function of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not piecemeal . We must complete the disciplinary cycle from broad , unsubstantiated and speculative generalization , through narrow and disintegrated specialization , back to an enlightened and validated system of synthesis and generalization . One can not avoid the cynical reflection that the anthropologist , of all engineers , has been most effectively hoist with his own petard , when he forgets man the animal and studies his industries , arts , or social organization , each in vacuo , like any sociologist or classical archaeologist . In this paper I venture to review , discuss and deplore partitive and microtomic trends in physical and cultural anthropology . I then attempt // to indicate the remedy , which is , in short , the application of a sort of synthetic therapy . Trends of Development in Physical Anthropology Physical anthropology is essentially an inquiry into man 's status as an animal , and consequently presupposes some knowledge of animals in general and of the animal , man , in particular . It follows of necessity that in the infancy of physical anthropology the subject is of concern almost exclusively to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zoologists , however , have usually been preoccupied with the lower animal forms and have been prone to leave their own species severely alone , apart from some more or less sketchy taxonomic labors . Thus physical anthropology , in its inception , tended to be principally an avocation of those physicians or surgeons who were possessed of a scientific curiosity surpassing the bounds of their primarily curative function . Physical anthropology was the handmaiden of human anatomy . The old-fashioned gross anatomist dealt principally with skeletons and cadavers , as a dispenser of the basic knowledge required by medical practitioners . Having crammed the student with the minutiae of human anatomy , the teacher was free to observe and record the structural variations which were exhibited in the cadavers passing through his dissecting-room . From such enlightened anatomists there issued a stream of careful studies of the bones and the soft parts  --  at first confined largely to specimens drawn from European populations , but supplemented occasionally by examinations of the corpses of casual savages , such as that of the Hottentot Venus who succumbed to Parisian life in 1815 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus whetted by dissecting-room experience , had to be satisfied with skeletons brought in by travelers , since this was , for the most part , the only transportable and thus available material . From these beginnings two distinct trends of physical anthropological studies developed  --  monographs on the racial distribution of anatomical variations and general studies of skeletons . Since the various races of man are not distinguished by the number of their individual skeletal parts , the obvious procedure in the study of bones was to measure them . Such a method produced imposing lists of figures , whether or not they meant anything . Ingenious Physical to Cultural Anthropology 2 z 5 pioneers , recognizing the limitations of crude dimensions , quickly arrived at the idea of using indices or ratios , whereby linear measurements were also expressed proportionally . Since an index affords some vague indication of form , this innovation was valuable . Further , it became the custom to divide the range of an index into three or more named categories corresponding to low , medium and high divisions , and invariably defined without proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often assumed to connote eternal biological verities , or at any rate distinct biotypes . The study of morphological variations and of metric skeletal features was ordinarily pursued without any reference whatsoever to functional significance , still less with regard for relationship to any extra-organic or cultural manifestations of man . Since these variations were not obviously connected with pathology  --  the chief concern of medical science  --  there was virtually no attempt to relate them to anything else except the vagaries of heredity . There followed upon this period of haphazard and naive gathering of data an interval of irresponsible and speculative interpretation , initiated , no doubt , by the anthropo-geographical method of observing man . Rationalizations about man 's relation to his environment were probably current before the inception of anthropology . The simple fact that Negroes have dark skins and live in hot sunny countries , whereas Scandinavians have fair skins and inhabit cold , sunless climes , was enough to start an endless train of environmentalistic explanations whereby man 's anatomical variations were attributed to this or that condition of his habitat . The anatomical facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , taken in conjunction with meteorological and geographical records , economic returns , vital statistics and what not , provided an almost inexhaustible store of Chinese puzzle pieces which might be fitted together to make an intelligible picture . But most environmentalistic interpreters never tried to find out whether the pieces actually would fit together . They merely painted their own pictures with highly imaginative brushes , offering their personal impressions as realities . Some of the many fantastic suggestions offered were : that the everted lips of the Negro are referable to prolongation of the nursing period of infants ; that the slim shanks of the Nilotic Negroes have devel216 Apes , Men , and Morons oped in response to their habit of wading through the marshes like cranes ; that the short legs of the Yahgans of Tierra del Fuego are an effect of constant squatting in canoes ; that the lank , black hair of the Mongoloid is some sort of protective camouflage simulating the mane of the horse which he rides . Such dubious deductions are , of course , the expression of an unsophisticated and perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is marked by an inordinate employment of mathematical elaboration . The early anthropologist was prone to foist upon his readers masses of raw measurements , unanalyzed save for the presentation of occasional crude arithmetic ' means , and supported only by his own subjective impressions as to their significance in terms of types or differences . Statistical methods have been defined as " methods especially adapted to the elucidation of quantitative data affected by a multiplicity of causes . " 2 In the application of such methods to the data of physical anthropology biometricians have rendered an immeasurable service . They have devised and exemplified the use of delicate statistical tools which render possible definitive analysis of arrays of figures . However , these statistical tools are very sharp and quite capable of doing irreparable damage to the data when handled by an unskilled operator . No doubt a certain amount of havoc has been wrought by physical anthropologists who have attempted to employ statistical methods without a clear understanding of their utility and their limitations . Nevertheless , it would seem that far greater damage has been done by statistically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of satisfying their mathematical lusts . The prerequisites of sound investigation in physical anthropology are a full comprehension of the problems involved in the research and the ability to use approved techniques in the collection of data . If an investigator begins to study a racial problem without any real knowledge of the implications of race , and proceeds to collect data without adequate instruction in choice of measurements or observations and use of instruments , no proficiency in subsequent statistical analysis can compensate for his fundamental deficiencies . Even if the selection and collection of footnote 2 Yule , G. Udney , An Introduction to the Theory of Statistics , London , 1927 , p . S. // raw materials are irreproachable , the purely mathematical statistician is not equipped to study them satisfactorily , simply because he does not know what sort of conclusions ought to be sought . The inevitable result is an aimless elaboration of frequently unessential and irrelevant points . Often the research degenerates into a mere mathematical exercise , in which the biometrician taxes his ingenuity to devise and apply abstruse formula ; which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abuses of statistical method in every field have created a widespread distrust and suspicion aptly summed up by the vulgar saying that " there are lies , damned lies and statistics . " The use of statistical methods in physical anthropology has come to stay , but anthropologists must not turn over their data to purely mathematical statisticians with the expectation that the latter will produce satisfactory results . The anthropologist must learn his own statistics , because he alone possesses the knowledge which assures their proper application . On the whole , the phases or trends in the development of physical anthropology which have been outlined above are such as might be expected in the normal growth of a natural science with social involvements . There is , however , a rapidly growing aspect of physical anthropology which is nothing less than a malignancy . Unless it is excised , it will destroy the science . I refer to the perversion of racial studies and of the investigation of human heredity to political uses and to class advantage . Man has long sought to excuse his disregard of others ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his own race or nationality and the inferiority of others . The pro-slavery assertion that the Negro belongs to a lower species and hence may be treated as a domestic animal could be dismissed as mere specious propaganda of a pre-scientific age . However , when physical anthropology has advanced to the status of a reputable research science , its regimentation for political purposes becomes serious . Because anthropologists have studied human races intensively , the general public infers that they speak authoritatively and that there is a real basis for the racial discrimination thus anthropologically attested . The allegation of racial superiority or inferiority , previously dismissed as a mere sophistry , now assumes the nature of a valid reason for wholesale acts of injustice . Apart from the sociological // consequences , such an abuse of a science results in its complete degradation . Physical anthropologists , whose sole aim in investigation and teaching should be the search for truth and its impartial dissemination , are intimidated and forced to distort their findings . Under such circumstances the output of physical anthropology may become so suspect that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind them for a political motive . The various trends in the development of physical anthropology here discussed have not been chronologically sequential in the order named ; they have not been mutually exclusive , but coexistent , and all of them persist to some degree in contemporary research . Trends of Development in Archaeology Archaeology implies an interest in the obsolete paraphernalia of the past , which to the multitude stigmatizes its students as unregardful of the necessities of the present  --  the senile playboys of science rooting in the rubbish heaps of antiquity . Actually archaeology is quite as legitimate an inquiry into the past as is history , although it is documented , for the most part , with objects of material culture other than written records . Archaeology shares with history the function of interpreting the present through knowledge of the past . It must be admitted , nevertheless , that too often archaeology has been a magpie habit of collecting rather than a search for knowledge . A vast bulk of archaeological material in museums has been acquired through the efforts of persons who have made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plundered , and their loot has found its way to the shelves of museum exhibits . Such collections do not represent adequately the every day life of the people of any past age , but rather the bizarre and exotic features of their culture which appeal to the pot-hunter . The growth of archaeology as a science has inhibited to some extent the practice of digging for curios instead of for knowledge . But it has not been able to eradicate the desire of curators to fill their exhibition cases with spectacular objects , with the result that the primary purpose of the excavating parties sent into the field is to secure material and not information . The digging is indeed methodical , and the data are more or less scrupulously recorded , but the study of the collections and the interprePhysical // tation of their historical significance are too frequently neglected . Digging up the past and finding quaint or beautiful objects is a glamorous business . The laborious task of dragging significant information from these inanimate objects requires more persistence , more imagination , and more downright hard thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archaeological museums are often morgues for dead objects and undigested information concerning them . There are other phases of archaeological development which , though less deplorable than mere pot-hunting , can not be regarded with equanimity . One of these is an exaggeration of the importance of typology . The method of modern archaeology is based upon the principles of stratigraphy and typology . Stratigraphy determines sequence ; typology defines range of variability , extent of homogeneity , and cultural trend . Stratigraphy is objective evidence which , unfortunately , occurs only sporadically . Typology , as a substitute , is too often a figment of imagination invested with a semblance of reality by elaborate nomenclature . The typological delusion is a sort of auto-hypnosis brought on by too concentrated and prolonged gazing upon a single class of archaeological objects , as into a crystal . The archaeologist begins to see things which are not there . There are archaeologists whose whole attention is focused upon the stone implements made by palaeolithic man and recovered from river gravels or cave deposits . Starting from certain variations in the forms of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to establish , as it were , phyla and all of the successively more detailed taxonomic subdivisions of stone implements . Many so-called " types " of stone implements are so crude , amorphous and variable that no sensible observer can escape the conclusion that they are the results of the uncertain fumblings of unskilled workers rather than the products of purposeful techniques . When these dubious types are called upon to define whole cultures and are supposed to be exclusive products of single prehistoric races , typology becomes ridiculous and its implications nonsensical . Another typological excess is an over-emphasis of the study of ceramics . There are no few archaeologists who have apparently sold their birthright for a mess of pottery . The utility of potsherds for characterizing and cross-dating archaeological strata arose // from the fact that earthenware is so easily and so often broken that it provides a never-ending supply of fairly durable rubbish . It is , of course , undeniable that pottery styles change from age to age , both in form and decoration . It seems very doubtful whether these facts justify the enormous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this class of finds . It is quite apparent that many of them have lost all perspective in looking at their potsherds and now regard ceramics as their principal archaeological objective . Thus we have culture following culture in some regions with virtually no other difference than a change from an incised technique of decoration to a cord-marked technique , or from lug-handles to loop-handles . When ceramic styles are aggrandized into criteria of ethnic or racial change , it would seem that theory has gone beyond the probabilities of the evidence , unless pottery changes are supported by correlated variations of other artifacts . The assumption that cord-marked beakers are a result of hybridization between the Bell-Beaker race and the Corded-Ware race involves an anthropomorphization of crockery which is scarcely justifiable . Races interbreed , but pots do not . Archaeology has not escaped the tendency to specialize unduly in some areas and to neglect others . There are available for excavation numerous cultural deposits belonging to different periods and dispersed over wide areas . The great range of choice has resulted in unequal exploitation of the possibilities of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accessibility of sites and the potential abundance and art value of the finds recoverable . In very few instances does there seem to have been developed for a specific area a program of research designed to reconstruct the prehistory of the region . In Egypt , in Mesopotamia and in Greece , much archaeological work has been carried on by specialists in ancient languages or in history . However skilled such persons may be in excavating and recording , it is apparent that many of them are woefully lacking in anthropological perspective and have little real comprehension of the proper aim of archaeology . The skeletal material which alone can furnish the answer to racial problems and can be used as a basis for the determination of health , vitality and longevity of the population , has usually been destroyed , discarded , or at best Physical to Cultural Anthropology 22I deposited in some museum , without any utilization . A very great deal of this work has been characterized also by the disinclination to penetrate through the treasure-bearing strata of the highly developed civilizations down to their humble origins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the charge that it is carried on primarily for the recovery of objects which seem desirable to the excavators and to museums rather than for the purpose of increasing knowledge . Social Anthropology and Ethnology Serious consideration of the origin and significance of social phenomena began very early , because man is such a self-centered animal that he usually regards his own activities as the most important of existence . Thus the mere description of forms of social organization , religious beliefs and rituals , customs , laws and material culture has commanded interest and attention from the beginnings of literate times and has invited philosophical speculation . The theory of organic evolution gave a new impetus to studies of social institutions , since the idea of higher stages of culture and more advanced types of social behavior evolving from simpler and more primitive manifestations was appropriated quickly from its original biological context . There is no need of describing and discussing here the evolutionary school of cultural anthropology . The conception of society as an organism and of a unilinear evolution from one cultural stage to another and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been abandoned by most social anthropologists . If social evolution had been validated by modern research , it would have demanded , ultimately , correlative studies in the physical and cultural fields whereby the exact relationship between biological and sociological status might be established . It is probably fortunate that strictly evolutionary interpretations of cultural phenomena broke down before any such attempts were made , since it is now apparent that even in the field of physical anthropology definitive evolutionary ranking of human groups is not yet practicable . The diffusionist school is committed to the principle that inventions or cultural innovations originate , for the most part , once only and in a single people , and thence are transferred to the rest of the world . The implication of such a concept is that the new // phenomenon is produced , presumably , as a resultant of environmental and hereditary forces acting uniquely upon a certain group of human organisms . If this is true it ought to be possible to analyze the interacting forces and to isolate any gross anatomical correlate with the phenomenon which may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone so far as to attempt to study the racial or other physical combinations which have been concerned in the production of specific cultural innovations . However , a logical pursuance of the underlying concept ought to demand such an effort , fantastic though it may be . On the other hand , it is possible to adhere to an interpretation of cultural phenomena whereby the human organism with its mental and physical variations is regarded as a constant , and all social variations and changes are referred to a combination of environmental and historical causes , with possibly some allowance for the influence of the individual . Such a conception of the negligible influence of organic variation upon behavioral variation is implicit or explicit in the method and theory of most social anthropologists and sociologists . The attitude is partially reaction against the scientifically indefensible notions about the cultural significance of race which seem to enjoy an unending vogue in non-anthropological circles . Nevertheless , I believe that the refusal to explore the scientific possibilities of the physical correlates of social phenomena has contributed greatly to the confusion of social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become applied social sciences . One of the new wrinkles in cultural anthropology is " functionalism . " I understand the adherents of this school to maintain that all structures and institutions of a social group operate in a sort of physiological manner and that to understand a society , the functional relationship of its component elements must be ascertained . According to this conception there are no spare parts of the machine , no superfluous and functionless elements . All things work together for good or for evil . Certainly the attempt to interpret societies as going concerns , rather than to produce anatomical monographs upon their disiecta meinbra , represents a distinct advance in social anthropological method . Whether or not the neglect of historical data in functional studies of society corrupts the method does not concern me here . It should be apparent , // in any case , that the physical and mental variations of the human organism are of great importance in studying the physiology of society , and that in modern groups comprising mixtures of racial and ethnic strains , the diverse behavior of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation of the working of the whole . An even more recent trend in social anthropological studies emphasizes the influence of personality  --  the psychology of the individual  --  in cultural phenomena . Again this development seems healthful , if only because it departs very far from the old way of considering social institutions completely apart from the human animals which produce them , as if the former lived , died , propagated and evolved independently , like parasites upon their human hosts . That the varying psychologies of the individuals who comprise the social group must in the aggregate determine cultural trends and shape social institutions seems undeniable to one who looks at society from the biological point of view . If the observer recognizes that individual psychology is to some extent a manifestation of constitutional proclivities  --  that there are bodily correlates of mental sets  --  the utility of physical anthropological studies of the individual with reference to his behavior becomes evident . No one , of course , supposes that the traditional good nature of fat men is a direct product of their obesity . Psycho-physical parallelisms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they are manifestations in different activities and parts of the organism of the same forces , whether these be hereditary or environmental . Gross anatomical features may be symptomatic of mental states , although they do not stand in a parent or child relation one to the other . In summary , my only quarrel with the ethnologist and with the social anthropologist is that they willfully abstract social phenomena and divorce man 's activities as a social animal from man himself . The members of each school mount their own particular breed of hobby-horse and ride it with blinders toward some far-off and invisible goal , looking neither to right nor to left , and missing not only the setting of their journey , but possibly also the objective . // The Synthesis of Physical and Cultural Anthropological Studies From my own research experience , I have come painfully and slowly to a realization that Anthropology behaves very stupidly when it does not let its right hand know what its left hand is doing . Many years ago I undertook an investigation of the archaeology of the Canary Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diversity of skeletal type . In this archipelago the tabulation of archaeological evidence in relation to cranial type facilitated the reconstruction of a plausible and probably correct sequence of migrating peoples from the mainland . Considered apart , neither the archaeological nor the physical data were particularly illuminating . In a later study of the large skeletal series from the ruined Pueblo of Pecos , New Mexico , excavated by Dr. A. V. Kidder of Phillips Academy , Andover , the value of co-operative work on the part of archaeologists and physical anthropologists was again demonstrated . The stratigraphic data pertaining to each skeleton made possible an examination of the physical characteristics of the population through the successive archaeological periods , and also estimates of the number of inhabitants . The rise and decline of several physical types was traced . In studies of the physical characteristics of racially mixed peoples in various parts of the world , the most striking results have been the intimate correlations of physical types with sociological status . Such physio-sociological associations are closer than those of physical type with ascertained degree of blood mixture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical type of a racial hybrid his occupational , educational and social status , more easily than the proportions of bloods of the parent stocks which he represents . Finally , in a very extensive survey of the physical and sociological characteristics of American criminals , the results of which are not yet published , physical differentiation seems invariably to accompany sociological differentiation . Hereditary and environmental forces apparently combine in selecting specific physical types not only for distinct offenses , but also for various occupations , degrees of educational attainment , et cetera . The interpretaPhysical // tion of physical differences lies , for the most part , in their relation to sociological facts . It seems certain that the converse is also true . It is my firm conviction that physical anthropology is not a study which can be pursued profitably with utter disregard for its sociological connotation . As long as it works in isolation , with its attention directed solely to bones , teeth , viscera , and physiology , it is comparatively trivial . We are really not much interested in man considered purely as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which render the lower features significant . Physical anthropology is properly the working mate of cultural anthropology . Indeed I should advocate a marriage for better or for worse of these male and female principles of anthropological research , since the one , if working in celibate seclusion , makes of man nothing much more than a mysteriously gifted and altogether inexplicable brute , whereas the other , if condemned to spinsterhood , indulges in precisely those meddlesome and sterile investigations of human activity which too often characterize the female in public affairs . On the other hand , if these two join , they bring to the union their individual capacities , which , mingled , facilitate an adequate performance of the biological , sociological and economic functions which such a mating should subserve . Combined in some sort of scientific , bi-sexual reproductive process , they may give rise to a real anthropological science , capable of understanding man . 16 . THE EUGENICS BOGY WHILE democracy is making the world safe for morons and fascism is making it unsafe for everyone else , there are in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested in human welfare which are striving to improve the quality of the human animal by biological measures . Many anthropologists and biological scientists have tended to look down their noses at the eugenists , although they ought to be in the forefront of workers in a science of better breeding if they pretend to have any social responsibility . One can allege many plausible reasons for staying aloof from such movements , but I suspect that the fundamental causes of our non-participation do us little credit . In the first place , apart from a few public scientists , laboratory and field workers in biological subjects are usually so immersed in research that they are disinclined to be active in organizations which are attempting to promote the practical application of biological principles . Such organizations are necessarily to some extent propagandist , and their membership is largely 229 // recruited from interested laymen and enthusiastic amateurs , with the inclusion of not a few fanatics . A great many scientists are temperamentally averse to the atmosphere of emotional fervor and " uplift " which is likely to pervade such groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are afraid of associating themselves with societies which are likely to overstep the bounds of actual knowledge in their statements urging the adoption of legislative or other measures . They fear to lose caste in their profession by identifying themselves with cranks . I think that this attitude of timorous withdrawal is pusillanimous and reprehensible , alhough I have it myself . If anything is going to be done to improve the human species , the actual burden and heat of the day will be borne by these missionary zealots who are carried along by their almost religious convictions  --  these executive amateurs at whose perspiring efforts fastidious scientists sniff . Personally , I am thoroughly ashamed of myself for wincing and cringing at the pseudoscientific stuff put out by eugenic organizations , because their moral rightness and their driving vigor are of much more social value than the cold-blooded , inhuman detachment of the pure scientist . However , there is one really sound reason why eugenics and eugenists are rightly suspected , and why many anthropologists can not force themselves into activity in a movement which , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country and elsewhere , been mixed up with a great deal of vicious racial propaganda , especially the nonsense of Nordicism . A certain number of persons who have been prominent in eugenics here and elsewhere are really attempting to promulgate measures of racial discrimination under the guise of " race hygiene " and " race betterment . " They seem to think that being well-born is synonymous with being a " Nordic , " although many who talk the most loudly along these lines are neither the one nor the other . A good many years ago I attended an International Eugenics Congress , the president of which was one of our most celebrated public scientists , an aristogenist if there ever was one . At the formal banquet which is an inevitable and depressing feature of scientific congresses , this genial , erudite , and justly famous scientist made an introduction of the foreign speaker of the evening in terms which I recall as follows : The Eugenics Bogy 2 31 " Twenty thousand years ago , when the ice sheet had retreated sufficiently to lay bare a coastal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a band of intrepid adventurers , who have remained there to this day , who have pioneered in all of the arts of civilization and yet have maintained the purity and integrity of their Nordic racial blood and physical heritage . And tonight , I am privileged to introduce to you one of the most famous scientists of this Nordic race , who is foremost in research upon racial hygiene and in the promotion of measures to insure racial integrity . " From my obscure and remote table of uncelebrities , I peered myopically to catch a glimpse of this dolichocephalic , blond Viking who was to embody the physical , intellectual , and scientific ideals of the " Great Race . " At first I got the elevation of my sight too high and saw no one standing at the speaker 's table except the blandly smiling president who had made the eloquent introduction . Then I heard sounds of broken English , and , lowering my gaze a foot or two , I was able to discern its source . It was a sawed-off , rotund person with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blobby nose and a face reminiscent of the full moon  --  in short , the complete Alpine . I thereupon decided that every man is his own Nordic , and I am afraid that I leaped to the conclusion that eugenics is a lay form of ancestor worship . If eugenics is going to command the support of disillusioned anthropologists it will have to divest itself entirely of its Ku Klux Klan regalia . Now the hostile criticism of eugenics arises mainly from the following classes of persons : ( z ) supercilious geneticists and cautious anthropologists , ( 2 ) those who suspect it to be an undercover weapon of fascists , anti-Semitists , and other perpetrators of racial and ethnic injustice , ( 3 ) proletarians who believe that " the Lord must love common people because he has made so many of them , " ( 4 ) surreptitious ax-grinders , such as demagogues whose hope of domination lies in the stupidity of the majority , industrialists who want an ample supply of cheap labor , and clerics whose followings are recruited from the irresponsibles who gratify their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss the principal measures advocated by the proponents of eugenics in the light of the objections against them raised by these several classes of antagonists . These measures are // birth control and sterilization . Both are negative in that they can serve only to restrict undesired and undesirable reproduction . They can improve the quality of the population only by eliminating the procreation of a certain proportion of potential inferiors . One may as well admit at the outset that the widespread application of these two measures is unlikely to check degenerative evolutionary processes or to effect any sudden and marked elevation of the average physical and mental status of man . Birth control is , of course , a weapon which cuts both ways . While the sins of contraception are by no means equal to the sins of conception , the restriction of offspring in families of sound heredity and economic efficiency presents a very serious population problem . The need of an increase in the proportion of the superior is almost , if not quite , as pressing as the necessity of checking the multiplication of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to now has had the principal effect of diminishing the numbers of the desirable , because it has been restricted in practice mainly to the families which possess a sufficient sense of economic responsibility to be unwilling to produce more children than they are able to support and to educate . These same families are called upon by direct taxation and voluntary contribution to maintain the offspring of the socially inefficient , who do not practice birth control . Thus the lack of birth control where it is desirable promotes its use in the very groups which ought not to limit reproduction . In this country , at any rate , and under the present political administration , public policy involves the penalizing of the successful in order to reward and encourage the human failures . Perhaps the most serious objection to birth control , apart from its utterly perverse application , is that raised by economists in connection with the decline of populations in civilized countries . The evidence of diminishing birth rates and of the insufficiency of declining death-rates to compensate for this lessened fertility has been presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recapitulated here . The argument is that progressive diminishing of the population will bring about increased unemployment , because the lessened demand for goods will disrupt industry , starting apparently with the manufacture of equipment for infants ' and children 's toys . Of course I am not an economist , but it seems to me that this is tantamount to worrying about the unemployThe // ment of those who are not going to be born . However , there is reason in the supposition that a decline in the population will not in itself relieve unemployment , since it is likely to carry with it a proportional decline in consumption and production of goods . However , if it were possible in some way to increase the consuming power of the economically depressed by improving their quality so as to make them self-supporting and productive , the situation might not prove to be serious . Surely our economic system is not dependent upon the maintenance and increase of that section of the population which has to be supported at the public expense . It is unthinkable that industry should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decrease of consumption . There is really no point in attempting to combat the arguments of those who object to birth control on moral or religious grounds . One can only offer as a counterblast the moral and religious convictions which are equally strong among the advocates of the measure . Those who obstruct progress have no monopoly of conscience . Behind the allegations of religious scruples and moral objections there are often the ambitions for power of scheming individuals and organizations . Dictators want teeming populations composed mainly of weak-minded individuals whom they may use for cannon fodder . The quality which someone has called **28;0;TOOLONG is the essential characteristic upon which despotic rulers build their dominance , whether it be in labor organizations , or in political parties , or in the church . One can expect no sympathy for any movement which aims to decrease the proportion of the stupid , the feeble-minded , the insane , and the economically ineffectual on the part of those who owe their success to their ability to use this moronic mass for their own aggrandizement . As a humanitarian measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessive childbearing , as a means of lightening the economic burden put upon the heads of uncontrolled families by too many offspring , as an indirect method of increasing the environmental opportunities of the children who are " wanted , " birth control seems absolutely essential . Since it is not injurious to the health of those who practice it , and since there is no good evidence that it is productive of increased sexual im234 Apes , Men , and Morons morality , it ought to be supported and promoted on grounds of social expediency . However , I am not particularly hopeful of voluntary birth control as an effective agency for improving human stocks as a whole , or for elevating their evolutionary status . The classes of people among which reproduction ought to be discouraged will hardly be taught or persuaded to limit their families for any nebulous ideals of the social good . Only a week or two ago I read the statement of the proud father of some fifteen children upon the occasion of the birth of ( as I remember it ) his third set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control was ruining the country . Many of us have been edified by the news of the so-called Toronto " baby Marathon " and have seen in the news-reels pictures of a number of the competing families  --  all of them obviously breeding in an environment of dirt , disease , poverty , and ignorance . It seems to me that stupid and ignorant persons are far more anxious to crowd the world with their kind than are the intelligent and socially responsible . It is quite probable also that the latter are less fertile , quite apart from the practice of contraception . On the whole , then , it seems as necessary to encourage the reproduction of more offspring by the superior families , as to promote restriction in size of the inferior families . I do not know how this can be done . It has been pointed out by close students of the subject of birth control that the knowledge of contraception , first disseminated among the upper classes ( economic and social ) , is gradually spreading to those less favorably situated , so that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , irrespective of legislation and propaganda in favor of birth control . Sterilization is a more radical measure and perhaps offers better possibilities for improving the human stock . Not a few highly intelligent persons are strongly opposed to compulsory sterilization because they fear that unscrupulous governments and individuals will use it as a means of eliminating elements in the population to which they are antagonistic  --  such as Jews in Nazi Germany . I think that this fear is well-grounded , and there are perhaps many of us in this country who would not feel entirely comfortable if we knew that our present national government could exercise its discretion in the matter of having any one of us sterilized . The brilliant researches of modern geneticists who are occupied // with mathematical considerations as applied to human heredity are decidedly discouraging with regard to the probable effect of sterilization as an evolutionary panacea . Taking , for example , the matter of feeble-mindedness and mental defect , it is argued that very little is known of the inheritance of these undesirable conditions . The indications are that , if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gene substitution , but are extremely complicated . Sterilizing all of the feeble-minded would not eliminate the production of persons suffering from this weakness . This contention is undoubtedly true . The assertion that we are ignorant of the extent to which environment may be a causal factor in mental defect is equally valid . Certainly the present meagerness of our knowledge does not justify us in attributing to heredity the exclusive role in the production of the mentally inferior . Still less are we in a position safely to neglect attempts to ascertain the environmental factors which may be operative in the situation and to relinquish our efforts to improve the social conditions which may contribute to the production of mental defect . Lancelot Hogben , apparently drawing upon the researches of J. B. S. Haldane , offers some very cogent mathematical considerations of the effect of selection in breeding upon the genetic constitution of a population . ' If generations did not overlap and the recessive type alone was allowed to breed , all dominants would be exterminated in a single generation . But if selection favors the dominant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for selection involving autosomal and sex-linked gene substitutions . In the latter case it is much more rapid . I do not intend here to enter into the details of the demonstrations of these scientists of the slow and relatively minute effect which could be expected of complete selection in the case of complicated recessive characters which are not sex-linked . They are sufficient to convince any reasonable person that the complete regeneration of mankind is not to be achieved in a few generations by sterilizing some thousands of the insane , the feeble-minded , and the criminalistic . " If seven maids with seven mops swept it for half a year , Do you suppose , " the Walrus said , " that they could get it clear ? " " I doubt it , " said the Carpenter , and shed a bitter tear . // Nevertheless , it seems to me that we ought not to neglect the opportunity of securing some improvement of our population , albeit infinitesimal , by adopting such measures . However vague and incomplete may be our knowledge of human heredity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not see that the status of man can be lowered by preventing inferior human animals from propagating , even under the improbable assumption that the resulting offspring will not be like their parents , but will be an improvement upon them . I think that we can afford to accept the chances of losing any potential geniuses or superior specimens of mankind which might arise from the reproductive efforts of those tainted with hereditary disease , of those who are insane , feeble-minded , and antisocial . If we limit sterilization ( or at least compulsory sterilization ) to specimens of humanity who really ought to be exterminated , we shall probably achieve some slight gain . Of course the answer to the whole problem of improving man 's status ( if anyone thinks it needs improvement ) lies in the acquisition of more knowledge about the interplay of hereditary and environmental factors which make the man , rather than in the immediate application of any crude and drastic social or biological measure . There are perhaps those who think that the millennium is either here or just around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinions and statements here offered will be wildly wrong . 17. // Introduction AN anthropologist looks at medicine very humbly , much as a cat may venture to look at a king . Moreover , the anthropologist , like Kipling 's cat , walks by himself and all people are alike to him  - -  even doctors  --  at any rate as long as he is feeling well . It happens that physical anthropology is the only field of knowledge which concerns itself exclusively with human biology , except medicine . Therefore , from the dim obscurity of speculations upon man 's past , present and future , the anthropologist sometimes turns an appraising eye upon the practitioners of human biology  --  those who are not only studying man , but are also doing something to him . Differences Between Physical Anthropology and Medicine Certain differences between the methods and purposes of physical anthropology and of medicine condition the status of // each and merit brief discussion . Medicine enjoys a uniquely favorable position among the sciences , because its activities are of immediate or potential concern to every human being . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of greeting , perfunctorily reechoed by way of response to everyone except a doctor . There appertains to the healer a certain supernatural sanction , a legacy from the medicine man and the shaman . He works magic  --  not public magic , which is the province of the priest , and , as such , religion ; but private magic for the benefit of the individual , which commands a fee . As the fearful sinner recognizes in the priest the personal agent of his soul 's salvation , so does the suffering patient see in the doctor the instrument of his corporeal rehabilitation . Thus , each man 's preoccupation with his own carcass  --  a sort of physiological egocentrism  --  gives medicine a distinct advantage over all other sciences . Medical research receives and deserves the most lavish financial support , since it is an investment which promises and pays the sort of dividends appreciated by all . Physical anthropology , as I have intimated , is an unobtrusive and possibly innocuous growth in the field of human biology , a lonely and disregarded tare among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , it is a pure science , in the sense that it is not applied  --  if not indeed purely useless . It is entirely untainted , because it has virtually no pecuniary contacts . Physical anthropology concerns itself with man 's origin , present status and future evolution  --  problems which are of little or no concern to the individual in his pursuit of personal health and happiness . Physical anthropology is neither ultilitarian nor idealistic , it is merely skeptical and speculative , in the etymological sense of each . It holds up a mirror to man and lets him look at himself , with the result that he likes neither his reflection nor the agent of its production . Medicine teaches , for whatever age or sex , what every man should know , and is discreetly silent upon matters of which a lay understanding is inexpedient . Anthropology reveals many things which most persons prefer not to know , since it harps upon humble and even bestial origins , regards the present status of our species without approbation , and can predict for the man of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychoses , dental caries , malocclusions and fallen arches , together with a full retenAn Anthropologist Looks at Medicine 239 tion of his aboriginal cussedness . Under these circumstances , anthropology not only misses the material opulence achieved by an applied science , but even the comfortable circumstances of a " popular science . " Not for the anthropologist is the contemplation of the celestial grandeur of the expanding universe ; he looks at one animal " bereft of his tail and grown weary of climbing " ; he wonders why that animal carries so much excess baggage in the way of apparently unutilized brain , and whether he would not be better off with a smaller hat size and a set of lower and upper teeth which hit . Now there are marked contrasts in the methods of physical anthropology and of medical science , arising no doubt from their diverse approaches to the problems of human biology . Medicine must focus upon the individual , for whom something has to be done , and that right quickly . Contact with suffering evokes sympathy and engenders an attitude of noble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is hardly a question of not seeing the wood for the trees , but rather one of sawing wood and selling timber or of giving it away . Since life is real , and ridiculously earnest , and the grave is a goal which the patient must be led to miss at all costs , medical science is nurtured in the fetid atmosphere of pathology , and has no chance to breathe pure ozone in the congregation of mentes some in corporibus sanis ( sound minds in sound bodies ) . All of which is a cumbersome way of saying that doctors are so preoccupied with the sick that they do not know the well and are forced to evolve the normal from their inner consciousness , as the German scholar evolved the camel . Just as New England , according to Mark Twain , has no weather , but only samples , so medical science has no subjects but only patients . Inevitably this restriction results in a faulty conception of the range of " normal " human variation , a tendency to base conclusions upon the study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to utilize valid methods of group analysis . In contrast , the physical anthropologist is as little concerned with the bodily welfare of any given individual as the individual with that of the anthropologist . The anthropologist is interested in groups ( the larger the better ) . Any member of a group commands his attention merely as a component unit , exhibiting a greater or less deviation from the mean . His business is to determine the range // of variation of physical characteristics in large samples of the population , classified on an ethnic basis , a sociological basis or by whatever criteria the purpose of his specific investigation may suggest . Thus , a physical anthropologist may undertake to study Italians , an ethnic group ; criminals , a sociological group ; babies , an age group ; mountaineers , a geographical group , et cetera . Or he may study Italian criminals , infant mountaineers or any group selected on the basis of several categories . In every instance , however , he must avoid confusion of categories by subdividing his material into groups which may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , certain physical variations which are determined by racial heredity . Therefore , the anthropologist , in studying criminals , would not throw Negroes and Whites into the same statistical series ; he would analyze them separately and eventually compare the constants and characters of their respective series . He would not include Italian and American babies in the same series , nor would he lump two-year-old infants with infants of three years , nor mountaineers with lowlanders . In the last two examples , differences of age or physical environment affecting bodily traits necessitate a careful sorting of material , if group characteristics and trends are to be determined in any clearcut fashion . Having delimited his group by such essential sortings in order to avoid confusion of issues , the anthropologist then proceeds to an examination of each component member of the group . He next advances to seriation and statistical analysis of the group data thus obtained , calculating the constants , recording the distribution of observed morphological characters , the intercorrelation of various features , and in every case taking into mathematical consideration the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sample studied . He is then finally in a position to describe scientifically the physical characteristics of the group investigated . If , however , he wishes to go further and to differentiate between Italian criminals and Italians who are law-abiding citizens , or between mountaineers and plainsmen , he must repeat his analysis for each group adduced for comparison and must finally derive their differences from their respective arrays of characteristics . Thus , if the anthropologist were investigating pneumonia , he would require : firstly , a large body of persons suffering from the An Anthropologist Looks at Medicine 241 disease ; secondly , a sorting of the sufferers into statistical groups based upon race ; thirdly , a further subdivision of the group , based upon age , and a possible fourth , based upon sex . All these subgroups would be subjected to separate statistical analysis before pneumonic characteristics could be scientifically isolated from confusing factors introduced by certain irrelevant biogenetic differences . But this is not all . The anthropologist would not feel that he really knew about pneumonia until he had compared his several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population , each measured and analyzed in the same way . Then at last he would be in a position to reach scientific conclusions . Of course the doctor can not proceed along such investigatory channels . Before he had finished gathering his data , all his patients would have died or recovered  --  in either case without benefit of medicine . Such deliberate research can scarcely be undertaken by a practitioner who functions only during a crisis , and who is scientifically apathetic and professionally inert during periods of that condition described by the detestable term , " normalcy . " Nevertheless , the pedestrian methods of the anthropologist may eventually lead medical science to certain desired goals , possibly unattainable through mere utilization of the cumulative clinical experience gained by guidance of individuals through their bodily emergencies . I should like to discuss a few of the possibilities of practical contributions to medical science through the employment of anthropological methods . Problems of Medicine Which Might be Illuminated by Anthropological Methods and Co-operation ( a ) Constitution . The problem of constitution in its relation to medical science may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is correlated with immunity and susceptibility to various diseases . The relation of body type to disease is obviously only a part of the larger problem of the correlation of morphological variation with physiological variation , with psychological variation , and with sociological behavior . Medicine has no immediate concern with some of the broader aspects of this question , although all of them engage the attention of the anthropologist . Lack of time , lack of knowledge , and lack of inclination combine to prevent me from entering here into a history and critique of constitutional // work in medicine , the substantial results of which , according to my possibly erroneous impression , are as yet regrettably slight . Nevertheless , I have the greatest confidence in the ultimate productiveness of research in this subject . My own positive findings respecting body build in its much farther-fetched relationship to type of crime have merely confirmed a conviction , gradually reached on other anthropological grounds . It is feasible , however , to define the essentials of correct scientific procedure in the investigation of the medical aspect of the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been consistently disregarded in much of the work heretofore done . It is first of all imperative to diagnose completely and correctly the disease to be investigated . Foggy symptomatology will not do . If dementia praecox is a residuary legatee of all the bequests of psychiatric perplexity , it can hardly serve as a clinical point of departure for constitutional research . Assuming , however , that symptoms are clearly defined and diagnosis certain , it is next and equally essential that a valid scientific determination of body type be effected . Now , an actual establishment of an anthropological type , statistically demonstrable and irrefragable , is the most difficult and complex task which ever confronts a physical anthropologist . To attempt it with no more equipment than a clinical hunch and a pair of borrowed calipers is sadly ingenuous . Experience and a little mathematical knowledge will dissuade the most sanguine caliper-wielder from efforts to establish morphological types by a few raw measurements or crude indices , arbitrarily selected from the infinity of possible mensurable combinations . Type is a total morphological impression , a composite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brain , but through the eye , of the trained observer . Discernment of type is the ultimate acquirement of the anthropological observer ; its mathematical expression and demonstration , the most refined accomplishment of the expert biometrician . The former is useless without the latter . I can conceive of no more futile exercise than bandying about the clinic anthropometrically unsubstantiated concepts , with dubious Greek names such a " pyknic . " The last prerequisite of a successful investigation of the problem of body build and disease is a competent method of statistical analysis , controlled by common sense and a full realization of An Anthropologist Looks at Medicine 243 the limitations of the data and of the ends to be achieved . The satisfactory application of such a method implies , of course , modern mechanical equipment for statistical reduction , plenty of computing assistance , together with sufficient resources , financial and moral , to carry on through years of arithmetic drudgery . There is no royal road to anthropometric analysis . The data must be sorted and analyzed , then resorted according to other categories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ error must continue until the possibilities of the data are exhausted . The investigator must be prepared ruthlessly to discard masses of data found to be inaccurate or irrelevant , and , if he is mathematically gifted , he must beware of the temptation to fiddle with formulae while research funds burn . The requirements for success in constitutional study , as here laid down , are severe but not prohibitive , in view of the potential importance of the results . ( b ) Orthopedics . The specialty known as orthopedics deals , in some degree , with bodily difficulties due to man 's imperfect adaptation to an erect posture and to a biped mode of progression . Man is a made-over animal . In the course of evolution , his ancestors have functioned as arboreal pronogrades and brachiators or armprogressing tree-dwellers  --  not to mention more remote stages involving other changes of habitat , posture and mode of locomotion . This protean history has necessitated repeated patching and reconstruction of a more or less pliable and long-suffering organism . The bony framework has been warped and cramped and stretched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the stresses and strains put upon it by different postures and by changes in body bulk . Joints devised for mobility have been readapted for stability . Muscles have had violence done to their origins and insertions , and have suffered enormous inequalities in the distribution of labor . Viscera have been pushed about hither and yon , hitched up , let down , reversed and inverted . In making a new machine out of an old one , plenty of obsolete spare parts have been left to rattle around inside . There are no few evidences of ungifted , amateur tinkering . That the specialty of orthopedics should be based upon the very broadest knowledge and understanding of these evolutionary changes seems to me so obvious that I need not labor the point . // The problems of body mechanics are in themselves tremendously complex . I suppose that no one lacking the training of an engineer can grapple with them effectively . Unless I am greatly mistaken , an adequate comprehension of bodily mechanics has not been achieved , as yet . Two comparatively recent developments in experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first of these is the possibility of rearing the semi-erect and quadrupedal anthropoid apes in the laboratory , and of studying their postures and gaits from the point of view of bodily mechanics . These apes unquestionably illuminate the path of man 's adaptations for erect posture and biped progression . It is hardly necessary to add that man himself , from infancy to senility , ought to be studied in the same way . The second modern development which facilitates orthopedic advance is the use of the x-ray photograph and the slow motion picture for the study of posture and gait and their mechanical implications . A full utilization of these technical devices for the observation of ape and human subjects , combined with anthropometric and clinical methods , can not fail to result in revelations of great practical value . Success will , however , necessitate protracted and expensive labor and a full employment of the resources of medical and anthropological science . ( c ) Pediatrics . The study of the medical or hygienic treatment of children is , of course , an immense and valuable field of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the populace with greater facility than perhaps any other branch of medical science , because nature furnishes every normal human being with a special fund of sympathy for the young . An integral part of pediatrics is the study of human growth , which is indubitably bound up with the physiological crises and the pathological infestations of infancy , childhood and adolescence . No one , indeed , can claim that the study of human growth has been neglected of late in civilized countries . I fear , however , that much of this study has been ill-directed and purposeless , relegated for the most part to specialists in education or educational psychology ( who are ready to try anything on someone else 's child ) , to instructors in physical education and to anthropologists . Huge masses of statistics have been compiled and innumerable growth curves have been drawn , but the correlations of these data with nutritional status , An Anthropologist Looks at Medicine 245 with infections and with constitutional diseases are , I think , still to seek . Many growth studies have been carried on by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropometry ( which is by no means easy to acquire ) , and the measurements are consequently unreliable . The bulk of the subjects studied has not been assorted racially or even on the basis of national origins , so that the conclusions derived from the heterogeneous material are of dubious value . There are , of course , many exceptions to these generalizations , but , in my opinion , much of the effort expended in growth studies has been unintelligent and pointless . Such studies , unless undertaken for the simple purpose of demonstrating racial differences , should be so intimately associated with pediatrics as to furnish the controls and the knowledge of individual development with which to correlate the diseases and nutritional variations of childhood . This contention does not require further elaboration , because it has reached a status of almost general recognition . However , I should like here to enter a plea in behalf of the study of age changes subsequent to adolescence . It is a lamentable fact that comparatively little is known of the terminal phases of the growth cycle ( approximately between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and between 18 and 22 years in females ) . Actually we do not know when growth stops , nor when senile changes begin . There is a sort of general assumption that the final period of growth is succeeded by a resting phase , lasting for perhaps five years or more , after which senile decay insidiously sets in . Now it seems to me very probable that the physiological changes of middle life and old age are quite as intimately associated with disease , and consequently with medicine , as those of the advancing years of youth . The world is largely run by middle-aged and elderly individuals whose dispositions , bodily health and mental processes are presumably affected by senile changes . Consequently , it would seem that these age changes bring upon the population of every age-grade , wars , financial crises , diplomatic incidents , new deals and every other sort of social and economic evil . Hence , I venture to suggest the need of a science , or at least a medical specialty , of geratology , or the study of old age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of world events is to be altered because this old man has an enlarged prostate , that one has high blood pressure , and the other has gastric ulcer or a wife going through the meno246 Apes , Men , and Morons pause , we have reason for desiring a somewhat fuller knowledge of the range , exact nature and general implications of bodily decline . I will refrain from enlarging further upon relationships of anthropology and medicine , although there are many of an importance fully equal to those which I have discussed . Proposal for an Institute of Clinical Anthropology  --  A Foundation for the Investigation of Well Beings All the foregoing considerations lead to a proposal which might profitably engage the serious consideration of medical science and of those great philanthropic foundations which alternately establish and allow to perish through inanition institutes for research to promote human betterment . In my opinion , the world is in sore need of an institute of clinical anthropology or , if you like , an institute of anthropological medicine , a foundation for the study of the biology of well beings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted to the purpose of finding out what man is like biologically when he does not need a doctor , in order further to ascertain what he should be like after the doctor has finished with him . I am entirely serious when I suggest that it is a very myopic medical science which works backward from the morgue , rather than forward from the cradle . I can see no bright future of scientific achievement for the healing art , if it persists in dealing only with those men who have stomach aches , and hypothecates its norms from them exclusively . The institute which I have in mind , would , of course , include physical anthropologists , whose techniques , methods of analysis and points of view I conceive to be essential to the enterprise . It would provide applications for their exact methods , too often wasted upon investigations which are , from a mundane point of view , relatively futile . The entire subject of human biology , apart from pathology , can not be investigated adequately by the physical anthropologist without the co-operation of medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dozen physical anthropologists who are paid to devote their entire time to this specialty , and there never will be a supply sufficient to cope with the task until an alliance with applied human biology is effected . On the other hand , there are enough and probably too many young men who are preparing to enter the medical proAn Anthropologist Looks at Medicine 247 fession , and a considerable number of them might advantageously be diverted from practice to clinical anthropological investigation . But I have intimated , and I now say quite flatly , that a medical education does not make its possessor competent to undertake research in physical anthropology , and that there seems little prospect of sound cultivation in the great field of human biology wherein may grow the nutritive plants essential for a greater materia medica , if that field is to be abandoned to the anthropologists rooting for something entirely different , and to the casual scratchings of medical leisure . The purposes of such an institute for research in applied human biology might be enumerated as follows : to establish ranges , norms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology and neurology ; to investigate age changes in man from his conception to his dissolution ; to determine racial susceptibilities and immunities ; to test the assumption of parallelism between human physiology and that of the higher mammals ; to investigate human heredity and to apply the results of such research to medical practice ; to lay the foundations for a rational science of eugenics . All these studies and many more might be undertaken with the avowed purpose of obtaining knowledge bearing directly upon medical practice , and it is medical science which would profit largely from them . This paper is not intended to exhort medical sinners to an anthropological repentance ; the anthropologist does not cast himself in the role of a John the Baptist , crying aloud in the wilderness  - -  far less of a Messiah . ' Without any desire to crash the gates of a great profession , he peeps curiously between the bars , and comments  --  no doubt rashly  --  upon the laudable efforts of the inmates . 18. // ON THIS occasion one should perhaps attempt some sort of synchronization of evolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to produce but one pregnant coincidence  --  namely , that the first living anthropoid ape to visit Europe , a chimpanzee , arrived in the Netherlands in 1641 , when John Winthrop , Jr. , was also abroad , looking for a Master of Harvard College . ' Winthrop went to the Netherlands in the summer of 1642 , where he may have met the chimpanzee and forgotten his mission . Whether or not because of such an anthropoid divagation , he found no head for our infant institution . The first scientific description of the chimpanzee was published in 1 641 by Nicolas Tulp from observations of Winthrop 's contemporary Man as Director of Human Evolution 249 visitor . A scientific account of the gorilla did not appear until 1847 , but here at last Harvard registers , because it was published by Professor Jeffries Wyman , first Curator of the Peabody Museum , together with Thomas S. Savage , a Boston Missionary . ' Hence , in spite of the recent intimate association of Yale with the anthropoid apes , Harvard may claim here , as elsewhere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's role in directing the course of human evolution , beginning with the extent of such evolutionary self-determination in prehuman and protohuman times , continuing with an appraisal of its importance in primitive and ancient human society , and culminating in specific suggestions concerning the necessity of an intelligent control of man 's future evolution through medical science . The later stages of human evolution certainly , and those of the other higher primates possibly , stand in contrast to the evolution of lower animals in at least one important respect . Infraprimate evolution is characterized by passivity of the organism , which evolves through a sort of environmental determinism . In man , on the contrary , evolution has become autodirective . The balance of power has shifted from the environment to the organism . Whether or not intelligently , the animal has taken the bit in its teeth and is bolting . Natural selection has been tossed out of the saddle and is prostrate somewhere back in the muck . It behooves us to consider this phenomenon  --  man running away with his own evolution . The Dawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biological practitioners to embark upon an elaborate definition of the factors in organic evolution . These are ordinarily classified in two categories : variation and selection . Variation has to do with changes in the organism , selection with the sifting of these variations by environment . Those which slip through the meshes continue in the stream of life ; those which are too coarse-grained are relegated to the dump . We are wont to fall into the habit of deifying natural selection , // as if it were an omniscient guide and controller of biological affairs , instead of a concatenation of purposeless forces , the resultant of which for any animal species is survival or extinction . Probably it would be better conceived like Justice , blindfold , equipped with a primitive set of scales and slashing about in the dark with an unwieldy sword . It is difficult to avoid teleological interpretations of natural selection , but less so , perhaps , if one contemplates the noxious character of many of its triumphant survivors  --  as for example the sixteen of thirty-five species of the Genus streptococcus which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially anthropocentric ; a streptococcocentric evaluation might be different . Apparently , the more primitive organisms merely sit and submit to the bludgeonings of chance environmental forces , or , at a somewhat higher level , dash about hither and yon , caroming off one environmental obstacle and against another , and surviving or perishing by a mainly unintelligent trial and error process . The passivity of the organism and the activity of the environment are alike purposeless and interchangeable , but the organism is a vital entity , whereas the environment is a mere assemblage of physical forces and matter  --  inert and animate . Here I shall distinguish artificial selection from natural selection in a completely unorthodox manner . Natural selection is purposeless as regards the environment , and in its operation the organism 's response to that environment is purely instinctive . In contrast , and for my present purposes , artificial selection commences when the animal attempts consciously to order its life and its habits in such a way as to promote its chances of survival , and when it begins more or less intelligently to try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek one more favorable . It is , of course , impossible to determine when the organism begins consciously to strive to dominate its environment . There may be , at first , mere assertion of organic individuality , an idle monkeying with nature , without purpose , and serving merely for the satisfaction of errant impulses arising from within . Such organic self-assertiveness , accompanied by casual experimentation , and partially inspired by a sort of superorganic curiosity , is increasingly observable in the successively more highly developed members of the primate order . Man as Director of Human Evolution 25 z Prerequisites of Autodirective Evolution The prerequisites of an autodirective evolution for the individual may be stated as follows : high development of curiosity and imitation ; learning ability ; definitely directed , sustained , and concentrated attention ; behavioral adaptation on the basis of insight and foresight ; memory and delayed response ; creative imagination ; ability to manipulate and to adapt the environment ; mechanical skill ; dominance ; speech or other means of communication . Every one of these traits is said to be present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or another of the anthropoid apes , with the sole exception of articulate speech . ' However , it is equally essential for an autodirective evolution that the individual exist in society and that the society possess certain attributes . For the creation and continued existence of society the following characteristics are essential : gregariousness , dominance , socialibility , and mutual dependence . These are again found to be present in increasing measure as one ascends the primate scale , according to Yerkes . Zuckerman finds , however , among baboons an excessive development of individual dominance , and although mutual aid is often observed , there is , among these poor relations of man , a distinct absence of altruism . ' If an animal is to direct his own evolution he must exist in a society in which there is not alone marked dominance of the more intelligent individuals , but also subordination of the individual to the social good , a clear conception of past evolutionary history , a knowledge of the measures whereby evolutionary defects may be eliminated and gains consolidated , and the social sanctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closely the anthropoid apes may approximate such individual capacities and social characteristics , it may be stated categorically that autodirective evolution appears possible for man alone . Adoption of Terrestrial Life From a genetic viewpoint it is probable that a series of mutations in an isolated , inbreeding group of progressive , generalized anthropoids initiated the protohuman line of development . Eco- 2 5 2 Apes , Men , and Morons logically this phase seems to have coincided with the abandonment of arboreal life by the forerunners of man . The adoption of a terrestrial life was the turning-point of evolution toward humanity . The declaration of human independence was signed at the foot of a tree . The simplest explanation of this phenomenon assumes a change of climate which killed the forests in the abode of the ancestral anthropoids , and forced the latter to the ground . This postulated deforestation has been plausibly connected with the formation of the Himalayas and the uplift of the Central Asiatic plateau region . Such a view , it seems to me , both exaggerates the compulsive influence of environment and underestimates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be assumed that deforestation was a gradual and not a cataclysmic process and that there must have been ample time for progressive but mobile anthropoids to follow the retreating tree line , as did undoubtedly the conservative ancestors of the gorilla , chimpanzee , and orang-utan . Apes can brachiate more rapidly than forests can recede . Some may imagine our ancestors squatting on their haunches in the primate Garden of Eden , watching the trees shrivel up , and saying amongst themselves , " Fellow apes , we must now arise upon our hind legs and earn our bread in the sweat of our brows , instead of eating of the fruit of the trees . " Is it not more probable that some intrepid anthropoid adventurer , fed up with a diet of shoots , berries , fruits , and nuts , having descended to get a drink and stretch his legs , decided to take a chance on the ground , questing , no doubt , for ampler supplies of Vitamins A , B , C , D , and E ? Seriously , I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged dietary which furnished the motive for adoption of terrestrial life , and that an already enlarged brain and superior intelligence was the catalytic agent that produced this radical change . All of the organic qualities which make for evolutionary advancement by the formation of new and more advantageous modes of life , may be summarized under the term " initiative . " Of course , initiative means the capacity for " starting something "  --  whether or not you can finish it . It is this complex of traits which all of the higher primates possess in some degree , and in which man and his protohuman ancestors are and have been supreme . Man as Director of Human Evolution 253 A Chain of Organic Consequences This crucial experiment set in motion a chain of organic consequences of which the end is not yet in sight . The first of these had to do with posture and method of locomotion . It is obviously impossible to brachiate on the ground ; so , save on rare occasions , a quadrupedal pronograde gait is preferred by the great apes . Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gait and posture are awkward and fatiguing for the giant arboreal primates , because they lack the requisite bodily adaptations . These latter are : a stabilized supporting foot with a consolidated tarsus , instead of a mobile prehensile foot ; a hypertrophied lower extremity with complete extension of the leg upon the thigh and of the thigh upon the pelvic girdle ; a lateral expansion and anterior recurvation of the iliac blades to provide suitable attachments for muscles used in balancing and in orthograde progression ; a sharp anterior convexity of the lumbar column to facilitate erection of the spine upon the pelvis and to bring the axis of the center of gravity into coincidence with that of the lower limbs ; a reduction in relative weight and size of the jaws , arms , and thorax , in order to lower the center of mass and to reduce top-heaviness . The presence of these modifications characterizes man , and their absence , the great anthropoid apes . Only the small gibbon resembles man in the elongation of its legs and in the slenderness of its torso , although it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal , nevertheless , has an occasionally bipedal quadrupedal posture , since the enormous length of its arms permits the knuckles of the hands to touch the ground and to supplement pedal support , while the trunk is maintained in an almost perpendicular position . Millions of years were probably required for the development and genetic consolidation of the somatic changes essential for erect biped progression . Since most of these changes must have been acquired at first in the lifetime of the individual , it is hard to understand how they could have become fixed in the germ plasm and hereditarily transmitted , unless one either rejects orthodox Weismannism or takes refuge in a hypothetical series of mutations . Much more important than the bodily modifications directly // induced by the mechanical exigencies of the new posture and gait were the secondary changes resulting from new functions of certain parts of the organism . Even the lowliest of the arboreal primates are equipped with pentadactyl hands and feet , terminating in more or less flattened nails instead of claws , and with thumbs and great toes partially opposable to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first primarily for maintaining a hold upon branches , gradually develop tactile , exploratory , and food-conveying functions , even among the tree-dwelling monkeys . This process proceeds apace in the ascending stages of primate development , although inhibited in the brachiating apes by coarsening and elongation of the fingers and regression of the thumb , due to their weight-suspending function . It is not until the duties of bodily support and locomotion have been placed squarely and finally upon the legs and feet , that the emancipated hands fully realize their evolutionary destiny . The fingers now become motor extensions of the brain . Tactile and exploratory use of the digits of the hands is undoubtedly correlated with the hypertrophy of the primate brain . Scratching , massaging , pinching , and fleapicking , however greatly contributing to bodily comfort or to the satisfaction of sensation , are nevertheless not particularly conducive to evolutionary advancement . The use of the hands for the conveying of food to the mouth does , on the contrary , so conduce , since it relieves the jaws of their prehensile function and encourages regression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the lower primates without consistent association of dental reduction . It is the preparation of food by the hands which seems to have contributed most to the regression of the dental apparatus , presumably as a result of the fabrication of tools . Anthropoid apes and even monkeys are incipient and half-hearted users and contrivers of tools , but they lack in their arboreal existence both materials and incentive for a persistent and habitual utilization of any extra-organic implement . What is more important , they possess intelligence insufficient to motivate them to a tool-using habit , and even to the recognition of the continuing and future utility of an implement once employed . Dominance of the organism over its environment is achieved only by setting the environment to work through the instrumentality of tools , the raw materials of which it furnishes . The Man as Director of Human Evolution 255 organic prerequisites for the fashioning and employment of tools are a pair of free and mobile limbs with prehensile extremities , suspended vertically with ample clearance of the ground , a stable support and an easy balance upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important a brain capable of an intelligent grasp of the principles of mechanics . Such a combination seems exclusively human . The evolutionary advantages of tool-using accrue from the fact that such use increases the strength and efficiency of the animal many times beyond its natural physical capacity . Specifically , these advantages are increased command over food supply and enhanced ability of self-preservation . Indirectly , the use of tools not only leads to the fabrication of clothing , when the climate requires it , but ultimately also to the construction of windbreaks , shelters , and other artificial habitations . Settled abodes consolidate the family and help to establish permanent social groups , without which man is unable to survive . They promote mutual aid and the division of labor and stimulate the development of social institutions . Probably the origin of agriculture is to be traced to observation of the chance sprouting of seeds thrown or spat upon the ground outside the hut or cave . The Organic Concomitants of Tool-Using The repercussions of tool-using upon the organism merit discussion . You can not revolutionize the habits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order of magnitude and certainty pertain to the alimentary system , the nervous system , and to the endocrines . The teeth of large primates are specialized for a double duty . The deeply implanted , tusk-like canines serve as the principal weapons of offense and defense and for piercing the tough rinds of certain tropical fruits ; the molars and premolars with their expanded crowns are suitable for the crushing of nuts and very coarse vegetable food ; the bevel-edged incisors bite off the food in lengths convenient for chewing and swallowing . Now suppose that you begin to hack off bits of food with a stone knife or chopper , instead of tearing at them with your front teeth ; suppose that you crack your nuts with a stone instead of your molars ; and your enemy 's head with a club , instead of chewing his ear . 2 5 6 Apes , Men , and Morons Your teeth lose their job , or , at any rate , are relegated to the Public Works where they merely go through the motions . Atrophy of function deteriorates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rots their moral fiber . The masticatory muscles shrivel , the jaw bones shrink , and the less plastic teeth become too large for the dental arcades ; they jostle each other out of position and erupt hither and yon ; functional equilibrium is disturbed ; misplaced stresses and strains bring endless aches and pains . Broadcrowned , blunt-cusped teeth suitable for crushing tough vegetable fibers become entangled in the gelatinous strands of gobbets of meat ; decaying morsels become lodged in the dental interstices and set up acid reactions , bacteria proliferate and dental caries embarks upon its fell career . Regressive Evolution Of course the organism makes shift to accommodate itself to changing conditions . Symmetrical reduction in the size of the dentition with adequate preservation of occlusion and function seems to mark the transition from the frugivorous , toolless ape to the omnivorous or carnivorous artefactual man . Regressive evolution does not immediately involve the onset of pathological condition . Moreover , it would be folly to assume that function dictates the direction of every evolutionary change . Thus the third molars are reduced and degenerative in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very common in the gorilla and in the orang-utan . Therefore the reduction of the third molar , which is evident in some very early types of fossil man , can not be attributed to the change from anthropoid to human habits of diet and food preparation . Among the fossil men , Sinanthropus ( the Peking Man ) , Heidelberg Man , and all of the Neanderthaloids exhibit the enlargement of the pulp cavities of the molars which has been called " taurodontism " because of similar conditions manifested by ruminants . In modern man this condition is an infantile phenomenon , gradually modified with advancing years . It is absent in adult anthropoid apes . Some students infer from taurodontism that early man was specialized for a herbivorous diet . J. R. de la H. Marett , a recent and brilliant theorizer on the etiology of human evolution , has suggested that the enlarged pulp cavities of Neanderthal Man as Director of Human Evolution 257 man may be ascribed to an initial deprivation of Vitamin C , caused by the change from fruit- or leaf-eating to the consumption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulp cavity in the individual and encouraging the development of larger teeth , which would be more efficient for grinding down vegetable food , and whose capacious pulp cavities would secrete more secondary dentine , thus prolonging the lives of their possessors . ' Unfortunately we do not know that Neanderthal man was a root- and seed-eater , nor that he suffered from Vitamin C deficiency , but only that he had " taurodont " teeth . The opposite condition  --  small pulp cavities  --  is called cynodontism , because it is prevalent in carnivores . However , it is found also in the fruit- and shoot-eating great apes and in Homo sapiens , the morphologically modern species of man . Marett regards Homo sapiens as a meat-eater and supposes that a reduced intake of Vitamin C , consequent upon a change from a fruit to a flesh diet , is compensated by an alleged carnivorous power of manufacturing or storing Vitamin C. Hence this deficiency in morphologically modern man would not enlarge the pulp cavities but would initiate a change toward smaller teeth more serviceable for meat-eaters . ' My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extinct form of man from the type of his teeth , and then to refer his tooth form to his diet is nothing more than chasing one 's own tail . I doubt the validity of the assumption that all variations in animal organisms originate in environmental stimuli and are selected for the purpose of supplying some functional demand essential for survival . It seems probable that many variations , indifferent or even harmful , arise spontaneously from the germ plasm and can not be related to function . Thus the details of cusp pattern and such variations in tooth form as the shovel incisor may be merely the vagaries of a versatile germ plasm , perpetuated by the inertia of heredity . A Shift of Diet A shift from the frugivorous and herbivorous diet of the arboreal anthropoid to the omnivorous or carnivorous diet of man may not have required either profound anatomical modifications 2 5 8 Apes , Men , and Morons of the ancestral digestive system or any physiological revolution . Yerkes states that " the gibbon and siamang are vegetable feeders of a high degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such animal products as eggs , insects and other small mammals . " The orang-utan is also a vegetarian , but can be taught to accept human diet and to thrive upon it . The highland gorilla is stated to be primarily herbivorous , whereas the lowland form is more largely frugivorous.8 Nissen 's field study of the chimpanzee is the only first-rate source for the food habits of anthropoid apes in a state of nature . He was able to list thirty-four foods proved to have been eaten by the chimpanzees , of which twenty-eight could be classified as fruits , three as stalks or stems , two as blossoms , and one as leaves . ' This observer was unable to secure evidence that chimpanzees ever eat roots or tubers , or that they catch and eat birds , rodents , and fish , or eat eggs , but he thinks it entirely possible . Examination of the scanty evidence concerning the alimentary system of anthropoid apes does not indicate that their digestive organs differ profoundly from those of man . An index which expresses stature relative to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ omnivorous animals rather than in any dietetically specialized category . Thus we have : Insectivores , 2.5 ; Carnivores , 3.7 ; Man , 5. o-6.3 ; Omnivores , 6.8 ; Frugivores , 7. i ; Granivores , 8.7 ; Herbivores , 15.1 . Y0 Now the Genus Semnopithecus of Old World monkeys possesses an enormously enlarged and sacculated stomach , which has displaced to the right and deformed the liver and spleen . Since these animals are primarily leaf-eaters , it has been suggested that the modification of the stomach is analogous to that of herbivorous mammals of Dther orders , that the stomach is capable of providing for rumination , and that its first sac substitutes for the cheek pouches of other Old World monkeys which are absent or diminished in this group . Moreover , sacculated stomachs of the Semnopithecine form have been recorded in adult human beings . Further , the human foetus in the fifth month shows a diverticulum at the cardiac end of the stomach , lined with a . Man as Director of Human Evolution 259 specially corrugated mucous membrane . The modification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fundus which includes this diverticulum . It therefore is deduced that the simplicity of the human stomach is not primary , but secondary.11 It seems , then , to follow , that both man and the anthropoid apes may have descended from monkey ancestors with alimentary systems particularly adapted for herbivorous diets , and that the organic modifications which facilitate omnivorous propensities were accomplished long before the human stage . Consequences of the Enlarged Dietary It would appear , however , that less direct but more important consequences may have followed upon the enlarged dietary secured by terrestrial life , upright posture , and the use of implements . Nissen estimates that a chimpanzee spends a net period of from three to six hours per day in feeding . The volume of food ingested must be enormous , but the food concentration value of the fruits , stalks , leaves , and blossoms eaten is so low that it may be insufficient to maintain the animals near their maximum potential weight.l2 Now , there is little opportunity of cultivating the higher faculties when it is necessary to spend half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search of food , and most of the remainder in attempting to digest and eliminate a vast bulk of unnutritious fodder . Subtract , further , a modicum of time for one 's love life , for quarreling and other social amenities , and there is nothing left . Ground-dwelling with erect posture and tool-using gave early man a food supply which created the leisure essential for social and cultural progress . Of course some quantity of brain was also necessary , but as long as the digestive system is chronically overworked , the brain has little chance of a blood supply adequate for anything more than a maintenance of its evolutionary status quo . Again , the amoun'f of muscular work required by the arboreal life of a giant primate is enormous , and it is known that pound for pound the muscles of anthropoid apes are several times stronger than those of // human beings . Expenditure of energy in work and of nutriment in muscle repair must starve the nervous system of the ape . The subject of mineral deficiency , vitamins , the endocrine glands , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ingenious speculations and deductions of the young British anthropologist , J. R. de la H. Marett.13 He argues that lime-rich soils , resulting from climatic aridity or from the nature of the parent rock , are alkaline and inhibit the retention and absorption of iodine , necessitating in animals every means of economizing the basis of the thyroid hormone . Conversely , lime-deficient areas , which are almost always humid , demand an economy of calcium and phosphorus , together with the capacity to utilize an abundance of iodine and potash and to cope with a deficiency of sodium . Mineral economy is held to have been secured through an increase of sexuality . The sex having the greater need of reproductive efficiency carries a full quota of genes for physiological efficiency , whereas the other is better able to develop specialized and progressive features . When food is scarce or ill-balanced , a full bodily expression of the sex-linked genes for food economy would confer survival upon the feminized individuals of either sex , whereas under reversed conditions survivors would tend to be those who manifested bodily characteristics least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy are believed by Marett to have become sex-linked on account of their reproductive importance , and to have secured their results through size and tissue hydration . Lime-economy is assisted by small size , because of enlargement of the areas of gut and skin relative to body bulk , encouraging the intake of lime and the autosynthesis of Vitamin D and reducing the ratio of skeletal-to-body weight . On the other hand , cold and aridity may be countered by the large size and metabolic activity produced by hyper-secretion of the anterior lobe , on account of inhibition of moisture and heat loss from relatively reduced skin surface . Dry soil provides an abundance of lime and probably of phosphorus and fluorine for the building of a large strong skeleton and teeth . Vitamin E , considered as the raw material of the anterior lobe hormone , is thought to be most plentiful in arid habitats . Thus anterior lobe activity is greatest in arid and iodine-deficient situations , whereas rainfall reduces                   @ @ 