@@773565

txt // evidences of the development ? and a rapid one ? of a Soviet democracy ? a form of democracy which the Bolsheviks insist has already given evidence of being in the Soviet economic setting a more effective instrument for mass participation in public affairs than the western democratic system , which they consider " formalistic " and accordingly in many respects irresponsive . All grades of Soviets have had their executive committees , elected by the general assemblies . In the case of the Union it has been the " Central Executive Committee , " and for the republics the " A11-Russian Central Executive Committee , " " All-Ukrainian . . . , " and so forth . These latter will now be replaced by Supreme Soviets elected directly as the " highest organs of state power " with permanent Presidia . The Union Presidium has been characterized as the " collective presidency " of the Union . As " organs of state administration " the Union and the individual republics , autonomous and independent , will have their respective Councils of People 's Commissars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Toilers ? will continue to have their executive committees . The People 's Commissariats fall into three groups . There are the All-Union Commissariats which " direct the branch of administration entrusted to them throughout the territory of the Union , " and are the following : Defense , Foreign Affairs , Foreign Trade , Railways , Postal and Electrical Communications , Water , Transport , Heavy Industry and Defense Industry . The Union-Republic Commissariats , represented in the Councils of People 's Commissariats of the republics as well as in that of the Union , are the following : Food Industry , Light Industry , Timber Industry , Agriculture , State Grain and Livestock Farms , Finance , Internal Trade , Home Affairs , Justice and Public Health . The integration of these combined organs of administration will be noted in the discussion of their functions . People 's Commissariats to be found only in the Council of a national unit are the following : Education , Local Industry , Municipal Industry and Social Security . The large number of governmental departments in the Soviet system is the result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to // the Commissariats there are important All-Union Commissions and Committees : The State Planning Commission , the Committee on Agricultural Supplies ( state collections ) , a committee on Higher Education and one on the Arts . 3 . The Party . The unique character of the Communist Party ( of Bolsheviks ) has already been noted . Among the terms used to indicate more clearly its peculiar nature are " revolutionary order , " " revolutionary brotherhood " and " vocation of leadership . " The last term , given by the Webbs , is more applicable to the present stage of its history , although the others , relating especially to its past , are in line with features which have been carried over from its pre-revolutionary activity . The Bolsheviks themselves constantly emphasize that they constitute a " party of revolution " ? the organization holding itself responsible for the Revolution and its progress . Membership in the Party is strictly limited as to numbers . In October , 1917 , the total membership was around 200,000 . By 1921 , after some three years as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to only 650,000 . Then , in preparation for the retreat of the Nep and the dangers of this retreat , under provision for such in the Rules of the Party ( see Source Book ) a thorough " purge " was effected . Some 200,000 were found unworthy of continued membership , and were not re-registered . By 1928 the membership had increased to 1,500,000 . In 1924 , 200,000 had been taken in as a special contingent in memory of Lenin , and in 1927 on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Revolution another large group was admitted . These have been the only instances of mass recruitment to membership , and the new members were selected especially from among bench workmen who must constitute the majority of the membership . After such an increase a second purge was instituted in 1928 , to check up on those who had been admitted ; some lo per cent failed to pass the very meticulous examination of their records . From 1928 to 1933 a policy of admitting new members more freely brought a further increase to around three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged and allowed to join . But in 1934 a third purge was ordered , and during its progress the doors of the Party were temporarily closed . This last purge has been the most severe , and continued for two years . It was followed by a re-issuing of all membership documents as a further check . The local secretary had to give the membership certificate personally to each member of the unit under his jurisdiction , verifying his identity and past with particular care . The purge was not completed until November 1 , 1936 . Since that date there has been another kind of purge , affecting in the main Party members , but for crimes against the state and not merely for violation of Party discipline or " behavior unbecoming to a communist . " By the 1934-36 purge the total membership of the Party was again reduced to around two million . It is impossible to estimate the loss of membership in the general severe purges of Government and Party leaders of the last year . Also there apparently has been no considerable admission of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again to consider applicants . The term " members " has been used above to include both full members and so-called " candidates . " The latter have to pass through a period of probation , varying according to the class to which they belong . A new category of " sympathizers " was introduced in 1934 , but this group , not included in the membership as noted above , has not as yet clearly defined itself or assumed large proportions ; during the period of the third purge it was in abeyance . These periodic cleansings , supplemented by constant expulsions of individuals or even whole local groups , are also the sanctions behind the strict discipline enforced by the Party over its members . The Bolshevik must know his revolutionary theory , must be active , and must be an example in his place of work . On the other hand , he must not be a careerist , and in his leadership must not adopt the methods of a drill sergeant . In his personal life he is not limited except in such matters as would bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as habitual drunkenness or abuse of the divorce law . There was until recently a so-called " Party maximum , " // that is , a fixed monthly salary or wage for Party members regardless of the amount and quality of their work . This maximum salary was abolished for skilled workmen , engineers and managers , in connection with the emphasis on learning the new techniques of production . It had always been qualified for writers and lecturers in view of the importance of developing the technique of propaganda of the new ideas and methods . For the Party workers in the field of political leadership the maximum has been retained for the monetary salary payment , supplemented by many perquisites that go with positions of leadership . The Party illustrates in the clearest way a principle of organization which is characteristic of all Soviet institutions and organizations , namely so-called " democratic centralism . " All Party committees and secretaries are elective . These organs of the Party must report back regularly to their electors . The minority must submit to the majority . All Party decisions are obligatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on all members . In a recent ( March 5 , 1937 ) speech on the Party , Stalin took occasion to estimate the size of its staff of leadership . The highest leaders ? who might be called the " generals " ? number from three to four thousand . Under these are the " officers ' staff " of from thirty to forty thousand , resting on the " lower party commanding-staff " of from a hundred to a hundred and fifty thousand . These latter select each two alternates and train them . Party schools add theoretical training to the practical experience in leadership . The taking of stock in connection with the recent purge has brought out the fact that intra-party democracy has been extensively violated in the primary and intermediary tiers of the Party organs . The principles of election of the committees and secretaries and of reporting back to the general body , have been replaced by co-optation and appointment , with failure regularly to convene the general membership of the given unit . To eliminate these practices and at the same time prepare the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Party organs were re-elected ? the process going on at this moment of writing . In these Party elections the secret ballot was introduced ; also the procedure for nomination of candi54 STRUCTURAL FEATURES OF THE SOVIET SYSTEM dates was made more formal , with provision for the challenging of all names proposed . These re-elections of the primary units of the Party ? about one hundred and thirty thousand , formerly called " cells , " but now called " committees " ? have brought a considerable renovation of the Party 's apparatus of administration , especially in the small towns and rural districts . Party organizers and instructors representing the Party workers in the field have been pushed forward , while inactive or distrusted leaders who had escaped the recent examinations were eliminated . This first use under the Soviets of the secret ballot has apparently been eminently successful in promoting more activity on the part of members and freer exercise of judgment respecting the qualifications of candidates presented for election . The recent trials of so-called " old Bolsheviks " and of persons high in the Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Party structure . The self-incriminating confessions should be related to the discipline of this revolutionary order which the accused had accepted and worked under for years . Violation of this discipline had been noted previously in the case of most of those involved , and considerable leniency had been shown them in the past . This time the violation of discipline had led to crimes against the state , it was alleged ; several of those accused stated in their confessions that this was the inevitable logic of an initial violation of the discipline of the Party . The Party discipline and the very concrete sanctions behind it had not prevented these Party members from securing and holding high positions , and using them not only for self-enrichment but also for conspiracy . The decline of " revolutionary vigilance " and the partial breakdown of intraparty democracy were responsible for this failure of the Party control over its members , it was explained . To date the purges have apparently accomplished one of their several aims , namely the closer serrying of the ranks and the promotion of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance of the charges against those eliminated by the recent trials would imply a feeling of confidence in the Party because it had the courage to face the // fact of its mistake in the selection of some of its most prominent leaders . The immediate re-election , with secret ballot , of all Party organs aimed to consolidate this confidence in the rank and file of the Party and also in the larger " nonparty mass " 4 . The Komsomol . The Communist Union of Youth ? Komsomol in abbreviation ? is closely associated with the Party although it is now designated as a " non-party mass " organization . In structure it resembles the Party closely . It has a larger number of primary units ? 200,000-because it reaches into institutions which the Party does not cover , such as the secondary schools ; also in some villages there are members of the youth organization where there are no Party members . Admission to membership is less controlled than is admission to the membership in the Party , but like the latter is guarded by conditions and formalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less strict than is that of the Party , but there is provision for expulsion for violation of the rather strict rules of the organization . Active politically in the first years of the resumption of the socialist offensive , the Komsomol later had its attention directed toward the technological training of its members . In the last year emphasis on political training has been reestablished . For the Komsomol is one of the organizations that will present candidates at the Soviet elections under the new constitutions . The Komsomol organs , from the bottom to the apex of the pyramid structure , are being re-elected in preparation for the Soviet elections . As in the recent Party elections the secret ballot has been introduced , to combat the bureaucratic tendencies that had manifested themselves in the apparatus of administration . It was seen that the Komsomol was losing membership and prestige among the youth , and it represents one of the most important channels of influence and leadership of the Party . From the Komsomol the Party has drawn in the past a large percentage of its new members , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the youth , often called the " reserve corps " of the Party . The Komsomol // has been the " immediate helper " of the Party in political leadership , often supplying the enthusiasm and daring shown in meeting a task . Embracing young people between the ages of fifteen and thirty years , the Komsomol , with its present membership of over five million , is the channel for positive political activity of young people , enabling them to enter more fully into productive work and political leadership . It represents , therefore , more than a general youth movement . 5 . The labor unions . The organization of the wage-earners is of particular importance in the " toilers ' state " and under the " dictatorship of the proletariat . " Their labor unions have been characterized by the Bolsheviks as " bulwarks of the proletarian dictatorship " and also as " schools of communism . " They are also " the mass organization of the ruling class " and " direct participants in state authority . " For the performance of these functions the structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The main features of this structure will be noted here . Theoretically membership in labor unions is voluntary ; it was made so in 1921 after an unsuccessful experiment with the principle of obligatory membership . There are , however , many advantages in being a member of a union , and certain positive disadvantages in being outside the organization . The membership has therefore grown rapidly with the economic expansion of the last years . At present the total membership is around twenty-two million of the twenty-five million now constituting what is often designated as the " proletarian " element of the Soviet community , namely those working for wages and salaries . Originally there were only twenty-three unions , one for each general field of industry and organizations for workers in the fields of education and public health , or in administrative or commercial establishments . With the growth of membership the large units were divided up , first by specific fields and then , in 1934 , also by territorial areas . At the present moment there are one hundred and sixty-three units in the general organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republics or // regions and of districts , the latter co-ordinating the primary factory and local committees which number around one hundred and eighty thousand , with membership ranging from five to fifty , according to the size and importance of the given enterprise , institution or territorial area covered . Thus the pyramid form of structure was adopted for the labor unions as in the case of the Party and the Soviets . At the apex of the pyramid is the All-Union Central Soviet of Labor Unions , which has the function of directing the whole network of this mass organization . In the earlier stages the unions of industrial workmen were given the role of positive leadership with respect to the nonindustrial organizations . And within each unit the manual workers were expected to influence the so-called " technicalengineering sections " which were included within the particular labor union . In this way the hegemony of the workman class was secured , as in the Party and the Soviets . The splitting-up of the large units was adopted in 1934 because this need for special control by the manual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required smaller units and the organization of these by more specific fields . The labor unions , with their important functions of collective bargaining , inspection , administration of the social insurance fund and the promotion of cultural activities , have developed a large apparatus of administration . The laborunion organs are elective and must report regularly to their electors . This democratic feature in their structure has been found to have been very widely violated during the last years , however . Local and central committees co-opted members to replace those who dropped out , and failed to convene general meetings to which they would report . Thus there had developed in the labor unions the same bureaucratic tendencies which have been noted in the Party and the Soviets . Re-election of all labor-union organs is in progress at the present writing , and for these elections the secret ballot has been introduced . The recent " purge " reached many highly placed labor-union officials , who were charged with disrupting the organization by their bureaucratic methods , and also with using their positions of responsibility and power // for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent house-cleaning . Around the apparatus of administration of the labor unions , to assist and also to control it , a large staff of volunteer workers has been organized . These members help collect the monthly dues , assist in the administration of the social insurance fund and contribute to the cultural activities as part of their " social activity . " This so-called " active element " of the labor unions is one of the best illustrations of what the Soviet system is expected to develop . For this " active element " is one of the instruments for combatting bureaucratic tendencies and thereby promoting " social administration . " A new statute for labor unions is being prepared for the more efficient functioning of this basic organization of the Soviet system . 6 . Co-operatives . The co-operative organizations and societies of the Soviet system present a very varied picture ; there are many types . Also the local co-operatives are less integrated than are the Soviets or the labor unions . But one of the last slogans put forward by Lenin before his death was : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumers and producers had developed widely before the Revolution , especially among the peasants . Under the Soviets the co-operative movement has been given different forms and content and has been harnessed to the economic policy of the state . Under direction the co-operative societies serve as another instrument of mass organization , through which mass activity can express itself . In the various co-operatives , theoretically voluntary , large numbers have participated in the election of boards of management , and of control boards . These democratic features have not always been observed and the control by the membership has not been effective , although it is claimed that twenty million attended the elections of the boards of local consumers ' co-operatives in 1936 . But with these admitted defects the co-operatives have been a useful apprenticeship for their millions of members , in running public affairs . Statutes define the rights of members , the responsibility of elected // boards and managers , and the services to be rendered the membership . The very broad reach of the various types of co-operative organizations has made them a " mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus practically all retail trade in rural districts is handled by the rural consumers ' societies . The two hundred and fifty thousand collective farms are a special type of co-operative but should be noted as part of the general set-up . In industry there are some twenty-five thousand producers ' co-operatives , with a total membership of three million . Mutual credit associations have assumed considerable proportions in both cities and villages . Finally , thousands of co-operatives have been formed to build and manage living quarters for members . Local consumers ' co-operatives are brought together into " unions " by administrative regions . These are co-ordinated by republics and there is a " Central Union . " The industrial co-operatives have elective " Soviets " by regions or republics and there is an " All-Union Soviet of Industrial Co-operatives . " Thus the pyramid form of structure is to be found also in the co-operative organization , although , as has been noted , the degree of integration is less than in the other institutions and organizations of the Soviet system . In the first years of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of others , in both consumers ' co-operatives and housing co-operatives . These workman co-operatives were expected to lead and set the tone in the movement in general . The many shortcomings of the co-operatives have been due , it is stated , to failure of Party members to give the proper measure of attention to them ; there was a tendency on the part of the Party member to look down on these societies , which catered mainly to the interests of the consumers . But through co-operatives the proletarian dictatorship ? the exercise of the powers of the state over the community ? had a most important lever of influence in the political as well as the economic field . 7 . " Mass activity . " In all the institutions and organizations here noted the apparatus of administration was expected to be kept in close 6o STRUCTURAL FEATURES OF THE SOVIET SYSTEM and constant touch with those who elected it by frequent elections and regular reporting back . In addition , in all these institutions an " active element " was organized as a channel of influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official exposures of breakdown of the system in many of its links represent , the Soviet leaders believe , the inevitable children 's diseases of a new structure . In admitting the defects and taking positive steps immediately to combat them the Bolsheviks believe they can eliminate them . The recent " shaking down " is not the first one ; it has been necessary several times to take steps and change methods in order to " vitalize , " now the Soviets , now the labor unions , now the co-operatives . In the case of the Party the process is constant , and part of the discipline of the organization . The shaking down is often accompanied by exposures that suggest a crisis , but such exposures are part of the Bolshevik method of organization . The recent " crisis " has been presented as one of the more serious , in order to emphasize the political turning-point which the Soviet leaders believe their system has reached in its growth and progress with the adoption of the new constitutions . The recent re-elections of the Party , and also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more formal , both in respect of the proposing of candidates for offices and their actual election . The challenging of all nominations and the use of the secret ballot to assure greater freedom of choice represent the use of techniques of the western parliamentary systems . This borrowing is admitted and in fact emphasized . This tendency toward the parliamentary system is strictly limited , however , to certain mechanical processes . The more formal procedure is being adopted to combat bureaucratic tendencies that had manifested themselves . Despite these bureaucratic tendencies the effective mass reach of the institutions and organizations of the Soviet system has been very considerable . The slogan of the Bolsheviks that for them the measure of success is the degree of mass participation in a particular effort , is also a working principle . Figures on the extent of mass participation have often been inflated , particularly by local leaders . The Bolsheviks often call attention to the inflated // character of their figures on mass participation , emphasizing it in order to secure real mass activity . The proof of the considerable degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new vigor in the Soviet citizenry , in sharp contrast with the passivity of the masses under the old Russian regime . The slipshod methods of the past are still to be found in rural districts , but a new life has developed around Soviets , labor unions , and co-operatives , reaching into even the more isolated settlements . The shaking-up of the labor-union , Komsomol and cooperative structures by re-election has among its aims that of preparing these organizations for the responsibility now given them under the new constitutions , of proposing candidates at the next Soviet elections . These candidates will presumably compete actively with the candidates presented by the Party . It is not to be expected that they will offer programs of policy different in any basic way from that of the Party , however . The Party exercises its functions of leadership in these organizations as it does in the Soviets by specific provision of the new constitutions . To effect this leadership the Party itself has just been given a shaking-up . For as Stalin said in March , 1937 , " . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad masses they will be invincible . On the other hand , just let the Bolsheviks be torn away from the masses and lose their ties with them , just let them become covered with a bureaucratic rust , and they will lose all power and become an empty shell . " Other institutions such as the police , the army , the law courts , the press and the school will be described at other points of this analysis . The basic mass institutions noted here ? and the Party that directs them ? form the constitutional structure whose methods of functioning will now be examined . CHAPTER V THE DETERMINATION OF POLICY Critics of the Soviet system , measuring it by the practices of western parliamentary democracies , do not find what they consider the conditions necessary for the development of a public opinion . The Soviet leaders , on the other hand , are constantly referring to manifestations in their system of public demands and effective expressions of this public opinion . The positive leadership of the Party and the existence of institutions and organizations of mass reach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet system , make for a determination of public policy through opinion that is also peculiar to the Soviet type of state ? a contribution to political science in the opinion of its Bolshevik authors . The program of a revolution must be definite , even dogmatic and often intolerant in its general principles . The working out of the details of the new social order envisaged by this program , on the other hand , must be the result of the experience of the masses in the actual process of building . The five-year plans , which are the most concrete expressions of policy , are Party programs and require centralized administration . But counter-planning from below developed and was encouraged because it was realized that the plans would fail if they remained purely bureaucratic projects imposed from above to which there was no effective mass response . The extent of realization of these plans has been evidence of a mass response ; and the manner of this realization has justified to a considerable extent the boast of the Bolsheviks that " millions make the plans . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy the differentiation between expression of opinion and actual law-making can not be sharply made ; the 62 // authors of the Soviet system have aimed to reduce such differentiation by refusing to adopt the more formal methods of the parliamentary system . This differentiation will be followed here for purposes of presentation , however , and also to adhere as far as possible to the outline adopted for the other volumes of the series . But the use of certain terms current in the Soviet political vocabulary indicates that one has to do with principles and conditions different from those with which we are familiar from our own experience . Thus , as we shall see , discussion is " organized , " the emphasis is on " self-criticism , " and the concept of " enemy of the people " ? a term to be found in the new constitution ? is a very broad one . And the " Program of the Party " is a very positive and politically forceful fact . Finally , while basic class differences are believed to have been removed in the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected in the determination of policy . r . The Party line . In the determination of policy the Party plays a decisive role by reason of its " ruling position . " The " general line " of the Party , or as it is worded more popularly " the Party line , " determines the general policy , and also the measures to be taken to carry it out for any given stage of the Revolution . The Party line is of course absolutely obligatory on all members of this novel type of political organization ; it is also the basis for the " directives " which the Party issues and is able to enforce through its leadership in all institutions and organizations , and through them in practically all fields . Party directives have a decisive significance for Soviet law , according to a recent authoritative textbook on Soviet Economic and Civil Law ( B. M. Rubenstein , Moscow , 1936 , in Russian ) . The Party line finds its formal expression first of all in the Program of the Party ( see Source Book ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the distinct Bolshevik faction of the Russian Social Democratic Workman Party , in 1903 , and was the result of sharp conflict with other Russian socialist parties and within the particular party from which the Bolsheviks emerged . After the Revolution of // 1905 the Program was redrafted , the experience of that revolution being taken into account . Continued conflict with other socialist parties and groups tended to give to this Program its concrete and often dogmatic character . In 1919 the Program was again revised , to register the legislation of the first year of the new regime ; with the success and progress of the Revolution many points could be given more positive formulation . A long and public discussion in the Soviet press as well as in Party meetings preceded the adoption of the new statement of aims and of policies to attain these aims . Since 1919 there has been no change in the Program , except of the name of the Party ? " Communist " instead of " Social Democratic " but still " of Bolsheviks . " It is possible that another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption of the new constitution . The new constitution , among other things , registers the carrying out of the Program to date and this relationship between the two documents is remarkably close . For the Program , one may repeat , represented ? and still represents ? the general principles as to aims and methods of procedure for " the building of socialism . " The periodic congresses of the Party supply the more specific formulation of the Party line for the given stage of development of the Revolution . These congresses were first held approximately every two years , a so-called " Conference " being held in the intervening year . Of late the congresses have been convened less frequently and at less fixed intervals . The last , XVIIth Congress , met in January of 1934 , the previous one having been held in 1931 . These congresses number several thousand delegates and alternates and are held behind closed doors . During the elections for the Party Congress the points on the agenda of the Congress are widely discussed , in preparation for the decisions which the Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are published , the resolutions of the Congress being given the widest publicity in the press , and generally in special pamphlet series issued in large editions . These resolutions are then discussed in the various grades of Party organs , from the higher down to the lower primary units . // This second discussion does not go into the question of the correctness of the policy adopted , but is limited to the content of the policy in order that the policy can be more effectively carried out . One has what is called " organized discussion . " The continuation of discussion as to the wisdom of a given policy is positively forbidden after an authoritative decision by a Congress . For the Party is a party of revolution , and not a debating society , to paraphrase a statement by Lenin made when an oppositionary group tried to continue the discussion of a policy with respect to which there had been a decision by the Congress . One of the grounds for the expulsion of Trotsky from the Party was his insistence on the continuation of discussion after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Committee and Political Bureau . Between congresses the Party line is enforced , and when necessary modified in detail for concrete application , by the Central Committee elected by the Congress . The Central Committee numbers seventy-one with sixty-eight alternates ; at the beginning of the Revolution it was a much smaller group and one of Lenin 's last suggestions was to increase its membership . It has always been elected by secret ballot . Plenary sessions of the Central Committee take place from three to four times a year . Some of the discussions in these meetings , or at least the most important speeches , are generally published . The formal resolutions of the Central Committee are always given out , like those of a Congress with which they have almost equal authority . They also may be discussed for better understanding , but not for criticism or suggestions of alteration . Between plenary sessions of the Central Committee , its Presidium acts for it , subject to control by the plenary body , as the latter is in relation to the Congress . Then in the administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the most important body is the Political Bureau , now of eleven members . The General Secretary of the Central Committee is a member of the Political Bureau , and presumably its chairman . This Political Bureau might perhaps better be called the " Policy Bureau , " for in it is con66 THE DETERMINATION OF POLICY centrated not only the current but the authoritative function of determining the Party line , and therefore in final analysis the policy of the Soviet Government and other organizations of the Soviet system . In the earlier years the existence of this Political Bureau ? to use the more current rendition of its name ? was generally known . Only later , however , was there public mention of it and of its membership . At present its position and role are not only acknowledged but emphasized , although reports of the sessions are not published nor are its decisions given the wide publicity accorded to those of the Central Committee and the Congress . The practice of having " alternates " as well as full members in an important executive body is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to the eleven members there are six alternates , who replace the members when necessary , and in order to do this adequately are always present at all meetings . Among the members of the Political Bureau are found the Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets , usually referred to abroad as corresponding to a president in the western parliamentary republics ; the Chairman of the Council of People 's Commissaries , in a sense the prime minister of the Soviet governmental executive , and several other commissars or heads of governmental departments . Commissars who are not members of the Political Bureau report to and appear before it when the policy and work of their departments are being discussed . It is generally assumed that all important questions of policy are really decided in the Political Bureau . 3 . Stalin . The importance of the Political Bureau and his chairmanship of it have led to the current description of Stalin as the " dictator " of the Soviet system . The designation of the government as a " dictatorship of the proletariat , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance to this characterization of the Party 's General Secretary . The peculiar character of Stalin 's acknowledged leadership is more correctly indicated by the fact that in the last two years he has been given the title of " teacher , " and thus put on a // plane of equality with the other prophets of Bolshevism  - -  Marx , Engels , and Lenin . Accordingly , just as the interpretation and practical application of Marxism during the period of the leadership of Lenin has come to be referred to as " Leninism , " similarly the policies of the last years , and particularly of the period of the five-year plans have come to carry the general designation of " Stalinism . " The new constitution at first was popularly referred to as " Stalin 's Constitution " and this term has now come to be almost official . Reference to and acknowledgment of the " genius-like leadership " of " the great Stalin " have become so constant , universal and fulsome in praise as to give further grounds for the interpretation , current abroad , of Stalin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stalin worked mainly within the Party , spoke only on rare occasions and appeared in public very infrequently . During the last year or so he has spoken more often , and at general conferences and Soviet Congresses in addition to Party meetings . He has received visiting ministers of other governments and delegates to conferences of engineers , workmen or collectivized peasants . His speeches , of late more frequent and on a wider range of subjects , continue to represent the most authoritative statements of policy , outstanding phrases in them supplying the slogans in which the policies and stages of the Revolution are summarized . On the occasion of his fiftieth birthday , in 1930 , Stalin responded to the congratulations showered on him by institutions and organizations by referring to his debt to the Party for what he represented and had done . More recently in introducing a discussion he protested against the constant emphasis on leaders . In closing a conference of the new shock-brigaders ? the followers of Stakhonov methods ? he thanked the group of workers for what he said the leaders had learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearing more often in public meetings the newspapers have carried pictures of him sitting or talking with engineers , workmen , peasants , as well as with other leaders . This abandonment of the former marked practice of keeping in the background would seem to be dispelling the tendency to think and even speak with proper reserve of " the boss . " // Stalin 's personality , it would seem , has been put forward to symbolize more effectively for the masses the power of the new regime ; there is to be noted also a tendency to make this personality a more democratic and human one . But the Marxian doctrine , we are told , recognizes that the historical process expresses itself through persons , and that the personal qualities of an individual influence this process . This formulation covers the role which is credited to Stalin , although it should also be noted that his position is closely related to his former association with Lenin and his constant acknowledgment of Leninism as the basis of Soviet policy . Stalin has not taken a governmental post in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this he does , in the name of the Party , either directly or through Party organs . He checks up on and makes suggestions with respect to the writing of history or the organization of the collective farms , for example . In this checking up he at the same time gives positive directions , so that the initiative is credited to him . Sometimes what is Party action comes out in his name , in order to make it more concrete in the minds of the Party membership and the masses . The conflict of personalities as well as of policies between Stalin and Trotsky , dating back to the years before the Revolution , has tended to define both men . Stalin has been the more practical administrator , rough in his methods , with less intellectual background than the " old Bolshevik " theoreticians , but probably a more useful leader for the carrying out of the program , realistic rather than dogmatic ? in this respect resembling Lenin . In the recent purge of the Party the wholesale elimination of so many of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against all of those reached by the purge , point to a continuation of the sharp conflict that developed between these two personalities when Lenin was no longer alive to keep them in their respective places . The discussion of the position of Stalin has gone into this detail because it has a bearing on the question of the extent to which the Party line is a rigid doctrine , imposed from above rather than the result of the experience in practical leadership as registered by the Party membership distributed // in the positions of responsibilities in all institutions and organizations . This same role of the Party in everyday administration will be discussed in a later chapter and should be borne in mind in this connection . It is difficult to determine the influence of the discussions in preparation for a congress , or of the reports that come up from below to the center , as compared with the influence of the " organized " discussions after decisions and of the instructions constantly going down from the central to the primary Party organs . The relative weight of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of the Party ? democratic centralism ? is different at different moments and in respect of different matters . The real force of " intra-party democracy " is constantly stressed , while the strict adherence to the " general line " of the Party is strongly enforced , " deviations " from the general line being constantly and vigorously combatted , and severely penalized when they persist . Stalin as General Secretary personifies also the " iron discipline " of the Party . His own actions suggest the disciplined member , albeit the acknowledged leader and teacher , of the revolutionary order , rather than the personal dictator . This interpretation of Stalin 's position is supported by the methods used to arrive at decisions . There is " collegiate " discussion in the Political Bureau and Central Committee . The latter consists of local Party leaders who also are constantly sending in reports . Responsible governmental executives ? Commissars ? add their reports . At conferences and congresses , of Soviets , labor unions and other organizations or particular groups the " leaders of the Party " are present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence which will be presently discussed . It seems clear that Stalin acts on the principle he recently outlined , of coordination of the views of the central leaders with the experience of those on whose backs , so to speak , the policies adopted have to be worked out . 4 . Disputes in Party . There have been several serious disputes within the Party over policy , in addition to frequent long and acrimonious discussions . A " workers ' opposition " developed in organized // form against the adoption of the New Economic Policy in 1921 . Later an opposition characterized by the Party authorities as " pseudo-leftist " urged an even more rapid pace of industrialization and a severer repression of the individualistic tendencies in the peasantry . A " right , opportunistic " tendency , on the other hand , opposed the proposed speed of industrial expansion and particularly the forceful drive for the collectivization of agriculture . The leaders of these oppositions were penalized under Party discipline , which requires absolute unity of the Party ; they were demoted from positions of responsibility in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the case of the " right , opportunistic deviation " Stalin asked the Central Committee to remove its representatives from the Political Bureau , where , he explained , they were interfering with the carrying out of a positive policy by their constant doubt and fear of consequences . The charges against alleged conspirators , wreckers and traitors tried and executed in 1936-37 often grouped them all as " Trotskyists . " But the Party did not characterize these as " deviationists " or " opposition , " denying that they had any political program for the working class . Although the majority of those involved in the recent purge have been Party members , their offenses have been " against the state , " the " aim to restore capitalism " being such an offense , however . The requirement of absolute adherence to the Party line of all Party members follows from the Bolshevik view that economic success does not exhaust the content of the socialist building effort . The recent call for greater " revolutionary vigilance " includes careful watching for activity representing policy in contravention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the moment . Not all Party members are expected fully to " master " the Program , but all must " support " it . s . An opposition . It is clear , therefore , that neither in the Party nor in the Soviet system as a whole is there any provision for or possibility of a legal opposition . This follows from the one-party principle believed by the Bolsheviks to be absolutely essential // to the success of the Revolution ? and therefore in their view a plus and not a minus of the Soviet system . In a trial in 1931 of persons charged with " wrecking " activities , one witness ? an economist ? stated that he had come to realize that in the strained and responsible position in which the Soviet Union then found itself , any attempt at legal opposition was bound to lead to counter-revolutionary and " interventionist " activity . At the present writing the Soviet Union is in an even more strained situation in its relations with neighbors in both East and West . It is also experiencing a serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of the achievement of the five-year plans it is the official Bolshevik view that no alternative socialist program is conceivable . From their experience , it is asserted , the workmen and peasants have also come to this view . Then , on the basis of this claim that what has been achieved is socialism it is proclaimed that any opposition must be for the " restoration of capitalism . " By this reasoning any opponent is an " enemy of the people , " against whom there can be no attitude of " rotten liberalism , " to quote a phrase used by Stalin in 1931 . At present the emphasis in Soviet speeches and writings is on " the idiotic disease of political carelessness " with respect to all types of deviation as well as acts of alleged wrecking and treason . Another official view is that with the success of the Revolution oppositionary elements will become desperate as they see the hopelessness of their struggle , and will resort to desperate as well as devious and conspiratory methods . The charges of treason that have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further rationalized by the Soviet leaders . These elements , it is explained , have no hope of support from the masses and therefore have to look for support outside the Soviet system , for only there , in the outside capitalist world , are there social forces that will give them an effective , economic base . It will make this official rationalization somewhat clearer to note the wide meanings that have come to be attached to the two terms " wrecking " and " enemy of the people . " The word " treason " has also come to be used in a very general // sense . The term " wrecking " is particularly comprehensive . It is not simply the causing of railway wrecks or the deliberate wrecking of complicated machinery . It may be the advancing of a theory of law which promotes lack of confidence in the permanency or authority of the Soviet law courts of the present . It may be an interpretation of Russian history which weakens the feeling of patriotism . Or it may be the running of the union of writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourage the emerging of real talent . The distinction between wrecking and sabotage would seem to be that of positive action as opposed to failure to act or work . Presumably there must be the subjective element in wrecking , but in a taut , strained situation , the political authority may find a subjective attitude where in fact there are only " objective conditions . " At the plenary session of the Central Committee in February , 1937 , Stalin stated the wrecking , and also treasonable activity , must be expected in a socialist order which is surrounded by capitalism . The finding of what is considered wrecking activity would also seem to be inevitable so long as the class struggle continues . The concept of " enemy of the people " is also very broad in scope . The term is used in the new constitution to cover violation of the " sacred " state or co-operatized property . But discrediting the Soviet system by grossly bureaucratic methods of administration will lead to the application of the term . Failure on the part of certain Soviet writers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with respect to the character of the state under socialism , has led to their being proclaimed " enemies of the people " as well as " wreckers . " Purges and even " blood purges " have been , and apparently will continue to be , part of the Soviet system , particularly of the technique of leadership . Individuals pushed forward into leadership will fail to meet the demands of the type of leadership that must be maintained , and this despite their social origin as workmen and peasants , and the training given them as Party members . The lopping off of such elements will make for strength , it is believed . For despite all precautions the Party can not prevent careerists and even enemies from getting into its ranks deliberately to abuse the // power enjoyed by Party members . The cutting off of such heads ? figuratively and literally ? is expected to improve the morale of the rank and file of the membership of the " one and only " and the " one and united " Party of the Soviet system . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its position , indicate clearly the impossibility of any legal oppositionary party or any opposition within the Party short of conspiracy . The enforcement of the strict discipline of the Party does not produce an opposition within the Party , Stalin asserts . Real political opposition can rest only on social-economic forces , which , it is further claimed , no longer exist in the Soviet socialist state . It was Lenin , founder of the Party , who insisted on the strict discipline to maintain the unity and " oneness " of the Party . Stalin has been more " rough " than was Lenin , perhaps because in many respects the period of his leadership has been a more difficult one than was that of Lenin . In the " heroic " periods , before i 917 of underground conspiratorial activity and then after 1917 of active civil war , the strict , at times autocratic and even in method bureaucratic , central leadership was more easily accepted . But it is believed , and the facts would seem to support the belief , that the periods of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agriculture , of development of a new attitude toward work ? also require positive leadership , such as only a " monolithic iron-disciplined party " can supply , brooking no opposition within or without its ranks . 6 . The Soviet Press . Of the organs of communication the periodical press ? monthly , weekly and daily ? will be taken to illustrate the role of other organs , such as the radio or the movie . With the newspaper and journal should be noted also the pamphlet series to which there has already been reference ; among the peasants particularly these pamphlet series have the significance of periodicals , and considerable ingenuity has been shown in preparing these " Answers to Questions , " as some of the series are called . The Soviet newspaper particularly , but also the journal and the pamphlet , has an " operative function " of organiz74 THE DETERMINATION OF POLICY ing its readers behind the policies adopted , in addition to that of carrying on educational and propaganda campaigns for these policies . This operative function of the press was definitely in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet press became exclusively an official one of the Government , of the Party , of the labor-union movement , of the co-operative movement or of specific governmental departments or institutions or organizations . The official character of the Soviet press has implied a strict censorship . The monopoly of legality of the Party in the field of political organization extended to periodicals of a general political character , the editorial boards of which are always Party members responsible to the Party authorities of the area covered by them . The most important newspapers are Party organs , either general or for specific groups such as the youth , the peasants , or the workmen . The weekly or monthly journals , like many of the daily newspapers , are directed toward particular groups , in order better to perform the task of organizing these groups . The number of newspapers and their circulation have increased rapidly , although some of the newspapers appear only two or three times a week and are of small compass . It is estimated that the total tirage of Soviet newspapers , including the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached thirty-six million , an enormous increase over the pre-war figure and also over the Soviet figures of a few years ago . The Soviet press has another role ; it is also the medium for the expression of views of its readers , although its official character and duties reduce considerably the extent and content of this aspect of its position in the community . So-called " self-criticism " has been not only permitted but actively promoted . The element of organization in this practice would seem to reduce its importance as an expression of public opinion . The " peasant-correspondent " and " workman-correspondent , " who represent an important channel of this " self-criticism , " have been kept on an informal basis , in order to give more significance as well as freedom to their reports . These informal correspondents , who developed especially around the newspapers published for peasants and workmen , have gradually become institutionalized , although not to such // a degree as to reduce them to official reporters . All the letters received from these correspondents can not be used in the columns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thousands , but they are studied and summarized for the leaders , and have thus some influence on the determination of policy . While the workman-correspondent or peasantcorrespondent has been in many instances and to a considerable degree the spying eye of the central leadership , he has also been the closely attentive ear . Informal typewritten or even handwritten wall-newspapers have been a feature of all Soviet institutions . In these the workers in the institution , whether factory , barracks , administrative office , village Soviet , collective farm or school , can criticize the working of their institution , individual comrades , and even the management . The practice of " self-criticism " found its widest application in these wall-newspapers , for they were uncensored . The criticism was limited to the mechanical working of the Soviet policies in the particular institution , and therefore could only indirectly affect the determination of policy . With the technical advance made in these last years many factories and collective farms have come to have printed newspapers . The more formal character of the printed publication may have restricted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a basis for doubt as to the freedom and effectiveness of the practice of criticism when it became more organized in the factory newspaper or the formalized correspondent . The Soviet newspapers give much space to the speeches at congresses and conferences . As the number of the more informal conferences of rank and file workmen and peasants increases , with a greater number of apparently spontaneous speeches by the members of the conference , these expressions of workman and peasant opinion obtain a wide reach , encourage others , and therefore constitute the beginnings of a body of public opinion . These conferences provide increasingly more general discussion , where formerly they often represented little more than an audience to which the leadership made its reports of achievements and plans for the future . The leading articles in the Soviet newspapers have always an educational and organizational aim , rather than that of // expressing the opinion of the writers ; they are part of the " operative function " of the Soviet press . But the newspapers are beginning to use to a greater extent special articles by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflect the conditions or attitudes which he has noted . The informal correspondents in factories and villages are urged to stress the social significance of the items of local news which they send in . In this development one has perhaps the beginning of a press in which actual discussion is carried on , as differentiated from mere exposition and frank propaganda . Thus the Soviet newspaper is becoming more interesting , giving pictures of everyday life , with emphasis , however , on the " heroes of labor " of the new social order . Articles on art and science have become more numerous . Foreign affairs have always been given much attention and space , and the Soviet foreign policy explained in detail . Under the new constitution the institution of " questions " addressed to the responsible governmental authorities will be introduced . In preparation for this the leading Moscow newspapers are opening their columns to such questions , signed by individuals , and to the answers . This recent practice represents a development , in a more formal procedure , of the earlier form of " self-criticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the stage in the Soviet Union are also " official " in the same way as the press , subject to control by governmental authority and direction by the Party . The theatre repertories and the radio programs have come to be influenced to an increasing extent by the demands of the public , and with this development they have contributed to what has been called the beginnings of a public opinion in the Soviet system . The stage particularly has participated in the practice of self-criticism and often has gone further than the press in castigating defects and even failure in the mechanical working of this or that policy . 7 . Education . All Soviet educational institutions are public state institutions . At the same time the People 's Commissariat of Education has had as one of its tasks that of acting as " the // state organ for the propaganda of communism . " The emphasis on the indoctrination of the younger generation with the principles of the Revolution has become less marked as the program of the Revolution has been carried out . But even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last years , " communist training " has remained one of the primary aims of the Soviet schools of all grades . In the last years the teaching of history in a chronological and factual presentation has been revived , for it was seen that the earlier practice of sheer indoctrination with abstract sociological schematic formulae was not giving the necessary background training or developing judgment . But the decree on the new methods of teaching history concluded with the phrase " for a Marxian understanding of history . " Thus the fundamental aim of communist training has not been modified by the important changes made since 1931 , at the demand and under the direction of the Party and of Stalin personally , in the organization and curricula of the Soviet schools . With this emphasis on communist training , education has tended to secure support for the policy adopted , and for that very reason has not to date had a determining influence on policy . " If the Soviet child does not come out of the Soviet school a communist then it has been a bad school , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inquiring tourist . Although this reply represents an over-simplified and " vulgar " view of the . role of education , it reflects the place and function assigned to the school . The wide reach of educational facilities , so that at last universal compulsory education for the first grades could be introduced , and illiteracy very considerably reduced , has made possible the wider extension of political discussion . Lenin remarked that when people could not read , political discussion remained mere gossip . In the extension of reading and especially newspaper and pamphlet reading , the " politics " of the Revolution have been brought to all corners , even the most remote , of the Union and in the different languages of the many peoples of the Soviet Union , some of these languages having been given a written form for the first time . Research in the various sciences has also been integrated // with the program of the Revolution . Bolshevism has claimed " science " as one of its bases , and many of its policies have been explained as the product of science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A recent illustration of this attitude toward science was the transfer of the Academy of Sciences from Leningrad to Moscow , for the purpose of relating its work more closely to that of the Government and Party . The former Communist Academy , a product of the Revolution , has recently been merged with the general Academy of Sciences inherited by the Revolution ; its various institutes now form the section of the social sciences of the larger body . The important Institute of Marx , Engels and Lenin is attached to the Central Committee of the Party and has among its activities that of studying and publishing the writings of these teachers . It may be assumed that the political leaders refer questions of policy to this institute , in view of the practice constantly to quote the " teachers " in the discussion or explanation of policies adopted . On the other hand , at least on one occasion of which there is public record , a research institute was upbraided for the delay in presenting the theoretical basis for a policy which had been adopted , namely that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a program resting on a particular doctrine , the policy enforced by the Party has the character of a creed . The Webbs have recently suggested the word " creedocracy " as applicable in characterizing the Soviet system . This term is certainly more correct than one which has been advanced by an active opponent of Sovietism , who saw , particularly in the determination of policy , features suggestive of a " theocracy . " The Bolsheviks insist that their policy is that of " scientific socialism , " based on dialectic materialism , and this claim has contributed to the development of their absolute faith in its success , and their ability to transmit this faith to large numbers , particularly of the younger generation . 8 . Pressure groups . The Soviet system recognizes and acts on the principle of pressure groups as evidenced by the prevalence of the factor of class in all institutions and organizations . If Soviet policy has been markedly a concise and single one , it is bePRESSURE // cause it has been fundamentally the policy of a single class . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class exercises a directing pressure on all other groups of toilers . In the determination of policy it is the policy of the workman class that must prevail , and it does so through the position and authority of its vanguard , the Party , its " mass organization " in labor unions and its predominance to date in the Soviets . The " poorest peasants " were the " allies " of the proletariat in the first period . Collectivization of agriculture is believed to have brought the middle peasants also to the position of " full partners . " One of the tests of the Soviet system will be the elimination of antagonism between urban and rural workers , Lenin explained early in its history ; he admitted that such antagonism was possible under the Soviets , but insisted that it was not inevitable as he believed it to be under the capitalist system . In view of the possibility of opposition from the peasants ? and there have been many evidences of it in the course of the twenty years of the Revolution ? the rise of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bourgeois elements " have been positively excluded from the Soviets , co-operatives and other organizations , precisely in order to eliminate them as effective pressure groups , and it was part of the proletarian dictatorship 's function to suppress them . The rights of the " bourgeoisie " ? numerically a minority unless one includes the peasants in the group ? have never had any positive or permanent protection under the Soviet system . The question of pressure groups in the Soviet system is therefore a comparatively simple one to present in its relation to the determination of policy . When economic forces " hostile " to the principles of the Revolution were allowed to continue or even to develop as a matter of economic expediency , measures were taken to prevent them from becoming a political force . When , despite these measures , " hostile " economic groups were believed to be developing political influence opposed to the program of the Revolution and the policy adopted to carry out this program , they were eliminated economically , as had been the landlords , factory owners and So THE DETERMINATION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is possible that the recent purges represented , in some instances and in part , the elimination of elements tending to become new " power groups " in Soviet industry and in the Red Army . With the carrying out of the program of the Revolution the term " proletariat " has come to be used in a broader sense , to include all wage-earners ? brain-workers as well as those who work with their hands . The " collectivized peasant " is believed to have come much closer to the urban worker in conditions of work and therefore in attitudes ; the new word " kolkhoznik " ? member of a collective farm ? is rapidly replacing the old words " peasant " and " muzhik . " And the kolkhozniks , side by side with all wage-earning groups , are believed to have accepted definitely the attitude of the industrial workman with respect to the ownership of the means of production , which was the factor determining in final analysis the policy of the Soviet regime . The " proletariat " in its earlier , narrower meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods . The national identity and cultural aspirations of ethnic minorities are fully provided for . The policy is to encourage self-expression of these groups as part of the mass initiative considered essential to success . But despite provision for free withdrawal , all activity , even cultural , must be within the present established framework . The national self-expression can have no separatistic trend , for such would be anti-Soviet . The Ukrainian , for example , must think primarily as a workman , peasant or Soviet technician . The Soviet of Nationalities is expected to provide for the protection of the interests of these toilers as organized in national units with special cultural traditions . The Bolsheviks consider political parties related to if not identical with a class . Their own Communist Party is based on this principle , being still that of the proletariat or the workman class ; its position is the most concrete expression of the continuation of the dictatorship of the proletariat , we are told . With the carrying out of the program of the Revolution the workman class has changed and has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale mechanized industrial enterprise is still the " proletariat " in " SELF-CRITICISM " 8i many contexts . The majority of the Party membership must belong to this specific group of " bench workmen . " But with the peasants collectivized and the office workers and technical experts now drawn in the main from the peasant and workman classes , these elements are often classified as " proletarian " or as very close and drawing closer to the workman class . This is reflected in the larger percentage of these elements in the Party membership . The community is thus becoming " classless , " one exclusively of " toilers , " the name of the governmental institutions soon to be changed to " Soviets of Toilers . " The emphasis on pressure groups is to be noted in the intra-party policy . Oppositionary tendencies in the Party have always been related to economic-social forces in the country . The rightist tendency was believed to have developed because of pressure from the rich peasant element . The tendency which claimed to be more leftist than that of the group in power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therefore " petty bourgeois . " It was on the basis of an absolute adherence to Leninism as a workman class policy that Stalin and his followers suppressed deviations to right or left , insisting that they could lead only to the " restoration of capitalism . " 9 . " Self-criticism . " The term " self-criticism " has already been explained in the section on the Press of this chapter , but it is here kept in quotation marks because it represents an essentially Soviet concept ? what may even be called a Soviet institution . Supposed to be a permanent feature , it has had to be constantly revived ; in the last year a new wave of self-criticism has been started . This tendency of self-criticism to decline is due to the limitations inherent in the very idea , although it is by " open and honest self-criticism " that the learning from mistakes is to be effective , Stalin keeps pointing out . Self-criticism is expected to operate most effectively through the system of so-called " signalling . " But often the pointing out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looked upon as weakening the prestige of the given authority . If the latter considers the criticism obstructive , involving the 8z THE DETERMINATION OF POLICY lowering of " production discipline " for which he is responsible , there will come inevitably a general decline of the practice after a few instances of quashing . The recent shaking-up of all institutions and organizations has been based in part on the discovery of the widespread practice , particularly among local authorities , of suppressing any form or kind of criticism . On the other hand self-criticism has often been extensive , apparently effective though sometimes novel in its actual functioning . In the recent Party elections many of the secretaries proposed for re-election were severely criticized , and then returned on the basis that after such criticism they would be more efficient than new ones without experience . Commissars are sharply criticized , in Party or Soviet Congresses or in the press , but continue in office , their prestige being not hurt but enhanced in the eyes of the responsible Party leadership . The active revival of self-criticism as part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is possible that this effort to make it more effective than it has proven itself to be in the past , will be neutralized by another aspect of the new emphasis on politics . For there has come also an extensive campaign against all deviations from the Party line and these deviations often consisted merely of an incorrect interpretation of Leninism or a failure to understand the " dialectics " of the Revolution . Outside students have been skeptical of the effectiveness of self-criticism even in the very wide form which it has often developed . Frequently the reference is mainly to past mistakes . And as the term implies , the discussion must be limited to the mechanical working of the given institution , and can not go into general questions of policy . Criticism must be limited to matters not yet finally decided . Also , as there is no alternative policy to that adopted , criticism is limited in its effectiveness both before and after the determination of policy . In general the possibility of discussion in the Soviet system must be viewed in the light of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of formally registered adverse votes leads many to believe that discussion is not effective in determining policy . The organized character of discussion , as already noted , tends to make much of the discussion mainly informative and educational ? and in // instances propagandist and agitational . Instead of the practice of recording votes of representatives elected some years before , the Soviet leaders point to the number of meetings , and of speakers at these meetings , in this constant " mass " discussion . Even if organized and directed this discussion has meant thinking en masse on the larger questions of policy . From these discussions the Bolshevik leadership claims to have been able to define the " will of the toiling masses , " and constantly refer to it as the basis for the policy followed . In a more specific way Stalin defined the relationship between leadership and masses in his analysis of the political " turning-point " at the February , 1937 , session of the Central Committee of the Party . To lead properly , he pointed out , it is necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible only from studying the experiences of the masses . The putting through of a decision , he continued , is impossible without the direct help of the masses . A checking up on the actual carrying out of a decision is also impossible without this same direct help of the masses , he concluded . It is also a function of leadership ? a rule of Bolshevik strategy ? by the organization of discussion to see that there is attention to that link of the chain , representing the full program of the Revolution , which is considered the important link at the particular moment . A more secure hold on the particular link , and the whole chain , can be secured by such concentration of attention and effort , to continue to use the Bolshevik figure of speech . The same figure of speech explains the essential continuity of Bolshevik policy , despite its apparent jerkiness from forceful and constantly changing emphasis . On the basis of what has been the practice to date and judging by the discussion of what the elections under the new constitution will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and will continue to exist , on issues that can come up in Soviet elections . The statement in the new constitution that the freedoms of speech , press , and meeting may be exercised only " in the interests of the toiling masses " and " to strengthen the socialist order " is clear and authorita- // tive on this point . In 1927 Stalin was asked if the question of the state monopoly of foreign trade could be raised ; at that time there was private internal trade . He answered that the monopoly of foreign trade was one of the basic principles of the " platform " of the Soviet Government , and that any opposition to it , or even the raising of the question of the wisdom of it , would be an anti-Soviet move . Any group demanding its repeal could be only a group deeply hostile to the whole Soviet system , he explained . At present the nationalization of industry , the collectivization of agriculture , the concentration of the more complicated agricultural machinery in state machine-tractor stations are similar " first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be questioned . On the other hand there are a vast number of workaday questions that are brought forward in constant discussion and form the content of the mandates given those returned in Soviet , labor-union or co-operative elections . If the wagescale can not be an issue at elections , the development of the numerous public services , which make up the important social wage of the Soviet citizen , is the subject of the majority of the items in a " mandate . " There are other fundamental tenets which must be accepted , not only by the Party membership but by the Soviet citizenry as a whole . Thus it must be accepted that socialism can be and is being built in the Soviet Union , that the proletarian dictatorship is the only effective instrument for this building and can function to this end only on the basis of a leadership such as that supplied by the Party as now organized . The assumption of responsibility for policy by the Party becomes more definite as this policy is believed to have the full support of workmen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the enormous economic expansion , the rise in production and the productivity of labor , and in living standards . A statement constantly met in Soviet writings is that the masses have become convinced from experience that the Bolshevik Party alone had the correct program for the social revolution . CHAPTER VI LAW-MAKING Soviet legislative procedure has been conditioned by the revolutionary setting . It had to be flexible to meet the exigencies of revolutionary struggle and tactics . If the procedure for law-making took on often a somewhat loose and casual character , this tendency was deliberate , in order to encourage mass initiative and activity and allow contributions from practical experience to the working out of the norms of the new social order . The constant need of a revolution to explain , propagandize and stir up also is reflected in the methods and content of Soviet legislation . Legislative bodies were often primarily sounding boards for the reports of the leaders on what they believed they had achieved and what they proposed next to do . The provision for positive leadership , by the Party , finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party has supplied , and continues to supply , the factor of integration as well as direction in the markedly fluid system of law-making . Organizations not strictly governmental ? labor unions and co-operative societies ? are participants in state authority by participating in legislation . The aim of such practice has been in this way also to provide for the widest possible mass participation in the formulation of the new norms . The very wide scope of Soviet legislation also suggested the need and expediency of associating the mass economic organizations directly with the process of law-making . In the formal sense this practice has tended to reduce the role of the governmental authority , but from a broader viewpoint it has probably enhanced the prestige of the Soviets . Sources of law have therefore been varied and numerous , in line with the doctrine that the new order can be evolved only by the process of trial and error , and on the part of the masses themselves as well as of the leaders . 85 // There was often need for immediate action to meet the crises that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor contributed to the lack of definition of legislative powers from the point of view of western parliamentary systems . Legislation has been one of the instruments of the maneuvering policy of the strategy of revolution . In the first years , legislation , taking the form of decrees , represented always and to a considerable extent the presenting of the program of the Revolution . As Lenin himself said on one occasion , the first decrees and laws contained the element of propaganda . The leadership probably did not expect all the meticulous regulatory provisions to be carried out nor were these regulations to be considered as permanent , many of them being enacted primarily to break down existing economic and social relations against which the Revolution was directed . Then , in a later period , as the forces of life and the new set of social relationships asserted themselves , legislation was often the formal recognition of practices that had developed . Practices that ran counter to the aims of the Revolution had to be regulated or diverted , and the legislation in such instances had as its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the admitted element of experimenting in new forms of organization and activity , legislation often has represented in fact an explanation of why a given policy or certain practices had been adopted . The aim to reduce to the minimum the dividing line between " rulers " and " ruled " has been stressed , and one of the points of superiority of the Soviet system claimed by its authors has been a close approach to this aim . The pursuance of this purpose required a tendency toward informality as well as flexibility in the legislative procedure which at times has seemed to work against the goal in mind . These general features of the Bolshevik procedure of lawmaking have led some to state that the Soviet system does not rest on strict legal norms . This was in a sense true during the first periods of revolutionary class struggle . The procedure of law-making has become more regular and formal , with the possibilities of developing what the Bolsheviks call " revolutionary legality , " a term that became current only // after 1930 . It should also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken concretely of the development of Soviet democracy , having in mind the development of the Soviets as representative institutions with more clearly defined powers and wider and more effective exercise of these powers . As the Revolution has progressed in the carrying out of its program the legislative procedure has become more standardized . Such a standardization is one of the provisions of the new constitutions . The new system of elections to be introduced also has as one of its aims to contribute to a clearer definition of law ; for the form and stage of socialism already attained have given , and also require , a more positive concept of law . The principle of " democratic centralism , " which underlies the structure and functioning of practically all Soviet institutions , is applied to the process of formal legislation . Under this principle a sharp , fixed distribution of powers , between legislative and executive , and between central and local government , is not to be found , being purposely avoided in order to make effective the general characteristics of Soviet law-making as outlined in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need at one time for mass effort but at another for strict control , to solve the particular problem at any of the stages of development of the new order , has determined whether the democratic or centralistic element of the formula would predominate without eliminating the other . z . The Soviet Assembly and Congress . In any given Soviet unit ? the village Soviet , the large urban Soviet , the district congress of Soviets uniting the primary units , the regional congress representing the district units , the republic congress or finally the All-Union Congress ? the plenary assembly of the primary unit or of the congress has been the basic law-making authority . The AllUnion and republic congresses and the Soviets of the bigger cities have been large bodies of one to two thousand members , and their sessions have been comparatively short as well as infrequent . The large urban Soviets were expected to hold plenary sessions every few months . The district and regional // congresses also met at frequent intervals . The republic congresses in the first year of the Revolution met several times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at first to a year , then to two years , and in the last instance to three years . The tendency has thus been to reduce the number of sessions of the plenary assemblies and this tendency is to be noted for the primary and intermediary as well as for the central units . Also these large plenary sessions have tended to convene only on occasions of celebration ; by reason of their size they could in fact be little more than general meetings . The special All-Union Congress called to adopt the new Union constitution suggested the mass meeting more than a debating parliamentary body , although representatives from all parts of the Union and of all categories of toilers took part in the speech-making . Lenin just before his death warned against the continuation of mere meeting-methods . At first the large units were useful sounding boards , and they had a great educational value for the large number who participated . But critics were justified in pointing out that in such large bodies the process of law-making was really reduced to reports by the leaders instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal voting . The plenary sessions have gradually produced wider participation in the discussions , and the latter have taken on increasingly a more business-like character . But in these large bodies debate could not be extensive , nor did the short period of their sessions permit of effective analytical discussion . In the plenary sessions the executive committees report for formal confirmation the laws enacted by them under their powers during the interval between sessions . In the case of the larger congresses of Union or republics changes in the constitutions have to be reported ; and the congresses have therefore been in a sense periodic constitutional conventions . The congresses for the Union and the republics have legislated on only broad fundamental issues ; they could not do otherwise in view of their short sessions called of late only every two or three years . Current legislative authority has been exercised by the executive committees which will be // discussed in the next section . The same relationship between plenary session and executive committee has prevailed in the intermediary and primary Soviet units . The weaknesses here noted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new constitutions . The Supreme Soviets are to have exclusive legislative powers . Their sessions , as also those of the other lower grades of legislatures of the Soviet system , are to be more regular , so that current legislation will be possible . Plenary sessions are to be obligatory : twice a year for the Supreme Soviet of Union or republic ; four times a year for regions ; every two months for district Soviets of Toilers , and once a month for the primary urban and village Soviets . As already noted , the Supreme Soviet will be composed of two chambers of approximately S75 members each , smaller than the former Union Congress but larger than the former Central Executive Committee , both of which institutions it is to replace . The legislative authority will thus be a more permanent and formal body , and at the same time is expected to be more active and responsive than the formal parliaments of the western democratic systems . 2 . Executive Committee and Presidium . In view of the size and infrequency of the meetings of congresses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions . The Central Executive Committee , of Union or republic , meets only three or four times a year and for short sessions , so that legislative powers had to be extended also to their Presidia . The Presidium of the All-Union Central Executive Committee has numbered twenty-seven members . In the intermediary and primary units the executive committees are in permanent session , and constitute the local executive . While the Presidia must secure confirmation of all measures from the executive committee , as the latter must from the congress or plenary assembly , one has had a wide delegation of legislative power and also the actual exercise of such by a small group . This last fact has contributed to the tendency toward uncontrolled bureaucratic action against which the Soviet leaders have carried on a constant struggle . // The recent " house-cleaning " has brought out facts which the severest critics had not noted . It has been discovered that meetings of the Presidia often have been held very irregularly , and when held have been poorly attended . The practice developed of sending to the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which a decision had to be made , asking for a vote on the items of this questionnaire . By this practice group discussion and action were practically eliminated . In the first years of civil war the Soviet system became in fact rule by the executive committees . The irregular and short sessions of the assemblies in these last years have pointed to a return to this practice , which was violently condemned and presumably abandoned in order to " revitalize " the Soviets . The central executive committees of the Union and the constituent republics have been larger bodies ; for the Union , 607 members of the Soviet of the Union and I50 members in the Soviet of Nationalities . This size made it possible for this body to serve , as it has , as the permanent legislature . The changes introduced by the new constitutions aim to eliminate what has seemed an anomaly to the outside student , of legislative powers vested in a body which has primarily executive functions . The new Supreme Soviet , in which legislative powers are now to be concentrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present Central Executive Committee which it replaces . This Presidium is given the authority to issue edicts only in interpretation of laws in force as enacted by the Supreme Soviet . The Council of People 's Commissars in the future has the authority to issue only ordinances , and individual commissariats will issue only orders and instructions . Thus a definite standardization of legislative procedure is to come under the new constitution . Among the amendments suggested to the draft of the Union constitution was one providing that the Presidium of the New Supreme Soviet be given legislative powers . Stalin argued against this proposal on the ground that in the past legislative powers had been exercised by too many authorities . Despite the new proposal respecting the exercise of legislative functions Soviet writers on the new constitution point out // that the Soviet system continues to refuse to accept the principle of distribution of powers . This principle was positively condemned by Soviet leaders and writers in the earlier period as inapplicable to the type of government being set up . What has been introduced , it is explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not of powers . 3 . The Party and legislation . The relationship between the Party and the Government in respect of formal legislative procedure requires special emphasis ; it is another illustration of the ruling position of the Party in the Soviet system . In the first years there was a practical merging of Government and Party authorities , although all legislation was in form at least an enactment of the " Soviet authority , " as represented by the Government . This was the period of the destruction of the old order in the setting of a civil war . Then there came apparently an attempt to differentiate between Party and Government , but in point of fact the relationship continued to be very close . The Party passed resolutions and the formal legislative enactment of the content of these resolutions always followed . Thus Party congresses generally immediately preceded Soviet congresses . The five-year plans have been programs of the Party and actually went into force before formal enactment by the Soviet Congress or Central Executive Committee . The seven-hour work day was also introduced by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laborunion organization . Decisions respecting the organization and powers of co-operative societies , made by the Party in conjunction with the central representatives of the co-operative movement , have also had all the attributes of formal legislation . Thus in the economic field particularly what were termed the " directives " of the Party came to have in practice the force of law . A citation to this effect , from a recent ( 1936 ) textbook on Soviet Economic and Civil Law , has been given in another context . During the last two years a new practice gradually developed , and has become the general rule . This new practice is that of legislation by Government and Party conjointly . Most of the important laws of the last years have been // enacted over two signatures , that of the Chairman of the Council of People 's Commissars , Molotov , and that of Stalin for the Central Committee of the Party . It was perhaps the rise in other countries of one-party systems in which the party and the government are actually merged that led to the franker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . The Rules of the Party , as revised at the last Party Congress of January , 1934 , state in more specific terms that the Party is the governing party . In line with this development the current phrase in Soviet official documents is either " the policy of the Government and the Party " or " the policy of the Party and the Government . " In a statement from the Party its name will be given first mention and , similarly , the government document will generally give precedence to the word " government . " When Molotov , however , uses the phrase which puts " Party " before " Government " one has an indication of the actuality in practice . It seems therefore to be the general principle that the initiative in formulating policy even in its details is part of the role of the Party , while formal enactment rests with the governmental body . Frequent departures from this practice , in the form of actual legislation by the Party alone , have occurred , due to the need of immediate action or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Party . On the other hand , there has been at times a tendency to differentiate between the Party and the Government , although it is interesting to note that no discussion of the theory of such a differentiation has been noted in the Soviet literature on its public law . If after the convening of the new Supreme Soviet there is a continuation of the present practice of joint signing of all important laws by Party and Government , this will be contrary to Stalin 's expressed view that legislative powers should be reserved to the single governmental authority . The role of the Party with respect to the formal legislative procedure is also determined by the presence in all grades of Soviets of the so-called " Party group . " Even where in the lower units this Party group is a minority , it is the only organized group permitted and its leadership is therefore effective . In the higher units the Party group always has a // majority . There is therefore no question that the Party directives , which must be followed by all Party groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will prevail in the legislative activity of the Soviet assemblies or executive committees . The sole right to " caucus " of the Party members in any Soviet has been an effective sanction of this ruling position of the Party in the field of legislation . Whether members returned to the Soviets in the next elections on the nomination of other organizations like labor unions or collective farms will have a similar right has not been broached , so far as the writer has noted . To date all " non-Party members " of a Soviet have been designated as such and could meet only as a general and not as an organized group . And the provision of the new constitutions that Party members shall form the " directing nuclei " in all Soviet institutions may imply that they will retain as their monopoly the important right which they have enjoyed to date , of forming the only organized " group " in the Soviet legislative bodies . 4 . Referendum . The new Union constitution provides for a popular canvas or referendum either " on the initiative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one of the Union republics " ( Article 49d ) . There has been no decision as to the actual procedure to be used for this test of popular opinion , presumably with respect to a specific legislative proposal . On several occasions a form of referendum has been utilized . Thus in 1923 the impending enactment of a new marriage law was held up to allow for a " mass " discussion of its proposals in the lower Soviets . This discussion brought the important provision for registration of marriages which was not originally contemplated . In 1936 a new law on abortion was presented for popular discussion in organizations and the press . In this case , despite many expressions of opinion against the return to the principle of the illegality of abortions , the law was enacted practically as originally proposed ; the wide popular discussion apparently had little influence . The draft of the new Union constitution was the subject // of wide discussion for over five months . Five hundred and twenty-seven thousand meetings were reported to have been held , with an aggregate attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , regular meetings of labor unions and other organizations and special meetings of institutions of all types . The number of specific , though not different , suggestions of change that came from these meetings was estimated at over 150,000 . In reporting for the Committee which drafted the constitution , Stalin analyzed these proposed amendments and found only a few that were relevant or acceptable . Only forty-three changes were actually made in the original draft ; the majority of these alterations were purely textual , only seven being of substantial content . If for the law on abortion and the draft of the new constitution the wide discussion did not lead to any real changes in the projects proposed , it performed a valuable educational function ; the Soviet citizenry became informed fully of what was being proposed . The factor of organization was present in this discussion , but did not prevent , in the case of the law on abortion , positive opposition to some of its basic features . The procedure adopted for formulating the statute or " constitution " for the collective farm ( kolkhoz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of collective-farm workers ? the shock brigaders ? was convened . This conference drew up a model constitution and this document was the result of real debate . Stalin participated in the conference and contributed to the formulation of the model constitution , for he assumed the responsibility and also the credit for the policy of the collectivization of agriculture . But many of the most important features of the law were suggested by the local workers , as the stenographic report of the conference shows . The model statute thus adopted was discussed by each collective farm , and acceptance of it registered formally with the local village Soviet . To encourage discussion , acceptance and registration deeds granting perpetual use of the land by the collective farm were issued on the completion of this procedure . The provisions for self-administration and individual kitchen-garden allotments of this law made a strong // appeal to the peasants . The question of whether agriculture should be collectivized did not come up , because the policy of collectivization had been carried through and the majority of the peasants had come to realize this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the kolkhoz was considered illustrative of a method of law-making which the Soviet system provides . In the recent purge of local leadership there have been several instances where the offense was gross violation by Soviet and Party officials of this kolkhoz statute or " constitution , " which was made the law of the land . 5 . Central and Local Government . The integration of the Soviets by their single pyramid form of structure is reflected in the field of law-making . The principle to date has been that any unit is subject to supervision and control with respect to its exercise of legislative functions by the next higher unit . As the next higher unit has been elected from the immediately lower unit , being thus composed of members of the latter , this principle operated in practice without any friction ; also there apparently could not be any rivalry or dispute over jurisdiction . The powers of the Union are delegated . In the 1936 constitution these are enumerated in Article 14 . In the 1923 Union constitution the fields for exclusive Union legislation are practically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new constitution the fixing of general principles by the Union authority is extended to new fields , while detailed legislation in these same fields is left to the republics . In this way is registered the progress of the revolutionary program particularly in economic fields . In the field of the administration of justice it was decided that it was possible and necessary to establish more uniform principles and practices throughout the Union . Within a Union republic statutes on municipal and village Soviets were enacted some years ago to define the powers as well as the functions of these primary units and in the direction of a larger measure of local initiative . But the new constitution of the Russian unit , adopted on January 21 , 1937 , provides in Article 91 : " The higher Soviets of Toilers ' // Deputies have the right to annul decisions and orders of the lower Soviets of Toilers ' Deputies and their executive committees . " Thus the introduction of the direct election of all Soviets has not altered this principle of hierarchical subordination ? what the Bolsheviks insist is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic centralism , providing , it is believed , for mass initiative and at the same time direction of this initiative . In the first months of the Soviet regime local Soviets were encouraged to take the most active initiative and the upper units gave only the most general " directives . " Then the conditions of the internal struggle with the advent of civil war required extreme centralization of authority . At present , as part of the policy to " activize " the local Soviets , the primary units are encouraged to show initiative in the field of local legislation . The next higher unit always can quash measures that are not in conformity with the " general line " or the " policy of the Party and Government , " and this right is often exercised . The general powers of supervision exercised by the higher unit are reinforced by the powers of the Procuror ( see later ) and his local representatives , and of the Commission of Soviet Control . In practice the power of supervision is often abused and as a result local initiative can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite " deviation " and the local Soviet authorities go astray or even amuck , and for long periods before a revision is effected . Because of its importance the fact should again be noted that the effective exercise of the supervisory authority of the higher unit and the acceptance of such supervision by the lower unit are made possible in practice because both units , at whatever range , are part of a single institution also in the matter of personnel . The members of the congresses of Soviets , and their executive committees , to take the higher range , are also members of regional Soviet congresses or executive committees , or at the bases , the district Soviet assemblies and executive committees have come up from the village Soviets . Superior decisions are seldom questioned because they are arrived at with the participation of those working in the lower unit . The interlocking personnel between lower and higher units will not continue in such definite form when all Soviets // are elected directly . There would seem to be no provision against a person being a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On this point it is not yet possible to determine the extent of the changes introduced by the new constitutions . The ruling position of the Party in the Soviets has also been an important factor in establishing and maintaining the relations between local and intermediary and central Soviets . In all Soviets , whether in the assemblies or in the executive committees , the members of the Party form the " Party group " already described . Under Party discipline these Party members act as a unit , and it is part of their responsibility to integrate local and central government in matters of legislation . 6 . Codes and precedents . The old Imperial codes were immediately repealed by the Revolution ; only Soviet legislation was to have the force of law , and to emphasize this fact even decisions of the revolutionary courts were not to be cited . This was the period of the full sway of revolutionary legislative action . It was for this period that Lenin said that the actions of the masses constituted law . For certain fields the revolutionary legislation was codified in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Family . With the adoption of the New Economic Policy it was necessary to give the law and rights under it greater clarity . To this end former revolutionary codes were revised and new codes elaborated and put into force . These codes of the period of the Nep represented the new " socialist " law , but they also reflected the old concepts , particularly as they had to extend protection to the " capitalist " economic forces which were allowed again to develop . The recent dispute over the nature of law under socialism has its roots in this period when Bolsheviks spoke of the Soviet economic structure as falling into two sectors : " capitalist " and " socialist . " With the resumption of the socialist offensive , involving the gradual liquidation of the Nep , many of the paragraphs of the codes rapidly became obsolete . It has been one of the functions of the consulting jurist to know what paragraphs of // these codes have been superseded by new statutes or by interpretations of the Supreme Court or administrative rulings . New editions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as the student to follow the changes effected by the drive for socialism of the period of the fiveyear plans . In view of the many radical changes of the last years , in all fields of life , the question of the complete revision of the codes has been raised . With the publication of the draft of the proposed new constitution , in June , 1936 , the revision of the new codes was formally started , by the appointment of commissions . The general principles set forth in the new constitutions required such a revision , as the full import of these principles would be clear only from detailed statements as embodied in new codes . It seemed reasonable to look for the appearance of these new codes by the end of 1937 . But there has been delay because of the recent political shake-up , one aspect of which has had to do with the general question of the place of law in a socialist order and therefore with the more specific question of the new codes . A former accepted authority on Soviet law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preparation of the new codes , was found to have erred seriously in his theoretical views and was declared " an enemy of the people . " The authoritative interpretation of the place of law in a socialist state is being worked out at the present writing . There can be " a socialist law , " we are told , which is an integral part of the new order and not simply a heritage from the old not yet fully outlived . This view makes for a consolidation of Soviet law , the extent and content of which will be clearer when the new codes appear . 7 . Scope of Soviet legislation . Soviet legislation bulks up into an enormous mass of statutes , laws and regulations . The policy of planned economy with the relating of all activity to the five-year plans has required detailed legislation with respect to all fields of human endeavor . The dates for the various steps in the agricultural process , the quotas of production , prices , the curricula in the schools , for example , are all subjects of legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor-union authorities into the field of formal legislation , and the exercise of legislative powers by executive bodies have been necessary for the formulation of these far-reaching norms . The comprehensive scope and specific character of the norms established are part of the new environment which is expected to change the habits of the people and develop new habits . As conflicts between revolutionary aims and actual life developed temporary adjustments have been made , which in turn had to be registered in the regulations to be enforced , that is in new legislation . The life of a specific Soviet law has been therefore comparatively short . Another feature of the procedure of law-making under the Soviets may be noted . Changes in methods of procedure have been necessary as the Revolution progressed . The centralized character of the Soviet system has made it possible formally to effect such changes rapidly . The close integration of central and local authorities has facilitated the local carrying out of the new policy , the lag in local application being much less than one might expect . The fact that changes in policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary and explained as tactical , has meant a definiteness in direction of legislative policy , the direction being emphasized in the constant outlining , by mass propaganda instruments , of the so-called " perspective of the Revolution . " Thus the Party line , while following a zigzag course somewhat confusing to the local leadership , has had definite , concrete aims as formulated in legislation . While the tendency is clearly toward consolidation and the standardization of the procedure for law-making , it should not be interpreted as a drifting back to the western parliamentary system . The Bolsheviks have acknowledged the taking over of mechanical features of parliamentarianism , its better features as they see them ? direct election by secret ballot or concentration of legislative functions . Formal roll-call voting in the new Soviet " Parliament " may be introduced ; the requirement of a two-thirds vote for a constitutional amendment suggests such a development . On the other hand the Soviet Government remains a one-party system , and the authoritative and decisive position of the single party is IOO LAW-MAKING considered a point of superiority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bickerings and compromises especially in local government are thus eliminated , it would seem . The absence of basic class divisions , and in any case of provision for the protection of the rights of a minority class of owners of means of production , is both the reason for and the result of the one-party principle . National minorities are recognized , however , and their rights protected in the field of legislation by the Soviet of Nationalities , which is given greater prestige and power under the new constitution . Soviet writers tell us that the Soviet deputies must not become " mere parliamentarians . " In this statement they have in mind the fact that Soviet deputies themselves work in production and administer the laws they have enacted , thus checking up on what happens in actual life under their legislation . This fact prevents them from " becoming cut off from their electors and failing to register the needs and demands of the toilers . " This claim will be noted in the following chapters on Public Administration . CHAPTER VII PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION A Soviet writer on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temple of the " bourgeois state " is legislation and its object of worship law , while in the " proletarian state " the temple is administration and the fetish labor . This theory has been recently condemned because it minimizes the importance of law in the present " socialist state . " But it remains correct in so far as it points out the emphasis on administration in the Soviet system . While the present emphasis on law has as one of its aims to make more definitive the protection of the civil and property rights now allowed to the Soviet citizen , the Soviet state is also and often primarily economic , owning and operating the most important of the country 's means of production ; the state apparatus of administration touches the citizen in his workaday life and has assumed large responbilities in the organizing of his labor . Inefficiency or corruption in public administration affects therefore the livelihood of all the people . I . Scope of public administration . The comprehensive character of public administration in the Soviet system can be related to the " proletarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other . In the period of " War Communism , " the state became in theory and to a considerable extent also in practice the absolute master of all credit , industrial and trade activity and the virtual master of agriculture . The conditions of the civil war and the struggle against hostile neighbors and outside intervention were in part responsible for the taking over by the state of control of all economic and cultural activities . The doctrinal basis of the new type of state also required the extending of its powers to practically every field of life . IOI IO2 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION Under the economic policy of the proletarian dictatorship ? the nationalization of all means of production ? public administration came to include business management . All institutions were so to speak " sovietized , " those that would not lend themselves to the process being abolished . If it was found impossible or inexpedient completely to abolish an institution , as for example the church , then the institution was denied the right to " exercise administrative functions " and its activity thus reduced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " statized . " Included in the nationalized " means of production " were all publishing establishments , theatres and other means of communication . The " sovietizing " of an institution or organization brought with it specific and authoritative leadership by the Party . The New Economic Policy ( 1921-28 ) allowed individual initiative to reappear in economic activity , but always under the strict supervision of the proletarian state . There came also decentralization of management in state enterprises . State and Party direction of cultural activities were retained and even increased , in preparation for the resumption of the socialist offensive , in 1928 . There was no change in principle in the structure of the proletarian state during the Nep . In fact because of the new economic policy the proletarian and Party domination of personnel of administration was made more positive . This was part of the preparation for the resumption of the socialist offensive . The drive for socialism under the five-year plans implied an even more positive assertion of authoritative direction of all activity . Then , as the reconstruction of the economic life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decentralization in respect of management with provision for constant checking up on performance by the central authorities . It is this current application of the general Soviet principle of " democratic centralism " to the field of administration that will be here examined . The details of the many changes , to " shake down " the Soviet apparatus of administration , will be noted only in so far as it is necessary to do so to understand the methods of administration now in force . The apparatus of administration continues to be subjected con " MASS // stantly to this process of shaking down . In 1937 the extensive house-cleaning reached many responsible heads of administrative departments , and managers of economic enterprises . Some were charged with sabotage , wrecking activities and even treason . The possibility of such activities suggests definite defects , of several kinds , in the Soviet system of public administration . These will be noted , together with the measures taken to remedy them . 2 . " Mass Control . " Bolshevism has formulated several principles as basic to its aims in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is spoken of as " mass control , " which is to be effectuated by wide mass participation in public administration . Lenin gave the popular formulation of this aim in a phrase already quoted which has been one of the main slogans of the Revolution : " The house-wife will learn to run the state . " The Bolsheviks accept the Marxian doctrine of the gradual withering away of the state in the belief in the possibility of training a community to habits of self-discipline and co-operation through actual participation in management and administration . The establishment of workman control of industry in the very first days of the Soviet regime represented the first application of the principle of mass control through actual participation . The problem of efficient management has required , as we shall see , certain modification of the original practices . Bureaucratic tendencies in administration were also to be combatted by mass control . Repeated and thoroughgoing reorganization of the apparatus of administration has adopted novel and often ruthless methods to fight " bureaucratism , " as inherited from the old regime and as inherent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all fields of life . Cultural backwardness has also been one of the reasons for bureaucratic tendencies . The methods of public administration and of state management in economic enterprises or state control over co-operative units operating within the state-planned economic system have been evolved by trial and error . The fundamental question is whether the result is a development or a decline // of self-administration . In general terms this is the question of whether the Soviet system is becoming more democratic . Put in more concrete terms the question is whether workmen and peasants see a development toward social administration , or one toward bureaucratic . If the Bolsheviks may confidently assert that there is no trend back to private capitalism , their system may perhaps be working more and more toward what has been termed " capitalistic statism. " 3 . Combatting " bureaucratism . " Various interesting devices have been adopted to combat bureaucratic tendencies . Administrative institutions have been " raided " and inspected by light cavalry detachments of young communists . Commissariats have been brought under the " patronage " of a factory , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the inside could fight bureaucratic tendencies as they expressed themselves in conscious or unconscious neglect of the interests of the workmen . A wholesale reduction of staffs has taken place on two occasions , representing another form of " purging " for which there is provision in the Soviet system . Another device has been to increase the salary of technical experts working in the plant as opposed to those working in the central offices of the trust to which the plant belonged . A Party regulation has required central Party officials to spend a certain number of months in local work . That these measures have not always been successful is illustrated by a recent item in the Soviet press . Two engineers responsible for several years for a certain mine were unable to find it when finally they decided to visit it , although it was only a few miles from their office . Such instances can not of course be generalized ; they often are emphasized by the Soviet leaders for " **25;487;TOOLONG " purposes . More responsible and efficient management has been encouraged from another direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a schedule of production or of grain collections supplies a concrete basis of measurement . Bonuses for successful administration or management have thus extended the piece-work wage system to these categories of workers . The manager of a state cornCOMBATTING " BUREAUCRATISM " I05 mercial store or of a consumers ' co-operative is also paid a bonus on the basis of the turnover . There has been considerable mobility of personnel in both the Soviet and Party organs . This fluidity did not promote efficiency , although the changing was often due to the failure of the individual in the particular post , or the need of the more experienced or tested worker as a " trouble-shooter " at a place where organization and management had broken down . This fluidity of personnel is being reduced , by positive action of the central authorities , and as a result of a gradual training of personnel and its proper distribution . After one of the reorganizations of the apparatus of administration ( 1934 ) each department was assigned a specific production field , and within its field was to train and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of institutions for the " active element , " described in the chapter on the structural features of the Soviet system , that bureaucratic tendencies are to be dealt with as a matter of every-day functioning . The " sections " of Soviets , now to be extended to district and regional Soviets , have no executive functions but inquire and inspect , advise , propose , " signal " defects and register formal protests . " Deputy groups " and " street committees " give attention to problems of administration rather than to larger questions of policy . The " active element " organized by the judicial and taxing authorities , which will be described later , aid the work of these departments of government and at the same time represent measures against bureaucratic tendencies . The inspection service of the labor unions , noted in another section of this chapter , is organized on a broad mass base , and has in view particularly the ensuring of attention to demands and needs of workers on the part of this or that organ of administration . The press plays an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration and management . Individual writers or organized brigades inspect and report , and the officials criticized are expected to answer in the columns of the newspapers . This is one aspect of the " operative " function of the Soviet press examined in an earlier chapter . Io6 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION Many of the letters sent in by the peasant-correspondent and workman-correspondent deal with problems and defects of local management . The wall newspaper of the institution or enterprise is perhaps the most direct and forceful instrument for combatting red-tapism or drill-sergeant methods in local administration or management of a factory or collective farm . All these devices and instrumentalities , of which the most important have been noted , indicate the constant effort to make effective the Soviet principle of mass participation in and control over the enormous apparatus of administration which the socialist state requires . 4 . Party and administration . The role of leadership assumed by the Party in the Soviet system extends to administration . In all except the village executive committees of Soviets , Party members have a majority and generally the chairmanship . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members also predominate . Party predominance in the personnel of the administrative boards of the co-operative societies is less general except for the highest co-ordinating organs ; communists looked down on commercial or trade activities , and even under Party discipline were directed into this field only with difficulty . In appointive commissions the same Party leadership is found . Those appointed as directors of institutions and managers of economic enterprises ? particularly the many new construction projects ? are almost invariably Party members , although of late this former practice is not followed so rigidly . In a very concrete way , therefore , the ruling position of the Party expresses itself in the personnel of the multiform apparatus of administration . The Party control of all important responsible positions and in all fields of activity , including economic and cultural , is not the Soviet counterpart of a spoils system , although superficially it has some of the features of the latter . The assumption by the Party of responsibility for the Revolution , and then the development of the one-party principle for the Soviet system as a whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible positions by Party members . During the struggle for the new order ? for its political victory over direct // and indirect opposition ? it was necessary to put Bolsheviks at the head of all institutions and organizations . These were the so-called " Red directors . " Where the executive authority was elected , the electors found it expedient to accept the principle of Party leadership . Administration and management have suffered as a result of this practice from the point of view of efficiency , but during the years of the evolution of the new system political considerations were bound to prevail . With the completion of the socialist framework it became possible to deviate somewhat from the former policy , and many responsible administrative positions have come to be held by individuals who do not belong to the Party . A special designation for these was suggested recently by Stalin , who called attention to the fact that some of the best workers in responsible positions did not belong to the Party , and spoke of them as " non-Party Bolsheviks . " A development parallel to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The so-called " Red director " of a factory , appointed originally because he was an active and loyal political worker , can retain his position only if he acquires technical training in the field in which he is working . The aim of this provision is also to make the manager of a factory less dependent on his technical advisers than has often been the case . After this possibility of training , inefficient management will lead to demotion with the specific prohibition again to hold a responsible position . If there is evidence of deliberate carelessness the penalty will be more severe . Where by his action the Party member has violated a Soviet law , he will be prosecuted with particular vigor and often with the widest publicity , and the severest penalty provided by law imposed because of the very fact of his Party membership . The provision for special training of those holding administrative positions has been generally supplied , practically from the beginning , by the special Party-Soviet schools to train not only Party organizers and workers , but chairmen or secretaries in local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commission of Party Control ? exercises , as its name indicates , general supervision over administration , constantly investigating and reporting , Io8 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION many of its findings being made public . For this function it was decided to centralize the control over performance , in order to free this function from the pressure of local interests . Local " mass " control , formerly exercised by the organs of Workman-Peasant Inspection , was turned over to the labor unions . Replacing the Workman-Peasant Inspection , a Commission of Soviet Control , appointed by and responsible to the Central Executive Committee , checks up on performance in Soviet administrative and economic institutions . Organized like the Commission of Party Control with centralized authority through local representatives responsible only to it , the Soviet institution co-operates closely with the Party institution , and both represent the tendency toward decentralization in management and administration and centralization in respect of checking up on performance . The very large number of Party members holding high responsible positions involved in the recent trials and executions has led to a radical shaking down of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly tested . Also under Party discipline these should have been the most closely watched and checked ; in practice they escaped the control of the Party and used their Party positions to avoid " mass control . " 5 . The Office Worker . In the various administrative bodies of the Soviet system the personnel is spoken of as the " office worker , " as opposed to the " workman " or " peasant . " From the beginning the intellectual , the technician and even the office worker have been somewhat suspect , and the attitude of these groups toward the new authority often justified the suspicion . The leaders enjoined workmen and peasants who were to exercise mass control over the bureaucracy of their new order that it should be an attitude of " healthy suspicion . " Coming now in the main from workman and peasant families , and educated and trained under the Soviet regime , these technicians and office workers are believed to have been won over , always with individual exceptions . For the technician and professional man or woman an incentive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salaries . For the manual worker the piecework wage as well as his position of political and social leadership have been an effective appeal . The higher administrative officials have had the satisfaction of power from their responsibility and acknowledged leadership . But for the middle group of office workers ? clerks and stenographers ? there has not been the same opportunity to increase earnings or to receive recognition for work done . The office worker is beginning to find his economic position better and his standing in the community of toilers higher . However , the bureaucratic tendencies that have been and still are so forcefully present in the apparatus of administration ? even of the Party ? can be explained by the attitude of this group of workers in any system . In the Soviet system this group necessarily is very large , and has an important relation to the details of administration and management . Recent Soviet writings take as their theme the position of this group , calling attention to its contribution to the " socialist building , " and ways in which this contribution can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reorganization of the apparatus of administration of both the Soviets and the Party in 1934 was an outstanding instance of the fight against the evils of bureaucratic control ; it also represented the tendency toward decentralization as part of this struggle . The new Commissions of Control ? of Soviets and Party ? were the product of this reorganization . What the Soviet leaders and writers called " functionalism " in administration was to be eliminated . The apparatus of administration in both the Soviets and the Party had till then been organized on the basis of the functions performed , and in this way any given enterprise was subject to a whole series of inspections and directives with respect to each of its functions . All institutions have had , in varying measure , political , economic and cultural functions , and it was necessary to organize administration on this so-called principle of functions in order to promote all of them as part of the building of the new order . This functional form of administration was one of the factors responsible for the inefficiency of management ? red-tapism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the causes for the failures to meet the schedules of production , for example . One Soviet leader , in describing the results of " functionalism " in administration , suggested that it meant one authority when a hand was to lift food to the mouth , another when it was to write a report and still another when it had to hit somebody in the face , and thus for all hands everywhere . The new basis for administration became the field of production as a whole , and the particular production unit . This has meant decentralization in administration and management , and the possibility of introducing in fact responsibility of management . The reorganization of the administrative bodies has been part of the program of the second Five-Year Plan of mastering the new technique ? the new machines and the new types of organization . It was explained that the aim of the reorganization of the Party apparatus of administration was to adapt it to the new problems , produced by the progress of the program of economic reconstruction , so that the Party could attain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had shown in the field of political leadership . 7 . " Single Responsible Authority . " In economic enterprises the principle of a single responsible manager has been established . But the workers hold production conferences , the resolutions of which are supposed to be studied by the management . The actual " counterplanning " of these production conferences , of a few years ago , has been modified , for while it was useful in promoting enthusiasm for the Plan , it was in contradiction to the ideas of strict economic planning and " single responsible authority " and was tending to disrupt both . The so-called " triangle " in an economic enterprise , composed of management , Party leadership and labor-union organization , has become an arbitration board where before it represented a form of collegiate management . But the production conference and the " triangle " still have important functions of " self-criticism " and " self-organization " and discussion in general . Through them the idea that the workers of a given enterprise have some part in the running of the plant or factory is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it is difficult to determine to what extent it is accepted as having real meaning by the majority of the workmen . The workmen are expected to look upon the enterprise as indeed theirs , on the basis of effective participation in its work even if direct control over management has been modified as compared with earlier practices . The extent to which larger numbers of workers take this attitude marks the progress in the building of socialism as it has been interpreted to them . Other illustrations of the development of the principle of the single responsible authority are to be found in almost all institutions . In the Commissariats the former collegiate boards have been abolished , and the Commissar , with his assistants and subordinates , is the responsible head , resting on periodic conferences of local representatives and workers . In the educational institutions , particularly the lower grades , the " director " has been reinstated , the use of the old designation symbolizing the increase of this authority and of his independence in matters of current administration of the teachers ' council , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' councils and school councils in which the pupils are represented , have not been abolished , and they play an important part in the work and life of the school . Through them , and through recently re-established parents ' associations , mass participation in and a measure of general " mass control " over , the work of the school are provided for . The character of this control has been modified but the element of control would seem to be still present , perhaps more effective because it has become more general , while administration has become more efficient and responsible . The principle of the single responsible authority has often been " bureaucratically perverted , " we are told . Thus a director of a trust or factory has considered himself absolutely supreme and free from any control , even from that of his " production active element " ? his technical experts and assistants in management . Not realizing the need to rely on the " active element " he has not kept in touch with the rank and file of his group through the actif @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has neglected the " political " II2 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION side of his position of leadership . Such a narrow technician is considered as not fitting into a Soviet institution , and as being even an obstacle to its proper functioning . 8 . Graft and favoritism . For all administrative positions , including the management of economic enterprises , the remuneration has been limited . At first it was not to exceed the wage of a skilled workman . Party members were limited to a maximum salary , regardless of the responsibility of the position . In point of fact from the very first those holding responsible positions of leadership , administration and management enjoyed better living quarters , and in the periods of shortage of food better and more regularly distributed rations . Lenin , it is reported , refused to accept these recognized perquisites of leadership . The privileged ration represented a very real increase of earnings , unrelated to the nominal money payment . In addition the responsible workers enjoyed many perquisites of transportation , vacation travel , and even clothing . But in the drive for production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the concept of technical qualification has been extended to experience in management . Salaries of " responsible workers " were raised , and the former practice of publicity with regard to all salaries was abolished . An economic differentiation therefore not only has been allowed to develop but has been deliberately extended , in order to secure more efficient administration and particularly better management in economic enterprises . The purely administrative official has not enjoyed the same increase of money reward as the " economic manager " but has been able to develop more extensively the perquisites of office . It has been possible to secure fees for consultative work in the case of the specialist , hand in expense accounts in the case of the administrative official and obtain theatre tickets , books , and even " representation " allowances . But the practice of large-scale self-enrichment seems very limited . An official ? and under the Soviet system this term extends to economic managers ? guilty of " violating sacred state property " ? which means practically all means of production ? is an " enemy of // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in consumers ' goods and the severe punishment , generally widely publicized , of embezzlement or graft , under Party discipline and Soviet law , have been effective deterrents . Graft , and its special aspect of favoritism , have been on the whole remarkably absent in the administrative staffs of the Soviet system . There has been a practice called by the Russian word " blat , " which represented friendly interchange of favors without any element of dishonesty . In the recent shake-up a certain number of dishonest practices have been exposed , however . For example , local officials , through the various committees on which they serve have had assigned to themselves land for home building from a neighboring kolkhoz . They have had houses built on the committee funds , and occupied them . The former head of the Commissariat of Home Affairs ? and of the political police ? has been arrested on the charge of peculation in office . Responsible workers in state factories have been found filling orders for products on the side , pocketing the payments for these orders . Inflated expense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special " consultative " work , have been other methods of graft . The wide publicity given to the instances of graft that have been discovered is part of the technique of combatting such practices . The Soviet press in the last months has carried accounts of instances of favoritism . From the beginning there has been constant admonition against such practices , and severe penalizing of the flagrant cases . But the emphasis on " single responsible authority " in management or general administration has contributed to the development of the practice of appointing one 's friends or of taking one 's own staff of assistants when transferred to a new position . This practice has been facilitated by the breakdown of the principle of election in local Party and Soviet institutions . 9 . Return to politicizing . The recent re-emphasis on " politics " touches the fields of administration and management . In Party , labor unions and co-operative societies new elections , with voting by secret IIq PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ballot , are expected to weed out " bureaucratic " as well as dishonest elements in the administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of 1937 will concentrate more on personnel than on basic political issues ; for the last year local administrators , often appointed through the Party , have been busy mending their ways in anticipation of the test of direct election by secret ballot . In economic enterprises managers have been told that their political activity ? organizing their group of workers by real co-operation with it ? is as important as the meeting of the production schedule . The purges have been directed against abuses of power , by sheer bureaucratic methods of administration and violations of the rights of self-administration of a collective farm for example . Instances of illegal self-enrichment by those in responsible positions are also being exposed , punished and widely publicized . The purges have also exposed many instances of wrecking activities by individuals in positions of administration and management . This feature of Soviet life has been discussed in other contexts , and must be related to the peculiar conditions of the socialist system as exemplified by the Soviet Union . The fact that wrecking activity is , so to speak , inherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February , 1937 , plenary session of the Central Committee of the Party . His statement was : One must remember , and never forget , that so long as there is the capitalist encirclement there will be wreckers , diversionists , spies , and terrorists , scattered throughout the Soviet Union by the espionage services of foreign states ; one must remember this and fight those comrades who undervalue the force and meaning of wrecking activities . He added that while it took tens of thousands of workers to build the Dneprostroy Power Plant , a few individuals could wreck it , or prevent its proper functioning . The constant purges of the Party and the frequent transfer of Party members from one responsible post to another will perhaps temporarily disrupt management , by removing // able executives and making others nervous and unwilling to show the initiative necessary for efficient management . Political considerations must prevail , however , even if this means further inefficiency of administration . This is part of the cost of the building of a new order . The politicizing is expected to develop " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It represents another attack on the problem of " bureaucratism " in general . It aims to curb tendencies in the large apparatus of administration which the Soviet system requires , toward the entrenchment of a new kind of power group . Politicizing in the Soviet system does not mean the extension of control by a bureaucratic authority over all activity . It means the relating of all activity to the program of the Revolution , and this for all toilers , so that by seeing the purpose of their effort they will make it more effective , recognizing a gain to themselves personally in their contribution to the effort of the community . It also means that all will keep their eyes open and be on the watch for any who do not " observe the rules of the socialist community , " and by this " revolutionary vigilance " eliminate the conscious " racketeer " or " chiseler , " to use our American terms , but help the unconscious laggard . CHAPTER VIII THE PUBLIC SERVICES The public services of the Soviet state involve extensive repressive as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ensure is of a particular category ? " the revolutionary order " and " a socialist order . " The new type of state was established on the principle of a revolutionary change of social relations , and the suppression of all opposition to this change . The first Soviet constitution spoke of " ruthless suppression " ; the new constitutions of 1936-37 contain the term " enemy of the people . " The dictatorship of the proletariat was defined as having as its first aim the suppression of the opposition of the bourgeoisie , and the dictatorship of the proletariat , more flexible and on a broader base , is considered as continuing under the new constitutions . Regulation has been often avowedly suppressive ; it was also allegedly educative . The resulting regimentation was to decline with the carrying out of the program of the Revolution , however . The second aspect of the protective services of government ? the ensuring of national defense ? has taken on special forms in line with the special concept of national defense of the " first proletarian state . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of state in the world will be interpreted in the concluding chapter . Here the structural features of the services of national defense will be the subject of examination . Social and economic functions have been assumed by the Soviet state on the broadest possible scale , to carry out the program of the Revolution . In the field of public health , for example , the aim has been to socialize medicine under a comprehensive system of social insurance . The organization of cultural activities also became the concern ? often the monopoly ? of the state , to effect the " cultural revolution . " I16 // This and the following chapter on the public services ? on their social and economic as well as their protective functions ? will bring out the general principles on which these services have been set up and work . The closely integrated character of the Soviet regime makes it difficult to observe , even in the presentation of the material , the distinction between protective and social-economic functions . The all-embracing scope of its public services is the feature of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that under the Marxian doctrine of the state the proletarian dictatorship is to change ; the norms established by it are ultimately to lead to firmly fixed habits of action that will ensure automatic compliance by the majority , and the anti-social elements will be small , weak , and easily handled without an organization whose chief thought and functions are to use its powers of compulsion . While asserting adherence to this view , Stalin said in 1934 , at the last Congress of the Party : At the same time we stand for the strengthening of the dictatorship of the proletariat , which represents the most powerful and mighty authority of all forms of state which have existed up to the present day . The highest possible development of the power of the state is the Marxian formula . Is it " contradictory " ? Yes , it is " contradictory . " But this contradiction is a living thing and completely reflects Marxian dialectics . Among the errors of Soviet political scientists who have been declared " enemies of the people " in the recent purge , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and even fixing its terminal date . These doctrinal assertions of Bolshevism are here noted because they are constantly called to the attention of the Soviet citizens , to explain the character and aims of the public services developed and , at the present stage , often forcibly imposed on them . A widely-used term in Soviet legislation , in the speeches of leaders and in Soviet writings is " discipline . " " Financial discipline " is spoken of in connection with taxation and expenditure . " Production discipline " is emphasized as one of the conditions of the success of the Soviet I18 THE PUBLIC SERVICES economic plans . " Self-discipline " is part of the communist retraining , and an example is what the members of the Party accept when they apply for admission . The public services have among their aims the development of self-discipline in the individuals . As this self-discipline develops , the disciplinary character of the functions of Soviet public services is expected to disappear . In its protective as well as in its social-economic functions the Soviet system strives to promote direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services . The aim is to have the public services handled as " socially " as possible . As has been noted , " social administration " is a more applicable term than " public administration , " as the aim , if not yet the actual achievement . r . Taxation . The tax policy has been a very consistent one throughout the twenty years of the Soviet regime , although the methods of taxing have differed by periods , and with respect to the various classes . The tendency was to be away from direct taxation to a system of public revenue based on the socialized means of production . The main source of public revenue at present is the tax on turnover . As prices are fixed by the state , and include this turnover tax on the producer , processor or distributor , the result is a form of tax on all consumers . Taxes on individuals have been of several types . There has been the tax to limit or destroy economic elements considered hostile . The first tax of the Revolution was an extraordinary levy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was never fully collected but it helped in the carrying out of the program of " expropriating the expropriators . " During the period of War Communism practically no general taxes were levied or collected . All products theoretically went into the common pot , and were distributed by a comprehensive system of rationing . The limitations imposed on the individual retention of clothing and the various categories of rations operated in their practical effect as a system of levies by classes . The New Economic Policy reestablished a new and reasonably stable currency , on the basis // of which a comprehensive system of taxation was introduced . Instead of having to sell all surplus products at state-fixed prices the peasants paid a tax , first in kind , later convertible to currency and finally paid exclusively in rubles . Peasant households which had formed agricultural co-operative societies were taxed at a lower rate than were individual peasant enterprises . Completely collectivized groups , of which in this period there was a very small number , enjoyed a still lower rate . Poor-peasant householders were exempt and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized to help in the carrying through of the policy of collectivization . Peasants engaged in trade in articles other than those of their own production , or peasants having earnings from other than agricultural work , such as construction work in the cities in the winter months , were subject to a separate tax on these outside earnings . The peasant private trader , often the kulak of the village , was one of the so-called " hostile elements " ? a Nepman ? and was thus being limited and controlled by taxation . So long as these Nepmen were needed , to help re-establish the processes of production and distribution , the power to tax was not used to destroy . The urban Nepmen ? merchants , small traders , shopkeepers , and individuals running industrial enterprises under concessions from the state for individual profit ? were taxed at a higher rate than were consumers ' co-operative societies or co-operatives of handicraft workers , on the one hand , and state enterprises on the other . This discriminatory tax on individual enterprises aimed to weaken them in their competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poorer peasants , were exempt from an individual direct tax , and this fact was constantly emphasized as the deliberate policy of the proletarian state . The higher positions in public administration and economic management were as a rule held by Party members , and during the Nep there was strict enforcement of the principle of a fixed and comparatively low maximum of remuneration for members of the Party , regardless of the responsibility attached to the position held . This limitation on earnings logically exempted those holding these higher positions from I20 THE PUBLIC SERVICES a direct tax . The technical experts and the " spetsy " ? abbreviation for specialists ? were taxed on their higher earnings by a direct individual assessment and also by the system of differential rentals for dwellings according to earnings . In this way there was a tendency toward equalization under the differential system of remuneration . So-called " self-taxation " was also actively promoted . In the rural communities the local group could vote an assessment for local cultural purposes , to build clubs or schools , improve roads or put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local Party authorities , usually took the initiative , and the local assessment was on the same basis as the regular taxes ? heavier on the richer clement , the poorer peasants being exempted . The purposes served by this local taxation perhaps justified the extra burden which it represented . The abuses that developed in the assessing of this alleged selftaxation led to the abandonment of it , and to the setting aside of fixed percentages of the general taxes for local improvements , particularly in the field of cultural services . The floating of internal state loans was initiated during the Nep , although this practice did not assume large proportions until the period of the Five-Year Plans . Theoretically voluntary , the subscription to these loans was so organized as to make them practically obligatory , especially on office workers , but also on workmen , although somewhat less so on peasants . The Nepmen found it expedient to subscribe generously . These loans were at first interest-bearing ; later they became also lottery-loans , and this second type has become the more usual . Then it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his state bonds except when illness or accident made it necessary for him to realize on them , this fact to be determined by a state commission . For the loans represented the mobilization of the people 's savings , to put through the " Five-Year Plan in Four Years , " as one of the first large issues was called . Thus the state loans have come to represent for the subscribers another form of tax , especially as subscription to these loans was usually effected by a monthly deduction from salary or wages by the management of the institution or enterprise where one was employed . THE STATE BUDGET I2I All previous issues of state loans have been recently refunded and on the interest-bearing bonds the rate has been reduced . Also greater freedom has been given to realize on the bonds to meet a personal emergency . The total amount of the internal loans outstanding at the end of 1936 was about twenty billion rubles . The comparatively small amount of public debt , as compared with the national budget which will be examined in a later paragraph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed have been already paid for . The state loans are held by over 50,000,000 individuals , we are told , and large individual holdings are exceptional . 2 . The State Budget . With the resumption of the socialist offensive it became necessary to mobilize all resources for the carrying out of the plans for economic expansion . The gradual extension of the principle of planned economy rested or . the more extensive control of national income . The ordinary budget was at first supplemented by a " financial plan , " which included items not found in the budget . Eater these items were brought into the budget , with the progress of socialization and extension of the scope of public finance . The budgets came to cover an increasingly larger percentage of the national income , until for 1937 the budget on the revenue side has been set at ninety-eight billion rubles as compared with eight billion in 1928-29 , thirty-one in 1932 , thirty-five in 1933 , forty-eight in 1934 , sixty-seven in 1935 and eighty-three in 1936 , in round numbers . ( See Monthly Review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Revenue from the state 's share in the profits of state enterprises totals only six billion rubles . State loans have averaged four billion rubles a year during the last years . Revenue from custom duties constitute a very small percentage of the total , for under the state monopoly of foreign trade its enterprises are the main importers . For 1937 revenue from taxation will come from the following forms of taxation . The single agricultural tax is still levied on the peasant households , even on those that have joined the collectives , although the rate for the latter is I22 THE PUBLIC SERVICES lower than for those who have remained as individual enterprises . It is a small item assessed on each peasant household individually . But the obligatory sale to the state , at fixed prices , of assigned quotas of all agricultural products is officially likened to a tax . This tax has recently been made a tax on gross income from agricultural products . The quotas are estimated before the beginning of the agricultural season . The peasants can not sell their surplus on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies , until the state quotas have been fully met for the entire region . Nor can there be the distribution of produce among the members of the collective farm , on the basis of the labor-days they have put in on the fields or other agricultural activity of the group , until the assigned quota has been met . The collective farm or the individual peasant household is paid for this state quota , but at prices very much below those prevailing on the collective-farm bazaars , or even below those paid when state or co-operative authorities purchase . The difference between the prices paid by the state to the peasants and those charged by the state in its own stores , or fixed by the state for the co-operative stores , is one of the important sources of public revenue . The present system of taxation provides for a general tax on all wage-earners for cultural services . It is a sharply progressive income tax , and the exempted wage is low , being below the estimated average wage for all wage-earners . The extension of a tax on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they were contributing to the " new building . " The comparatively small amount of the total revenue produced by this tax suggests that this political consideration was the dominant one . The progressive character of the tax also reduced somewhat the spread between the higher and lower brackets which developed with the extension of the piece-work wage and of higher salaries for responsible managers or highly qualified technical experts . This tax is generally deducted from the wage or salary by the management of the place of employment . But the main source of public revenue in the Soviet budget is the tax on the turnover of a producing , processing or distributing enterprise ? for 1937 it is estimated at seventyPUBLIC // six billion , of the total revenue already noted of ninety-eight billion rubles . The tax is assessed at a percentage of the estimated cost of the particular article . It may vary according to whether the purchaser is a state enterprise , a collective farm , a co-operative or an individual consumer . The tax is reckoned into the price charged by the producing enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices are being changed , and one should add on the whole lowered . The rates are particularly high , often almost equal to the costs of production , for many articles of general mass consumption , such as kerosene , sugar or cigarettes . With the prevailing shortages of consumers ' goods of the last years , this tax as reflected in the high prices operated to control distribution and give to those earning the higher wages and salaries the opportunity to utilize these effectively . The very complicated and shifting methods of taxation of the Soviet system have been presented here only in their main features . At first used to destroy , the power to tax is now utilized to mobilize as large a percentage of the national income as possible for the economic expansion program of the five-year plans . 3 . Public expenditure . Under planned economy the expenditure of the national income , and of savings , is controlled to a very considerable percentage of the total by the state . Public expenditures therefore have a special significance in the Soviet system . As already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it determines how much of the national income is to be used to satisfy everyday consumers ' needs . It controls practically all capital investment from private savings as well as from " socialist accumulation . " It determines a large percentage of the expenditures in the educational and general cultural fields . Insurance is a public service . In negotiating the collective agreements for the wage scales , the labor-union authorities are expected to keep in mind the general economic development of the country , or of a whole field of industry , and not of a particular production unit or craft . Minimum wages are finally determined by legislation , with provision for higher wage scales in in124 THE PUBLIC SERVICES dustries or fields of activity which are considered as " leading " in importance at any particular moment in the progress of the reconstruction of the national economy . But the decision is arrived at also with a view to the increase of " socialist accumulation . " For the wage bill of the country in final analysis is a public expenditure under the Soviet economic system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the broad economic social and cultural functions of the state as well as to the protective functions . The socialeconomic functions will be examined in the following chapter . Here certain general aspects may be presented , of the budgetary distribution of that very large part of the national income which is controlled directly by the state . These aspects are the aims of the five-year plans , and can be more specifically defined because of the element of deliberate planning . The question of the priority of the fundamental aims of the Soviet plans is a moot one . The industrialization of the country , including the mechanization of agriculture , aimed to give the new socialist economy the technological base necessary to make it more independent of the outside , non-Soviet industrialized West , increase its ability to defend itself against attack , and develop the natural resources and increase production to the end of raising the standards of living of the masses . The raising of the cultural standards ? literacy , political consciousness and a sense of social responsibility ? was considered an essential element of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new machines and the technique of collectivist organization . Then expenditures on preparedness for defense became considerably larger than originally planned . The fear of imminent attack , because of announced programs of expansion of neighbors both to the east and west , was responsible for the increase of expenditure on armaments , as it was for the emphasis on the development of heavy industry at the sacrifice of light industry . The result was a decline of living standards during the first FiveYear Plan . The second Plan , while continuing to increase the expenditures on armaments and the further development // of heavy industry , has been able to make more provision for the expansion of light industry and the production of consumers ' goods . There has come , in the last years , a marked increase in the supply of foodstuffs and manufactured articles of mass consumption , with a resulting raising of standards of living . As noted in other contexts , the degree of this improvement in the terms of everyday living ? in the supply of food , clothing and living quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the prices and wages as determined by the state , these being within the systems of taxation and of public expenditure . The interaction of economic , military and political considerations in the determination of public expenditure i illustrated in an outstanding feature of the second Five-Year ' Plan . The proportion of the total capital investment allocated to the Asiatic portions of the Union was increased as compared with the first Plan . The rich natural resources of these regions were thus to be reached and developed . At the same time the economically and culturally backward agricultural peoples of these regions were to be brought under the proletarian political and social influence . Also the national minorities which constitute the majority of the population in the regions were to be made to feel that they had a full share of the economic and cultural development of the Union as a whole . But the preparations for defense of the Asiatic portion of the Union , its maritime province on the Pacific and the artery of communication to it , were furthered by the preferential allocation of public expenditures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ural Mountains . The Soviet leaders point to the small percentage of the total budget expenditures on armaments , as compared with similar expenditures of other countries . There is also emphasis on the large expenditures for education and other cultural fields . The relation of the budget to national income under the Soviet system must be kept in mind in determining the distribution by fields of public expenditure . Also the public expenditures cover practically the entire expenditure in cultural fields and the unified budget of the Union , to which the discussion refers , includes local public expenditure . The comparatively small expenditure for pub126 THE PUBLIC SERVICES lic administration is also pointed to as an illustration of the minimum of non-productive public expenditure which the Soviet system makes possible , by the development of mass participation in administration as a matter of civic interest as well as duty . But what are in fact expenditures for public administration are included in the items of expenditures indicated for the various fields of state economic enterprise . Public expenditure in the form of direct subsidies for operating costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Plans . With the progress of industrialization under these Plans the practice of subsidies is to be dropped , and in fact is already being dropped , as particular economic enterprises become " profitable , " and contribute to the " socialist accumulation " where before they had to be carried by it . The expenditure side of the unified state budget as estimated for 1937 falls into ten main items . The expenditures on the " National Economy " total a little under forty billion rubles . " Social and Cultural Measures " absorb over twentysix billion ; Defense ? twenty billion ; Commissariat of Interior ? two and one-half billion ; " Administration Expenditure " ? one and one-half billion . There is a large item of over two and one-half billion covering interest and lottery payments on the state loans , and of one and one-third billion of accounts with long-term credit banks . The other two items of less than one hundred and fifty , and five hundred and forty million each are for the Commissariat of Justice and " Other Expenditures " respectively . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Bibliographical Note . ) It is a criminal offense to violate " financial discipline " and more specifically " budget discipline " ; this applies mainly to the responsible manager of the state or collective enterprise , but may apply also to the individual . The voluntary workers for the Commissariat of Finance and its local representatives number hundreds of thousands ; this group is one of the largest of the category called " the active element , " which has been described in the discussion of mass participation and control . It is the function of this " active " group to " signal " instances of violation of " budget discipline . " // 4 . The " Police . " The emphasis on policing and the wide activity of a secret political police under Tsarism led to the abolition of the old police force already in the Revolution of February , 1917 . The very word " police " was dropped and in its place the word " militia " was adopted . With the advent of the October Revolution the new name was amplified , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ordinary functions of a general police force . In the conditions of the civil struggle that developed this " police " force was armed and organized to resemble military units . As the internal struggle developed it became necessary to establish a special political police , to deal with counter-revolutionary activities , and then with the sabotage of the opposition . ' When trade was nationalized all private trade became " speculation , " and its illegal continuance , in disruption of the economic and political programs of the Revolution , came to be considered , like sabotage , " counter-revolutionary . " On these bases were established the Extraordinary Commissions to Combat Counter-Revolution , Sabotage and Speculation ? in the abbreviation soon adopted , the Cheka . The Cheka became the " unsheathed punishing sword of the Revolution , " with the powers to try and execute on its own authority . With the conclusion of the active civil war the Cheka was renamed the State Political Administration ? in abbreviation the OGPU . The powers of the new institution were somewhat limited as compared with its predecessor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with political offenses . With the resumption of the socialist offensive and the accompanying sharpening of the class struggle , the concept of political offenses was greatly broadened and the activities and powers of the OGPU were correspondingly increased in actual practice . It was only after the completion of the framework of the new order , in 1934 , that the OGPU as a separate institution was abolished , being merged with the newly established Commissariat of Home Affairs , in which there was a special " Department for State Protection " ? the new name for the special political police . A military collegium of the Supreme Court of the Union took over the jurisdiction of political cases , with provision for secret trial I28 THE PUBLIC SERVICES and the application of what is called the " supreme measure of social defense , " namely capital punishment . The guarding of the railways and of the frontier railway stations , which was one of the functions of the OGPU , came under the jurisdiction of one of the sections of the Commissariat of Home Affairs . Another section took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political offenders , organizing the economic activity of the prisoners , as did the OGPU . The chief fields to which this forced labor has been applied have been the lumber camps , the new construction jobs , the fisheries in the north and the building of canals , military roads and railways . Political offenders , such as engineers found guilty of sabotage or the rich peasants arrested in the process of their liquidation , have been reinstated to civil rights after loyal work in these labor or construction camps . The guarding of the new industrial plants , which was a function of the OGPU during the period of construction , now comes within the jurisdiction of the single policing authority . The ordinary police , called the " militia , " is recruited to a considerable extent from those who have passed through the Red Army . The political training received as part of their military training and systematically continued in the training for their " militia " work has given to these enforcers of the law a cultured manner which is in sharp contrast with the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was inevitable that the kind of policing that developed in a revolutionary struggle became arbitrary in character , particularly with respect to the hostile elements , whose gradual liquidation was part of the policy of the new order . The absorption of the special political police by the general government department for law enforcement came only when the victory of the Revolution was believed to be absolutely definite . But special military sections of the Supreme Court have continued to handle political cases involving terroristic activity or treason , under a law enacted in December , 1934 , after the assassination of Kirov . This was the first act of violence against a high responsible leader for many years , and a summary form of trial was immediately introduced in response to this revival of terrorism . // The political police has been one of the most efficient of the Soviet institutions . It continues , in its reduced form , to be regarded with a healthy dread by the remnants of the old " hostile " classes , even where these have been working loyally for the new order . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It seemed that the Revolution had passed out of the period of the use of general or partial terrorism toward opponents . But in the last year there has been a revival of what the outside world has called " revolutionary terrorism , " limited in the main to members of the Party and to cases of espionage and treason . The Department of State Protection has again become more active , in connection with the large number of cases in which the accusation is of terroristic plans , wrecking and treason . The former head of the Commissariat , Yagoda , was dismissed for " criminal activities " not yet defined . His successor had been one of the secretaries of the Central Committee of the Party , in charge of the 1933-34 cleansing of its ranks . This appointment of a man who had worked immediately under Stalin brought to the fore a new figure in the Soviet leadership ? Yezhov . The distinctive feature of both the ordinary and the special political police forces has been the close resemblance of their organization and equipment to those of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former OGPU units , presumably still maintained , which are armed forces similar to the units of the Red Army , is not made public , nor does one know if they are included in the figures given of the size of the regular , standing Red Army . Recently the responsible heads of the Commissariat of Home Affairs and their immediate subordinates were given semimilitary titles . This was done immediately after the reintroduction of titles for ranks in the Red Army . 5 . The Red Army . The gradual self-demobilization of the Russian army which came during the summer of 1917 , was the result of war-weariness , the reports of distributions of land which reached the peasant soldiers at the front and in the training camps , and also of the anti-war agitation of the Bolsheviks . The enormous number of men under colors still untrained // gave to this process of self-demobilization a mass character . Often the peasant or workman soldier kept his rifle when he started home . The gradual breaking up of the army was in line with the Marxian doctrine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine was the " arming of the proletariat , " and this took place during the summer months of 1917 on a large scale . Taking advantage of the confusion of the period of the February Revolution , the workmen appropriated large supplies of arms . Garrison regiments in the larger cities , organized by the Soviets , also represented the " armed people " of the Bolshevik program . Units of workman militia and then the more formal Red Guards were gradually set up , and were given practice in the constant " demonstrations , " of the summer of 1917 , and also in the organization of the defense of Petrograd during the conflict between the provisional government and the army authorities at the front ? the Kerensky-Kornilov conflict of August , 1917 . The first months of the October Revolution brought the completion of the process of dissolution of the old army , and the growth of the Red Guards . The signing of an armistice and the peace negotiations with the Central Powers made it possible for the new Soviet authority at first to accept with equanimity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany gave notice of the termination of the armistice and made preparations to advance on Petrograd , to force the acceptance of the severe terms of peace on which she insisted , the Bolsheviks took steps to organize the defense of the Revolution . With the establishment of the Soviet regime , of the Toilers ' State , with its provisional government of workmen and peasants , a war of defense became for the Bolsheviks a " just " war . The Red Army was instituted , at first on the basis of voluntary enlistment and then , very shortly , on the principle of compulsory service . Trotsky took over the Commissariat of War , having given up his first post of Commissar of Foreign Affairs . In the course of the next years of civil war the Red Army increased in size ; by 1920 it probably numbered five million . In addition the Red Guards , the Workman-Peasant Militia and the armed units of the Cheka contributed to the defense // of the Revolution on the many fronts of the civil war and against opposition behind the lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and communists constituted an important element of the armed fighting forces of the Revolution . With the adoption of the principle of universal military service for the Red Army only workmen and peasants were admitted to the combat units , those of other classes being assigned to subsidiary services where they would not carry arms . But the trained officers of the old army , who had not wished or found it possible to leave the Soviet controlled areas and join the various White Armies , were mobilized and their technical services requisitioned , as it were , under the control of political commissars . In many instances the families of the mobilized officers were put under special detention as hostages . When the conflict with Poland led to the invasion of the Ukraine by the latter , many former officers could serve on the basis of contributing to the national defense . With the conclusion of the civil war and withdrawal of the forces of foreign intervention , the standing Red Army was gradually reduced to five hundred and sixty-two thousand . Territorial units were organized for those who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In these territorial units there was military training for short periods during five years , at or near the place of work . These territorial units represented the ideal of the new order ? an armed people receiving military training without being withdrawn from production . The territorial units also allowed for the application of the Soviet nationality policy to this field ; in a national republic the territorial units reflected the cultural peculiarities of the workmen and peasants of the unit , and the local national languages were used in these territorial contingents . At the same time the single Red Army established unity in the matter of defense , which was one of the fundamental aims proclaimed as the basis for the forming of the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics . In the last years several important changes have taken place in the structure of the Soviet armed forces . In the face of the international tension it has been increased , in 1935 to 940,000 and then in 1936 to 1,300,000 . This increase was secured // by bringing a larger percentage of the yearly contingent into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the territorial " militia " units . The age at which the young man begins his military service was reduced , and preliminary training for service has been extended in time and scope . Further , with the progress in the " liquidation of classes , " in the recruitment to the Red Army there is no longer the exclusion of " hostile " elements . The number of young men actually refused on political and social grounds was rapidly becoming smaller and smaller . Sons of former bourgeois elements were no longer disqualified if they had become selfsupporting . The young men formerly excluded often protested against the exclusion because it entailed also the loss of civic rights . The abolition of the former discriminations is of considerable political significance . In 1936 the Cossacks were readmitted into regular military service , and in their old traditional uniforms . Used extensively by Tsarism for internal policing the special Cossack units had been abolished . The Cossack peasants had resented collectivization of agriculture with particular vigor . Much was made of the winning over of the Cossacks to the new order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army have been given special privileges in the matter of food rations and consumers ' goods . With the termination of the shortages this privilege will be of less and less significance . Also cultural services in the form of clubs and theatres have been of the best for the Red Armyists . And the program of training has given much attention to political and vocational training in preparation for the return to work after the period of service . The retraining of the peasant youth in the proletarian atmosphere of the barracks or camp was one of the main aims of the " political studies " in the Red Army . The Party leadership through its own members and through those of its youth organization , the Communist Union of Youth ( Komsomol ) , has been organized with particular care in the Red Army . The two years of service often prove to be the apprenticeship for Party membership . The percentage of members of the Party and Komsomol is higher in the army than in any other single mass institution or // organization . As in all Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher positions , that is in the commanding staff . Admission to the military academies for the training of the permanent commanding staff has been in general limited to workmen and peasants , and to Party members . The Party organizations within the Red Army are coordinated by a special department of the Commissariat of Defense , and through this department in turn co-ordinated with the Party authorities . This special form of Party organization was necessary because of the requirements of army discipline . This differentiation of the Red Army party organs does not , however , weaken the " ruling position " of the Party also with respect to the Red Army . The Commissar of Defense is one of the eleven members of the Political Bureau of the Party . Apparently it was felt by the political leadership that the provision made for control of the Red Army was not adequate . Accordingly the former " single authority " in an army unit was replaced by a commission of three , one of whom suggests the political commissar of the period of the civil war . The subsequent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Red Army , on charges of treason , shed light on this new policy . The import of the alleged treasonable activities of Red Army " generals " will be discussed in the concluding chapter . The re-establishment of the collegiate authority in the Red Army is an expression of the more forceful politicizing of Soviet institutions . At the Soviet Congress , which adopted the new Union constitution , a large number of army deputies made speeches , and were always given special ovations . The Soviet citizen serving in the Red Army does not lose his political rights during the period of service ; the army units are represented in the Soviets on an equality with the industrial and other workers . The Soviets , it will be recalled , were originally set up in 1917 as organs of the soldiers as well as of the workmen , and remained Soviets of Workers ' , Soldiers ' and Peasants ' Deputies until renamed " Soviets of Toilers ' Deputies " under the new constitutions . Thus the principle of mass participation in public affairs is made to in134 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the period of active military service . The institution of so-called " patronage " ( Chefstvo ) is extended also to the Red Army and aims to keep those in military service in the everyday life of the community , in the politics of the Revolution and its program of economic reconstruction . Factories " adopt " regiments , and by becoming their patrons establish organizational and individual contacts between workers and Red Armyists . Cultural institutions similarly established relations with regiments , through educational or recreational activities ; amateur dramatics have been a useful channel for this interchange of influence , which represents part of the political and cultural training of the contingents of young workmen and peasants during their military service . A close contact between the Communist Union of Youth and the Red Army is promoted by active recruitment to the youth organization among Red Armyists . Part of the organized activities of the Communist Union of Youth consists of military study and physical training in preparation for the formal military service . The Komsomol as an organization has assumed the " patronage " for the organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advise and assist the voluntary organizations of young amateur sharpshooters ? named after the Commissar of Defense , Voroshilov ? and parachute jumpers , and of the obligatory studies in military subjects in all higher educational institutions . The emphasis on military training will not constitute militarism , we are told , because of the Party leadership in the Red Army , the inclusion of the armed forces in the political and economic activities of the community , and also the participation of the community itself in the life and training of the formal armed forces . At the end of 1935 it was decided to re-establish formal ranks in the Soviet armed forces . Five marshals were appointed , and the ranks of commanders and other officers were introduced . The former title of " general " was not included in the new hierarchy of military rank , because of the political connotation attached to the word before and as part of the Revolution ? the old regime was always designated as one of " landlords , capitalists and // generals . " The re-introduction of specific ranks with corresponding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profession from the workmen and peasant classes , whose achievement in technical training should be recognized as in other fields of activity , of education , engineering and art , for example . The claim that the military machine , and the military training to which so much attention is given , are for purposes of defense , and not for aggressive territorial expansion , or to give material backing to a spread of the principles of the Revolution , will be discussed in the concluding chapter . CHAPTER IX THE PUBLIC SERVICES ( Continued ) The preceding chapter emphasized the public services whose functions are primarily protective ; this continuation aims to cover those which have social-economic functions . This differentiation ? not applicable to the integrated Soviet system ? has not been closely observed , however ; the subject of the administration of justice ? primarily a protective service ? has been brought into this second chapter , which will examine the services which belong more definitely in the category of services with social functions ; and of these latter the " socialized wage " of the Soviet system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted that practically all Soviet political institutions or organizations have economic and social functions , covering the fields of economic development , communications , education and cultural life , and also health and general welfare . Organizations essentially economic in character , such as labor unions or co-operative units , perform in an organized way most important cultural and educational work , and are key institutions in public health and welfare services . Cultural institutions are all in a sense public institutions ? theatres , movies and radio , as well as schools and clubs . When the drive for the reconstruction of economic life was at its height , in the period of the first Five-Year Plan , all these institutions had to " give attention to production " and contribute to the " enthusiasm of building . " The subordination of cultural activity to the economic plans has become less rigid with the marked easing up of the driving pressure . But state control and Party leadership give to the activities of all these cultural institutions the character of public services . In this way they can be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform a political as well as a general cultural function . The importance of cultural progress for the furtherance of the economic programs of production is a matter of constant emphasis . The increase in the mass political activity of the last year , which is claimed by the Soviet leaders , is to be utilized in all cultural institutions . In the Soviets the " sections " cover the various aspects of community economy , public education , public health and recreation . In the rural districts the Soviet 's chief concern and activity are centered on the new collective farms , and the kolkhoz provides for the social and cultural as well as the economic life of the group , this fact being one of the forces behind the movement for collectivization which promised an increase in cultural and social services in the backward rural communities . The labor unions have always had important educational and general cultural functions , and now for the last few years administer the social insurance funds . They also participate in the determination of the wage scales ? which is essentially a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of this inclusive activity that the labor unions are designated as " schools of communism . " The transfer of the administration of the social insurance funds is considered one of the steps in line with the gradual realization of the principle of social administration . The dominance of authority in all fields ? with corresponding extension of the concept and practices of state functions , and therefore of public services ? rests on several principles . The new forms of social-economic relationship must be enforced . Loyalty to these forms will be developed by the fact that only from them can the public services be received . One may again note the Soviet technique of " combining compulsive and educative measures . " Soviet leaders in discussing this formula of theirs point out that the educative element is gradually to prevail over the compulsive , and that in practice this is already occurring . Adaptation to these new forms is to be promoted also by education . The necessary element of compulsion is supplied by the exercise of monopoly in the social services , while this compulsion is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of workers may amount to as much as a third of what the wage-earner draws // in cash . Thus there is for the individual the element of selfinterest in his contribution , through participation , to the more effective organization of these services . z . Administration of Justice . From the beginning the administration of justice was organized as part of the proletarian struggle for the principles of the Revolution . Revolutionary expediency often determined court decisions , and it was the deliberate policy not to establish or adhere to formal precedents , even of the revolutionary tribunals . The extraordinary tribunals of the Cheka represented the extreme of summary methods , operating behind closed doors with no public records of the proceedings . The People 's Courts of the first years also functioned as instruments of the Revolution . Property rights were being destroyed , for " expropriation " was the basis of War Communism . The decrees and laws of this period , often propagandist in character to outline the kind of social order the Revolution aimed to introduce , were also minutely regulatory and restrictive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the regulations and live ; productive work also proved impossible . But despite the difficulty of organizing normal administration of justice on the principle of legality in the first years , a feature emphasized in the structure and functioning of the Soviet courts of law could be realized , namely , the provision for a large measure of mass participation in the everyday work of the law courts . In the first People 's Courts this practice was often carried to the point where the trial became a political meeting , the accused being the subject of propaganda and agitation . A very informal procedure in the lower courts was adopted in order to allow for this " mass participation . " The administration of justice could be systematized when the Revolution , politically victorious , entered its second period of the New Economic Policy . The new policies with respect to individual property and private trade required a codification of the laws , both the substantive law and the laws of procedure . Civil and criminal codes , codes of civil and criminal procedure , a labor code , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up and the law courts were reorganized to adjudicate under the new legal norms . The magistracy of the Soviet law courts was appointive , from lists prepared by the local Soviet in the lower instances , and by the Commissariat of Justice or the Central Executive Committee for the higher instances . In the lower People 's Courts the permanent , professional magistrate has had associated with him , with equal rights , two " public assessors " or " people 's associate judges . " These have been selected from lists prepared by the local Soviet and serve for periods of a week or ten days . These " associates " represent the participation of the public in the administration of justice , corresponding in some respects to the jury of western systems . Similarly the state prosecuting authorities may be and often are assisted by " social prosecutors , " representing for example a labor union or the public in general , who come forward on their own initiative . This institution of " social prosecutors " makes for the less formal procedure which characterizes the lower Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in public affairs . The judge and his accessors not only are allowed but are positively enjoined to take an active part in the bringing forward of evidence , by questioning the accused or the plaintiff and any witnesses . They are expected to intervene actively in the interest of the proletarian state and also of the side which appears to be the weaker . It was the policy at first to take into account the class status of a defendant so that the workmen and peasants would be given special consideration because of the pre-revolutionary conditions of " exploitation " to which they had been subjected . Later this policy was abandoned as the new order established itself . But as the class struggle is considered as still going on , the justice applied by the Soviet courts is based on the class principle . With the formal abolition of the OGPU more cases involving political considerations come before the regular courts , and in respect of these the question of the class to which the accused belonged is of moment . The gradual abolition of the class distinctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class character of Soviet justice . The law of August , 1932 , declaring all state THE PUBLIC SERVICES and socialized property , including that of co-operative societies and collective farms , " sacred and inviolable " and imposing severe penalties , including capital punishment , for theft of such property , brought a new type of case before the Soviet courts . The verdicts in such cases were often ruthlessly severe , and represented the two principles , of the predominance of the interests of the proletarian state and the suppression of all " hostile economic forces " or " class enemies . " The administration of justice in cases where the authorities see the element of political opposition , whether by frankly counter-revolutionary political action or by sabotage of the plans or deliberate violation of " production discipline , " is always political rather than judicial according to western standards of legal procedure . This fact follows from the revolutionary character which still pertains to the Soviet system , as the instrument of a progressing revolution . " Revolutionary legality " is , however , gradually evolving , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration of justice has been developed to enforce the concept of legality and systematize the practices of the law courts . For the norms of the present laws are expected to become the habits of the people , under the Marxian theory of the gradual development of a co-operative commonwealth , and an impartial and intelligent enforcement of them is necessary if this development is to come . Arbitration plays a very important part in the Soviet system , supplementing the regular courts of law . Wage disputes under the collective agreements are handled by boards of arbitration on which the labor unions are represented . Disputes over living quarters , which are very frequent because of the extreme congestion in all cities , are often settled by arbitration , although such cases represent a considerable percentage of the cases on the dockets of the People 's Courts . State Arbitration Boards , set up several years ago , take jurisdiction of cases of dispute between state economic enterprises , over contracts for goods or services . The State Arbitration Boards have come to be one of the most important organs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts the provisions of " Soviet economic law " as it is termed , are being clarified . The procedure                     