@@16212

NARRATOR SPEAKS &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY NARRATORNow that we have some insight into the concept of experiential space , we may consider interaction among the experiential space continua of a highly unique group of individuals . In gen- eral , the study of the varying dimensions of human experience in the context of man in his society is known as human social cybernetics. In our experiment , eight category-A subjects underwent pattern brain surgery whose program was devel- oped within the Academy 's Organic Computer Dialectics Sys- tem . The object of surgery was to extend by a process called biochemical induction the natural electrochemical network of the human brain . This extension would provide each subject with telepathic capabilities . A telepathist is one who can com- municate with other minds by means which do not involve perception by the senses . Thus telepathy is a form of extra- sensory perception , or ESP . Our subjects were to be kept in isolation at the Institute for three months , where they were to prepare for their first meeting as a group . This meeting was to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 1 ( MALE ) Telepathic dependency is an extreme form of psychic addic- tion . It is essentially an electrochemical addiction , the depend- ent surrendering the autonomy of his own nervous system to that of the object of his dependency , and altering his patterns of electrochemical discharge to mimic those of his object . When the object of dependency is telepathically unavailable for long periods of time , the new nervous patterns find themselves suddenly without a constant source of electromorphological reinforcement , and severe psychic disorientation begins to manifest itself in the dependent . At its most intense level , a  --  3  --  frustrated dependency can result in the irreversible destruction of critical brain tissue . Inasmuch as the establishment of a par- tial telepathic dependency of the subject upon his researcher is an unavoidable part of the parapsychological experimental Gestalt , the means to maintain this dependency at a control- lable level must be considered an organic element forming that experimental Gestalt . During the Institute phase of the induced telepathy series , a subject possessed of a statistically excessive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hand drill . The wound , a hole about one half an inch in diameter , completely penetrated the subject 's skull and seemed to afford him the relief of imagined cranial pressures , temporary euphoria , and electrochemical dissocia- tion which he sought . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 2 ( MALE ) It will perhaps clarify these matters if we consider the specific configuration of the category-A subject . Category-A is a classi- fication which finds its meaning within the scientific meta- physics of the aphrodisiaste and theorist Luther Stringfellow . It is not what is usually considered an objective classification based , for example , upon physical or psychological characteris- tics . Category-A is rather a certain field reaction of the researcher to an intensive period of personal interaction with each of his potential subjects . There is also , therefore , the ele- ment of an aesthetics of human form in the category-A system of subject classification . Dr Stringfellow made his name as an exponent of the existential-organic approach to the sciences long before his work in the socio-chemistry of the erotic achieved its present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put into practice . Dr Stringfellow has repeatedly stressed the vital necessity for the use of this approach , particularly in the new social sciences , where variables are infinite and complexity is of the highest possible order . The nature of erotic research requires that the sexual-emotional involvement of the researcher with each subject be taken to its farthest possible  --  4  --  extreme . It is only in this way that the researcher , in whose consciousness the total mosaic of his particular research proj- ect exists , can divine in each of his subjects a color , a texture , and a shape , and so assign to that subject his proper place in the research mosaic . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY NARRATOR ( DR BURTON BROWN RICE ) It was hoped that many important questions would be clari- fied , if not answered , during the course of our experiment with induced telepathy . Two of the eight subjects consented to hav- ing portions of their larynx removed , making it physically impossible for them to speak . In addition , large portions of the speech-centers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological faculty of speech itself would be impaired . Would the maturing and strengthening of the tele- pathic capacity in these speechless subjects surpass that of the subjects who still retained the ability to speak ? It was antici- pated that the telepathic experience would be much more than simply reading another 's mind . One telepathist would per- haps be able to apprehend not only verbal patterns as they arose within the mind of another , but would also encounter simultaneously the germinative layers of memory , learning , emotional response , and psychophysiological impulse which actually generate thought and language . How dependent upon language is thought ? Is abstract , logical thought even possible without language ? &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 3 ( MALE ) The essence of the telepathic bond is the dominance of one of the particles forming the telepathic conglomerate . Whether the conglomerate consists of two telepathists or of a large , socially cohesive group , the principle of psychic dominance remains constant . The dominant personality is responsible for the sup- pression of the heterogeneous elements which the conglomer- ate comprises . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form the conglomerate by the laws of telepathic bonding implicit in the Stringfellow Hypothesis . The  --  5  --  principle of dominance thus provides the agglutinizing impe- tus which induces the initial conglomerative motion . As Stringfellow notes in defining the nature of dominance , the will of the newly formed conglomerate must necessarily be a function of the will of the dominant personality . Only after an indefinite period of symbiotic telepathic cohesion can the dominant personality abdicate its agglutinative role and encourage the emergence of a truly synthetic conglomerate personality . Stringfellow 's behavior as parapsychologist sug- gests that perhaps his foremost post-operative research objec- tive was to intuit which among his category-A subjects was the one most capable of assuming the role of psychic dominant . This subject was then provided indirectly with certain histori- cal and interpretive data concerning his fellow subjects . This data would naturally assure the immediate social dominance of the chosen subject within the context of the experimental , socially isolate Gestalt . The function of the dominant would then be to select from among his fellow subjects the one psy- chically most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , followed by a careful series of potent sym- bolic gestures , draw this subject into the field of his psycho- telepathic dominance . Once a true conglomerate , exhibiting complete telepathic bonding , has been established between this primary couple , the progression toward a larger and more complex conglomerate may begin . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 4 ( MALE ) In psychic research , the emotional distance between the researcher and his subject is inevitably diminished until it is no more than the distance between any two persons . The acquies- cence of the subject to the demands of the researcher becomes nothing more nor less than an individual act of faith , of love . If there can be no love between researcher and subject , there can be no experimentation . In conventional theories of scientific methodology , an experiment proves its validity when it can be universally repeated in every aspect . In psychic research , such an approach is completely untenable . The existential circumstances  --  6  --  of any experiment in parapsychology are inextricably mixed with the individuals and the phenomenological sets involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from those individuals or phenomenological sets . The conditions of experiments in parapsychology are unique , non-uniform , and non-repeatable . A completely non-scientific burden is therefore placed upon the researcher , for if the per- sonal relationship between researcher and subject deteriorates , the experiment can not continue along its natural course . The sensitivity of the experimental parapsychological plexus demands new methods to help maintain the emotional momentum of certain experiments . It will be noticed that the motto of the Canadian Academy for Erotic Enquiry has imme- diate relevance for the Stringfellow induced telepathy series : Amor Vincit Omnia , or , Love Conquers All . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY NARRATOR ( DR BURTON BROWN RICE ) We understand that the unique way in which an individual per- ceives and reacts to his environment is a function of his own experiential space continuum . When object-events enter the experiential space continuum of that individual , they become an integral , organic part of that space . They are actually changed , qualitatively modified in accordance with the creative nature of that space . But we are now dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two or more telepathists can merge , can blend together to an extent far beyond the range of normal human experience . What would be the organic nature of communal experiential space , shared among eight psychosomatic entities ? Would one person , one mode of perception and reaction , one experiential space con- tinuum dominate this oversoul ? Or would each mind partici- pate in the synthesis of a uniform , newly created , emergent space unlike any of its constituents ? How would the physical and social functioning of members of this group be altered , or could they function in recognizable modes at all ?  --  7  --  &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 4 ( MALE ) There is some evidence to suggest that potential telepathic intensity varies indirectly as the square of the distance between two telepathists . An increase in physical distance may therefore be used by one telepathist as an effective defense against tele- pathic intrusion on the part of another telepathist . A far more sophisticated intrusion avoidance device , known as schizopho- netic partition , was evolved by one of the female subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subvert attempts by fellow subjects to establish a potentially intrusive telepathic rapport , she completely separated her telepathic non-verbal self from her oral-verbal self . The telepathic self functioned as a false self , diverting fellow telepathists from the real or true self , which manifested itself only in occasional , deliberately confused verbal utterances . She thus protected her true self from telepathic intrusion by abandoning her tele- pathic faculty to a false self . Not surprisingly , repeated tele- pathic probes undertaken by other subjects could not discover the true nature of her experiential space continuum . The dan- ger inherent in the use of shizophonetic partition as a tele- pathic intrusion avoidance device is that the false telepathic self tends to become increasingly parasitic on the true oral  --  ver- bal self . The true self begins to suffocate inasmuch as it is starved of contact with the outside , and the false self gradually becomes the only self to interact with other selves . In the instance of our female schizophonetic subject , the true self began to express its moribund existence through the telepathic emission of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necrophilia , which sporadically interrupted the function- ing of the telepathic false self . The intensity and frequency of this emission of morbid telepathic images rapidly increased until it began to create the same depressed mode in those close to her . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY NARRATOR ( DR BURTON BROWN RICE ) Another important function of our experiment was to be the practical testing of the Stringfellow Hypothesis . The Stringfellow  --  8  --  Hypothesis takes the form of the following equation : the rate of telepathic flow between two minds is directly propor- tional to the intensity of the relationship between the two minds . The units used to measure flow and intensity are taken from psychochemistry . In less mathematical terms , we may say that this hypothesis indicates that even between mature telepathists there can be no telepathic communication until some sort of existential emotional relationship has been established in conventional , sensory ways . Thus , among complete strangers there would exist only a kind of noise , a short- wave static . The Stringfellow Hypothesis also suggests that here the potency of human eroticism would play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a substantial basis for the establishing of a geometrically increasing rate of telepathic flow . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 5 ( FEMALE ) The politics of experience on the level of individuals is a cor- relative of the politics of social groups . The politics of tele- pathic experience may be studied as a projection of the power struggles among individuals into the extremities of psychic potency and complexity , a projection , that is , into the future of human social evolution . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 4 ( MALE ) The role of the induced telepathy series in the total Canadian social experiment is theoretically secure . That role emerges out of Dr Stringfellow 's concept of the telepathic commune , a group characterized by the blending of experiential space con- tinua and the constant , instantaneous exchange of data among the nervous systems forming the commune . Stringfellow indi- cates that at the most basic structural level , the telepathic unit , which emphasizes acts of faith and love , seems the most plausi- ble replacement for the obsolescent family unit . The commu- nal telepathic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably carry with it its intrinsic qualities of willing reciprocal dependency and mutual  --  9  --  experiential creativity . The social responsibility of telepathic prototypes is therefore of the utmost gravity , for it is only by their individual efforts that the creation of the first and most critical telepathic communes can be realized . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 3 ( MALE ) For those of exponentially maturing telepathic capacities , the question of phenomenological refinement must inevitably become one with the problem of the internalization of the sen- sory . The telepathist faces the obsolescence of the senses and the possible atrophy of the human sensorium in all but its most mundane operations . During a certain phase in the telepathist 's evolution the sensory will attempt to internalize to avoid its extinction on the level of intellectuality and emotion . This avoidance could take two forms . One would be the forced psychic ingestion of the entire universe as conveyed in terms of sensory information . This would partially manifest itself in the instantaneous translation into the vocabulary of the sensory of all purely psychic , abstract , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the reification of the psy- chic , the abstract , or the extrasensory , and its subsequent externalization , or projection . The process begun by this objec- tification and displacement of the non-sensory would find a point of equilibrium and complete itself only with the indis- criminate return , or internalization , of both the projected non- sensory information and its sensory screen , the passive external world as perceived by the senses . In both instances , the distinction between the sensory and the non-sensory , the concrete and the abstract , the psychic and the physical , would be lost utterly . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 2 ( MALE ) These opposite poles of human sexuality are traditionally held to be heterosexuality and homosexuality . Yet this same dipolar structure of sexuality is ignored when the question of normal- ity and deviation arises . The norm is taken to be heterosexual- ity , and both bisexuality and homosexuality are considered  --  10  --  deviations from that norm . The primary justification for the normality of heterosexuality is reproduction . Only a hetero- sexual relationship can as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , once it is demonstrated that the sexuality involved in reproduction represents only a very small , almost accidental segment of the total human sexual spectrum . Academy research has established that both heterosexuality and homosexuality are equally what might be termed perver- sions relative to the potential human sexual field . In this con- text , the true norm is an expanded form of bisexuality , which we term omnisexuality. As an aphrodisiaste , Dr Stringfellow proposes the use of synthetic aphrodisiac drugs to assist those who wish to attain a fully three-dimensional sexuality . The proper use of psychic aphrodisiacs , such as those being devel- oped by Dr Stringfellow at the Canadian Academy for Erotic Enquiry , is not to increase sexual potency or fertility , but to demolish the walls of psychological restraint and social inhibi- tion which restrict persons to a monosexuality or to a stunted bisexual form of omnisexuality . The telepathist , then , by virtue of the omnisexual nature of his experiential space continuum , may readily be seen to be the possible prototype of three- dimensional man . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , threw the future of the project into doubt . When preliminary confrontations between any two subjects were arranged , the subjects not only reported no instances of telepathic communication , but quite emphati- cally avoided even the most casual sensory contact with each other . At the same time , electro-encephalographic probes indi- cated that such telepathic communication as was denied by the subjects was in fact taking place , and at a remarkably high rate of flow . How could such flow exist among strangers ? In an emergency program modification , five of our eight subjects were confined in an enforced community study . These five sub- jects , although psychochemically the least volatile of the group , almost immediately retreated into a state of self-encapsulation ,  --  11  --  refusing to communicate in any way with either researchers or each other . Before further investigations could be made , two of the five subjects committed suicide in their residences at the Institute . Another pierced his skull with an electric drill , an act of considerable symbolic significance . Careful separation of the remaining subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FEMALE ) The study of human erotic morphology deals more directly with this question . Morphology is the study of form and struc- ture . Erotic morphology is the study of those forms which evoke an erotic or sexual response when they are perceived or otherwise communicated . Not only the shape of objects or body parts , but also the morphology of motion , of movement in certain patterns , can convey erotic signals of a very complex nature . Finally , the combination of shape plus motion can attain an erotic significance which is contained in neither shape nor motion when taken separately . But the telepathist does not have to perceive a breast or thigh or sexual motion directly . He can apprehend the thought of a breast , thigh , or erotic motion in the mind of another telepathist , and this thought is received with greater impact than the perception of the actual breast , thigh , or erotic motion would itself have been . Thus , although both telepathists in our hypothetical con- frontation are male , they have made an erotic morphological communication which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can begin to see why the telepathic experi- ence is essentially omnisexual in nature , why the male  --  female  --  bisexual categories can no longer apply . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY SUBJECT NO. 1 ( MALE ) In the sanatorium phase of the induced telepathy series , meas- ures were introduced to prevent further instances of interrup- tion caused by frustrated telepathic dependency . A single , compact electromagnetic receiver  --  transmitter was provided for the subjects undergoing primary group isolation . The receiver  --  transmitter was to feed to the subjects reproductions  --  12  --  of a variety of patterns of electrochemical discharge unique to Dr Stringfellow , the group 's common researcher . The purpose of these transmissions from the Institute was to ease the diffi- cult transition from the inevitable telepathic dependency estab- lished individually between Stringfellow and each subject to a group telepathic cohesion and a group telepathic autonomy . The necessity of sharing the transmitted electrochemical pat- terns either through the sharing of the receiver  --  transmitter itself or the telepathic sharing of the experience of receiving the patterns would provide a basis for the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stringfellow as a psychic cluster nucleus . Dr Stringfellow indicated that he him- self entered a severely depressive psychological mode upon separation from the induced telepathy group , an event suggest- ing that to some extent telepathic dependency functions recip- rocally even between telepathists and non-paranormals . &nbsp; MONOLOGUE BY NARRATOR ( DR BURTON BROWN RICE ) Five intensive months of work with the remaining subjects revealed ways to gradually increase the tolerance among them for group exposure . It was found that the telepathic experience was likely to be an overwhelming and extremely exhausting one , verging on pain and hallucination . The most crucial prob- lem for the telepathist apparently was to develop within himself the means to control and modulate the rate and quality of tele- pathic flow between himself and another . The inexperienced telepathist simply can not cope with the complexity and effort involved in the social telepathic situation . The first meeting of all the subjects as a group took place at the Academy sanato- rium somewhat later than originally planned . The sixth subject arrived two weeks after the others when it was certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It will be some time before the data on this period accumulated through electro-encephalographic information retrieval can be fully evaluated . &nbsp;                     