@@274621

The man who was n't there , Charles de Gaulle , also dominated the deliberations of Europe 's other trade bloc last week . Meeting in Copenhagen , the seven members of the European Free Trade Association-Britain , Sweden , Norway , Denmark , Switzerland , Austria and Portugal-argued over how hotly to pursue their long-range goat of closer trade ties with the Common Market . The big question : Would a major effort only backfire by stirring the French to cause more trouble inside the European Economic Community ? <P> Nobody lobbied harder for a full-dress conference of the two trade groups than the Danes . Foreign Minister Per Haekkerup hopped from table to table at luxurious dinners , turned up at hotel suites all around town for whispered consultations with other delegates , even moved from his seat as conference chairman to intervene vigorously in the debate . The Common Market 's crisis , argued Haekkerup , could lead to a major reshuffle that would produce closer economic and political ties throughout Europe-and EFTA should nudge things along . Reason for the Danish push : though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Common Market , the problem is particularly nettlesome for Denmark , which depends on West Germany as a major market for its farm produce . Since the creation of the Common Market , that outlet has shriveled . <P> Most of EFTA 's other members remained cool to the idea of strong action . Said Swiss Economics Minister Hans Schaffner : " It would be like asking a couple in a divorce action to adopt a child . " At week 's end the delegates settled for a mild expression of readiness to talk whenever the EEC is ready , authorized Haekkerup to press his views with the ambassadors of Common Market countries in Denmark ( which he immediately did ) . That was a timorous step . Still , it showed that EFTA 's members , no less than the EEC 's " other five , " agree that Europe should keep striving to tear down tariff barriers and escape from the trade-poisoning atmosphere of economic nationalism .                     