@@491975

e arc a voluble race and , where telephone chatter is concerned , we arc getting more so by the minute . The United States is plugged into 7+,200,000 phones , as of the last count , a gain of 75 per cent in ten years . We carry on more than 88,000,000,000 local and 4,000 , - 000,000 long-distance conversations a year . This puts us far ahead of the rest of the world . But other countries also are installing instruments at a rapid rate . And telephone traffic has become so congested that almost the only direction it can expand  --  especially the overseas circuits  --  is up . This means satellites . Nine years ago a science-fiction author , writing under the pseudonym of J. J. Coupling , foresaw this trend and asserted that " any communications engineer would give his eyeteeth to have the cheap and easy earth-moon path to span rather than the tough coast-tocoast path . " If there were a base on the moon , he added , " transatlantic television would be a snap rather than an almost insuperably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in Astounding Science-Fiction , is more than an armchair spinner of impossible fantasies , although he has been turning out science fiction ever since his high-school days . In this 1952 story he was writing from an inside track , a track of his own making . For Coupling 's nonfictionidentity is Dr. John Robinson Pierce , a research director at the Bell Telephone Laboratories at Murray Hill , New Jersey , and a principal originator of the " talking satellites . " Without sacrificing a single eyetooth Doctor Pierce and his fellow engineers have fashioned a sky link for telephone , telegraph and television that should be even more practical than the moon path , though that , too , has been used with perfect clarity to transmit the human voice . Operating on microwave frequencies that penetrate the electrified ionosphere , the satellite circuit will not be bothered by the sun-spot interference that disrupted worldwide radio communications last November . address he said that " our Echo communications satellite  --  a comparatively inexpensive experiment  --  has made a deep and more abiding impression in other nations than many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientifically significant experiments we have thus far carried out . " Pressure to capitalize on this impression is being exerted by the Senate Space Committee , which last month urged a more unified government policy on communications satellites . The committee , headed by Vice President-elect Lyndon B. Johnson , said that " by seizing the leadership in developing communications satellites , we in the United States have a unique opportunity to demonstrate to the world our desire to develop peaceful applications of space that will be of benefit to all mankind . " Certainly the ordinary citizen will be throwing his voice into space long before he entrusts his body to the hazards of travel outside the earth 's cozy atmosphere . It should be of interest , therefore , to examine our progress toward the far-out phone call . Where does the program stand today ? How does a satellite phone circuit work ? What will it cost , and who will operate it ? What about international television via satellite ? How soon can we expect to tune in Thai or Tahitian dances , live , on our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Africa or news events in other corners of the globe ? " A great deal of research and development remains to be done before we have reliable operating capabilities , " Doctor Glennan cautions . " I see no need , however , to wait for additional scientific breakthroughs . What we need now is plain hard work if we are to avoid , sometime in the future , the annoyance of an operator saying , ' I 'm sorry you were cut off , sir , but your satellite just went out of range . ' " Nothing has done more to bring the concept of satellite communications within practical range than the sparkling exhibition of Echo I , launched last August by the National Space Agency , and the brief but busy performance of Courier , an Army Signal Corps satellite placed in orbit on October fourth . Because of a mechanical failure Courier stopped " talking " on October twenty-second . Echo was a bright object in the sky over much of the United States as recently as last month . It then moved out of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become visible again sometime this week . Echo , a project of NASA , with participation of the Bell Telephone Laboratories and the Jet Propulsion Laboratories in California , is a passive satellite . Radio waves that strike it , carrying voice , code , teletype or radio-photo messages , are reflected back to ground receiving stations an ocean or a continent removed from the sending station . Echo travels about 1000 miles above the earth , at a speed of 16,000 miles per hour . So long as both sender and receiver can " see " the satellite at the same time , they can use it for straight , line-of-sight microwave transmission . These waves , with Echo 's help , can vault over distances which , because they can not follow the earth 's curvature , are too great for them to span on the surface . It is like using a mirror to see around a blind street corner , or a periscope to peer over the heads of a parade crowd . Courier , on the other hand , is an active satellite  --  or was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crammed with transmitters , receivers and tape recorders , and sheathed in 20,000 thumbnail-size solar cells . The latter draw in the sun power needed to operate the " bird " as a store-and-forward relay station .. Courier was constructed by the Philco Corporation 's Western Development Laboratories at Palo Alto , California , under the technical direction of the Army 's Signal Research and Development Laboratory at Ft Monmouth , New Jersey . As a matter of record , the Signal Corps laboratory inaugurated the era of satellite communications on December 18 , 1958 , with Project SCORE , a pair of radio and tape-recorder relay units attached to an Air Force Atlas missile . SCORE orbited for only a few weeks before it burned out , but in that time it transmitted a Christmas message from President Eisenhower to five stations in the United States and otherwise demonstrated the practicability of the technique . During Courier 's active life last October , messages sent to it were amplified , recorded on tape at greatly accelerated speeds and then relayed to the ground stations on command . Circling the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles , it behaved beautifully for eighteen days . handling a total of 118,000.000 words and several facsimile photographs between Deal , New Jersey , and Ponce , Puerto Rico . Then something went wrong , apparently in the command decoder , and it refused to respond to the code-message " key , " although the tracking oscillator continued to whistle . Passive and active satellites both have certain advantages , and NASA plans to launch a second and larger Echo near the end of 1961 . The space agency is also beginning an active-satellite program , and it is this type which the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , with its research affiliate , the Bell Telephone Laboratories , is busy developing as the practical solution to the anticipated telephone traffic jam . The A. T. and T. has applied to the Federal Communications Commission for permission to operate an experimental satellite circuit between Holmdel , New Jersey , and points in Western Europe and the United Kingdom . The first active satellite in this program is expected to be completed in about a year . Anticipating successful trials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a commercial system . Operational circuits would employ a procession of satellites , so that as one moved out of range the call could be automatically switched to the next one . Because of its 100-foot diameter and aluminum-coated plastic skin , Echo has been by far the most visible of all the satellites . It is the only one now orbiting which can be seen with the naked eye . Millions of persons all around the world , gazing into the sky during the first or last hours of darkness , have watched Echo 's scintillating passage , like a steadily moving star , and have seen it wink out as it entered the earth 's shadow . The show has had universal appeal . Newspapers carried daily announcements of Echo 's schedule : " At 7:06 rm. north of city , eighty-six degrees above horizon , moving southeast , and at 9:16 P.M. south of city , ten degrees above horizon , moving southeast . " In New York City you could dial MEridian 7-1212 for the time of day and also get Echo 's schedule . At Jones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his watch , stopped the music and invited the concert audience to gaze at the satellite 's transit . In Danville , Virginia , Sam Smoot , trying to get a better look at Echo , fell from the roof of his house , broke a rib and thereby became the first known casualty of an orbiting satellite . In Greece , during the open-air performance of a classic play embracing the theme that the world never changes , actors and audience stopped and looked up to see the newest evidence of change . This particular item in the world 's changing scene owes its origin to that blend of imagination and engineering plausibility found in the best science-fiction writers . One of the most widely read of this genus , Dr. Arthur C. Clarke , proposed as long ago as 1945 a twentyfour-hour-orbit satellite for communications . Today , under the project name ADVENT , the United States Department of Defense is allocating several hundred million dollars to develop just such a satellite . Orbiting at a height of 22,300 miles , it would synchronize with the earth 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a stationary relay . Three of them would provide world-wide communications circuits . It remained for Doctor Pierce , the Bell Telephone scientist , to bring the communications satellite idea down from fantasy to practical engineering equations . This he began to do in 1954 . Doctor Pierce is slat-thin ( 126 pounds ) , erect , full of nervous energy and , in thought and movement , as agile as a wire spring . His deep-set blue eyes , behind metal-rimmed spectacles , flash with enthusiasm as he talks of satellite details . He 'll bound from his chair to get a letter or journal from the next room to illustrate a point . As a high-school senior , John Pierce won second prize in a contest conducted by Science Wonder Stories with a thriller about men from Mars invading New York and making off with the Woolworth building . Science-fiction writing helped pay his expenses at the California Institute of Technology , where he obtained his bachelor 's and doctor 's degrees in 1933 and 1936 , respectively . He has been at Bell Laboratories ever since , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " There had been sonic talk of putting up satellites , even in 1954 , " Doctor Pierce recalled . " At the Redstone Arsenal , near Birmingham , some basic planning was done , for example , on an object called Orbiter . So I began to wonder if a satellite might not be useful in communications . Our systems engineers assured me that because of the high cost of ocean cables , satellites might indeed be useful . I therefore made calculations on several types of satellites , a spherical reflector like Echo , and even one with large-plane mirrors , which would reflect back a larger signal than a curved surface . I also considered the use of active satellites , containing radio-relay units and equipped with directional antennas . " But Bell was n't in the business of launching satellites . " So we decided the best thing to do , " said Doctor Pierce , " was to tuck this matter into the back of our minds and to pursue advances in the microwave art , which would make satellite communications more attractive once launching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1957 that launching could be attained , and in the spring of 1958 Doctor Pierce revived discussion of communications satellites in a classified meeting at Woods Hole , Massachusetts , sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences . One of those who expressed definite interest was Dr. William H. Pickering , of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory , operated at Goldstone . California , by Doctor Pierce 's alma mater , Cal Tee . Goldstone was to he the party on the other end of the line from Holmdel , New Jersey , when Echo became the space switchboard . " Meanwhile we 'd heard about the large plastic balloons the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics was using to measure air drag at high altitudes , " Doctor Pierce said . " We went to Langley Field tosee William O'Sullivan , designer of the balloon . And we carried out various tests on the plastic , a DuPont Mylar film thinner than cellophane cigarette wrapper but much tougher . " The Echo project got under way formally in the spring of 1959 . It was sponsored jointly by the National Aeronautics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Telephone Laboratories and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory . While O'Sullivan and his group worked on the balloon itself at Langley Field , and NASA 's Goddard Space Flight Center , now at Greenbelt , Maryland , organized the tracking and orbit calculation procedures , Doctor Pierce and his associates perfected the sensitive listening equipment required to pick up signals reflected from an orbiting sphere 1000 miles up . Echo 's present orbit is an elliptical one ranging from 694 to 1270 miles in altitude . Here the engineers become involved in the virtues vs. the weaknesses of satellite communications and the task of screening out ground noises in order to hear the messages coming back from the sky . Ground interference is from many sources . A major one is the expanding network of microwave channels used by the television industry , the telephone company ( 30 per cent of the long-distance calls now travel via microwave ) . by state police and highway patrols and by many private concerns such as pipeline companies and railroads . The concrete or steel microwave-relay towers , topped by small dish- or wedge-shaped antennas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible to anyone driving along a turnpike or across the country . As if these were not enough noise sources to worry about , the satellite scientists must concern themselves with interference from apparently silent objects  --  trees and hills , fence posts , houses and barns . These are sources of thermal noise or " Johnson noise , " named for a Bell scientist , J. B. Johnson , now retired . " Johnson noise is the low-frequency part of the electromagnetic radiation sent out by all hot bodies , " Doctor Pierce explained , " and in this context ' hot ' means anything above absolute zero . If you aim the antenna of a microwave receiver tuned to twenty megacycles at a clump of trees on a mild summer day , at a temperature , say , of 68 degrees Fahrenheit , you 'd pick up Johnson noise measuring eight times l0-'a watts . ( One 80-trillionths of a watt . ) Aiming the antenna at the sun , on this wave length , would yield twenty times as much Johnson noise , but pointing it straight up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as the trees . " Static of such low intensity does n't bother ordinary radio transmission , but with very faint messages , as in satellite communications , it is something to contend with . Now a big advantage of satellites for radio-relay stations is that they ride high above this clatter of ground static , and the transmitting and receiving antennas are aimed for the most part into a cold sky , relatively free of Johnson noise . As Doctor Pierce has remarked , the path is clear and the engineer has " nothing to fight but sheer distance . " That some sort of radio message can span tremendous distances has been proved in the case of Pioneer V , which was last heard from at 22,500,000 miles , streaking toward the sun . But intelligible messages of the kind employed in telephone conversations are more difficult to transmit and receive . The problem with Echo is one of tremendous dilution of the original signal , and , to a lesser degree , this will apply to all satellite circuits . Doctor Pierce stated the situation this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 feet in diameter , appears at 1000 miles distance only as large as a half dollar would look from a mile away . ( That we can see it at all is due to the way it reflects sunlight . ) The transmitter beam is only one degree of arc in width , and at a distance of 1000 miles it has spread out so much that only a millionth of it hits the satellite . The latter reflects the received impulses in all directions , and most of the energy is wasted out in space . We receive , back here at the ground station , only a hundredth of a billionth of the reflected message . Thus , our original transmission has been diluted a hundred million billion times . " As Pres. Frederick R. Kappel of A.T.andT. has observed , " To take that tenth of a millionth of a millionth of a watt reflected from a big balloon a thousand miles up in the sky and play tricks with it so that you will have the illusion of talking with someone at the other end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Happily , Bell scientists had already developed the equipment needed to pull off the trick . A key item is a supersensitive listening antenna built like a gigantic ear trumpet . Designed by Arthur B. Crawford , an engineer at the company 's Holmdel lab , it is a seated-up version of the small horns on the Bell system 's microwave towers , used to carry tong-distance phone calls and network television . The big horn is fifty-feet long , with a side opening twenty-feet square . It is mounted on a rotating track so that the opening can be aimed at any part of the sky , bringing in the faint messages from the satellite and blocking out , with the aluminum side walls , most of the Johnson noise from the surrounding landscape . The small end of the tapering horn enters a control cab , where it is linked to another important part of the listening apparatus . This is the MASER , alphabetese for " microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation . " It was invented by Nicholaas Bloembergen of Harvard , and first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harold Seidel , and its heart is a synthetic ruby crystal six inches long , which generates a hundred times less noise than comparable vacuum-tube amplifiers . To perform most efficiently the ruby must be kept at a temperature of 456 degrees below zero Fahrenheit , and this is achieved by jacketing it in liquid nitrogen and liquid helium . The MASER amplifies the weak incoming satellite messages 4000 times . Further amplification and noise reduction are gained by a special frequency-modulation circuit with feedback , invented in 1933 by Joseph G. Chaffee , of the Bell labs . All of the Bell apparatus for communicating with the satellite , including a sixty-foot radar-type transmitting antenna , is assembled on Crawford Hill ( no relation to engineer Arthur Crawford/ near Holmdel , New Jersey . It was here , on August 12 , 1960 , that a team of Bell engineers , headed by William Jakes , heard the first telephone message reflected off Echo from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Goldstone , California . The message , previously dictated by President Eisenhower , was transmitted from a tape recorder at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though the President had been speaking over a Washington-to-New York televi sion circuit . The following day Bill lakes at Holmdel and Phil Tardoni at Gold stone held the first two-way transcontinental phone conversation via satellite . The Crawford Hill crew , and everyone else connected with Project Echo , had worked themselves to a nervous frazzle preparing for the launching They had calibrated their instruments by bouncing radio and voice messages off the moon , with brilliant success , and had rehearsed every detail of the satellite routine many times . When , after two interrupted countdowns on August ninth and tenth , the " bird " finally flew into orbit on the twelfth , cheers went up in the control shack . There were now more weeks of night work as the engineers piled up as much information as they could on signal strength , the degree of fading , the reliabil ity of the orbit , and so on . Then both Doctor Pierce and Mr. Crawford look off for scientific meetings in Europe . Crawford sailed on one of the Queens , and on the first clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for inforrna lion on Echo 's transit . " I thought it would be interesting to watch it from the boat , " he said , " and I was sure some of the other passengers might like to see it too . But it appeared the radio officer had no information and was n't inclined to wire for it . ' After all , ' he said to me , ' this is n't a British satellite . ' " Happily such chauvinism was not typical of world reaction , Interest was widespread , as we indicated earlier in this article . And among the letters on Doctor Pierce 's desk when he returned was one from three French children  --  Pierre , Marianne and Francois Lequiller , ages eleven , ten and nine , respectively . They live at the French Embassy at Beirut , Lebanon , but wrote while on holiday in Switzerland , saying , " We have seen yesterday night Echo in the sky . It was very beautiful , and we were very happy , We admire you very much , and we would like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A remarkable feature of the Echo performance was that its launching and tracking were so accurate that Goldstone and Holmdel both were able to get the " bird " in their sights its first time around . It was launched from Cape Canaveral , Florida , by a Thor-Delta three-stage rocket , controlled by a Bell-lab radio guidance system . The aluminum-coated balloon . during the ride into space , was folded and packaged in a two-foot-diameter magnesium container . When the orbiting point was reached , the container was broken open and a quantity of volatile chemical powder changed into gas and inflated the balloon to its 100-foot dimensions . The Canaveral lift-off had been at 5:39 a.m .. Eastern Daylight time , with the satellite headed in a southeasterly direction . it carried two small radio beacons , powered by miniature storage batteries connected to solar cells for recharging . The " beep " from the beacons was first picked up by a tracking station at Trinidad , and next by one at Johannesburg , South Africa . At 7:05 A , M. a station at Woomera , Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by radio . At 7:34 Goldstone reported " acquisition , " which means it had the satellite spotted , and at 7:41 the Eisenhower message stating " This is one more significant step in the United States program of space research and exploration " was on its way . Holmdel caught every word of it , was even able to record several repeat playings before the satellite passed out of range . Tracking satellites and plotting their orbits is a global undertaking that involves split-second teamwork and round-the-clock co-operation . For Echo and most of the other nonmilitary American satellites the nerve center of the operation is at NASA 's new Goddard Space Flight center , a mushrooming sprawl of low buildings in the woods a few miles off the Baltimore-Washington Parkway . Here are assembled thirty-nine teletype machines , a battery of telephones and 55,000.000 worth of I.B.M . computers . Into this center flow the sky-watching reports from two dozen tracking stations scattered around the world  --  North and South America . Africa , Asia and Australia . Ten are NASA minitrack stations , like the one at Blossom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ array of thirteen rectangular antennas , laid out on the ground in precise relation to one 7 , another , pick up the incoming satellite radio " beeps " in such a way as to indicate the exact course , direction and velocity of the satellite . Twelve other global stations are operated by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory at Cambridge , Massachusetts , and are equipped with special wide-angle Nunn-Baker astronomical cameras . These photograph the passage of visible satellites . Echo 's persistent visibility has been one of the surprises of the satellite program . There were bets at Holmdel on whether or not the flimsy balloon would collapse once it entered the coldness of the earth 's shadow ; but it did n't . Dr. Leonard Jaffe , chief of the communications-satellite program at NASA , explained that while it had doubtless lost most , if not all , of its gas , the surrounding air at 1000 miles is so thin that there was nothing to collapse it . " But the balloon has a memory of having been folded , " Doctor Jaffe said , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes the light intensity wax and wane as it passes across the night sky . Part of the twinkling is produced by the thin clouds between Echo and the observer , but most of it is due to the wrinkles . " Doctor Jaffe promises that the next Echo satellite , to be hung in the sky sometime this year , will be made more wrinkle-resistant . Several methods are available  --  using a ribbed structure , making the balloon of foil instead of film , or spraying a chemical hardener on the inner surface after it is inflated . Although Echo has been a shining success as a message reflector and as a nighttime spectacle , hopes for a practical satellite-communications system rest mainly on objects like Courier , which carry power-driven radio-relay equipment . Courier itself , designed for storing and forwarding secret military messages , may be needlessly complex for a common-carrier telephone circuit . And it was apparently a failure of what was recognized as its most vulnerable part , the command decoder , that caused it to go silent . But in building Courier , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Palo Alto faced a number of curious problems that will be common to all space relay stations . Pierce Siglin , at Ft . Monmouth , and Gerald Moore , Philco 's satellite-project manager at Palo Alto , spent much of their time tackling these problems together . One is the rarefied atmosphere  --  actually a high vacuum  --  in which everything must operate . In such an environment lubricants evaporate , and so do many glues and plastics . Therefore , extreme care must be used in choosing materials , and any component with moving parts must be sealed in a pressurized gas . Another tough problem arises from the fact that the side of the satellite toward the sun heats up to 300 degrees F. , while the shady side falls to 75 below zero  --  or would if something were not done to move the heat quickly through the sphere from the hot to the cold side . Since the satellite is spinning and tumbling , the task of transferring the heat smoothly is doubly difficult . It is achieved by careful placing of the component parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depending on how much absorption or radiation each unit requires . Certain parts of a $10,000 microwave receiver are solid gold , because this provides just the proper rate of heat transfer for this position . The most difficult hot spot is the five-watt transmitter . When operating it heats up , and the heat must be removed . When turned off it cools down . " We fiddled around with various arrangements for the transmitter and adjacent equipment , " T 11 Mr. Moore recalled , " but none of them seemed to work satisfactorily . " We finally solved it , " he said , pointing to a photograph showing a small yellow box mounted next to the transmitter . He smiled broadly . But you 'd never guess where the idea came from . " Since most of the Courier components arc nonclassified , 1 had been discussing them at home . One evening my sixteen-year-old daughter Nancy looked up from her high-school physics book and asked , ' Daddy , have you ever thought of using the latent heat of fusion ? ' Talk about ' out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit on something . I do n't know why we had n't thought of it ourselves , but we had n't . So , we got some wax and sealed it up in a metal box . When the transmitter was on , the heat was absorbed in the melting of the wax . When the transmitter was off , the heat left the wax as the tatter solidified . Nancy 's idea worked beautifully . " Once a satellite is launched you ca n't get at it to fix it  --  at least not now . Consequently , every one of its parts must be designed for a long and trouble-free life . This puts an unprecedented premium on reliability . Beardsley Graham , manager of satellite-systems planning for Lockheed Aircraft Corporation , said at a Federal Communications Commission hearing that " improved reliability of life in orbit is so important we could pay someone a million dollars if he could invent a battery that is only twice as good as the present batteries . " And these are pretty fancy . The cadmium dry cells in Courier , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now building their first experimental active satellite , are aiming at commercial models that will function without interruption for ten or twenty years . The batteries must carry the load for about a third of the time , the part in the earth 's shadow . In the sunlight they will be recharged by the " bird 's " blue-spangled covering of solar cells . Another critical element of the Bell relay satellite is the single vacuum tube needed for the transmitter . It will be a so-called traveling-wave tube , about a foot long , as thin as a pencil and housed in a heavy metal casing . The invention of Dr. Rudolph Kompfner , a Vienna-born architect turned radio engineer , the tube , in some models , is capable of carrying 2000 telephone messages simultaneously . It has already proved its ruggedness in missiles and its durability in prolonged laboratory testing . Hundreds of other vacuum tubes have been in continuous undersea service since the transatlantic-phone cables were laid in 1956 . Kompfner and his Bell colleagues are therefore confident they can make satellite tubes that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other electronic and atmospheric nuts to crack , including the possible damaging effect of the Van Allen belt of cosmic radiation a few thousand miles out from the earth 's surface . No one yet knows how much this radiation will shorten the life of the solar cells or the internal organs of the man-made " birds . " But the communications engineers are optimistic . Charles M. Mapes , assistant chief engineer of A.T.andT. , whose job is planning systems so that equipment keeps up with the mushrooming demand , believes " We can have a satellite system working in five years and in reasonably good commercial operation in ten years . " What will it cost ? Much less than the additional submarine cables necessary to take care of the growing traffic , says Mr. Mapes . If you allow for fifty orbiting satellites , at about 3000 miles altiE . SATURDAY EVENING piDsT tude , each capable of handling 600 telephone channels and a two-way television channel ( one TV channel takes up as much frequency space as about 900 voice conversations ) , the cost of building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told the Federal Communications Commission , " at about $100,000,000 . The cost of twenty-six ground stations strategically scattered around the world would come to about $70,000,000 . Thus , to provide an adequate satellite-communications system between the United States and the rest of the world would cost about S170,000,000 . " The A.T . andT. and Bell laboratories are so sold on the idea that they are using their own funds to build the experimental satellite and would expect to underwrite the whole satellite-communications network , in co-operation with companies and government agencies which operate the foreign ends of the lines , as they now do in the case of the transoceanic cables . Interest has already been expressed by groups in England and on the continent . Mr. Kappel , the A.T . and T. president says contractors may be engaged to launch the satellites , but he believes ownership and operation should be in the hands of those who provide the phone services in the countries involved . Satellites are not expected to handle the increased load alone . Anticipating an increase of world telephones from the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T. also is planning more underseas cables , including a third telephone cable to England , to be laid in 1963 . But cables can not handle as much traffic as the satellites . Unfortunately for the spectators , who 've got used to seeing the big Echo balloon twinkling in the night sky , the active satellites , only about four feet in diameter , wo n't be visible to the naked eye . If they were , they would provide an almost continuous display . For it is estimated we 'll have some 300 satellites orbiting the earth within the next ten years . NASA alone has announced it expects to launch " birds " of all varieties at a rate of about twenty-eight a year . Though they are n't visible , someone must keep account of them , and as Mr. Graham of Lockheed pointed out in the FCC hearings , " this will become a rather serious bookkeeping problem . " For military reasons , lie noted , it is necessary to determine when a new satellite appears in orbit . This means the tracking stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Is n't there any way of getting rid of these things , once you put them up there ? " Mr. Graham was asked . " Well , the problem of collecting debris from space has been given serious consideration , " he replied , " and there are programs under way which will make it possible . The trouble is that it costs almost as much to remove satellites  --  from the sky as it does to put them up . " Will the disposal problem slow down the far-out phone business ? It has n't hampered the automobile business . At least we can be grateful that the used-satellite graveyards are high in the sky  --  or will be until celestial tow trucks learn how to bring them down .                     