@@270942

Moments after midnight , 300 Viet Cong guerrillas crept through sugarcane fields toward a camp of U.S. and South Vietnamese Special Forces at Hiephoa , barely 20 miles west of Saigon . Ducking under watchtowers bristling with machine guns and floodlights , the Reds knifed a sentry , forded a three-foot-deep moat , snipped three barbed-wire fences , and slipped into the compound-evidently in collusion with a spy inside , who unlocked the gate . Then , while guerrillas outside opened up with a mortar barrage , the infiltrators attacked to the blast of a bugle . <P> Running from barracks to barracks , they killed 37 South Vietnamese , most of them in their bunks , wounded a U.S. lieutenant , beheaded a Vietnamese cook . A half-mile away , 200 government soldiers at another post heard the battle , but , fearing ambush , dared not go to the rescue ( next morning the route they would have taken was found sown with Red mines ) . After 40 minutes , the Communists withdrew , carrying off enough weapons to arm one of their battalions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's new revolutionary regime more than a day to supply enough troops for a helicopter-borne counterassault , most of the Reds escaped . Some government troops had been tied down in fighting elsewhere , but a U.S. officer said bitterly : " It was Sunday . And this is n't a seven-day war except for the Viet Cong . " <P> Trails of Blood . One month after the death of President Ngo Dinh Diem , South Viet Nam 's Communist guerrillas are displaying greater boldness than ever . Viet Cong " incidents " during November averaged 745 per week , double the rate for the preceding ten months , and the Reds are throwing bigger units into battle . In the north at Dakrode , 100 guerrillas assaulted one of the area 's strategic hamlets-now renamed " combat hamlets " by the Saigon regime to create a more aggressive image . The attackers blew up barbed-wire defenses and overran the village after 550 montagnard tribesmen defending it fought valiantly until their ammunition ran out , then fled . ( They later returned . ) Forcing captured tribesmen to carry 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the bush , leaving behind a trail of bloody bandages . <P> Elsewhere government troops , many under new commanders , counterattacked more vigorously and even seized the initiative . Lieut . General Duong Van Minh and his ruling junta seemed more willing than Diem to risk casualties . In the south , 800 guerrillas staged a predawn assault on Chala , overran half the outpost , but were repulsed by savage machine-gun fire . When paratroopers and B-26 bombers hurried to the rescue , the Reds shot down one B26 . Yet the counterblow was effective ; villagers reported that the fleeing Viet Cong suffered approximately 400 casualties . Northeast of Saigon , government troops ambushed a Viet Cong battalion , killed or wounded 69 of the enemy . Also northeast of the capital , a three-day government offensive ended with 40 Viet Cong dead . West of Mytho , air and artillery strikes wiped out 82 Reds .                     