@@478009

AS MILLIONS of young people attend American colleges , or struggle to get into them , it is becoming almost commonplace to hear that something is terribly wrong with our college system , and that little is being done about it . In The Atlantic last May , Professor Oscar Handlin of Harvard asked , " Are the Colleges Killing Education ? " and he found that indeed they were : " Many of our most sensitive youngsters simply throw up their hands . They turn their backs on the whole process . . increasingly , the able students are among those who leave before graduation . " In Harper 's Special Supplement on the colleges last year , the sociologist Nathan Glazer charged that " we ore not doing much to make college education more than a huge boondoggle ? which is what most of it is today . " And in the same supplement Christopher Jencks concluded from his survey of the colleges with David Riesman that , " if the function of a college is to help its pupils formulate the problems they face . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-educated . " We shall hear many more statements like these in the coming years . They arc not made carelessly , and in fact there is fairly wide agreement among many of the critics as to what has gone wrong . They complain that the expanding colleges are becoming , as Handlin put it , " more formal , more bureaucratic , more rigidly organized . " Competing in a maze of examinations , credits , and course requirements , the students find themselves in the stifling atmosphere of the race for position , which the college itself generates by anachronistic grading methods . " And as Jencks and Glazer pointed out , it is no secret that teachers in American colleges areseldom encouraged to take teaching seriously . Climbing the ladders of their narrowly specialized departments , they have been made to understand that , to succeed , they must above all impress the senior scholars of their discipline with their research , their scholarly publications . Many of the students find in turn that much of what they are taught is irrelevant to their need and desire to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might make of themselves in it . What is especially sad is that the critics have been able to do so little to improve the colleges . " The most damning single fact about higher education today , " as Christopher Jencks wrote in Harper 's , " is that there seem to be fewer than half-a-dozen radical experiments dedicated to testing what college life , and hence adult life , are capable of becoming . " This is no exaggeration , as any persistent traveler to the campuses will find . In the past couple of years I have visited nearly forty colleges , from big universities to small Ivy League schools , and with few exceptions they were in a state of paralyzing tension which made any basic changes in teaching quite impossible . In a moderately big university , for example , one could expert to find a situation something like the following : A small band of young instructors and assistant professors are intent on revising the curriculum , the teaching methods , the whole set-up of the college . Still fired by the adventure of teaching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are sickened by the mechanical system of lecture courses , departments , and examinations . But they are a minority ; most of their young colleagues are so busy working up the academic research that will make or break their careers , that they have no time either for the students or the college . The senior professors , meanwhile , are separated from the younger faculty by the chasm of tenure ? their jobs are assured them until they fig REACTIONARY EXPERIMENT IN EDUCATION retire ? and simply by their different style of life . These older men may well feel lingering guilt about their neglect of the undergraduates , but to enter into close contact with students would he awkward , time-consuming , and upsetting to them and the system in which they have found so secure a place . " Tenure is normally granted , " writes Christian Bay of the Stanford Research Institute , " only when the instructor is too old to take a renewed interest in his students . " Except for some of the graduates , the college students mix very little with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in the young-married social life ; and they are isolated from the middle-aged faculty by mutual embarrassment . As one student remarked , he has to invent a " personal problem " if he wants an admired teacher to pay attention to him . Last but not least , there is a small army of administrators who do not teach , and with whom students and faculty communicate on a formal and rarely pleasant basis . It is here that we must look most carefully if we are to understand why the growing complaints against the colleges have made so little dent . The more one examines the colleges ? from the president himself down through the deans and admissions officers ? the clearer it must become that modern administration is the peculiar college disease ; and it is spreading . HOW THE MACHINE OPERATES T HESE words may seem harsh . Let me cite some examples to show what I mean : I. Not long ago I was asked to lunch with six senior professors , including the chairmen of departments , at a big Western university . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion that grading is injurious to both teaching and learning . At the very first lecture the students will ask , " Are we responsible for that on the final examination ? " and the teacher 's heart sinks . Grading , they agreed . destroys the use of testing , which is a good method of teaching if one corrects the test but does not grade it . When tested , but not graded , students are eager to learn the right answers , and they ask how to solve the problem . But if graded they become puffed-up , or crestfallen , while the subject itself sours . They agreed that the teacher should use tests essentially to find out what be is failing to get across . At this point I intervened and said : " Here you arc , six members of the faculty . This university is theoretically self-governing , and eachof you has a vote in its faculty council . Why is there still grading ? " I was then treated to a puzzling display of administrative mentality and evasion . The grading , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , admissions to graduate school , advice to employers , etc . The administration of the school , it was clear , demanded a standardized scale of marking . Now all of these men know that some colleges ( like Sarah Lawrence ) do not grade , and they manage well enough by means of recommendations . But this would mean that the faculty would have to know the students personally , discuss them , even argue about them ? and this was beyond them . Some of the professors were uncomfortable but they were n't going to risk attempting a change in the status quo , even while agreeing it was clearly wrong . Unfortunately , it is quite safe to predict that much the same conversation could have been held at most colleges in the country today . 2 . At a small state school noted for its high academic quality and close student-faculty relations , I was told that the new president had decided that " society 's changing needs " required changing the character of the school toward engineering . His first step was to dissolve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Humanities , Social Sciences , and Natural Sciences ? and establish instead twenty-two discrete departments . He could then proceed to hire and fire more freely ? and he did . 3 . At a large university , the students elected a liberal government that embarrassed the administration by criticistn of campus life and by political activities that might offend the alumni and potential donors . The administration handled this by separating the graduate students from the student association , to make sure alai Paul Goodman 's new book , " The Community of Scholars , " to be published later this month by Random House , explores in depth the ideas set forth in this article . Mr. Goodman , who received his Ph.D . in the Humanities from the University of Chicago , has had a remarkably active career . He has taught at N.Y . U. and Chicago , as well as at Sarah Lawrence and Black Mountain . He is the co-author of standard texts on city planning and Gestalt therapy and has written some dozen books . including novels , poetry , and a study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracted wide attention when published in 1960 , This article was drawn from his forthcoming book , with the collaboration of R. B. Silvers of " Harper's. " the less intellectual and more pliable younger students ? especially those organized in fraternities ? could recapture their traditional leadership . ( This is a brutal example of keeping the young from growing up by isolating them from older models they can admire and imitate . ) Such examples ? I could add many dozens more ? can serve to illustrate roughly the ways in which modern ' ' co-ordinative management " has taken over the colleges . Between the college and the outer society . facing in both directions , stand the chief administrator , the president , and his staff . Society is represented by the parents , the alumni , the trustees , or the legislature . So long as the college gives no offense and is ostensibly successful and prestigious , the president is granted remarkable freedom to determine policy , whether educational , architectural , or financial . He is probably more independent than many high corporation executives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position is more difficult , because the college is traditionally a self-governing community of scholars . It is evident that his administration will be strong when it can quietly attach itself to the senior faculty and the official student government , seeing to it that neither the teachers nor students disturb his public relations with the legislature or the donors . Thus the effect of strong administration is to weaken the college by keeping the students out of contact with the teachers ; the teachers out of contact with each other ( see examples I and 2 above ) ; and both away from troublesome or embarrassing controversy with the world ( example 3 ) . ' Whereas good teaching depends on close personal relations between scholars and students , modern administration isolates the ' individuals and groups on the campus one from the other ; but , by using " scientific administration " to coordinate them , it reconstructs the campus as a social machine . The ancient and often fruitful trouble spots of the college community ? the inevitable result of vigorous personal expression and inquiry ? tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study called Governance in Colleges and Universities , John Corson sums up one of the results neatly : " Decisions relative to student admissions , discipline , recreation , and government ? fields traditionally subject to faculty control ? have been turned over to administrative supervision , Deans of students and their staff , armed with an increasingly extensive knowledge of psychological tests , have taken over the direction of student affairs . " If the college machinery is run shrewdly and aggressively , it may produce hales of diplomas and scholarly publications , as well as bigger buildings , endowments , grants , subsidized research , athletic events , and classes of well-employed alumni . ' " ( The average college president , as Corson estimates , spends less than one-fifth of his time on educational matters . ) But the personal relations of the colleges have less and less to do with teaching and learning , and more and more with every kind of communication , policing , grading , regulation , and motivation that is relevant to successful administration . THE IDEAL UNIVERSITY ? W H A T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite the sad fragmentation I have been describing , it speaks well for the vitality of the colleges that they continue nevertheless to produce critics who propose fairly radical reforms and sometimes even try them out . However , before discussing these proposals specifically ? and going on to suggest a more drastic experiment of my own ? it is crucial to understand that , however " radical " they may seem , they are , for the most part , conservative in the best and deepest sense : Whether the reformers consciously intend it or not , they usually draw on the fundamental principles that characterized the first universities that rose in the West and have inspired good universities ever since . Indeed , it would be useful for college critics to examine their proposals in the long perspective of university history ( something they seldom do ) . For , as the historian Hastings Rashdali once wrote : " The universities of all countries and all ages are in reality adaptations under various conditions of one and the same institution . " By this famous sentence Rashdall meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers ? " the spontaneous product of that instinct of association which swept over the towns of Europe in the course of the eleventh and twelfth centuries " ? conceived a form of community which has , despite many vicissitudes , survived as a model over one thousand years . Nor was this accidental . I think it can be shown that this medieval community form has persisted so remarkably because it is the natural organ for the education of youth . From the beginning it " The fate of the less shrewd and aggressive may be gathered from the fact that eighteen institutions ( one per cent ) receive nearly 45 per cent of the total endowment funds in the country , $114 millions in 1954 ; while 803 institutions had no endowment at all , although they enrolled one-quarter of the students . 66 REACTIONARY EXPERIMENT IN EDUCATION perfected the only two possible types of good schooling : ? Either a youth says : " Show me how , " and finds a teacher who will show him , as did the aspiring lawyers , for example , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a truth he knows and a fascinated youth latches onto him , and asks : " What are you saying and why ? " as did the students of men like Abelard at the school of liberal arts in Paris . Ever since these twelfth-century beginnings , thousands of universities and colleges have attempted to combine both principles in their professional schools and liberal-arts faculties . And running like an irrepressible current through their efforts have been the traditional ideals and conditions of the first universities . It is worth examining what these were , for nothing could be more relevant to the problem of the colleges today . 1 . The university was a small , face-to-face community of scholars ? in effect a tiny city , invisibly walled away from the larger city of , say , Padua or Prague . With few exceptions it hovered in size between five hundred and a thousand , and there were celebrated universities that numbered no more than a hundred people . Such communities required no more than a handful of administrators ? rectors and chancellors often elevated unwillingly from the faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between this community of scholars and the outer world ? First , because it was a completely international community whose scholars often came from all over Europe ; they shared not simply a common Latin , but a common concern for truth and common standards of evidence and discourse which could not be disregarded merely because of expediency . They did not easily abide the local and national prejudices . Secondly , because it was a self-governing community where the masters alone decided who was fit to teach and graduate . ( The universities have never ceased to regard themselves as such . ) In differing degrees , the student guilds were also self-governing , taking responsibility for their social and physical behavior. 2. in this community of scholars , teaching and learning could only be a personal relation . The student worked with and often lived close by his masters . It was his principal master himself ? not a chancellor or dean ? who gave the student the kiss or handshake which signified the act of Commencement : the recognition by his chosen adults that he had become their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adult world . This culmination came only after years of assessment , and a convincing demonstration by the student to his masters that he could do an adult job of work . ( Compare this with our June ritual as it survives today. ) 3 . Teaching and learning was a personal relation necessary for both the teacher and the student . No matter how betrayed over a thousand years , this principle can not be buried . Then as now , the student on leaving his family desperately needed older adults to whom he could transfer his affection ? men whom he could identify with and imitate ; who could show him ways to order his confusion by principled thought , and help him prepare for a meaningful career in the adult world . This is what teachers did . It can not be done if they are cut off from students . And the good scholar ? then as now ? must feel the impulse to teach , even if he does not exercise it : in part because of the noblesse oblige of the strong and competent man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in part because , if one believes in one 's art or science . just as one received it , one has to pass it on , if possible improved . Indeed , it could be argued that teaching is an indispensable spur for scholars and many scientists ( if probably less so for artists ) . But it is especially the members of the professions who have to teach . 4 . Finally , and crucially , in the traditional community of scholars , the college teacher was a veteran . By this I mean that he had demonstrated his way of learning in the outer world , and he taught his subject not as an isolated exercise , but as something which had authority and relevance outside the walled city of scholars . " For centuries , " the Columbia historian Richard Hofstader tells us , the faculties of the great universities " were consulted again and again on vital questions of doctrine and law , and were expected to state their findings and intervene in ecclesiastical and social affairs . " This is in melancholy contrast to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak out in public , and they often hire their services to government and private business . But departments and colleges never commit themselves as scholarly communities , asserting their own principles to the outer world . No wonder that their authority is frequently blurred and unreal to their students . In the traditional community of scholars , moreover , the teachers were veterans because they were , in fact , among the important professionals and writers of their day who returned to the university to teach . They had , for example , a mastery of politics and church affairs that came from actual practice ; but in the university they led their students to consider the ideals toward which their own and future generations might aspire . Today veterans are still to be found in the professional schools ? the archetype is the physician . The public respectfully calls him doctor ; but if he is a great doctor we expect that he will teach at a medical school . Imagine him at a hospital with his students ; while treating an individual patient , be demonstrates a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their teacher is'involving them in something real , something they must commit themselves to learn well , because it will affect other lives as well as their own . This kind of learning is for keeps . But there arc vast areas of college teaching where no veterans at all are to he found , and where learning has become a dreary and unreal game . This and the fear of personal relations are the most refractory problems ; nor are they unrelated . MAKING TEACHING PERSONAL H OVERING behind most of the proposals for college reform today we can find , however dimly , the traditional ideals of teaching and learning I have been sketching out . But how adequate are the proposals , and how hopeful ? The most obvious proposal has been to limit the colleges to a useful size . Since so many people are lost in the sheer mass of our swollen universities , reformers want to bring them back to the original face-to-face community . To do this they propose setting up smaller " colleges , " relatively self-contained and self-administering , within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universities often contained about 500 people . Christopher Jencks and David Riesman at Harvard would like to see selfgoverning " houses , " within the university , of 450 students plus 50 teachers , which would control their own administrations . Theodore Newcomb of Michigan estimates that 300 to 400 is the proper size , and he suggests a common coffee bar for faculty and students . But for all the talk about carving smaller colleges out of the universities , it has scarcely been tried . ( Monteith College at Wayne Statein Detroit is one of the few recent attempts . ) The concern about size is actively expressed chiefly in holding actions by the small colleges against the pressures to grow bigger . The modern experimental colleges like Sarah Lawrence and St. John 's have tended to be larger by a few hundred than Riesman 's model because , not being attached to a university , they can not draw on university professors to fill out their programs ; but they remain workable . The older liberal-arts colleges like Amherst and Swarthmore have grown considerably larger , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point , and one very hard for these prestigious seminaries to maintain in the face of so many applicants . It will be a badge of honor if they stay fairly small . It is also to the credit of some independent colleges that they have tried to balance their smallness with the principle of confederation ? for example , the regional conference organized by Mount Holyoke , Amherst , Massachusetts , and Smith to use common expensive services , scientific equipment , have equally matched games , and even exchange teachers and students . Needless to say , this excellent JefTersonian idea of federated local autonomy could be profitably applied elsewhere in our society than in the schools . Another attempt to escape the impersonal mass has been the creation of Honors Programs in which a small group of teachers and students dispense with credits and grading , meet fairly informally , and sometimes manage to cut through departmental barriers . But aside from the fact that such reforms are not a major tendency , T am not convinced that merely administrative arrangements , like Small Colleges or Honors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a big state university I have seen the Honors students form a pathetic and tiny college of incestuous intellectuals in a busy crowd of engineers , aggies , and practical nurses . The real crux of the problem is the overcontrolling of the students and the lack of teachers who are veterans of an art , profession , or science and who can show the students that intellectual principles have real consequences in the outer world , and so are worth taking seriously . TIMID AND UNWORLDLY I N DEALING with this problem , American college teaching suffers from an historical flaw . Our first poorly paid college instructors of the early eighteenth and nineteenth centuries were usually marking time until they could beEVGENY EVTUSHENKO THEY TELL ME " You 're a courageous man , " They tell me . It 's not true at all . Courage is not my sin . I merely felt it unbecoming to stoop to the cowardice of my fellows . Nor have I ever attempted to jolt the world out of orbit . I just write . And what of it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ridiculed falseness , and tried to speak out loud enough . Finished with lies and crooked ways , one day posterity will burn with shame , remembering those peculiar times when honesty was labeled " courage . " 1961 , Translated by George Reavey Like " Babi Yar " ? Evtushenko 's controversial poem attacking anti-Semitism ? " They Tell Me " has the probing honesty which has made this twenty-eight-year-old Russian poet a leading spokesman for his generation . gin in some profession ? the law or ministry , for example . Their senior teacher was generally a mature veteran of some profession ? a parson , most probably . But he was not a free master who attracted students to his side . He was instead a president chosen by an overseer , sect , or board of trustees as a reliable administrator , and responsible to them . And historically it has worked out that he has abandoned the role of a professional who returned to the university to teach , and has become instead an educator , i.e. , an administrator whose main work is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to have strong and numerous faculties of older men . But they were not only subservient to a president who transmitted outside commands ; they were usually no more than the former tutors grown older . They were in short professional teachers who had never known any other competence or sphere of life . Such a combination of circumstances has been disastrous . it has led to teaching which is timid , unworldly , lacking in a sense of community , and reluctant to confront outer society with authority . In a word , our teachers have become academic . It is true that the academics have since developed a kind of practice ? their research . In the natural sciences , research projects are useful when they are a real dialogue with nature ? the professor using his students as junior partners on projects of his own spirit . ( They are useless for teaching and learning when subsidized by defense agencies and corporate organizations which dictate the purposes and demand " results . " ) But in the social sciences and the humanities , the relation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living culture of the outer world has for the most part been pallid and timorous . And in their timid and ambiguous way , the colleges acknowledge this . As if inspired by some faint memory of the old traditions of veterans , they constantly invite outside experts , professionals , journalists , and authors to lecture , " sit in " on classes and seminars , and attend conferences . At dozens of colleges we find poets , writers , and artists " in residence " for a term . One current emphasis of college reform is simply to increase the numbers of such people . The purpose is to stir up the students , to confront them with the author of a famous honk , to bring a little of the world of practice into the academy . But the essential purpose of learning from veterans is seldom realized by these invitations , for the veteran is not ? anti will not be allowed to be ? a full-fledged scholar . Rather , the effect of inviting the outsider is often to make the academic seem more academic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its academicism by his hard practicality anti the narrowness of his unscholarly intellect . ( In the professional schools , whether of medicine , architecture , or business , veteran practitioners do exist more officially on the faculty . But by and large these part-timers regard themselves as outsiders performing a service to their profession , rather than as members of the community of scholars ; and naturally they bring back less than ideal standards to the students . ) How ponderously we defeat our purposes ! We start with the fact that there are professions and tasks in the world that require learning . We make an abstraction from the performance of these men ? those who can meet the standards will be licensed . Then we transcribe the license requirements into the curricula and the departments of the schools , and we man the departments with academic teachers . Naturally , the students find it hard to take the subjects for real at so many removes . So the college reformers suggest importing veterans from the outside to pep things up ! Would it not be more plausible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? But ( it would be argued ) they arc so often narrow practitioners . Of course they are ? they are not members of the community of scholars and have not been asked to join . For the sake of both the university and the professions , therefore , the professionals must return and assume responsibility for the history and humanity of their arts . Only real practice is believable and authoritative to students . And only when the practitioners meet head-on the far-reaching and embarrassing questions of students , and the traditional learning of the academics , will they be compelled to formulate the responsible social philosophies that are now su lacking in engineering , politics , journalism , and the business community ? with disastrous social consequences . ( In my opinion it is importantly because they are not responsible members of the faculty ? hut at best quarantined visitors ? that the writers and artists are so often negative and porcupinish . ) Conceive of a faculty with a permanent staff of full-time tenured teachers ? people who have a special calling for teaching and veterans who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many practicing veterans teaching temporarily or parttime ? but with the authority of professors . And through these , the faculties can extend out among the artists and professionals of the region . I have little doubt that many of our best writers , politicians , diplomats , journalists , engineers , bankers , business people , editors , etc. , would be glad to join the scholarly guild if they were given some freedom and some power . ( But now they can not join ? they have no Ph.D.s ! ) If the faculties were composed in this way , they could not be so easily controlled by the administration . There would be too many distinguished independents ; their combined voice would be too authoritative . More important , this voice could become a force to be reckoned with , exercising the ancient function of the universities as the loyal opposition and watchdogof society . The physics department could notify the government when unnecessary official secrecy was hindering research . The school of architecture could speak up about public housing and the absence of decent social planning in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departments of English and journalism could co-operate in criticizing the disgraceful inadequacy of our weekly book reviewing , or the press associations , or the tone of advertising . ( Is n't it odd that the Federal Communications Commissioner can call TV a wasteland but the Harvard English Department , speaking as a department , can not ? ) My point is not that the faculties should take day-to-day political positions . That would be too transient . But they must affirm intransigently their disinterested ideals and principles to the outer world when they are relevant . If they could do this , young people would be proud of their elders and their school . The embarrassed distance between teachers and students would lessen . And I think that teaching and learning would be more for keeps . THE GREAT TEXTBOOK A T PRESENT , however , we hear very little about bringing veterans onto the faculties . Instead the professors issue their temporary invitations to outsiders , guard the entrance to the guild , and talk of college reform in terms of proposals to revise the curriculum and teaching methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion to the undergraduates , and create unnecessary pressures on them , they propose Integration : i.e. , broader and more general courses in the Humanities , the Social Sciences , the Natural Sciences , Western History , etc. , arranged in various proportions and sequences . Such plans are legion among academics and have long been among the most popular kinds of proposals for reform . But such proposals seem to me to miss the point . The great question is not what subjects " ought " to be taught . but whether the teaching and learning of them make any difference to the students . There is an implicit assumption in such proposals that there exists one Great Textbook and that every " educated citizen " should be exposed to a " general education " from it before he leaves college . This is reminiscent of the notions of Hutchins at Chicago and Erskine and Van Doren at Columbia and others in their wake , that all students should read the Great Books , or be familiar with certain Great Ideas . 70 REACTIONARY EXPERIMENT IN EDUCATION But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taught . Suppose two teachers present entirely differing interpretations of Aristotle or the French Revolution to a student who has no interest in making his own ; he will have learned nothing . But the original idea of the community of scholars was not that the student should study everything instead of " specializing " ? as the Great Books and broad General Education advocates seem to think . It was rather that specialization would occur in a community of general studies , a little city where people could talk to one another . It is certainly good in principle for a man really to know literature , history , sociology , a natural science , and mathematics . But I am less and less convinced that prescribing these studies to undergraduates has any relation whatever to their mature use or knowledge of them . With adolescents a Great Books or wide General Education program often results in merely verbal wisdom and a superior kind of withdrawal from the world . Amidst such proposals , the fundamental principle of teaching and learning is obscured : If a teacher wants to teach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want either to know something in particular , or to find out what they should learn . The present confusion of the curriculum and the foolish pressures on students can be reduced simply by dropping the whole rigmarole of compulsory attendance and credits and having the student elect his subjects freely with the advice of teachers who actually know him . What is most important , as John Dewey suggested , is that the students learn something in a way that will lead them to want to learn more . In a small community of scholars , with constant exchange among the members , a common humanism would he hound to emerge among students who were learning in this way . The crucial standard , then , is not what ought to be taught but whether teaching and learning make any difference . Are they committed or academic ? By this standard , the situation in the humanities is dismaying . A visitor to the colleges will find again and again a double standard of academic truth and real truth . Milton or Canal 's are read intensively in class with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paper , and the evening movie are taken in by quite another . What is worse , no one seems to care that academic reading is unrelated to the world outside in any practical way . There have , indeed , been some bold if scattered attempts to reform the academicism of the social sciences by teaching pragmatically ? by insisting ( as did Professor Sol Tax at the University of Chicago and William Biddle at Earlham ) that the social sciences become true only as they work toward solving actual problems . To cite a good example , at the University of Pennsylvania , Karl Linn and his students of landscape architecture are carrying out a lovely project of improving tax-delinquent properties in a shim area with the help and improvisation of neighborhood kids . Finally , one of the more perceptive proposals for college reform would help make the others more meaningful . Instead of throwing the new student hard up against a variety of choices and courses , it is proposed to make at least the freshman year an exploration ? to help the young discover who they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at Harvard ? largely , I think , through the efforts of Professor Riesmanfreshmen can register in a seminar during their first year . This is a year-long hull-session , frequently provoked by visitors from the outside , which hopefully leads to concentration on fields of interest and specific reading and reports . Instead of the standard freshman " orientation " to the college world , it stimulates the students to question the college 's purposes , strengths , and weaknesses as well as his own . THE CASE FOR SECESSION A R E the hopeful reforms I have been outlining really possible within the present framework of the colleges and universities ? They are in principle , but I suspect they will require more revolutionary courage than most of the collegiate critics now seem to exude . For the near future , at least , the prospect of large-scale reform in the great majority of schools ? and especially in the big ones ? is dim . The changes that are most needed are the very ones that the college administration will resist , for they undermine the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In fairness , the constantly reiterated defense of the administrators should be mentioned . Their factorylike and businesslike ways are said to be inevitable under modern conditions . Harold Taylor . the former President of Sarah Lawrence , explains , " The most important reason for the lack of educational responsibility is the drastic increase in the number of students and the consequent growth of mass-educational needs . . . to be met in a hurry . The major forces are all in the direction of submerging the individual teacher in a mass of rules , formulae , administrative authority .... " Maybe . The fact remains that the administrators of the various schools engage in tooth-andnail competition to aggrandize their institutions , and they are among the major forces . They hardly ever co-operate to effect a judicious sharing of resources among them , or to diversify the colleges , or to experiment . And furthermore , the number of administrators is growing . With all our centralization and " efficiency , " my judgment is that the ratio of students to teachers may fall , but the ratio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the New York State school system there are already more administrators than in all of Western Europe . And this does not count the auxiliary armies of College Board and scholarship testers . There is , in short , no sign that the grip of the administrators will relax . So let us propose to go outside the present collegiate framework . The simplest remedy is the historical one ? for bands of students and teachers to secede and set up small shops where they can teach and learn under their own simple conditions . Such a movement would he difficult but not impractical . If it could succeed in a dozen cases , I think the entire system might experience a profound and salutary shock . Secession is inevitably occurring in any case , but it is occurring in the wrong way . As Handlin notes , many dissatisfied young people ? some of our most sensitive and intelligent among them ? will not or can not conform , and they leave the schools . Some form into little groups to find a culture or create it out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by now familiar . What is wrong is that they have cut themselves off from both the senior scholars who know something , and the veterans who ran teach them professions . They can hardly believe now that professional work might ever be possible for them . In a tiny community of scholars they might find both the cultural traditions and the veterans who could help them operate confidently in society , whether they succeed or fail . There are strong precedents for secession as the remedy of disaffected communities of scholars , starting with the great revolts in the medieval universities against Church control . The most effective secession was , of course , that of the Protestant rectors and vicars who refused in the seventeenth century to sign the Anglican articles of Faith , left Oxford and Cambridge , and set up their own dissenting academies . In our own century , the founding of the New School for Social Research in 1919 in New York was in effect a secession of teachers , since its leading spirits ? e.g. , Charles A. Beard and Thorstein Veblen ? could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they were joined by scholars who were restive at such places . The most recent and suggestive secession was the founding of Black Mountain College in North Carolina during the ' thirties by teachers fired from Rollins College in Florida when they protested the denial of " academic freedom " to John Rice . Significantly , Rice espoused no particular heresy ? it was his general nonconformity and nuisance value that was condemned . He and his friends formed , really , the first Beat School ? and its graduates have been leaders in this kind of art and culture . The teachers often went unpaid , but they continued because the school was theirs ; it had no trustees and no administration . When I taught at Black Mountain , I found it very feeble in traditional culture , but nobody hindered me from teaching more scholastically . It was a justified boast that students who dropped out of the Ivy League could still get some kind of education at Black Mountain College . The school lasted nearly twenty-five years and then , like a little magazine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A SMALL secession from a dozen colleges and universities would now be immensely profitable for American education . 1 propose that a core faculty of about five professors secede from a school , taking some of their students with them ; that they attach themselves to an equal number of like-minded professionals in the region : collect a few more students : and set up a small unchartered university that would be nothing but an association . Ten teachers would constitute a sufficient faculty for such a community of scholars . ( Jefferson 's University of Virginia had eight teachers . ) With individual classes of about fifteen , there would be 150 students . ( I choose this class-size simply from my own experience . When the number falls to seven or eight , I begin to feel I am conducting group therapy ; when it rises to twenty I begin to feel I am lecturing too formally . But the right number depends on the subject and the style of the teacher . ) A strong group of professionals would be particularly important in a small school composed entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; without them it could become too clubby , like some excellent progressive schools or like Black Mountain . It is evident , 1 72 REACTIONARY EXPERIMENT IN EDUCATION hope , that I am not thinking here of any particular educational experiment like Antioch , Goddard , or Sarah Lawrence , aiming at communal living , community service , individual creativity , and so on . These are fine things ; but I am proposing simply that the students and teachers create a small university where they can associate in the traditional way , but entirely dispensing with the external control , administration , bureaucratic machinery and other excrescences that have swamped our communities of scholars . Three immediate problems arise ? financing , equipment , accreditation , ( 1 ) This is not a social experiment , but an attempt to prepare working professionals , taking society as it is . Even though the teachers and professionals would no doubt be willing to work at a sacrifice , an attempt should be made to pitch the prices to the current inflated national standard of living . If we adopt the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expenses for the school arc : Salaries $100,000 Rent for ten classrooms in an urban middle-class district 4,000 Total $104,000 Dividing the cost among 150 students , we arrive at a tuition of $693 . This is nearly $500 less than a good liberal-arts college and less than half of the Ivy League . It includes no extras , no medical service , and of course no endowed library , laboratories , or athletic facilities . But these are " extras " at universities as well . ( 2 ) With regard to equipment , this scholarly community would have immediately available to it some 10,000 to 20,000 carefully selected books and apparatus . It is simplest to think of it located in a large city with a municipal library , YMCA , and many available part-time professionals . But another possibility for providing books and plant would be for the small university to be a kind of unofficial adjunct of a great university which extends it friendly services because it is a worthwhile experiment and a source of good graduate students . The secession of a small faculty from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations . ( 3 ) Filially , a major difficulty of any uncharterecl ad hoc association of scholars is that it can not grant degrees leading to licenses . It is not expected , and is not desirable , that young people spend their years and money in study that does not lead to careers in society . One obvious solution would be a European plan ? the graduates would matriculate for a period at an accredited school having a system of broad comprehensive examinations for the A.B . degree . ( The University of Chicago used to accept candidates for its comprehensive after three months of residence . ) The drawbacks here are obvious ? examinations following a prescribed curriculum would contradict the idea of a community of scholars where teaching and learning arc freed from imposed standards . I believe ? perhaps I am sanguine ? that after several years of good schooling , a graduate could make up the usual college requirements with a semester 's cramming . But a far more attractive solution would be a friendly arrangement whereby graduate and professional schools , competing for good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set forth in the recommendations of their teachers , Then their first accredited degree would he a master 's or a doctor 's . Ll OW complicated this simple proposal may seem ! We must get together 150 persons , subject the young to considerable expense , anticipate problems irrelevant to learning . And yet I have no doubt that many such faculties ? both dissatisfied academics and professionals who would like to teach ? are already in potential existence , willing to risk privileges and tenure if a good and willing group could be formed . Certainly there would be no dearth of students , although such academic and professional faculties would choose the students very strictly , probably too strictly . There is no doubt at all about the authenticity of such a plan . In medieval Paris , Rashdall tells us , " the intellectual ferment was most vigorous , the teaching most brilliant . . . almost before a university existed at all . " This spontaneous quest by the anarchic early community of scholars to understand their culture and take responsibility for changing it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a civilization immeasurably more confused and various than any before , but they are now prevented from undertaking the quest itself by foolish rules , meaningless tasks , and an absence of responsible veterans to guide them . We must restore to them the chance to discover their culture and make it their own . And if we can not do this within the universities , it would be good for the universities themselves if we tried to do it from without .                     