@@477890

Nasser is winning increasing support ' rum American businessmen and diplomats ? not because they like him , but because he now looks better than any alternative in sight . THE disintegration of the United Arab Re- public has affected Egypt more deeply than it has Syria . It has spurred President Gamal Abdel Nasser into embracing a socialism which lie defines as " simply the act of taking from the rich and giving to the poor ? shaking society to its very foundations . " It is now probable that Nasser 's survival hinges ? not on his leadership of the Arab world nor his adroitness in the East-West power struggle ? but on whether he can make his bold , even desperate , experiment in " Arab Socialism " work at home . Nearly a decade after the Revolution , his people are becoming inured to rhetoric and are still insisting on a decent life . The prospects of their getting it are improving as Nasser 's development program gathers momentum . But Egypt 's problems are still lurid ? a debilitated population of nearly thirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land ; a galloping birth rate that threatens to overwhelm the most heroic efforts at economic development : an inert , obstructive bureaucracy ; a national character as languid as it is endearing . The magnitude of the chasm to be closed assails the visitor to the modern Cairo . It has become one of the great cities of the world : posh hotels , glittering skyscrapers , even a symphony orchestra . But near the Nile Hilton , under a malevolent sun , stands a small pushcart . Inside , atop a heap of refuse , a young man lies fast asleep , curled like a fetus in a wooden womb . Walk in any old quarter of Cairo . The rhythm of Islam is as tantalizing today as it was in antiquity . A medley of smells : mutton rotting in the open sun , incense , sewage , camphor , roasting coffee , the whiff of women : musk , ambergris , and pungent perfume . A junk peddler , his eyeballs punctured at birth because it is blessed to be blind . A medicine man purifying trachoma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrapped in muslin . A man howling his head off in the middle of the street , apparently for the fun of it . A girl selling green tomatoes . A fat man puffing on his hubbly-bubblv . Ya Ahmed ! Ya Mohammed ! A policeman urinating on a wall beneath a fading photograph of Lumumba . A radio blaring . The tune , meshing the wail of Arabia with the syncopations of the samba . If it is too much to take , then hasten back to the air-conditioned cafeteria of the Nile Hilton . The tensions of a rapidly changing society are in even greater evidence there . Eavesdrop on the intellectuals and the ( formerly ) well-to-do , muttering against Nasser over their banana splits . " They have made paupers out of us , " whispers the ex-Pasha in his Parisian French . " Only the cardiac doctors are making money now ! When they nationalized the insurance firms , the chemical companies , the fertilizer plants ? many of my best friends had heart attacks . Myself , I got off with a skin rash . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife 's jewels impounded . It 's the end , mon vieux , the end . " To put into perspective the social convulsions of today 's Egypt one must consider the country 's past ? a melancholy history of public corruption , private greed , and economic domination by foreigners . Most distressing was the failure there of two cherished Western institutions : 86 THE BIRTH PANGS OF ARAB SOCIALISM parliamentary democracy and private enterprise . Until shortly before World War IT , the foreigners who controlled the Egyptian economy were not even subject to Egyptian law . Under the " Capitulations " system , negotiated in the eighteenth century between the Ottoman Empire and various European powers , their cases were tried in special " Mixed " and consular courts . Greek and Syrian usurers , Italians , Maltese , Lebanese , Armenians , Frenchmen , Englishmen , and Belgians turned Alexandria into a European city . Entrepreneurs from the Egyptian minorities ? the Copts and other Eastern Christians ? who did not have , or could not purchase , Foreign citizenship , sought to identify themselves with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , taxation negligible . OF course someone had to pay . That task fell to the fellahin , the long exploited , and mostly Moslem , peasantry . They had made the mistake of being horn Egyptian . The Moslem Pashas and great landowners did not treat their own people any more kindly . It took the British to restrain them from using forced labor and the lash . Egypt 's parliament , established in 1923 and modeled on the Belgian constitution , far from improving the lot of the fellahin , only seemed to intensify the rapacity of the Pashas , One wonders , did the wealthy lack pity for their own people because they were themselves ashamed of being Egyptian ? These Nilotic aristocrats tried hard to be carbon-copy Europeans . ( There were noble exceptions , of course . ) They prided themselves on their frail Arabic , and spoke it only to servants . A monument to this schizophrenic way of life is the former palace of Prince Mohammed Aly , an uncle of Farouk . ( Nasser some years ago turned it into a museum . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light bulbs from that one ; another , painted pink , is varicosed with plumbing . The decoration is a medley of Italian , Turkish , and arabesque . Nasser has always harbored a bottomless disdain for the Egyptian aristocracy . The curious thing is not that he has cleaned out the rich but that he took so long to do it . Why did he wait nine years after the Revolution before embarking on his radical socialism ? The Revolution of 1952 , although it was hailed as a total overthrow of the old order , was not really that . Its genesis came not from the fellahin , but from a group of army officers . They were of the Moslem middle class which supported Nasser from the beginning and generally saw the end of royal feudalism as an omen of greater prosperity for themselves . Although Nasser promised far-reaching reforms for the masses , his original programs were modest . NO ARAB ROCKEFELLERS H I S conversion to socialism is fairly recent ; even now he claims privately that it is empirical , not doctrinaire . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few years ago he was still publicly expressing his preference for private initiative . An insatiable reader , he has studied the U. S. economy closely and has always admired the philanthropy and public spirit of the great American capitalists . At one time he na ? vely hoped he might prod the rich in his own country into becoming Arab Melions , Rockefellers , and Fords . His original agrarian reforms affected little more than 10 per cent of the land . He hoped this would he enough to drive the capital of the large landowners into industry . Instead they began throwing up office buildings and luxury apartment blocks . He established rent controls to drive them out of real estate and into industry . Instead they put their money into the stock market . He clamped controls on the stock market , and they responded with a crippling flight of capital . In his zeal to industrialize as the quickest way to break Egypt 's vicious circle of poverty , Nasser failed to grasp that rich Egyptians were primarily of the Levantine trader rather than of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor did he understand that the trader ( wanting quick returns on short-term investments ) fares better in an unstable atmosphere than does an industrialist , who must risk more and wait longer for results . Although Egypt had the right laws " to encourage private investment " ( once a favorite phrase or Nasser 's ) it did not have the right atmosphere ? and Nasser 's foreign entanglements did little to improve it . For nearly two years following the Suez crisis , the United States contributed to Egypt 's difficulties by trying to impose an economic blockade . In an attempt to bring Nasser to heel , if not to dethrone him , we also denied the Egyptians wheat and medicines they needed badly . We responded to Nasser 's propaganda war against us with an abortive counter-campaign to discredit him in the eyes of all Arabs . Around this time , Aly Sabry , one of Nasser 's political aides , introduced a number of Marxist advisers to the President 's inner circle . Nasser 's attitude toward Egyptian Communists is well known ; whenever he finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crypto-Communists in the President 's entourage in the past , they are almost certainly not there now . But the non-Communist Socialists thrived , and their influence on the President grew each year . Dismayed by the lack of substantial gains for the masses and by the obstruction of the capitalists , Nasser , with the encouragement of the doctrinaire economists , turned to nationalization on an experimental basis . He seized the bus company because it gave inferior service , the pharmaceutical industry because it charged exorbitant prices , and other companies because they refused to act in the public interest . " A decree gave the government a controlling voice in any company in which it held a 25 per cent interest . Marshal Tito got into the act . Over the years , he has given Nasser excellent advice on how to accept Soviet aid and at the same time keep the Kremlin at bay . Nasser and his advisers were impressed by Yugoslav state planning , particularly by the fivefold increase in industrial production since 1946 and the ( claimed ) 13 per cent annual rise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience was more adaptable to Egyptian conditions than the methods of the free Western economies . Paradoxically , while Nasser was tightening government controls in Egypt , Tito was relaxing them in Yugoslavia , and resorting more and more to decentralization as an incentive to efficiency . But the plunge into Arabized Titoism , once taken , was difficult to arrest . Having frightened private enterprise , the government was compelled to rake more and more into its own hands to keep the development program moving . Nasser 's preoccupation with the growing restiveness in Syria gave the doctrinaire planners a freer hand domestically . They pushed their theories with uncompromising vigor . The radical social and economic measures of last July marked their victory and Nasser 's acceptance of pervasive state socialism as the most workable road to his often promised goal ? a doubled standard of living by 1969 . Ina series of revolutionary decrees , the government grabbed all banks and insurance corn-panies and assumed controlling interest in all major industrial and commercial enterprises . The Alexandria cotton exchange and the entire import trade were placed under rigid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely aimed at ending Communist-bloc domination of Egypt 's main export crop and source of foreign exchange . ) Individual landholdings were halved to a new maximum of about 100 acres . A confiscatory tax was placed on highly assessed real estate , a stiff graduated tax placed on all personal income , and severe limitations imposed on the amount of money anyone could earn from dividends . Sweeping new social laws were announced . Henceforth workers were to receive 25 per cent of the profits in any company . To help reduce unemployment , the work day was cut to severs hours , and laborers limited to one job per person ? a blow to the many who often must hold several jobs to make ends meet , and it has proved practically unenforceable . AN ERROR ABOUT SYRIA U NTTL last summer Nasser had directed most of his economic correctives at the upper class . Now , for the first time , he struck the pocketbooks and incentives of the middle-class Moslems ? and they howled . In effect , he transferred the base of his support to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through Egypt 's merchant classes . There was an immediate run on gold in Cairo and Alexandria . On the international market the value of the Egyptian pound tumbled . But although Nasser had quipped that there was nothing left to nationalize , he was exaggerating . Almost all the retail trade , small businesses , and , above all , the land , were left in private hands , But the Egyptian rich feared worse things to come ? with good reason , as it turned out . For in late September , the Syrian army revolted against Nasser . The socialization decrees were the last straw for the disgruntled Syrian million . aires and eincien regime politicians , although the Syrian masses stood to gain much from them . The revolt in turn intensified the runaway socialism in Cairo . Nasser erred in not allowing for the deep differences between Egyptians and Syrians . In Syria it was the rich capitalists , not the army , who kept the country running . Nasser thought that a new class , modeled on the military pre-eminence which is his mainstay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An even greater mistake was his dependence on the notorious Colonel Abdel Hamill Serraj ( a Syrian ) . It . has been said in Nasser 's defense that he might have acted differently in Syria had he not been misadvised . But in fact many of Nasser 's close cronies repeatedly urged hint to get rid of Serraj while there was still time . Nasser had always disliked Serraj personally and was disturbed by the poisoned atmosphere created by his ubiquitous secret police , and half the time did not know what Serraj was up to . But he kept putting the decision off . The irony is Nasser never really wanted union with Syria in the first place but was talked into it by a group of Damascene politicians and radical intellectuals to prevent Syria 's being devoured by the Communists . " I like pro-Nasser Syrians only slightly better than anti-Nasser ones , " he once told an intimate . Despite its many shortcomings , the union had brought an unprecedented stability to a Syria long plagued by coup and counter-coup . It is axiomatic in Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Middle East , and it had been Egyptian policy long before Nasser to prevent at any cost Syria 's alignment with forces alien to Cairo . It is unlikely that we have seen the last of Nasser 's involvement in Syrian politics . If Nasser was " heartbroken " ( and also a little relieved ? ) by the loss of Syria , the average Egyptian could probably not have cared less . The President 's remarkable personal appeal to the masses remained unshaken . As for the fclinhin ( who still comprise two-thirds of the population ) what did all the chatter about Arab unity ever mean to them ? But the extent to which Nasser now felt himself threatened by the Egyptian upper class was not generally appreciated abroad . His intelligence service bombarded him with reports of plots brewing against him , some real and sonic imagined . Minister of Interior Zakaria Mohieddin confided to friends that there was " very good evidence " that certain upper-class elements who resented the nationalization laws were planning a coup capitalizing on the confusion caused by the Syrian revolt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers produced a petition protesting nationalization of industry . The petition , it turned out , was written by a group of prominent businessmen who had paid the officers to present it . Further investigation revealed that some wealthy families had managed to get out of the country with some of their money and valuables and that bribes to army officers had done the trick . Corruption of the armyl ? the unforgivable sin in Nasser 's eyes . Only one thing to do , he decided : kill the source . Scores of former politicians , prominent businessmen . and army officers were arrested , often with little or no evidence of wrongdoing . In taking such harsh measures , Nasser deliberately forfeited much of the international acclaim won by his statesmanlike acceptance of defeat in Syria . But he felt the very existence of his regime was at stake , and he was taking no chances . Corruption and disloyalty in the army were at least partly responsible for his next radical measures . Since he could hardly admit this in public , he lashed out in his speeches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property of the wealthiest Egyptians and in effect wiped out what remained of the aristocracy . " There is no room for millionaires in our Arab Socialist society , " lie said . " I am not against individual ownership , only ownership which exploits . " Yet there is reason to believe that if the army scare had not happened Nasser might have modified his nationalization program . Only a few days before the arrests one of his top ministers was working with American financiers on a scheme to revive private enterprise in certain sectors of the economy . But now , Nasser rejected all compromise . The Revolution would ( lie unless it sustained momentum . Whatever the political and propaganda motives for Nasser 's war on the rich , it is difficult to see what economic benefits he hopes to gain . What he needs most is foreign loans and foreign exchange ? not ladies ' jewelry . Moreover it is hard to make sense of his harsh treatment of industrialists who had co-operated with his regime and whom he had often praised as model businessmen . 182 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground when he announced the complete overhaul of the sprawling , decrepit Egyptian bureaucracy . In fact , Egypt 's underpaid and often corrupt civil servants ( most of them holdovers front the old regime ) have been a major obstacle to Nasser 's reforms . A British Arabist recently wrote the definitive description of the average government department : " The bureaucrats sit in starling-hordes in the ministries , slurping coffee ; rooms of sagging files represent their accumulated malice . They never run , even to catch their own bus : naturally they do not hurry to solve problems for the public . " For the ordinary citizen to get a telephone , no fewer than 182 bureaucratic steps are required , each involving paper work . A recent investigation revealed that two million letters and packages were lost , stolen , or destroyed in the Egyptian mails last year . No wonder Nasser relies on soldiers to get anything done . To accomplish the administrative shake-up , Nasser has assigned an ex-officer who is probably the ablest of his lieutenants : Vice President Abdul Latif el Boghdady ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to Nasser in popularity as Minister for Municipal and Rural Affairs , and it was he who made Cairo the magnificent city it is today . His personal relationship with Nasser has not always been serene . They have quarreled often over such issues as the degree of democracy advisable in Egypt ( Boghdady favored more ) . At one time the Vice President was even reported to be under house arrest . Rut now apparently Nasser knows he needs Boghdady , who has been given wide economic powers and a stronger voice in over-all policy . Although doctrinaire Socialists shape Nasser 's economic philosophy , he has always preferred pragmatic top-flight technicians as ministers . Minister of Industry Dr. Aziz Sidky , for instance , is a Harvard man , Minister of Economy Dr. Abdul Moneim el Kaissouny is a product of the London School of Economics . A HarvardOxford-London group keeps the development program on its feet . " The high command is first class , " said a leading British economist in Cairo . " But the plans get caught up in the quagmire of the bureaucracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , half of Egypt 's problems will be solved . SOLDIERS IN THE FACTORY I T WOULD be erroneous to say that Nasser has done nothing for the masses . His development program got off to a chaotic start , but Western economists now agree it is quite intelligently put together , if still somewhat overambitious . Despite all obstacles , progress has been encouraging during the last few years . Nasser has promised to double the per capita income ? still around $100 a year , although he claims it is higher ? by 1969 . The goal is within reach if industrialization continues at the present rate . Since Suca , industrial production has tripled . New acreage created by the High Aswan Dam and other reclaimed land will not be enough to absorb a population increasing by more than halfa million yearly . To feed his people , and to employ the hordes migrating to the cities , Nasser must create jobs for them in factories . The average Egyptian 's real income is probably not much higher today than it was when Nasser came to power ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create the capital conditions for growth . Compared to a 2.5 per cent annual increase in population , Egypt has now achieved a 5 to 6 per cent rate of productive growth ? a real gain of just under 3 per cent . At this rate , the economy could be self-sustaining by 1969 ? possibly even by 1966 . In some areas the Egyptians have done remarkably well . They are running the Suez Canal more efficiently than the old company did , and making much more money at it ? a record of $145 million in gross income in 1960 . They have invested intelligently in transportation , telecommunications , roads , and other capital improvements . Their textiles , which rank among the world 's finest , are marketed in England and in the U. S. They have struck oil in the Sinai desert and may become self-sustaining in petroleum . They are now producing their own petrochemicals , pharmaceuticals , fertilizers , and certain types of metal products . Goods on the whole are of quite high quality and foreign exchange is being saved . Nasser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? especially in low-cost goods ? and most experts agree he will succeed in this . 01 course , to keep the development program going , he must continue to receive enormous injections of foreign aid ? at least $200 million yearly . West Germany recently provided another huge loan . Total Soviet commitments to Nasser , including arms , amount to over $800 million . But surprisingly the United States has surpassed the Soviets in the value of aid actually delivered . The U. S. since the year Nasser came to power has extended more than $567,316,000 in all forms of aid . Over $450 million of that has been granted since 1959 ? evidence of how much our relations have improved since Dulles . Nasser depends on us for one million metric tons of wheat per year . The Russians ca n't provide it , and besides he wants to lessen , not enlarge his dependence on them . The Soviet bloc is not pleased with Nasser 's new indifference to counsel from the Kremlin . The Soviets recognize his alternate road to socialism as another impediment to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slowdown in the construction of the High Dam ? Does it foreshadow the end of Soviet 00 THE BIRTH PANGS OF ARAB SOCIALISM aid ? It is too early to say . The Egyptians admit that Russian work on the darn is behind schedule ? although they insist that the most serious problems are now being overcome . For obvious reasons , Nasser wishes to increase his share of Western aid , and he now aspires to the " club " or consortium type of assistance which India and Pakistan are receiving . Indications are that he will continue to get substantial aid from us . I spent an afternoon recently at a new ceramics and porcelain plant on the outskirts of Cairo . To reach it , one drives by an industrial complex that stretches for miles : a petrol refinery , gleaming new factories which produce pencils , oxygen , jute goods , biscuits , and homogenized milk . In the ceramics plant , I found a pattern common in the country 's new industries : ex-army officers in the top executive posts , backed up by hardheaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt seems to be passing more and more to such a partnership . There is grumbling about the military men , but many of them are quite capable . The officers ? unlike the ordinary Egyptian officials ? have disciplined minds and are willing to make decisions . Intellectually and culturally , they often compare with the best of the civilian intelligentsia . And as the principal repository of power , the army is attracting more and more of Egypt 's bright young men . HALF-AWAKE MINDS D E S P I T E the obvious progress of the last few years , however , the development pro-gram has at least temporarily slowed down . The economy has not yet adjusted to the impact of the Socialist reforms ? and the vast administrative reorganization is still in the throes of confusion . To make matters worse , a pestilence list summer destroyed nearly 40 per cent of the cotton crop ? and only a last-minute American airlift of miracle insecticide prevented total disaster . At least $150 million has been lost in foreign exchange , and the effect on secondary industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Egypt is still primarily an agricultural country . The most telling yardstick of Nasser 's Revolution is what it has done for the peasants . Critics of the regime invariably claim that the fellah is worse off today than he was before the Revolution . If so . it means that Nasser 's Revolution has failed . The average peasant probably has little more money in his pocket than he did a decade ago . But in many other respects he is considerablybetter off than he was under Farouk- . Most villages now have pure water and are being rapidly electrified ; he has free medical care ; his children are required by law to go to school . He is now protected , rather than exploited by the government and has a much greater sense of security . The Agricultural Co-operative Bank grants him loans without interest . Reclaimed desert , agrarian reform , and the advanced new social laws have given him new and cheap land . His productivity has been increased through agricultural co-operatives based on individual ( not collectivized ) ownership of the land . Rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stem the emigration to the cities . For all this , the peasant is still as " poor as the needle which clothes the people but which itself remains unclad " ( a fellah saying ) . He is still racked by endemic disease ? mostly bilharzia , which carves out his insides , and trachoma , which blinds him ? and he still lives for the most part in a filthy mud-brick hovel . Many of the new benefits are negated by the increase in population . Nasser personally disapproves of birth control . But lie has permitted small pilot project of " nonofficial " family planning centers in peasant areas . One center was besieged by women demanding to know not how to stop having babies but how to have more . Logic is not the fellah 's favorite virtue . " Have you taken the medicine , Ahmed ? " " Impossible , doctor . I could n't get the spoon inside the bottle . " In his classic work on the fellahin , the Egyptian Jesuit Henri Ayrout has explained that the fellah 's lethargy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only half awake , to linger without any apparent activity in an inward dream , in that humming which lulls the laborer , in that torpor which softens the shocks of human contact : such is the basic attitude of the fellah ; a state of semi-consciousness that dissipates pain . " The fellabin may be exasperating , but the government is wise enough to avoid coercion . One can not imagine Nasser imposing co-operatives in the Stalin manner . The old people , clinging to their appalling superstitions and disease-producing habits , are dealt with leniently or left alone . As its best hope , the regime is concentrating on educating and remolding the young . The task is one not of years but of generations . In town and countryside alike , the pressure toward a more abundant life is inexorable . " Of the spiritual joys of poverty the Egyptians have had and heard enough , " Dr. Morroe Berger of Princeton has commented . " Now on to the joys BY of physical acquisition and plain materialism . " " Why do you keep your refrigerator in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mine when I visited him at home . " Because if we kept it in the kitchen no one would know we owned one , " Mohammed said . A USE FOR DREAMS ? N EVER have Nasser 's remarkable tactical gifts been more evident than since the Syrian upheaval . With his personal position threatened , he had to dramatize once again ? through lightning and ruthless action ? his ability to remain top dog . Thus in breathless sequence came the sequestration of the aristocrats ' property , cabinet changes , the alleged French plot to assassinate him , the creation of a new National Congress of Popular Powers , and in December his threat to nationalize all foreign-owned lands and his break of Egypt 's three-year-old tie with the reactionary kingdom of Yemen . The National Congress ? which is to be elected early in 1962 ? is Nasser 's answer to the pressure from Boghdady and others to . democratize the regime . Nasser made the " democratization process " extremely intricate . First , a preparatory committee was to debate and then define the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of representation in the Congress . This Congress in turn will prepare for national elections to form a final third-stage parliament which will write a permanent constitution for Egypt . Whether the Congress succeeds in evolving a unique and truly representative form of democracy for Egypt remains to be seen . Nasser realizes that he can not afford to push the process of alienation much further ? in making so many enemies among the upper and middle classes he has collided with the deep-rooted tribal traditions of Egypt . Many of the impoverished and imprisoned " enemies of the people " have brothers or relatives in the army ? and the uneasiness there is said to be growing . If he loses the loyalty of the army , he is finished . And to keep the country running he must rapidly reinforce his corps of managers and technicians to replace the tipper-class experts he has so totally alienated . He does not have much time . He hopes that within a few months his new Socialist system will have sufficiently shaken down to enable him to reduce drastically the present omnipresent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too hard on Nasser for being so suspicious . If he sees plots everywhere , it is frequently with reason . Conspiracy is the chemistry of the Arab character : Nasser himself has always had the mentality of a conspirator : he conspired his way to power , and to this clay he has consistently visualized his internal and external problems in terms of intrigue . He has always aspired to statesmanship , and has intermittently cultivated that image . He would have preferred to rule like a reticent Scandinavian , but early in the game he discovered that Egypt could only be run as it always has been run : by plotting . Nasser is art intricate , intelligent , brooding man , animated by a curious alchemy of complexes and compassion . What is the American government 's present attitude to Nasser ? Washington now recognizes his neutralism in the Cold War as genuine . In Egypt , the focus of American concern is not so much on Nasser as it is on the stability and prosperity of his people . This is why we give so much frcc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this imperfect world there is no likely alternative to Nasser but chaos or even communism . Even Vice President Boghdady , though popular , lacks the personal force to hold Egypt together . Five years ago Nasser was regarded as the West 's archenemy , but today even Whitehall realizes that his overthrow would mean an upheaval in the Middle East that would make its previous itistability seem mild by comparison . Important financial interests in America ? oil companies among them ? reason the same way . Nasser has committed many errors in governing Egypt , but he has also tangibly begun to honor his promises to its hungry millions . He is probably the first ruler Egypt ever had who really cares about its poverty . The greatest impediment to his dreams is the character of his own people ? not enough of them share his integrity and tirelessness . Thus he has set himself a task which far transcends the building of a few factories or the success of a five-year plan . He is trying to remake the very character of his people . Can he succeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socialism work and turn Egypt into a model state ? Perhaps not . But the skepticism of the outside world has always been his adrenalin . The experts said he could not run the Suez Canal : he proved them wrong . They said he had mortgaged his economy to the Soviets and had joined the Communist camp ; they were wrong again . The obstacles are infinitely greater today . And yet somehow one feels that in the years to come a less wretched Egypt will look back and thank God that Nasser was a dreamer.                     