@@213829

THE Palestinian guerrillas who are sworn to destroy Israel seem to stand a far better chance of destroying some of the Arab countries that serve as their springboards of operation . Lebanon and Jordan , in particular , know that raids mounted from within their borders will bring harsh Israeli retaliation , but have proved too weak to crack down on their often uninvited guests . Last week an attempt by Lebanon 's army to curb the fedayeen ( " men of sacrifice " ) brought the country face-to-face with the specter of civil war . The fighting reportedly left 40 guerrillas and 25 soldiers dead , spurred violence in several major cities , prompted Syria to mobilize troops along the border and sent shock waves through the Middle East-and beyond . In the U.S. , the State Department warned that a " major tragedy " could be in the making . <P> The crisis is rooted in Lebanon 's volatile ethnic makeup . Roughly half of its 2,700,000 citizens are Christian , half Moslem . The Lebanese , jealous of their position as the eastern Mediterranean 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conglomerate intact for 26 years by means of a scrupulously observed gentleman 's agreement . It provides that the President of the republic-currently Charles Helou-should always be a Maronite Catholic , the Premier a Sunnite Moslem , and the Speaker of Parliament a Shia Moslem . Parliament is apportioned on a 6-to-5 ratio favoring Christians , as are the army and the civil service . From time to time , the system has come close to collapse . Until last week , its severest test occurred in 1958 , when strife between the sects led President Eisenhower to dispatch the U.S. Sixth Fleet and 14,500 Marines to prevent an Arab takeover . <P> Crack Down . Whether the Lebanese or the Al-Fatah guerrillas provoked the fighting is unclear . Certainly , the army has long been edgy . Last December , in retaliation for guerrilla actions elsewhere , Israeli commandos carried out a raid on Beirut airport . Lebanon 's generals , humiliated that the nation lost 13 commercial airplanes without being able to strike back , were chafing to crack down on the guerrillas , who were moving across the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been spoiling for a fight for months . Last spring , army attempts to control the commandos led to street demonstrations in which 17 died . The riots caused the downfall of the government of Rashid Karami , who resigned to avoid a confrontation that would hurt Lebanon , but stayed on as caretaker Premier . After the riots , the guerrillas tacitly agreed to operate only along Lebanon 's border with Israel and to keep away from civilian settlements against which the Israelis could retaliate . Despite the agreement , they have tripled their forces to about 5,400 men and set up new camps deeper inside Lebanese territory . Two weeks ago . apparently without bothering to check with Helou or Karami , the army moved . Arguing that the fedayeen were endangering civilian communities , troops encircled two score guerrillas in the village of Majdel Silm in southern Lebanon . Before the guerrillas could retreat into neighboring Syria , 14 were slain .                     