@@218099

The subject matter helps . In his second Look installment of the Death of a President . William Manchester is dealing with true historical drama-the assassination of President Kennedy . In this case , his Jackie Kennedy-authorized access to the people involved helps produce an authoritative , powerful account of the Dallas tragedy . Politics are left aside , and those caught up in the event emerge as neither heroes nor villains . The Secret Service is pictured some what confused and leaderless , but other than that , no one involved should have anything to complain about-unless it is the personal pain of having to relive Nov. 22 , 1963 . <P> Even Manchester 's description of Vice President Johnson is sympathetic . His portrait of L.B.J. after the assassination is that of a man overwhelmed " While he had already succeeded to the office , he did n't realize it , and the slumped figure in the hospital bore little resemblance to the shrewd , assured President Johnson the country came to know . " Kennedy 's assistant press secretary Mac Kilduff , reported that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , he " looked at me like I was Donald Duck . " In the confusion Secret Service agents urged Johnson to take the J.F.K. presidential plane out of Dallas . It was L.B.J. who balked at the idea and flatly refused to board the plane until he had express approval from Kennedy 's staff . As for the Lady Bird , she insisted on going first to do what she could to comfort Jackie Kennedy and Nellie Connally . <P> A Sole Assassin . In the hour following the assassination , normally lucid people did strange things . Since the murdered President had been scheduled to make a luncheon address at the Dallas Trade Mart , Lady Bird 's press secretary , Liz Carpenter , assumed that the Vice President would make the speech . She hurried to the mart only to discover , of course , that scarcely anyone was there . In Parkland Hospital , medical attendants struggled to remove the critically wounded Governor 's clothes . It was Connally , finally , who had the presence of mind to remind them , " Why not cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account lies not so much in the new details he supplies as in the methodical way in which he reconstructs events . His own exhaustive investigation led him to conclude that the same bullet which passed through President Kennedy 's neck also struck Connally-thus making Lee Harvey Oswald the sole assassin . He also narrates a harrowing little episode involving Caroline Kennedy . Fearing that an attempt might be made on the lives of the Kennedy family , a Secret Service agent named Tom Wells picked up Caroline from some friends and started driving her away in an unmarked car . Another motorist spotted Caroline in the car , and thinking she had been abducted , gave hot pursuit . After a highspeed chase , Wells finally managed to escape .                     