@@441511

TIERE never has been a satisfactory set of rules for the vice presidency . The job itself , as one historian put it , was " almost an afterthought at the Constitutional Convention . " Not until Harry S. Truman suddenly found himself in the White House an almost totally uninformed President did the chief executives really try to bring their Vice Presidents into the inner circle and to keep them thoroughly informed . This applies especially to foreign and military problems . The Kennedy-Johnson relationship is con-siderably different from the Eisenhower-Nixon relationship . A great deal of nonsense was written at the beginning of each of these administrations about how the President was going to make more use of his Vice President than ever before . What-ever the good intentions , neither relationship bore out the promise . Johnson , like Nixon before him , sits at the National Security Council table , He has specially assigned duties in the fields of defense and civil ' rights . Eisenhower tended to look upon the much younger Nixon as the " my boy " he once called him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attribute was in the field of congressional politics , a rather chartless mire to Ike . Johnson , however , not only is older than Kennedy but was also much his senior in congressional experience and leadership when they took office . Kennedy felt he needed Johnson to win the election , which proved to be true , and also to help run the new Administration , which has turned out to be less true . Johnson and Congress " His heart is on the Hill , " a White House aide once remarked about Johnson . And , in fact , he has been unable to break away from his strong emotional attachment to the Congress , which heloves and which he served so long . He can be found in his Capitol office more often than anywhere else in Washington . But he has not been able to do much to help the Kennedy program get through Congress . He was named to preside over Senate Democratic caucuses , but there was sufficient resentment to put all but a formal end to that . He has done a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate and the House , and there is reason to think that some of this back-room work has paid off . But Johnson can not say so ; indeed , he must be and he is totally mum about it . Hence , he gets little credit , but at least he avoids a congressional storm over what would be called interference . A Vice President must use his executive authority if he is to establish a public image of sufficient importance to produce a presidential nomination . That is what Nixon did and what Johnson is doing . The trouble , however , is that a Vice President must not seem to be trying to take over presidential functions . After all , whatever executive authority he has is his solely at the presidential pleasure . Johnson in Congress was not an originator ? that is , he was not one who conceived new legislative aims . His work today as head of both the Space Council and the Equal Employment Opportunity Committee appears to be in much the same vein . He listens to the scientists or the specialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines set by Kennedy ; and he gives broad direction to both these groups . But those who work with him say he is impatient with the details . And those who have observed him at the National Security Council table or in other top-level meetings at the White House on foreign policy problems say he seldom offers a new thought or proposal ; rather , he comments on those put forward , and when the President is on hand , he does so only occasionally . White House aides contend that the President has given Johnson every opportunity . Certainly , in public Kennedy has been extravagant in his praise of the Vice President , and there has been no private word or rumor of presidential dissatisfaction . But the two men are very different . Kennedy absorbs quantities of reports and books , magazines and newspapers ; Johnson scans the papers and press clippings , but only now and then does he read a book . He likes the broad brush rather than the fine stroke . Personal di ploi naey Johnson , like Nixon , has taken trips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the image of a man of wide experience and considerable wisdom . Both Vice Presidents have been circumscribed by presidential directives its advance and by State Department diplomats all along the route . Earls broke through the traditional diplomacy to engage in personal diplomacy with reasonable success abroad . But the results at home have hardly been sensational . For eight years Nixon had to watch and wait for the great moment which finally came at the Republican convention in 1960 . In addition , lie had to suffer through three Eisenhower illnesses , critical times when the nation observed his every move to see hose he would behave . Now Johnson , though he has been spared any serious Kennedy illnesses , is in the same unhappy position . Johnson says nothing about his White House ambitions , but he can hardly deny them . Yet there is still six years to go , assuming a second successful Kennedy-Johnson ticket . At least Kennedy has gone on the public record for Johnson 's renomination , in contrast to the public foot-dragging by Eisenhower its Nixon 's case , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post . Politics often is very cruel . In this modern age , it is probably cruelest in the ordeal of an ambitious Vice President . The Negro 's rights The centennial of Emancipation is close at hand . When it has passed , the American Negro will still be far from his goal of equality , but no one can doubt that the movement in that direction has accelerated in the past few years with what to the historians , at least , will seem like incredible speed . In the field of public education , the center of controversy this fall has moved into the very heart of Dixie , to the hard-core states of Alabama , Georgia , and Mississippi . Massive resistance is long since dead in Virginia ; the parochial schools have opened their doors at long last to both races its Louisiana ; and the man who used the National Guard against the racists in Tennessee , Frank Clement , is about to be elected governor once more . Resistance its the hard-core states has been intense , and setbacks were inevitable . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second Appomattox . The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , whose very initials were so long the object of such hate , now seems tame its the South compared with CORE ( the Congress of Racial Equality ) and the SCLC ( Southern Christian Leadership Conference ) , which bespeak the new militancy of the young Negro . Even the Southern senators its the end put up no more than token resistance to the elevation to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the former N.A.A.C.P. counsel . Thur. good Marshall . - A good many of these actionists consider the Kennedy Administration too hesitant and too slow . Yet the Justice Department has filed a score of suits against voter discrimination in Mississippi , and a number elsewhere , all designed to break down the stalling against Negro registration and voting . The President and his brother the Attorney General have kept up a steady pressure , and their opponents seem to realize that it will continue indefinitely . One new factor of potential but as yet untested importance now has been added to the civil rights battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reapportionment rulings , which have followed the lifting of the long-time Supreme Court ban on judicial entry into what justice Frankfurter once called the " political thicket " of malapportionment of the state legislatures . The resulting shift from rural dominance to at least a reasonable degree of power for the urban communities has very great meaning in the South , where the Negro voter already has gained a healthy foothold in the cities . In short , the Negro vote is going to be worth courting , as this year 's election campaigns have already indicated . The civil rights struggle in the South , plus the vast movement of Southern Negroes to Northern cities , has made segregation a national issue . The politicians in the North have been as shameful in their own way as those in the South in exploiting the race issue , and the Northern Negro voter , as well as the Southern Negro , no longer wants mere words . The anxiety about Cuba Washington diplomats arc inclined to believe that Cuba is the most dangerous of the world 's trouble spots . Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin crisis has been with to for more than fifteen years . Its details have been argued over within both power blocs and between the two to the point that each side knows rather well the limits of maneuverability . It was felt in the Capital that the Soviet offer in early September to put the Berlin issue on ice until after the November elections was , among other things , a recognition of the narrow limits of Soviet action within an acceptable degree of risk . In Vietnam , the East-West struggle is both remote from the two centers of power and fought to a high degree through proxies . The Communist aim most certainly is to create a military and psychological situation similar to that which in neighboring Laos brought forth a coalition government of dubious ability to withstand Communist penetration . There arc other trouble spots in the Far East , but at the moment none has reached an active state of international conflict . Cuba is something else again . The emotions within the United States over Castro 's Cuba were first made widely evident in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Communist regime only ninety miles from our shores had Nixon on the defensive . In this fall 's campaign , the political shoe is on the other foot . The President has tried hard to negate the political effects of Cuba ; only the election returns will tell with what SUCCESS . Americans so long ignored their Latin neighbors to the South that an overreaction probably was inevitable once they woke up to trouble south of the border . The rioting against Nixon was a shocker ; Cuban Communism was a clincher . Instability in such important nations as Argentina and Brazil , plus the historical standoffishness of Mexico toward any action against Castro , has added to our sense of frustration . For months /10W , members of Congress who have been home on weekends have reported on their return to Washington that of all foreign worries , Cuba is foremost in the minds of the voters . A good many analysts in the Capital feel that , whereas the Soviet Union has come to understand the Kennedy Administration 's position on Berlin , it does not understand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by MOSCOW on Cuba showed alarm over the growing U.S. public belligerence ; but it also viewed the American reaction through Marxist spectacles , a highly dangerous process . Nor is it any answer to say , as Communist diplomats in Washington have been saying , that after all there are U.S. missiles and other weapons right up against the Soviet frontier in Turkey , if not elsewhere . The American mood does not respond to such logic . There is another factor , too . This is the President 's own inner feelings about the abortive Bay of Pigs venture early in his Administration . Those close to him say that , while he seems to have put it behind him , he also has never forgiven himself , that somehow or other he must he conscious of his own desire to right the record . No one close to the President is suggesting that he wants to invade Cuba with American arms , but this sort of talk is being heard among the many Cuban refugee factions . And at least some of these factions have been trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the future of the Alliance for Progress and with the whole East-West struggle ; and regardless of threats of reaction from the Kremlin , American policy makers must consider the worldwide consequences of every step taken against Castro . This is not easy to explain to the voters , especially if Cuba is related in the public mind to the desirability of a Republican as against a Democratic candidate for Congress . LAST December , shortly before Christmas , one of those trivial accidents occurred which can weigh so heavily in the fate of nations . Francisco Franco was out hunting in the woods surrounding his palace at El Pardo , near Madrid , when his rifle blew up , tearing a deep gash in his left hand . The 69-year-old Generalissimo was rushed to a Madrid clinic , where , before submitting to anesthetics for the operation , he summoned four of his closest military colleagues : Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco , who has served him for the last twenty years as Cabinet secretary ; and generals Antonio Barroso , Minister of War ; Camilo Alonso Vega , Ministei @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Captain General of Spain and the highest-ranking officer in the Spanish Army . This precautionary measure was typical of the Caudillo 's pragmatic unconcern for constitutional procedures . By the terms of the Act of Succession of 1947 , it is the twelve-man Council of the Realm which is supposed to take over if anything happens to the Spanish Chief of State . Its octogenarian chairman , Esteban de Bilbao , who is also president of the Cortes , was not even consulted by Franco . The fact is that today , as for the past twenty-five years , the army remains the ultimate arbiter of the country 's destiny . The hunting-rifle accident had its interesting sequel seven months later , when Franco revamped his Cabinet in July . In the interim he had been obliged to take antibiotics to check a gangrenous condition in his hand . Even for a man of Franco 's cohstitution , a six-month antibiotics treatment is a punishing prescription . By midsummer it Was obvious even to Franco himself that he was not necessarily destined to be immortal . Due allowance for the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the Generalissimo named a vice president of the Council of Ministers , General Augustin Munoz Grandes , whose job it would be to act both as deputy and immediate successor should Franco be obliged to relinquish the reins . Even more revealing , perhaps , was Franco 's subsequent decision to retire directly to his prop-erty at El Pazo de Meirds in his native Galicia , instead of repairing in July to the summer capital of San Sebastidn . He thus turned over the government for two months to another man , something which had not happened in Spain since he took power . It would be premature to conclude from this that Franco 's twenty-three-year reign is now virtually ended . For in making Munoz Grandes his immediate successor , Franco once again demonstrated that Galician peasant 's guile which has so long permitted bins to play his opponents off against each other . Munoz Grandes , who suffers from stomach ulcers and is only two years younger than Franco , could hardly aspire to be anything more than an interim ruler . Furthermore , he is only lukewarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stage a quiet coup d'etat to bring back the 48-year-old pretender , Don Juan de Bourbon , whom Franco would like to eliminate from the running . The Cabinet shake-up The Cabinet shake-up of July was typical of Franco 's political subtlety in another respect . The government was " liberalized , " but at the same time the number of general officers in Cabinet posts was increased from three to seven . The velvet glove only thinly disguised the iron hand . The July shake-up did , however , constitute a clear victory for the most dynamic elements in the Cabinet , the pro-Europeans , led by Fernando Marfa Castiella , the Foreign Minister , and the Ministers of Commerce and Finance , Alberto Ullastres and Mariano Navarro Rubio . The last two have been the architects of Spain 's remarkable economic recovery , which , beginning with the devaluation of the peseta and the stabilization program of 1959 , has resulted in a gradual buildup of the country 's gold and foreign exchange reserves to nearly the billion-dollar mark . Prior to last July , their efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulus of foreign investment and free-enterprise competition were hampered by the ill-disguised hostility of the Falangist Minister of Industry , Joaquin Planell Riera , a notorious champion of economic autarky . His successor , Gregorio Lopez Bravo , the 39-year-old head of the Foreign Exchange Institute , vas clearly appointed to pursue a policy of attracting foreign capital . A close associate of Ullastres and Navarro Rubio 's , Bravo has been linked , like them , to the Opus Dei , the increasingly influential Catholic secular movement , which has established a powerful grip on Spain 's major banking and business institutions . Though conservative in its political orientation , the Opus Dei has proved it elf to be pro-European , and to that extent progressive in its economic policies , which are now more than ever aimed at obtaining Spain 's admission to the Common Market . Some 41 percent of Spain 's exports went to Common Market countries last year , with another 25 percent going to the countries of the Europeans Free Trade area . Spain 's permanent exclusion from the Common Market could one day become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports equal those of Italy , Israel , Tunisia , Algeria , and Morocco combined . It was this economic prospect which led the Spanish government in February to make a formal request to Brussels for association with the Common Market . The workers and the Church The immediate consequences of the policy of economic Europeanization could hardly have been foreseen by its authors . Full Spanish membership in the European Economic Community would automatically entail a sweeping liberalization of the existing regime , since Common Market members must subscribe to certain democratic principles , beginning with the rights to form labor unions and to stage strikes , outlawed in present-day Spain . The internal stresses created by the Spanish government 's new economic tack were dramatically brought out last April , when an unprecedented strike wave broke out in the coal mines of Asturias in northern Spain . Ten or fifteen years ago the strikes would have been brutally quelled ; hundreds of strikers would have been arrested , and a few tried and shot as a warning to the rest . A country dedicated to authoritarian rule and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so a country which is trying to prove to the world that it is undergoing a process of liberalization and which has just applied for admission to an international customs union . The result Was the Spanish government 's unprecedented passivity , with , as its inevitable concomitant , a steady spread of the strikes , eventually involving 150,000 workers . In mid-May the country was treated to the extraordinary spectacle of having the chief of the state-run syndicate movement , Jose Solis Ruiz , make a pilgrimage to Oviedo , in Asturias , to negotiate with the miners ' ' representatives , who had , by simply going on strike , put themselves officially beyond the law . Only in early , June , after the government had quietly capitulated and granted the northern millers wage raises of from 25 to 30 percent , to keep pace with the increase in the cost of living , did Franco filially dare come out in a speech made in Valencia and attack the right to strike as an instrument of " social division " and a " luxury reserved for rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the face of the greatest strike wave the country has seen since the Civil War was clue also to the increasing opposition to the regime now manifested by the Spanish Catholic Church . This opposition was given the green light almost from the day John XXIII became Pope four years ago . Unlike his predecessor , Pope Pius XII , who was above all a diplomat , John XXIII is the son of a peasant family and instinctively understands that the future of Spain and of the Church in Spain is linked with the fate of the peasants and the workers . He does not have his predecessor 's personal reasons for being grateful to Franco for having accorded the Church the best terms it had been granted in a long time in the Concordat of 1953 . It is also probable that the new Pope places less faith in the semisecret Opus Dei , which Pius XII 's papal nuncio , Cardinal Hildebrando Antoniutti , was given instructions to further in every possible way . Last June , Antoniutti was replaced by a new nuncio , Archbishop Antonio Riberi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy , who lost no time in making it clear that he would execute the Vatican 's instructions regardless of whether this seas pleasing to the Spanish government or not . The Vatican 's new line The new line was first intimated in November of 1960 , when Enrique Plaey Deniel , the Cardinal Primate of Spain , sent a letter to Jose Solis , warning him of trouble if his union officials scent on hampering the efforts of the Catholic Action brotherhoods in the workers ' world . It was spelled out in great detail in May of 1961 in the papal encyclical dialer et . tlagistra , which justified the right to strike . The reaction of the Spanish Catholic hierarchy to this new Vatican line has been anything but homogeneous . More likely than not , it has been followed obediently rather than enthusiastically by the 84-yearold Cardinal Primate himself , who has never been outspokenly anti-Franco . However , Pla y Deniel has loyally followed the Vatican , and when the reactionary bishop of San Sebastian sought to take an independent tack last April by declaring that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get endorsement front the Primate . In February of this year the liberal bishop of Bilbao , Pablo Ourpicle , denounced the weakness of social conscience of " those Catholics who think that there are people predestined to enjoy wealth and abundance ... while others must satisfy themselves with the crumbs fallen from the table of the mighty . " This was followed in March by a warning issued by the archbishop of Seville , Bueno y Monreal , reminding the wealthy landlords of Andalusia of St. James 's stern indictment of the " corruption of riches . " He went on to suggest that the minimum decent wage for a married worker with two children was 110 to 120 pesetas a clay ( $1.82 to $2.00 ) . The pastoral letter in which this recommendation was contained was read from pulpits in the northern provinces of Biscaya and Guiptizcoa , thus indirectly setting the stage for the strikes of April and May . The strikes , which began on April 7 at the coal mine of Mieres , where half a dozen face cutters were summarily dismissed for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , quickly crystallized into a general demand for a minimum wage of 100 pesetas ( $1.66 ) a day . In Andalusia there were similar demands among agricultural laborers , for a 100 percent raise front 35 to 70 pesetas a day , the 70 pesetas being considered the absolute vital minimum by the archbishop of Seville . No single organization can claim credit for the strikes . However , it is certain that they received powerful encouragement front the Catholic Action brotherhoods , whose mission it has been , ever since they were set up in 1946 , to bring the gospel to the hitherto largely atheistic workers ' world . This encouragement so irritated Franco that in a bellicose speech made before some 12,000 reserve officers on May 29 he denounced the Church 's lay movements as " often the object of Communist in filtra dons " and encouraged by " the excesses of certain Basque separatist priests . " By mid-May the crisis between church and state , exacerbated by arrests of priests and Catholic Action workers , had reached such proportions that a top-level meeting had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whom Franco was considering sending to Rome with the threat of denouncing the 1953 Concordat . In the end a compromise was reached whereby the Church 's apostolic mission was once again emphasized , while the Spanish government worked out a series of new wage agreements in several hundred different enterprises . Whether the government has managed to prevent further labor unrest remains to he seen . The workers of OPPOSITION leaders in Ghana began straggling out of prisons this year just as opposition leaders in Nigeria began heading into restriction . The closeness of the events added an ironic touch to the west African scene . Ghana long has been pictured as an impatient , harsh , one-party state . Nearby Nigeria has seemed an easygoing bastion of democracy in independent Africa . Yet recent events have confused these images . This is no great loss . The images never were completely true . Perhaps the most distorted image has been of Nigeria . Both Britain and the United States have smugly accepted Nigeria as the model for democracy in Africa . This is easy to do . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many parties , spirited elections , a meaningful legislature ? all absent in Ghana . But there are disturbing elements in Nigeria as well : corrupt government , a feudal society for more than half the people , a rush to strangle the opposition , severe poverty , a growing class of wealthy capitalists . These elements usually are glossed over by Nigeria 's numerous boosters . Nigeria is the largest African state , with a population somewhere between 40 and 50 million . Unlike most of the new independent countries in Africa , Nigeria has adopted a system which allows more than one political party to flourish . But these parties have been regional and tribal , and , in actual fact , Nigeria has been a federation of three regions , each tending to fall under control of a single party . The northern region , feudal and Muslim , comprises more than half the population . This is romantic , backward Nigeria , the region of ancient walled cities , of the Hausa-Fulani tribes , of emirs , of loud tossers , of camels , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a party relying on the autocratic strength of the emirs , rules the north with iron will and power . This hold on the north gives the NPC nearly effective control of the Federation , for the NPC has just less than a majority of the seats in the federal House of Representatives . The federal Prime Minister , Sir Abubakar Tarawa Balewa , is deputy leader of the NPC and presumably takes instructions from the leader , the Sardauna of Sokoto , who is Premier of North Nigeria . The NPC rules the federal government in coalition with the National Council of Nigerian Citizens , the dominant party in East Nigeria . The NCNC basically is the party of the Ibo tribe . It has a long history in Nigeria , for the Ibos , led by Dr. Nnamdi Azikwe , were in the forefront of aggressive , radical nationalism . Now Dr. Azikwe has agreed to be Governor-General ? a post with a high title but little power ? and the party , a partner in government , appears to have muted much of its radicalism . In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aimed at NCNC ministers . The active opposition The third major party , the Action Group , makes up the federal opposition and rules West Nigeria , the land of the Yoruba tribe and the richest area in the country . The Yorubas are an urbanized tribe with magnificent artistic skills and long contact with the West . In the last year or two there have been significant changes within the Action Group . The party leader , Chief Obafemi Awolowo , who is leader of the federal opposition , attempted to transform the party from a Yoruba organization into a national party . He urged the Action Group to appeal to the country 's growing number of dissatisfied young men , of all tribes , Under Awolowo 's direction , the party has adopted a manifesto of " democratic socialism " and has called for neutralism in the cold war . Many observers have doubted Awolowo 's sincerity , pointing to his capitalist and Western leanings in the past . But there is no doubt that Awolowo , whatever his personal views , is sincere in believing the Action Group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , neutralist , nationalist approach . But Awolowo 's way provoked strong opposition this year within the Action Group itself , particu- laxly from the deputy leader , Chief Samuel I Akintola . Premier of Vest Nigeria . Akintola , who represented the views of the chiefs and conservative businessmen in the party , derided the young radicals around Awolowo and their democratic socialism . He considered them dreamers . The party , in his view , never would be anything but regional . It was a waste of time and money to try ' to transform it . The battle over control Awolowo and Akintola also battled over distribution of power . Awolowo , as leader of the federal opposition , sat in Lagos , the federal capital , while his party ruled in lbadan , the western regional capital . Awolowo attempted to control policy in Madan , and this was resisted by Akintola , who wanted no interference with his government . await the verdict before plunging West Nigeria into crisis . On May 25 , the West Nigerian Assembly met to vote confidence in the new Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayer , a supporter of Akintola leaped upon a desk and shouted , " Fire , snake , fire . " He danced across a line of desks , waving his arms wildly . He picked up a chair and flung it onto the floor of the House . Other chairs flew and splintered . A minister toppled to the floor . Another Akintola supporter picked up the mace , chased the Speaker , and then smashed it in two . Federal police advanced into the chamber and fired tear gas . The House emptied . Two hours later , the House attempted to meet again , but shouting , table pounding , scuffling , and tear gas emptied the chamber once more . As soon as tear-gas pellets struck the floor of the House , the NPC and the NCNC realized they now had a chance to destroy the Action Group . A state of emergency Sir Abubakar , the Prime Minister , convened the Federal Parliament on May 29 . The government coalition overwhelmed the Action Group opposition and declared a state of emergency in the western region . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete breakdown of law and order in West Nigeria , ignoring the fact that the region , save for a dozen legislators , had been quiet and calm . The government argument also failed to consider that a handful of men had accomplished by lighting what they could not do by voting . Sir Abubakar appointed Minister of Health Moses A. Majekodunmi as administrator of West Nigeria for seven months . During the emergency , Dr. Majekodunmi is dictator of the western region . He already has used his vast powers to ban all political demonstrations in the region . He also has restricted nearly forty political leaders , most of whom are members of the Awolowo faction of the Action Group . The restriction orders scatter these men to inaccessible towns throughout the region . The Action Group , under Awolowo , was the single major party in Nigeria that attempted to reflect the views of the angry , grumbling youth . For a while , it seemed that these young intellectuals had seized control of the party . But their victory was snatched away by rioters within the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Will they give up on Nigeria 's democratic system and look elsewhere to satisfy their discontent ? The most significant results of the current Nigerian emergency may lie in the answers to these questions . Ghana 's political prisoners A visitor to Ghana at the time of these Nigerian troubles could detect a note of gleeful satisfaction . " The West is always shouting about our preventive detention , " said one young Ghanaian . " Now let 's hear some shouts about Nigeria . " During the sniping , Ghana Preside , ' Kwamc Nkrumah released 160 political prisoners . Nkruinah 's action actually was unrelated to the Nigerian restrictions . On May 5 , almost a month before the Nigerian emergency , be had promised Ghana that the time had come to let some of his opponents out of detention . Their release signaled that Nkrumah felt that opposition in Ghana , both organized and unorganized. no longer threatened his regime . In this , Ile clearly was premature , for less than two months later a bomb thrower attempted to kill the President . Aside from preventive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , does Ghana have a democratic atmosphere ? The question is difficult to answer . Friends of Ghana find many democratic elements . Even though there is , in effect , a single party , this party is all-embracing , absorbing opinions from all aspects of Ghanaian life . Ghana seems to bristle with a strident nationalism , and yet one toast not forget that Nkrumah is trying to create in a few years a united nation , a national myth , and a national hero . A Western observer has difficulty seeing this . The CPP rallies seem one-sided , with the party lecturing rather than listening to the people . People do not seem to have political opinions , only slogans . Nevertheless , ice Peruvian military junta , which in July nullified the results of the presidential elections and assumed civil power , remains in effective control of the nation . The junta of General Manuel Perez Godoy , chairman of the Peruvian Joint Chiefs of Staff , General Nicolas Lindley Lopez , head of the army , Vice Admiral Juan Francisco Torres Matos , the navy chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force , is one of the most thoroughly misunderstood forces on the confusing Latin American scene . Washington and a number of South American governments vigorously denounced the junta when it took over , on the stated grounds that the military had interfered with due electoral process . It must have been especially embarrassing to Washington to find General Lindley on the junta , because Secretary of Defense McNamara had in 1961 awarded him the U.S. Legion of Merit for , among other cited virtues , his " consistent support of democratic principles . " The United States stopped $81 million in Alliance for Progress cconomic aid to Peru , canceled military assistance running at the rate of $5 million a year , and threatened to cut off Peru 's privilege of selling $19 million worth of sugar to the United States at preferential prices . But the outrage in Washington and the eight other nations that had broken diplomatic relations with Peru was short-lived . Within a few weeks , after the junta had made some conciliatory gestures and had demonstrated its grip on power , it was recognized as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conservative and right-wing force that Latin American military establishments have been generally assumed to be , the junta is actually far to the left . The generals of the junta quickly allowed the Communist priest Father Salamon Bolo Hidalgo to return to Peru . Father Bolo had been exiled by the outgoing government of the moderate President Manuel Prado for violating a decree thatrequired Peruvian citizens to receive official permission before making trips to Communist countries . The junta not only restored Father Bolo 's civic privileges but also voided the regulation that he had broken by attending a Communist congress in Russia . Once back in Peru , Father Bolo gave thanks by attacking the papal nuncio and the United States and praising Russia and Khrushchey , and he advised General Perez Godoy to make a pilgrimage to Moscow before taking a stand on the issue of Communism . The junta 's tolerance of the Red father represents some degree of acquiescence to his views , or at the very least an instance of the distasteful neutralist habit of blackmailing the United States by allowing local Communists to carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fearing that the junta has a strong penchant for leftist extremism . The Peruvian armed forces have , rightly or wrongly , considered themselves , the toughest in South America , and have taken it for granted that they therefore deserved a major voice in national political affairs . This voice they had under a succession of dictatorships ? dictatorships which , incidentally , always enjoyed the support of the Communists because it was in the interest of the far left to collaborate with the far right in crushing the democratic center . But the political power of the military waned during the moderate 19561962 government of President Prado , and the soldiers did not like it . Prado 's reliance on civilian support undermined the old alliance of the military , the well-to-do , and the Church , which , like Prado , drifted away from association with the armed forces . As a result , the military , and , in particular , a restive corps of younger officers and noncoms , sought a new political place to stand . These soldiers decided that if the well-to-do and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideology that sneered at their former friends . Given the military 's past collaboration with Communism , the shift was not too hard to The army and APRA have been bitter , perennial enemies . Haya de la Torre began his political career right after World War I as a Communist . But while he was in exile during the 1920s he visited the Soviet Union and became convinced that Communism was not the answer for South America . Ever since , he and APRA have stood for a reasonable program of land reform , labor legislation , industrialization , incorporation of Peru 's neglected 50 percent Indian population into modern civic life , and constitutional democracy . This program has been a threat and a challenge to both the army and the aristocracy , as well as to the Communists , who in the past found the ground being cut out from under them by APRA , and who have or thirty years attacked Haya as a " social fascist . " The feud between the army and APRA was fanned to white heat by repeated military exilings of Haya @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city of Trujillo . There APRA revolted : its goon squads were massacred by the military ; and the gulf between the two enemies has been unbridgeable ever since . ' Two million votes were cast in the election : and at the end of the count , Haya led by a whisker , although tee lacked the legally required one third of the votes to win . The decision , therefore , was due to be thrown into the Congress , according to the law . As he saw the vote running against him , Belannde charged fraud . The army agreed with him . The army pulls the strings Between the counting and the scheduled convocation of Congress , the negotiating among the three political factions was intense . Haya , knowing that he had the army and its Irian , Belanncle , to reckon with , tried to arrive at an arrangement . One possibility was for Haya to let Belanncle have the presidency in return for a dominant APRA voice in the Cabinet . From the beginning of their negotiations , Flaya was conciliatory in the extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his stipulations , Beladitcle abruptly broke off the talks . He fled to the city of Arequipa and melodramatically hacl his followers erect barricades around his unendangercd local headquarters . The army was pulling the strings . It had told Belatinde to go through the motions of negotiations with APRA but not to reach an accord under any circumstances . It had ordered Belatinde 's histrionic hegira to Arequipa . Finally , the army wrote ' the script with which Belannde , the civilian , called on the military to overthrow the Prado government , The army bided its time for a hit , while Haya turned to negotiations with the third presidential candidate , General Odria . The meetings went well ; it was virtually understood that APRA would throw its votes in Congress to Odria for the presidency , as balm to the military , in return for an APRA majority in the Cabinet . When the military sass that an Haya-Odria accord was at hand ? an accord that would have spelled a term of stability and moderation for Peru ? they struck on their own behalf . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electoral tribunal , dissolved Congress , suspended constitutional guarantees temporarily , and scheduled their . dictatorship to last at least until the new elections that they promised for June , 1963 . While the armed forces are not unanimous in their heading toward the far left , it is to be expected that the junta will use the coming months to fortify Bela6nde and to erode his political rivals . However , the military and BelaUnde do not have a clear field before them . Much will depend on how well the moderate forces of Peru can rally their individual strengths and on how well they can forge a democratic front together . The need for new blood APRA , the classic moderate political force of Peru , has a lot of rebuilding to do . APRA 's decline from its past peaks of popularity was measured by Haya 's failure to get one third of the vote ( he beat Belatinde by only 14,000 ) and , even more significantly , by its inability to mount a called general strike against the junta . Part of the trouble with APRA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a renovation of leadership is badly needed . The former mass base of APRA has dwindled amid the frustrations of seeing power elude the party 's grasp for decade after decade . The growing radicalization of Peru and South America has undercut APRA too ; the most exciting political platforms , to the minds of the impatient and the untutored , are now advanced by the Communists and their fronts . Oddly enough , in tandem with a revitalized APRA , General Odria can do a good deal to strengthen the center . The former dictator is favorably remembered by perhaps 30 percent of the electorate for his programs of public works and for a strong hand that spared Peru such political uncertainties as now beset it . Odria stands for the traditional personalism of South American politics . Constructively handled , such personalism can develop into the more modern political form of organized cooperation , and it can be a bar to the " collective leadership " that only thinly veils the Communist cult of personality . An evolving Church also holds forth hope . Lima 's able and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calm before and during the elections with a series of cogent and moving appeals to the faithful . On the eve of the military coup , the cardinal spoke impassionedly to the generals : " In the name of our Holy Mother , the Church , I beg of you not to break the legal order . " The Peruvian hierarchy has taken the counsel of the encyclical Miller el Magistra deeply to heart and is making earnest strides in a progressive direction . But the evolution of the Church still suffers from a lack of definition and control . While few of the Catholic clergy in Peru are as extreme as the notorious Father Bolo , there are many priests and nuns who have personally and mistakenly interpreted the encyclical as a signal to rally to Belatinde 's AP , and who in good but naive faith are lending aid and comfort to a political movement whose victory will inevitably spell the extinction of the Church nide- , ? pendent . What we can do U.S. policy can be a decisive factor in checking Peru 's unfortunate course , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created an impression among Peruvians that it had backed a loser , and it scarcely won the respect of the junta by first taking part in the U.S. break with it and then surrendering its stand and resuming relations . A cool U.S. attitude toward the junta , rather than an obsequious effort to mend fences , seems called for , and the stick of aid reduction , no matter how poorly wielded during the summer , should not be abandoned . Meanwhile , there is a good deal that can be done , without violating protocol , to shore up the forces of moderation . Members of the U.S. military mission to Peru , for example , can be chosen as much for their proficiency in democratic principles as for their facility with hardware and tactics . The recent directive which permits U.S. assistance , under appropriate circumstances , to be channeled through religious institutions abroad can be used to support beneficial secular programs of the Church in Peru . Concerted efforts by U.S. diplomats and private citizens resident in Peru may bring at least moral support to the enlightened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be no U.S. hesitation in exposing Communist inroads in Peru .                     