@@442288

THE Kennedy Administration began with a blaze of publicity ? the moving Inaugural Address , the first televised press conference , the State of the Union Address , and a mass of White House announcements . The flood of news kept reporters busy and happy , but it left the Republicans with a feeling of frustration over how to put before the public the opposition 's point of view . This is indeed a problem , for an active President such as Kennedy can dominate the news , and quite obviously Kennedy intends to do just that . The White House is a mighty forum which Kennedy , like Franklin Roosevelt , knows how to use for his own purposes . The Republicans , however , can expect that the nation 's newspapers will not spare the rod on the Kennedy Administration once the honeymoon period is over . Kennedy , in turn , knows that television will be his means , just as radio was for F.D.R. , of breaking any lock on news coverage by the predominantly Republican-oriented press . Probably more serious is the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President and his efficient press secretary , Pierre Salinger , stoutly deny any desire to inhibit news gathering . But the new Administration has sought to " coordinate " the flow of news , Salingcr said , in the laudable hope of avoiding such confusion as took place last May when a U-2 was shot down over the Soviet Union . Washington is always suspicious of efforts to manage the flow of the news so that only the good facts see the light of day . Any Administration is powerful enough to suppress much that is unfavorable , especially news that makes the government look bad . Kennedy has promised not to hide governmental mistakes ; but the urge to stamp " secret " on both mistakes and unhappy facts oftenhas overcome such promises , as the Most Committee of the House has amply demonstrated in its well-documented public hearings . It is certainly true , as Congressman Most has said , that isolation of the people and their representatives from the facts can be disastrous in the missile era . More than the security of the nation is involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the know " can be entrusted with the reins of power in America , democracy as we know it will perish from the earth . This is a somber thought with a new Administration in power so obviously devoted to using all the channels of public information to sell its views to the American people . The point is , however , that while the public must be informed ? and Kennedy has a tremendous self-interest in seeing that the public is informed of his view on both foreign and domestic affairs ? it must have the sour with the sweet . Secretary of State Dean Rusk began by calling for quiet diplomacy ? that is , a return to full use of normal diplomatic channels for exchanges with governments in both the Communist and the free world . This has its virtue , of course , but it must not be carried to the extreme of cutting off a floss of information to the public on the general trend of relations with foreign governments . Allowance should be made for the desire of the new Administration to run things shipshape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch on the Potomac for the cover-up can never cease . Arms control Central to the Kennedy Administration 's foreign policy is the problem of arms control ; it overrides all other issues , for , as Kennedy said in his Inaugural Address , the one point of East-West common interest is to avoid a war of annihilation by either design or accident . This is the reason that Kennedy sought the services of a senior statesman , John J. McCloy , to head the disarmament agency housed in the State Department . McCloy agreed to head a team to work out a new arms-control proposal ( as distinct from doing the actual negotiating with the Communists and the allies ) , but his original thought was that this would be a one-shot effort and that he would do much of the work in his New York home rather than in Washington . But there has already been grumbling in the Capital that McCloy started out too independently of both State and Defense . It will be interesting to watch the activities of Secretary of State Rusk and those members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter group is headed by McGeorge Bundy , the former Harvard dean , ably assisted by Walt Whitman Rostow , the Massachusetts Institute of Technology economic historian , who is very close to the new President , and it includes the President 's adviser , Jerome Wiesner . Kennedy had intended that Rostow , a man with a brilliant and versatile mind , would head the State Department policy-planning staff . But Rusk said he preferred to have someone with whom he was more closely acquainted . Kennedy thereupon made Rostow Bundy 's deputy . It should be noted , in viewing this area of possible conflict , that Kennedy had given the most serious consideration to naming Bundy , instead of Rusk , as his Secretary of State . It is hoped that the National Security Council team under Bundy and Rostow , and Wiesner as well , will work in close harness with the RuskBowles-Stevenson group at State . Kennedy intends to make far more use of the N.S.C. machinery than Eisenhower did . Instead of using it in an effort to produce pre-agreed positions , Kennedy wants the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues are argued out in his presence before he makes the decision . In such a procedure , the N.S.C. becomes a government-wide agency nestling under the protection and prestige of the presidency , whereas State is but a single department , though the most important one . Much will depend on the personalities involved , and above all on the Kennedy-Rusk relationship . And that will take some time to reach a point ofstability , given the fact that Kennedy met Rusk for the first time just before naming him . The need for time On the specific issue of arms control ? and it is worth noting that Kennedy used that term rather than the misleading word " disarmament " in his Inaugural Address ? it will take the work of many minds to come up with the " serious and precise proposals " of which the new President spoke . It was most heartening to those in the Capital who have labored long in this field to hear him suggest that in the past neither the United States nor the Soviet Union has really been serious about its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington , but to put it on the public record in the President 's initial statement of policy served to increase the pressures for proposals satisfactory to the various segments of the American government and to our principal allies . At best , it will take months to do the job ; to rush it would be fatal . Word to that effect has been informally trans ' mitted to the Soviets . There will be less time , however , for decisions on the nuclear test ban issue . This is being handled separately from general arms control , although it is related , because the American-SovietBritish negotiations have been going on so long . Kennedy will find that , like Eisenhower , he is faced with advisers with widely varying views on the efficacy of a test ban , assuming one can be negotiated . Congress and the new President There are majorities in both Senate and House to implement much of the new Administration 's program . The honeymoon spirit toward a new Chief Executive is traditional , and it is not lacking this year , despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress is a reflection , sometimes imperfect , to be sure , of forces in the nation which shape and limit public policy . It is worth considering some aspects of these forces against which both Kennedy and the Congress must work . The coming of automation , together with the increasing middle-class nature of American society , has limited the growth of trade unionism and created a problem of seemingly perpetual unemployment for millions . Indeed , for the first time in nearly a quarter century , union membership has been declining as employment in the key mass-production industries has contracted , in part because of the new technology . This is likely to be a continuing problem throughout the Kennedy Administration , giving impetus to programs to increase unemployment insurance , aid to depressed areas , and other welfare measures . In general , the recession will tend to force the Congress to support the President 's federal programs to stimulate the economy , despite an ingrained suspicion against such governmental action . The technological revolution on the farms , long apparent , has created an agricultural crisis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely to be used to further foreign policy objectives , something the experts long have sought . Whether Kennedy can persuade the Congress to come to an agreement on some new forms of farm control to get the surpluses in hand is not yet certain . But the pressures on the budget and the suspicions of the increasingly urban-suburban population are likely to make easier the enactment of stricter controls , which are the only hope , regardless of how much the nostalgia still lingers for the small family farm and the farmer 's traditional independence . The South C. Vann Woodward of Johns Hopkins University has aptly described the change which is taking place in the South as the " bulldozer revolution . " The increasing industrialization has ended the long period during which the South was the bulwark of free-trade philosophy and internationalism in foreign-policy thinking . As Woodward says , the South is replacing the Middle West as the center of isolationist thought . In time , when the South has reached the national level of industrialization , this philosophy doubtless will change , but the change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? where the Democrats must count on Southern votes to put over many of the Kennedy measures ? to ' find compensatory means to protect and extend the South 's growth without affecting national objectives in foreign policy . In the civil rights field , Woodward rightly says that the campaign for law enforcement has passed through two major phases ? voluntary compliance with desegregation in the border states and compulsory desegregation in the upper South and Florida ? and is now moving into a third phase in the big urban centers of the deep South , such as New Orleans and Atlanta . The fourth and most difficult phase must begin in the Kennedy years , the campaign for desegregation in the smaller towns and rural areas , where fears , emotions , and prejudices are the most intense . Kennedy has wisely sought to work at first in the civil rights field by exploiting the powers inherent in the presidency , as well as those available under the two recent congressional acts . But there is little doubt that by next year , if not by the latter part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ask for new legislation . It was due partly to this method of approach , as well as to his desire to begin with a harmonious relationship with the Southern wing of his party in Congress , that Kennedy did nothing to alter the Senate filibuster rule in the pre-inaugural weeks of the new Congress . The liberal forces were disappointed , but their disappointment was tempered by the knowledge that he would act with executive vigor . Mood of the Capital The problems , both foreign and domestic , facing Kennedy are indeed immense , but the new President has begun with a surefootedness which bodes well both for the management of his own executive branch of government and for support of the bulk of his program in the Congress . Things are humming all across Washington as they have not done since the war years . More important , there is a new sense of enthusiasm from the White House down , and the lights burn late . The fact is that Kennedy quickly set a standard both of competence and of elan . This and the high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of the immobility which was evident during so much of the past eight years . ONCE , during a tropical downpour , an Englishman stopped his automobile at a Manila street intersection . To his surprise , a Filipino policeman opened the door of the car and hopped in beside him . " I could n't get a cab , " said the policeman apologetically . " I wonder if you 'd mind dropping me off by the city hall ? " The incident persuaded the Englishman to stay in the Philippines . He married a Filipino and now uses the anecdote to establish his point that the Philippines is the only country in Asia where Westerners are accepted on a basis of friendship and full equality . Friendliness and hospitality are national characteristics , but they have been carried to the point where they have even become national liabilities . Countless thousands of Manila 's more than two million inhabitants neither work nor wish to work , since they are confident that their relatives and friends will see to it that they do not go hungry or want for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Muslim areas of southwestern Mindanao and the Sulu archipelago , there is a suspicion of strangers . This is based primarily on religious fears that outside contacts may further the spread of Christianity , which already embraces 90 per cent of the archipelago 's 25 million inhabitants . But elsewhere , in the cities , towns , and 22,000 barrios , the Filipino lives up to his yeputation as the most gregarious and friendly of all Asians . Occasionally it has seemed that friendship for the United States has worn thin . This was the case in the middle of 1959 , when protracted negotiations for the revision of the 1947 agreement on military bases and the United States rejection of Manila 's " omnibus " claim for war-damage payments amounting to $900 million helped to create a virulent anti-American campaign . The late Senator Claro Recto , who never forgot nor forgave the United States for the humiliating treatment he received as a collaborator , was a constant and articulate critic whose diatribes were readily acceptable to many intellectuals and to sections of the Manila press . Newspaper , headlinesaccused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of U.S. " economic colonialism " and of the need to rid the economy of its foreign domination . Smarting under charges of inefficiency and corruption , the administration sought to exploit the situation to its own advantage by inspiring a state of nationalization , or " Filipino First " legislation , which , it believed , would pick up votes in the 1959 mid-term elections . Although the ruling Nacionalista Party managed to win the majority of the seats in the Senate , the results precipitated an agonizing reappraisal on the part of President Carlos P. Garcia . Better relations with the United States From a hospital bed the President initiated a series of changes designed primarily to give his administration a more savory character in the eyes of the 1961 presidential electors , but which contributed also to the restoration of amiable relations with the United States . He withdrew his support from the Communist-infiltrated National Progress Movement , soft-pedaled the nationalization issue , and appointed as Secretary of Finance 41-year-old Dominador Aytona , a protege of the late President Ram6n Magsaysay well known for his integrity . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in October , 1959 , had already paved the way for better relations with the United States . Some , if not all , of the Filipinos ' complaints were met by reducing the valid term of the bases from 99 to 25 years and by the further agreement that consultation should take place between the United States and the Philippines regarding combat operation and the establishment of long-range-missile bases . Four other U.S. moves that helped to end the anti-American campaign were a $23 million payment in compensation for the 1934 gold devaluation , long authorized but not appropriated ; the introduction into the U.S. Congress of a bill authorizing the payment of $73 million to the The Philippines : Philippines in settlement of war-damage claims ; a temporary increase of 176,000 tons in the U.S. sugar quota ; and finally , the highly successful Eisenhower visit . Points still at issue The only danger now , as pro-American Filipinos see it , is that the United States may again be tempted to take the Philippines too much for granted and to forget that there are still points at issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminal offenses committed by on-line but off-duty American servicemen remains unsolved and is complicated by the fact that Filipinos and Americans work together on the bases . The feeling persists even among the most favorably disposed Filipinos that the United States has often been undiplomatic and stubborn in handling the bases problem . It took ten years to persuade the United States that the Philippine flag should be flown alongside the Stars and Stripes at the bases . In the field of economics , there are also grievances . The free-trade provisions of the Bell Trade Act are seen as having been deliberately designed to delay the industrialization of the Philippines , and though Washington may regard the war-damage payments and the compensation for gold devaluation as settlement in full of all Filipino claims , this is not an opinion with which Manila concurs . On the contrary , a small army of civil servants is still working to reconstruct the claim on which the $900 million " omnibus " bill was based . Finally , the opinion persists that the sugar industry in the Philippines has never received really sympathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , decided more than twenty-five years ago , was temporarily increased for the year 1960 only because of the Cuban embargo , and though the United States consumption increases 200,000 tons each year , the Philippines has never received a share of the increase . For the immediate future , however , there is nothing that could be interpreted as a danger signal in the relations between the two countries . President Eisenhower 's pledge that the United States is firmly and irrevocably committed to the defense of the Philippines had an immediately reassuring effect . There is real fear of Communist China , and , among the more thoughtful sections of the community , no little concern about the loyalties of much of the local Chinese population , which , though numbering only 300,000 to 400,000 , has a strangle hold on retail trade and rice milling . From steering a course that was covertly anti-American , President Garcia has even moved to the point of indicating that he would welcome American missiles in the Philippines . In fact , of all the base areas in the Far East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines . That is good news for the United States and its other allies in the West Pacific , since the 7100 islands in the archipelago , situated as they are on the edge of the Asian mainland , occupy a highly strategic position in both cold and hot war . Important to the containment of Communism in peacetime , they are essential to the control of the North Pacific in the event of war . And with the growth of neutralism and pacifism in Japan , their readiness to accept American protection as a form of insurance has added significance . The rising economy No substitute exists in the Philippines for the Japanese industrial complex . The Philippines is far from developing into another workshop of Asia , but there are encouraging signs that it has fully recovered from the appalling wartime damage that killed a million of its people and wrecked its economy . It now grows enough rice to meet the requirements of its rapidly expanding population of 25 million . Exports in 1959 passed the billion-peso mark for the first time to give , the country its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gross national product increased by 4.2 per cent . Rural families made vast fortunes in real estate and are now turning to industrial development . A managerial class has begun to appear , and a determined effort is being made to impose standards on the school system , which hitherto has been more notable for quantity than quality . The Philippines spends a quarter of the national budget on state education , and in addition to the University of the Philippines , which ranks with the best in Asia , there are twenty-four private universities and several hundred colleges which assert that they teach at the university level . One university in Manila has 4000 medical students ; another has nearly 50,000 undergraduates . The quest for learning is clearly there ; the requirement now is that the country 's five million students should receive an education in fact as well as in name , thereby equipping themselves to fill the needs of an expanding economy . Natural resources are adequate . Of the millions of acres of potential farmland , only about half is under cultivation ; the soil is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered with forests , including extensive stands of valuable hardwood . Though coal is scarce , the hydroelectric potential is huge , and there is ample iron ore for a modest steel industry . Corruption in government A major blight is corruption , which has both hampered economic growth and destroyed the people 's confidence in government . Manila newspapers assert that corruption has never been worse than it is today , an opinion that even some Nacionalista Party members do not dispute . Nacionalista Party member Arsenio Lacson , Manila 's fiery and efficient mayor , who has been mentioned as a possible contender for the presidency this year , calls the current administration an " organized gang of bank robbers " compared with which the notoriously graft-ridden Quirino administration was merely " a set of pickpockets . " Like many others , he is not impressed with the efficiency of Presi- dent Garcia 's drive against corruption , which has mostly caught only the smaller fry and , in particular , the followers of Senate President Eulogio Rodriguez , who is also president of the Nacionalista Party and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . The departments under the control of Secretary Aytona are a notable exception . Hundreds of cases of malpractice have been unearthed by Aytona since he took office at the beginning of 1960 . Customs and internal revenue collections have risen sharply . In principle , the opportunity for graft and fraudulent conversion which exists with a multiple exchange rate is also being eliminated by a gradual move toward a more realistic single exchange rate . Many Filipinos are cynical about the prospects of eliminating political corruption . Their experience has led them to the conclusion that one party is as corrupt as another and that to exchange the Nacionalistas for the Liberals is merely to provide the opportunity for a new group to enjoy the spoils of office . They yearn for another Magsaysay , who used his wide presidential powers to enforce honesty in government , but there is no Magsaysay in the offing . In matters of policy , there is little difference between the two main parties ; they are both loose collections of individuals . Expediency and patronage dictate loyalties . A few highly respected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mid-term elections , but they lack money and organization and have prospects only in alliance with one of the two major parties . Communism no serious threat The Communist Party is illegal , and the remnants of its militant organization , the Hukbalahap , which a decade ago even threatened Manila from its almost impenetrable swampland north of Manila Bay , can now muster fewer than a thousand armed men . Captured docu- WILE other Caribbean countries crackle with political tension , the Republic of Panama is reasonably relaxed . Such tranquillity amid swirling turbulence not only makes surprising news ; Panama 's current stability also offers its leaders and U.S. policy makers a chance to plan progress for an underdeveloped country in a positive , professional way . The short-run factors that give Panama a breathing period are three : John F. Kennedy 's entry into the White House , Roberto Chiari 's assumption of the Panamanian presidency last October , and various concessions to Panamanian pride made by the United States in its administration of the Panama Canal Zone after the riots of November , 1959 . Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Panamanians are in favor of the Democratic Party . Courtly , retired Panamanian diplomats will tell the stateside visitor that in the days of Franklin D. Roosevelt 's Good Neighbor policy , the White House door was always open to them , whereas in recent , Republican years they have found assistant secretaries of state for Latin America stiff , and secretaries of state well-nigh inaccessible . West Indies-born Negroes working in Colon near the Atlantic terminus of the Panama Canal explain their preference for the Democrats in bread-and-butter terms : " You remember under Hoover ? There was no work . Under President Roosevelt , there was work . When there is work in the United States , there is more work for people everywhere . " A point of pride with hundreds of Panamanians is how late they stayed up last November listening to the U.S. election returns on the radio ? and how resoundingly they celebrated the victory of the Democrats . Panamanians are confident that a Democratic Administration in Washington will do wonders for them . As far as their own new President , Roberto Chiari @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuasions are prepared to givehim a year to fulfill his campaign promises . Chiari , a wealthy owner of sugar mills and other commercial interests , has said that he would be the last member of the aristocratic class to be President of Panama . Anticipating the rise to power of the middle and lower classes , Chiari has promised broad programs of social and economic reform , housing construction for the squatters on government land outside Panama City , far-ranging land reform , augmented public health and social welfare services , general economic progress . The well-to-do are waiting to see if they can go along with the higher taxes and the inroads on their privileges that Chiari 's program implies . The poor are waiting to see whether Chiari can indeed arrange a compromise between the interests of the rich and the poor . In a country with a considerable sense of fair play , not even the extremists are prepared to challenge Chiari before he has a chance to show what he can do . Less friction in the Canal Zone The changes in the Canal Zone made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important effect on the local climate of opinion . In the November , 1959 , riots the Panamanians reasserted their contention that they are sovereign over the Canal Zone . Since September , 1960 , the Panamanian flag has been allowed to fly beside the American in a moderately conspicuous spot in the Zone . Panamanian drivers and bus passengers must cross the Canal Zone to get from the eastern to the western part of their own country , and they have been pleased that reciprocity of license plates has been arranged between the Zone and the Republic of Panama . Another point of friction was the fact that the 10,000 Panamanian laborers employed on the canal were paid at local wage rates , whereas the American technicians working on the canal received at least double local wages . A slight reshuffling of wage rates , even though it did not abrogate the sharp distinction between local pay scales and U.S. pay scales , has soothed many ruffled feelings . Report on Panama Beyond all this , the five to six thousand U.S. army troops stationed in the Canal Zone have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now play golf matches with upper-class Panamanians ; army dentists trade professional experiences with Panamanian practitioners ; and GI 's teach sports to Panamanian youngsters and contribute to the support of needy Panamanian families . All these developments , after some rather bad years in which U.S. Canal Zone personnel and Canal Zone policy were cold and contemptuous toward the Panamanians , make the people feel better about the United States . The U.S. potential In Panama , the United States plays a greater part , relative to the national area , population , and economy , than it does in any other country in the world . The Canal Zone cuts a swath 10 miles wide and 50 miles long through the center of the small republic . Fourteen thousand people work on the canal ; the U.S. army , navy , and air force bases in the Zone are manned by some 10,000 more . With the families of the working personnel , the retired Canal Zone employees , and other residents , the Zone dominates the lives of 100,000 people in a country whose population is around one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City at the Pacific end and in Colon at the Atlantic end of the Canal , scarcely exceeds 300,000 . In the small Panamanian economy , the Panama Canal Company is by far the biggest employer . The economic predominance of the canal is enhanced by its engineering magnificence : the spectacle of 10,000-ton freighters rising and falling in the canal locks as gigantic electric pumps add or subtract water by the millions of gallons creates not only respect for man 's mastery over nature but also for the United States as the agent of the process . The large part played by the United States in the Panamanian economy is a measure of its constructive , potential . The nature of Panama and the Panamanians is highly receptive to sensible , practical , progressive influences . The country is marvelously compact and manageable : it really revolves around the Canal Zone . The hinterlands toward Central America on the west and Colombia on the east , while becoming more influential because of the awakening of the Indians who work the banana and coffee plantations , are still rather inarticulate dependencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the true Panamanian character is seen . The Panamanians are a cosmopolitan people whose consciousness is shaped by geography , by the fact that they live on the bridge between two oceans and amidst much of the world 's traffic in goods and men . The most uneducated Panamanian knows how the Spanish gold traffic came up from Peru , ran across the isthmus over trails and bridges , which are still partially preserved , and connected with the west-bound galleons on the Atlantic coast . Panamanians remember , too , that American forty-niners crossed their country to get to California 's gold . Exposed to travel and movement , the Panamanians hunger for travel themselves . The well-to-do are globe-trotters , and the talented look for wider arenas : Panamanian Jose Quintero is a luminary of the U.S. theater , and his compatriots Manuel Ycaza and Hector Lopez are stellar figures of American turf and baseball , respectively . The sense that all the world is before them makes the Panamanians personally outgoing , tolerant , and hospitable . The levelheaded Panamanians would like to live at peace , provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them they should have . The U.S. can do so much to help Panama that it would be very sad if the country were neglected . Furthermore , the results of progress in Panama would not be confined to the local scene . A year ago , the Panamanian poor and their spokesmen were in favor of Cuba 's Fidel Castro . They saw him as the apostle of the social reform that any underdeveloped country requires . Now Panamanians have turned against Castro because they feel his cause has been taken over by the Communists . If economic and social progress is made in Panama , the country can be a demonstration to all of Latin America that cooperation with the United States is a better route into the future than Castro 's road of revolution . The challenge within We shall be deluding ourselves , however , if we do not recognize that beneath the placid surface extremist forces lie in wait . The Cuban ambassador , who made a substantial impact with his propaganda , has been asked by the Panamanian government not to return . But he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who energetically urged the Panamanians to emulate Nasser 's seizure of Suez by grabbing the Panama Canal , have quieted down . They may become vociferous again . Among the Panamanians themselves , the Communists are not idle . They are alleged to have three floating training schools in the country ; they are apparently trying to infiltrate the political parties that cater to the middle classes and the poor , and one of the ablest Panama . nian union leaders has completed his course of education in the U.S.S.R. Perils to stability also loom from the Panamanian far right , the crafty and wealthy " haves " who intend to check any social evolution in order to preserve their own prerogatives . The traditional joint assault of the far left and the far right on the constitutional order may have to be faced and beaten back in Panama in the coming months . U.S. policy makers have taken the first steps to protect the moderate Chiari government against potential attacks . The Chiari government has received a $5 million loan to pay off its inherited bills , some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Money has been advanced by Wishington for the building of rural roads . This is an essential prerequisite for land reform , since the new peasant proprietors must have the means of getting their produce to market . Good U.S. technical advisers on road building and rural problems are on hand . The attitude of U.S. diplomatic and military personnel in Panama , cordial as it is , contributes to the stability of the Chiari regime . Higher tolls However , the United States has it in its power to do much more than defend President Chiari . One issue that will soon have to be faced is the question of the tolls on the Panama Canal . Panama now receives an annual fee of $1.9 million from the canal company , which does a gross business of about $90 million a year on the basis of a toll of 90 cents a ton on the freight that comes through . The argument of the Canal Zone authorities against increasing the returns to Panama from the canal is that the operating costs of the inter-ocean waterway are really borne by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is , largely by the American people , who either export or import some 70 per cent of the goods going through the canal . This argument overlooks the essential point that if the American consumer and producer had to ship around the tip of South America , their costs would be a great deal higher . The toll of 90 cents a ton seems too low to represent economic equity these days , and the payment of $1.9 million to Panama seems like very low taxes on U.S. control of 500 square miles of soil and operation of a very lucrative enterprise . Greater earnings by the canal could not only provide more revenue for Panama but could also create an economic assistance fund for some of Panama 's neighbors . Such a form of economic aid would also make its recipients feel that they had earned it by making a Latin American physical facility available to produce it , rather than getting it as a U.S. handout . Moreover , the businessmen and consumers who now benefit from the canal would be lightly taxed for the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with less discrimination Even more immediate in Panamanian eyes is the question of wage scales in the Canal Zone . The 10,000 Panamanian laborers receive from 54 cents to about $1.14 an hour , which is generous by local standards . But then the rate of pay jumps sharply to $2.50 an hour and up for the 4000 skilled employees , of whom only about 400 are Panamanians . While this distinction was somewhat modified by wage readjustments after the 1959 riots , the wage pattern still reflects an invidious division of Canal Zone workers into inferior and superior . Many Panamanians ? and many thoughtful Americans on the spot ? believe that the Canal Zone wage pattern of the future has to be standardized and that local wage scales should be disregarded . Such a change would not only be a psychological boon . An upward progression of wages would also suggest that Panamanians could move step by step up the ladder of skills and status . Thus , the Canal Zone could become a training ground for Panamanians in technical proficiencies , which would redound to the benefit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under wise American management , the Canal Zone could be an enormous instrument for Panamanian order , stability , and progress . Changes in the canal tolls and in the Canal Zone wage scales would not constitute U.S. " concessions . " They would simply be instances of justice . The opportunity that the United States has in Panama to help an intelligent and receptive people and to brighten its own record is enormous . There is always the danger that , since things are now going well in Panama , the country will be the low man on the totem pole in the eyes of a Washington officialdom harried by Latin American eruptions . But there is the great opportunity for the United States in Panama to raise a standard of social , economic , and political performance to which all the wise and honest in Latin America can , point .                     