@@431785

 | There will quite possibly be a knockdown , drag-out battle in your school district this fall over sex education . It got well under way in some communities last year , after most such programs had gained wide acceptance . There was , for example , the father in suburban New Jersey who saw his seven-year-old daughter doodling female sex organs and stormed the school board ; the Baptist minister in Wichita who heard a Fundamentalist religious broadcast describing pictures in the local school curriculum of animals mating , and became an instant crusader himself ; or the mother in Anaheim , Calif. , who found her child having nightmares over a classroom description of a transvestite and fired off a barrage of angry letters to the local newspaper . These were only a few of the skirmishes in last year 's counterrevolution against sex education that exploded into open warfare on dozens of fronts , then slacked off while both sides regrouped for the campaign that is certain to be renewed as the new school year gets under way . Programmed sex education in public schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporarily to have been aborted . But outrage on both sides is high and a good many parental sensibilities , school-board seats and ? some say ? the future of public education , will be deeply influenced bythe resolution of the struggle . Last spring I attended a schoolboard candidates ' meeting in Anaheim , Calif. , where the first really extensive sex-education program in this country was launched in 1964 . Outside , three young mothers , trembling with indignation , were distributing a multigraphed , unsigned flier headlined " Family Life Education ? To Uplift or To Corrupt ? " The print job was cheap , the ink blurred . The first page contained a paragraph from the script of a slide film offered over an educational TV station in San Mateo , Calif . It was full of clinical words . There was also a composite paragraph , assembled from several different places in a Family Life Teachers ' Guide , based on one shock word . The quotes were followed by such comments as , " How is THAT for exciting to experimentation ? " ( referring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " If you think you 're safe by sending your children to parochial schools , forget it ! " Nearer the school entrance , a husky young man in blue jeans was handing out the same flier . When I asked him what organization he represented and whose circular he was distributing , he glowered at me , doubled one of his fists and walked away . These are two principal groups fighting sex education in the United States today : earnest parents terribly angry or frightened about changing values in a society they no longer un-derstand ;  | and the zealots and activists of the Far Right , ready to pounce on any issue that gives promise of political exploitation . More significantly , however , these odd bedfellows have been joined in recent weeks by a growing band of highly respected professionals like New York child analyst Dr. Rhoda Lorand , who believes that many of the teaching materials used in the sex-education courses are overstimulating and might do serious harm to the sexual development of individual children . Although the battle is national , it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The race for three open seats on the Anaheim School Board last April , for example , attracted nine candidates and was fought almost entirely on the sex-education issue . The incumbents strongly supported the existing program , and two of them were defeated . In spite of all the noise , however , only fourteen percent of the electorate turned out to vote and two other  | pro-sex-education candidates , supported by a large segment of teachers , probably siphoned several thousand votes from the incumbents . Nevertheless , a pair of outspoken critics of the nation 's most admired sex-education program ( described in What Your Child Really Wants To Know About Sex , by Paul Cook as told to Joseph N. Bell , in the April , 1968 , issue of GOOD HOUSEKEEPING ) are now sitting on the new school board , and the community is bitterly divided over the issue . " The next couple of years , " an Anaheim school administrator told me grimly , " are going to be interesting . " They 're likely to be interesting in school districts all over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brewing or has already been rather violently joined . Last spring , for example , a Des Moines housewife and a Pentecostal evangelist appeared before the state legislature in Iowa to demand sanctions against sex education in Iowa public schools . In Abington Township , Pa. , near Philadelphia , elementaryschool officials , in the face of opposition , had to abandon plans for a Family Life course . Representative Henry Schadeberg ( R.-Wis. ) has introduced a bill to withhold Federal funds from sex-education courses or related teacher training ; a resolution to remove sex education from New York State 's mandatory health course recently passed the New York State Legislature . Thus far , reports the embattled National Education Association , an organized attack against sex education is already under way in at least 27 states . The emotional content of the issue has goaded otherwise rational citizens to react with some remarkable excesses of behavior . And these tactics are often premeditated . The leader of a California group opposing sex education ? according to a reporter present ? recently told a gathering of concerned citizens from 42 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town and in other towns . Applaud and groan at the right times and if necessary stomp your feet and scream the more brazen you are , the more attention you 'll get . . . it infuriates people in the program when you refer to it as a sex program . ' It 'll upset them , and when they 're upset , they do n't think so well . " If this sort of thing is to be prevented in your town , if debate on this complex and controversial matter is to be kept rational , it is important to recognize the excesses and irrelevancies that are already turning some towns into angry , polarized camps . Weeks of investigation have convinced me that two of the most cherished myths in the sex-education hassle are just that ? myths . Proponents of sex education have charged repeatedly that the fight against it was initiated by the John Birch Society and Far Right Winger Billy James Hargis ' Christian Crusade . This appears to be wrong . Although these Right Wing political groups have now pulled out all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the fray after the  | campaign was well launched ? in San Mateo , Calif. , in April and in Anaheim in the summer of 1968 . The second myth is the conviction of the protestors that the prototype Anaheim Family Life program is a creation of the Sex Information and Education Council of the U.S. ( SIECUS ) , a small , nonprofit New York organization of professionals dedicated to promoting healthier attitudes toward sex among youngsters and adults alike . By aiming their heavy fire at SIECUS , dissidents hope to destroy community sexeducation programs with the fallout . But SIECUS was n't even chartered until after the Anaheim program had been evolved , approved and put into operation . SIECUS sent a routine letter of inquiry about the program , addressed to the " Superintendent of Schools , " Anaheim , two years after the Family Life program was launched . A hard core of earnest and dedicated opposition to sex education has always been present ? and probably always will be . In Anaheim , opponents were temporarily overwhelmed by the cooperation of virtually every local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago . But only a small spark was needed to ignite the opposition again , and the spark was supplied by Eleanor Howe , the energetic wife of a career marine officer and mother of four children . Mrs. Howe had not previously been identified with the dissidents . Her twin eleventh-grade sons were several weeks into their Family Life class when one of them asked her to write a letter requesting that he be excused . According to Mrs. Howe , her son told her that he had been embarrassed " once too often " by the teacher , who that day had asked him what he would do if he came home and found his twelve-year-old son masturbating . When the boy said he would punish him the class jeered . ( The teacher acknowledges that the question might likely have been asked in his classroom . " We talk about things parents are confronted with , not by choice but because these things happen , " he told me . " It 's a realistic situation , presented at the senior level . " ) When a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board was printed in the local newspaper , she was inundated with phone calls from other parents who were equally upset . They got together under the banner of an organization called Citizens Committee for California ( which once spearheaded Senator Barry Goldwater 's presidential campaign ) and began attending schoolboard meetings in a body to protest . In the hope of cutting down these protests at regular meetings , the board ( against the advice of School Superintendent Paul Cook ) agreed to a special session as a forum for the opponents of sex education . After reviewing the criticisms and carrying out their own investigations for three months , members of the Anaheim Board unanimously pledged continued support to Superintendent Cook and the Family Life Program .  | " This , " declared an editorial in the Anaheim Bulletin , " is war . It rages in every state and in almost every city . " And so it does . About the same time the issue was beginning to heat up in Anaheim , Billy James Hargis ' Christian Crusade ? with 115 radio outlets and weekly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sex-education issue . In September , 1968 , Hargis told his disciples that the crusade 's educational director , Gordon Drake , had uncovered " the most vicious conspiracy against the morals of this country that I have ever read . " With that for openers , Hargis went on to warn that " long-range plans to bring sex education . . . into the public schools of the U.S. for all youth from kindergarten to the twelfth grade " were all " part of a giant Communist conspiracy . I am not accusing , " said the Reverend Hargis , " every teacher , preacher and doctor that favors sex education in the public schools of being a Communist , but I am most certainly accusing some of the instigators and exploiters of this unfortunate drive of being pro-Communist , un-American and anti-God " It took four months for the John Birch Society to climb aboard . In the January , 1969 , JBS Bulletin , Robert Welch devoted more than seven pages to an attack on sex education . " In schools , " he wrote , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the usual Communist-style falsehoods , deceptions , pressure and pretenses are subtly utilized to get school boards to fall in line ? it is not unusual for a high school teacher to ask his students ( boys and girls together ) to tell the class about or write themes about their participation in the following activities : kissing , masturbation , light petting , fondling breasts or genitals ( for boys ) , fondling male genitals ( for girls ) , sexual intercourse , sexual activities to near intercourse , and sexual activities with an animal " Welch 's italics . To circumvent this " conspiracy , " Welch urged " organized , nationwide , intensive , angry and determined opposition to the now mushrooming program of so-called sex education in the public schools . " Once the professional Right Wingers moved into the field , the charges made against sex education became so voluminous and mercurial that trying to check them out is like grasping a shadow . Typical is the advertisement in a Wichita Falls , Texas , newspaper ( promoting an anti-sex-education meeting ) claiming that half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were pregnant when they graduated ? a grotesque lie that I heard repeated a number of times by earnest opponents of sex education . ( There were 37 pregnancies among 10,281 students in the Anaheim high school district during the past school year , a rate of 3.59 pregnancies per 1,000 students as contrasted with a rate of 9.3 per thousand in the state of California as a whole . ) Many of the other stories widely circulated by the sex-education oppon- ents do n't fare much better when examined closely . For example , one is included on a phonograph record called The Child Seducers ( produced by a former schoolteacher named John Steinbacher , now a columnist for the Anaheim Bulletin ) . It has to do with the teacher who was said to have taken off all her clothes as a sort of visual teaching aid for a sex-education class in Flint , Mich . I heard this story in various forms a dozen times from people who were convinced the teacher had " stripped " in front of a mixed class to show that students should n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on the inaccurate report of outraged parents ? was carried in the St. Paul Dispatch on May 21 , 1968 , was picked up by the wire services , and given wide mail distribution by a Minneapolis group called POSE ( Parents Opposing Sex Education ) . So what really happened ? According to school administrators who made a long and detailed investigation , a zealous woman physical-education teacher in Genessee County , Mich. , was scheduled to teach seventh- , eighth- and ninth-grade girls in her health class how to wear various kinds of clothing . The intent was to help them to good grooming , decorous conduct and good taste . The course had nothing to do with sex education . The teacher decided to demonstrate her lecture by changing into a variety of her own garments as she talked . She had a screen behind which she could change , but when she ran short of time , she changed the last few outergarments in front of the girls . She never removed her underclothing . She was dealing with girls she was accustomed to seeing daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about as prurient as demonstrating a cake recipe . There are hundreds of similar stories making the rounds in anti-sex-education literature . How can you determine what to believe ? A few rules of thumb may help your assessment . First , if the literature is unsigned , throw it away . Anonymity indicates that the purveyors have no stomach for supporting their " facts , " and their material , therefore , does n't deserve a reading . Where the material is signed , look for specifics , for names , dates and places . If they are n't included , you can again be highly suspicious of the story because ? lacking this data ? you ca n't check it out . ( It 's also a good idea to check with both sides in the dispute . ) Your judgments should be based as far as possible on sources you can trust . But be careful of such apparently responsible sources as the Congressional Record ; anything can be put in there ? be it myth , musing or hysteria ? as long as it is requested by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington . Representative James Utt ( R.-Calif. ) , for example , recently devoted an entire Newsletter to the " conspiracy " view of sex education ; a Los Angeles Times reporter went through the Newsletter with Utt , sentence-by-sentence , and found it was based almost entirely on evidence several generations old or no evidence at all ? and mainly the latter . Whom then , can you trust ? Clearly , the support of credible public and private authorities is heavily on the side of the proponents . The national PTA , National Council of Churches , American Medical Association , American Public Health Association and the American Association for Health , Physical Education and Recreation are only a few of the respected organizations supporting sex education . ( At its 1968 . convention , the AMA House of Delegates , for example , approved a resolution which said : " The American Medi-  | cal Association should inaugurate and support programs of health education , including good maternal and child health practices , family life and sex education , and the appropriate use of health care resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education in California and the California Medical Association have adopted resolutions in support of Family Life programs , from kindergarten through twelfth grade , as long as these follow a " professionally developed curriculum " and are " presented in a manner commensurate with the maturation level of the students . " Opponents speak primarily with the authority of a sizable number ? no one really knows how many ? of disenchanted parents who have been pushed too far , too fast and are now digging in their heels . They are also beginning to attract some impressive professional support . Dr. Lorand tends to regard some of the more insistent new programs as dangerous folly , and Dr. Gerald Sandson of the National Institute of Mental Health expressed some strong reservations about several aspects of public-school sex education . Such views obviously should n't be equated with the fantasies of the extreme political Right . Many concerned parents are terribly uneasy about SIECUS ? not so much for the limited activities of this tiny organization as the things the people who head it up do and say . Almost all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against " SIECUS-sponsored programs ' ' ? even though SIECUS has no formal program . This demurrer is partly because at least one SIECUS official is a juicy target for Red-baiting and partly because several SIECUS board members are associated ? as editors or writers ? with a little magazine , full of grainy photographs of nude statues , called Sexology . Although it shifted recently to a conservative table-of-contents cover , the change came too late to prevent Sexology from being used as a club to bloody the heads of Family Life educators . SIECUS , however , is more a diversion than an issue in the sex-education dispute . Distilled of emotionalism , the principal legitimate objections raised against sex education in our public schools seem to be : 1 . Sex and morality are so tightly interwoven that it is dangerous and defeating to teach one without the other ; the proper place for the dissemination of family life information is therefore in the home and the churches , where ethics and moral standards can be combined with sex information . 2 . Children at any age are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort at mass instruction in such a sensitive area is dangerous . Dr. E. James Lieberman , a psychiatrist at the National Institute of Mental Health , has warned that even accurate information can be disturbing to children who are not intellectually or emotionally prepared for it . 3 . There is so little control over the classroom situation that freewheeling  | discussions tend to wander off into volatile areas too often left open-ended by the teacher . As a corollary to this , Dr. Lorand expresses particular concern about sex education for children between the ages of six and twelve . " Presentation of sexual material during this period , " says Dr. Lorand , " overwhelms , embarrasses , upsets and excites the children , forcing them , in turn , to repress all of these troublesome feelings , " with possible sexual problems resulting later in life . 4 . Children given sex information in the permissive atmosphere of the schoolroom may tend to experiment with it on the outside . ( I asked a number of Anaheim students if coeducational classroom discussions encouraged them to experiment with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She told me : " I have n't learned new things so much as a deeper understanding of familiar things . So I have less urge to go out and try it . " ) 5 . Teachers are generally untrained and often incompetent to teach Family Life classes . Dr. Sandson has strong feelings on this point . " I 'm for sex education , " he says , " hut I 'd like to see some honest-to-goodness clinical thought given to how it is done . " A California policewoman specializing in sex offenders made the same point before a local committee evaluating the desirability of sex education . Mrs. Celeste Saunders said : " Sex education should be taught by someone with a great deal of background in child psychology , someone aware of the hangups of young people and able to present the material comfortably . " Generally , the emergence of this growing number of professional critics has not visibly impressed their prosex-education associates . Typical is the reaction of Dr. James A. Peterson , sociologist and past president of the American Association of Marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he says , " seems to neglect the fact that ' sex education ' goes on in every school bus , at every recess period and at every slumber party where they do n't slumber at all but tell the weirdest , wildest stories about sex . " Although he admitted a concern about sex being taught in the schools " without a feeling of value , " he added that " there is no informed sex education today unless it is done in the schools . " Weighed on the scales of a Puritan national background that still tends to regard talk about human reproduction as unseemly and vaguely prurient , however , these growing objections are potent . So what can you do in your community to prevent legitimate reservations ? heated up by the fear campaign of the political Right ? from destroying what might evolve into a useful and effective program of Family Life and Sex Education ? Foremost , probably , is the building of broad community support . Without such support , sex education will be under constant attack and will monopolize time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore , it is essential that the feelings of the community be tested and local leaders ? businessmen , clergymen , law-enforcement officials , members of women 's groups , educators ? be involved as much as possible in the program . Second , a curriculum guide must be carefully compiled . There are relatively few precedents , which is why the Anaheim District has sold ( at cost ) some 1,500 copies of the curriculum it spent several years building . Once again , local leaders should be involved in structuring a curriculum that reflects the degree to which the community is ready to accept public-school sex education ? including some indication that sexuality will not be divorced in the classroom from ethics , morality or the individual teachings of the home and church . Yet how much sex information is imparted in the home or the church ? The sad facl is , not a great deal . Says San Mateo Assistant County Superintendent Arnin Weems : " Before we began our program , we discovered that only one parent in twenty even attempted to talk to his or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . in the absence of parental guidance , accurate , objective  | information is far preferred to street gossip and half-truths in providing youngsters with the understanding of their bodies that will help them develop knowledge and security about themselves . " An acceptable , broadly supported curriculum , however , is only as good as the teachers applying it . So , the third step must be the careful selection and training of Family Life teachers . This training is still in the primitive stage , and few criteria have been established by which to measure such teachers . In Anaheim , teachers were selected from numerous other departments , mainly on the basis of a good teaching record and administrative judgment that they could relate well to the students . Some of them have been very good ? and some have n't . ( A registered nurse auditing the curriculum in Lancaster , Calif. , for example , told me she caught the teacher in a number of technical errors . ) The problem of teacher training in Family Life classes ? responsive to the mores of the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if extensive criticism is to be avoided . Fourth , the program will have to be optional . Sex education in any form is going to be anathema to certain segments of the society , and parents who ? for religious , philosophical , political or whatever reasons ? find Family Life education intolerable must be able to withdraw their children from the program with minimum embarrassment to either child or parent . And , finally , however carefully the program is structured , there are going to be emotional attacks on it that will simply have to be endured as part of the democratic system . In spite of the insistence by one of the anti-sex-education leaders in Anaheim that she would be " willing for such programs to exist if I do n't have to pay for them and if the people who think they want them are fully informed , " there still seems to be little room for compromise among either those who see the devil incarnate in any program of sex education or those who insist " tell them everything ? and tell them early . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect to encounter when the issue of sex education comes up in your community . Is it worth all the blood-letting ? " Yes , " says Anaheim teacher George Esping , who sees " a great need for a classroom situation where kids can discuss things freely that are very much on their minds . They need to be able to kick off their shoes in an atmosphere that encourages exchanges of views . And they need to develop happy attitudes about their own sexuality . Even in homes where there is a close parental relationship , this is difficult . Youngsters are constantly seeing movies and ads that plunge them into a morass of titillating ideas without a reference point . We ca n't do anything about the movies and the ads , but we can give them a reference point " Perhaps the last word should be left for a slim , thoughtful Anaheim senior who had listened through a long , frequently loud bull session about the sex-education program . In a momentary lull , he said quietly : " You come out of this class knowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . find out by experimentation . They say it should be taught at home , but all parents do n't do that . Mine do n't . If it were n't for this class , I 'd be discussing these things with other guys , and lots of good that would do . " I went into this course with certain basic ideas . I suppose , in this sense , I was prejudiced . I came out with more or less the same ideas , but also with a better understanding of the views of other people . I feel more aware of things ? not just sex ? and as I grow older , this awareness will expand . If I 'm able to openly discuss something as important as sex with my own children because of this family life program , then it will benefit my children and their children , too . "                     