@@494825

When he was asked by President Truman to serve as Secretary of State , Dean Acheson has recalled , he first prof erred a modest disclaim ? er : he could hardly fill the boots of General Marshall . " The President replied that without doubt there were people in the country more capable of being Secretary of State than I was , and more capable of being President than he was . The fact of the matter , however , was that he was President and he wanted me to be Secretary of State . It seemed a waste of time to talk about that any further . " The relationship between a President and his principal Cabinet officer is , as Mr. Acheson has em ? phasized , an " intensely personal " one . In the case of the next President , one so intent on keeping the reins of foreign policy in his own hands , his range of choice for a Secretary of State is limited to a relatively few qualified men who , like Mr. Kennedy , have shown their capacity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it was becoming . During the pre-convention months and in the campaign itself , there were many efforts to extract from the Democratic nominee the identity of his probable Secretary . The persistence of the question seemed to suggest that no candidate for President could be finally judged without knowing how he would fill this one office , and use it if elected . But for Senator Kennedy to have pledged his word in advance on this appointment would have given the prospective appointee great leverage with the President : a contract would have been made between the President and the voters . The candidate wisely preserved his freedom of choice . Asked during the fourth TV debate to name " four men , each of whom , if appointed , would serve with distinction in your judgment as the Secretary of State , he replied that " the President bears the Constitu- ( Continued on page 3 ) tional responsibility , not the Secretary Secretary of State of State , for the conduct of foreign af fairs . Some Presidents have been strong in foreign policy ; others have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . I have run for the Presidency with the full knowledge that his great responsibility , really given to him by the Constitution and by the force of events , is in the field of foreign affairs . " The answer was sound in all respects but one . It implied , probably unintentionally , a contradiction between the full exercise of Presi ? dential leadership in foreign affairs and considerable reliance on a strong Secretary of State . Woodrow Wilson made the two mutually exclusive . So did Franklin Roosevelt . But Theodore Roosevelt , with Elihu Root , did not . And Harry Truman , with Mr. Acheson , found that a forceful Chief Executive and a forceful Secretary of State could work well together . It seems to us most likely that the next Secretary of State will be one of seven men . Chester Bowles and Adlai Stevenson , as long-time Democratic spokesmen on international affairs and as the President-elect 's campaign advisers , are the subject of most speculation . There are others , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authoritatively said to be under consideration at Hyannis Port . One is David K. E. Bruce , former Ambassador to France and Germany . Others are World Bank President Eugene Black ; Sen. J. W. Fulbright ; Dean Rusk , President of the Rockefeller Foundation ; and the former chairman of the State Department Policy Planning Staff , Paul H. Nitze . Each would admirably fill high places in a Kennedy Administration . The decision now before Mr. Kennedy ? perhaps the most important of many decisions he immediately faces ? is how to allocate this embarrassment of riches . It is a decision on which intan ? gibles bear heavily ? temperamental compatibility , for one ? and be ? cause of this no one dare say dogmatically that one and only one candidate for Secretary of State would do credit to the next Adminis ? tration . One can comment , though , on the tangibles involved . All these men are in many significant matters known quantities . Their records reveal the degree of their intellectual compatibility with the next President , the degree to which each , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this " world of change ... new problems , un ? dreamt challenges , unanticipated opportunities . " In particular , one can discern who has or has not favored " pro-American " nobodies to neutralist somebodies ; who has or has not chosen Westernized busi ? ness and bureaucratic elites abroad as his preferred clients , as against those often seedy local politicians who talk the language of anti-colonialism but not the language of Washington cocktail parties ; who has or has not sensed the terms on which this country 's partnership in the 6o 's with the new , emerging powers might be strengthened . A Europe-Centered Secretary David K. E. Bruce merits consideration at the outset because his candidacy has acquired a measure of behind-the-scenes support which is in surprisingly inverse ratio to his familiarity to the public . It is a tribute to Mr. Bruce that so many who worked with him in the Truman-Acheson era should nominate him , so to speak , as their favorite for the post . First of all , he looks the part . Theodore H. White drew his portrait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bruce and his startlingly handsome second wife dressed as Queen and Knave of Spades at a Paris charity masquerade ; Bruce dressed in green knickers out hunting with the President of France ( he set the diplomatic record with a bag of 99 pheasants in a single day ) ; Bruce kissing village mayors on the cheek , praising them for their local beauties or local wines ; Bruce presiding over ballet openings or art showings , was the story-book ambassador in the flesh . " Mr. Bruce is a diplomat 's diplomat . He has many friends on Capitol Hill ? includ ? ing Republicans ( he was the only Democrat to get a key appointment ? the Bonn Embassy ? under Eisen ? hower ) and influential Southerners . He is an intelligent Virginia gentleman who has moved throughout a cos ? mopolitan life in the higher echelons of finance ( he was married to Andrew Mellon 's daughter , Alissa , for 20 years ) . In all his public service , beginning with wartime intelligence work as OSS director in the European Theater , he has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard in behalf of large causes . David Bruce , for example , warmed quickly to the Schu ? man Plan conception of Jean Monnet and gave it the same single-minded support he was to give ( together with Dwight Eisenhower ) to the ill-fated , US-sponsored dream of a European Defense Community . As Secretary , Mr. Bruce would symbolize to the world a Europe-centered foreign policy . In the unhappy and muddled sequence of events which led to Dien ? bienphu , for example , he strongly supported the French Government 's view not only in public , which one would have expected of an envoy to the Quai D'Orsay , but in private . To this day , though he grants that US policy in Indo-China was inadequate , he holds to his conviction that a pro-French policy was the only workable one . His testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on July 20 , 1951 , is replete with admiration for General de Lattre de Tassigny , and with Mr. Bruce 's disdain for those many critics of French policy who said that to assume the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its ultimate defeat . France , he explained , remained in Indo-China becauseof the noblest anti-Communist motives . The Indo-Chinese , he thought , wanted the French to stay , and in any case , " if one wants to look at this thing realistic ? ally , I think that you would very quickly come to the belief , or adopt the thesis , that the Indo-Chinese ? and I am speaking now of the Vietnam . . . the anti-Com ? munist group ? will have to show a far greater ability to live up to the obligations of nationhood before it will be safe to withdraw , whether it be the French Union forces or any other foreign forces , from that country . " Those who had doubts were dismissed by Mr. Bruce as " obtuse . " Sen. Theodore F. Green quietly interjected that " we have succeeded in identifying our ? selves with French colonial ambitions in the minds of the natives ? that pertains not only to Indo-China but to all of the Far East . " " That , I hear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nehru . I question it . His philosophy is that it is better to have , as I understand it , a country in the Far East taken over by the Communists than it is to have any support to nationalists from an army of European troops fighting against the Communists . " That was not , of course , Nehru 's philosophy , nor pre ? cisely that of Mr. Kennedy , who , on his return from a Far East tour at that time said over the Mutual Network on November 14 , 1951 : " In Indo-China we have allied ourselves to the desperate effort of a French regime to hang onto the remnants of empire . . . . To check the Southern drive of Communism makes sense but not only through reliance on the force of arms . The task is rather to build strong , native non-Communist senti , ment within those areas and rely on that as a spearhead of defense rather than upon the legions of General de Lattre . " In this critical instance , Mr. Bruce did not show himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most urgent and sensitive problems before the new Ad ? ministration is the Algerian crisis , and all its related effects on Western unity and the future of US relations with the newly-independent nations , this alone seems reason enough to question Mr. Bruce 's suitability for the Secretaryship . The case for Eugene Black appears sounder than that of Mr. Bruce because the World Bank President knows his way around the capitals of Asia and Africa . But his popularity there is largely among a small number of financiers and bureaucrats . He is our number one sales ? man for private enterprise . He has repeatedly taken a " go slow " line with economic planners in less devel ? oped countries , who consider their countries are going too slow as it is . The World Bank under his direction has held back on loans for the public development of heavy industry , which has meant , in India , for instance , that projected fertilizer plants needed to increase agri ? cultural production have not got beyond the blueprint stage , in some cases , for nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in effect , on a coun ? try 's willingness to choose private as against public investment , which is to say , on changes in the declared public policy of the countries concerned . Mr. Black has consequently been charged with unnecessarily med ? dling in other people 's internal affairs . The charges have been justified . And critics of his " banker mental ? ity " are not reconciled by being told , in his defense , that , relying as the Bank does on large-scale support from the private capital market , Mr. Black has done what he had to do . Unlike Mr. Bruce , who is a fairly vigorous 62 , Eu ? gene Black at the same age only weeks ago underwent prolonged treatment at the Mayo Clinic . Like Secretary Herter , he would not bring great physical stamina to the job . Nevertheless , his name must be taken into account if only because , whatever his reputation abroad , he has a high reputation here ; because he and the Kennedys have been social friends for many years ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Troutman , a Kennedy lieutenant in Georgia ) are reportedly keen on his appointment . Senator Fulbright is tainted by his Arkansas record on racial matters ( he signed the Southern Manifesto and filed a Supreme Court brief as amicus curiae in the Little Rock case ) , but there is doubt whether this would either prevent his confirmation as Secretary of State or his eventual acceptance elsewhere . The Senator has been forced to trade his integrity on civil rights for the opportunity to make what has been an enlightened contribution in foreign affairs . He spoke out forth ? rightly against many of the blunders of the Dulles era ( notably the Baghdad Pact , the Aswan Dam cancella ? tion , and the Lebanon landings ) at the time they were being made . He has shown no great ability as a nego ? tiator in Senate politicking , but as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee his administrative performance has , by all accounts , been adequate . Dean Rusk served in a variety of high State Depart ? ment posts for six years ( 1946-51 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs ( 1950-51 ) he had much to do with the critical decision first to resist the Communist attack in Korea , and then to prevent its expanding into a full-scale war with Communist China . His writings and public statements reveal the rigorous and yet imagina ? tive intellect of a scholar ( he was the President of Mills College before entering wartime government service ) . Though , like Bruce , an intimate member of the Acheson State Department high command which collectively embraced the pro-French line on Indo-China , Rusk in his public comments at the time saw the situation whole . Testifying before the Foreign Rela ? tions Committee on August 7 , 1951 , he spoke of the " extremely complicated " interplay between " the French on the one side , the non-Communist nationalists on the other , and the very active Communist opposition as a third part to the problem . " In response to Henry Cabot Lodge , who asked whether the French " have not given the Indo-Chinese what amounts to their independence now , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their minds that . Indo-China will be independent . on the other hand , it is quite fair to say that there are a great many people in Indo-China who do not believe that is the case , and who are suspicious of French long-range intentions , and that factor has made it difficult for the non-Communist nationalists . " Mr. Lodge pressed further : " Regardless of what people may believe is the fact , is it not that this is no longer a colonial war ? " But Rusk persisted : " I think that it is one thing to say that this is not a colonial war because the governments concerned have made the necessary decisions to settle that problem . It is another thing to say that the people who are fighting in this war think it is not a colonial war . " Mr. Rusk as President of the Rockefeller Founda ? tion and as one of the drafters of the Rockefeller re ? ports has given special study to the organizational problems of the federal government in foreign rela ? tions , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what US policy . can do . ( " When the emphasis of discussion falls too heavily for my taste upon the limitations on policy , " he wrote recently in Foreign Affairs , " I recall from early child ? hood the admonition of the circuit preacher : ' Pray as if it were up to God ; work as if it were up to you ' . " ) And he has a gift for winning appreciation in both liberal and conservative political environments without the sacrifice of his personal convictions . In his Con ? gressional appearances as Assistant Secretary , for ex ? ample , he was unusually well-received . Georgia-born , of humble parents , he has a down-to-earth side to his personality which contrasts with the cool matter-of-factness of Paul Nitze . Both of them are known as competent administrators . Mr. Nitze 's interests , how ? ever , have of late centered on military policy , and he might , therefore , most usefully contribute to the Ken ? nedy Administration in the Pentagon . There he could bring his sophisticated grasp of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? serving as a link between the State Department plan ? ners and the generals . Bowles and Stevenson What about Chester Bowles and Adlai Stevenson ? One must pause to consider more precisely two ques ? tions : what was John Kennedy 's campaign essentially about , and , what kind of Secretary of State does 1961 require ? The campaign was one long attack on second-best . Mr. Kennedy said our prestige had slumped , our power had slumped , our confidence in our purposes and capacities had slumped , and that we need to make a new beginning . He identified himself with a progressive image of America . He spoke of the inseparability of national power and peace , and he dedicated himself to the advancement of both . He said these things not only to voters in Illinois and California , but to a world much of which has grown skeptical of the competence of our diplomacy . By his choice of Secretary , Mr. Kennedy will signal to every nation just what this young , prag ? matic new leadership can be expected to mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been said , be temperamentally and intellectually compatible , yet compatibility is not the only requisite . For one thing , the Secretary must be an able administrator . He will be running a massive bureaucracy ( 23,455 em ? ployees , including a Foreign Service now grown to 6,449 ) . In the long historic past , the Secretary was mainly concerned in the treaty-making process . Now , he is continuously involved in questions of how much of our resources we are going to divert from domestic requirements and how we shall allocate them among competing demands on the foreign scene . This requires his continuous interposition here at home in dealing with the Congress , in articulating our problems and needs and purposes to the public , in keeping an eye upon the multifarious departments concerned in foreign policy , and in maintaining close junction with the Pres ? ident . He is the President 's political vicar , his right arm in bringing order and direction to the various depart ? ments and agencies of the government in foreign affairs ? as well as having responsibilities for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with emissaries in Washington and at foreign capitals . Above all , a Secretary of State appropriate to the do 's must have a wide , detailed and seasoned under ? standing of an incredible number of dissimilar prob ? lems ? in West Berlin , in Laos , in Cuba , in the Congo . He must be a creditable spokesman for peace , one who does not confuse strength with moral pronouncements or provocative gestures . His grasp of Communist aims and tactics must be sophisticated and his opposition to Communist expansion firm , yet he must make it plain that he does not think the cold war pattern of the past decade is unalterable , or that hot war is inevitable . He must be at home with the Nkrumahs and Nehrus , as well as the de Gaulles ; he must respect rather than simply tolerate reformers ; he must accept and work with the'neutralists without dismay ; he must have an instinctive sympathy for the efforts to use government as an instrument for national planning . Only this kind of man will be effective as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case ? to a foreign as well as domestic constituency ? for US policies . It is here that Bowles and Stevenson are in a class apart . Each fits the bill . And whatever new departures are developed by a Kennedy Administration , Bowles or Stevenson as Secretary would automatically assure them a larger measure of acceptance abroad than werethey to be put forward by others not so respected . Most people remember that Mr. Bowles was one of Senator Kennedy 's early supporters ; his pre-convention efforts helped attract many to Kennedy who trusted Bowles ' long record of liberal leadership . One easily forgets how alone Mr. Bowles was in 1951 when he argued that neutralism was often another word for nationalism and that the US would be wise to deal with it as a deeply-rooted reality rather than an immoral threat . ( One month ago Dwight Eisenhower , with the zeal of the new convert , went so far as to urge neutral ? ism on the new African states . ) Reading back over the speeches and writings of Mr. Bowles beginning in 1946 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is struck by their far-sightedness , their sense of the drift of his ? tory as well as their confidence that the free world need not drift and that history could be bent to demo ? cratic purposes . In 1946 Bowles was advocating that " all nations should have access to American capital for the develop ? ment of power and transportation systems , irrigation projects and modern industries . The expenditure of two percent of our gross national income . . . would in 10 years ' time substantially increase the living standard of hundreds of millions of people . " In 1951 and 1952 , he was pleading with Washington to recognize the impending shift in Soviet strategy from military aggres ? sion to the primacy of economic and political penetra ? tion ( executive session testimony before the Senate For ? eign Relations Committee on January 16 , 1952 , is a notable case in point ) . In 1954 , after a visit to Japan , he wrote that " when we ask them to rearm , nearly half the country disagrees . . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may soon come to the surface dramatically . " In 1955 and again in his 1956 book , Africa 's Challenge to America , Bowles offered explicit country-by-country examples of the " explo ? sive " inadequacies of US policy . His three , extended study tours since relinquishing his Ambassadorship to India in 1953 have taken him to 32 countries in Asia , Africa and Europe ; his two-month tour of Yugoslavia , Poland and the Soviet Union in January and February of 1957 included one of the first ( and least publicized ) interviews with Mr. Khrushchev . Last year , as a mem ? ber of the Europe Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , he conferred with leaders in Britain , France , Germany and Italy . An An-Star Cast Adlai Stevenson , too , is prepared . He has trained himself for large responsibilities as thoroughly as any prospective Secretary of State in memory . He was chief of the Economic Mission to Italy in 1943 and of a War Department mission to Europe a year later . He was head of the US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1945 , and later a member of the UN delegation to the General Assembly . He was an excel ? lent Governor of a large state . He , too , has crisscrossed the globe . There are not many leaders on any continent ? in or out of power ? with whom he has not conferred . His appointment calendar since 1953 ( some 4o-odd heads of states and high officials of other countries have made the pilgrimage to Libertyville ) illustrates the unique esteem in which he is held . He has twice been the candidate of his party for the Presidency . He has gone up and down the land working for the elec ? tion of John Kennedy with a diligence and enthusiasm not exceeded by any other campaigner . But alike as their thinking is , these two men have radically different styles . A Stevenson regime at the State Department would have more old-school elegance . It would also have a responsive , even an enthusiastic audience abroad . Initially at least , Chester Bowles would bring slightly less prestige to the position . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own business , as head of the wartime OPA and as Governor of Connecticut ) . He is a man of action , and the Department of State under his direc ? tion would get a welcome infusion of energy , new ideas and new talents . The President-elect will soon decide where these men and others can best serve . The Secretary of State is only one of many highly important positions that must shortly be filled . A strong Ambassador to NATO is badly needed , such a man as Dean Acheson . A hard-driving and far-seeing coordinator of our Foreign Aid Programs is needed . A negotiator who can make a fresh start on disarmament negotiations and on a nuclear test ban is needed . An Ambassador at the UN who can inspire confidence and who does not equate debating points with accomplishment is needed . The margin of the President-elect 's victory is narrow and the pressures on him to conciliate the South and the Republicans will be heavy . Nevertheless , he is in command , and he is fortunate ; he can assemble an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is dedicated to new departures can only welcome the intimate counsel of such exceptionally able men . Widening the Narrow Margin It was a close thing all the way . It seems clear enough that John F. Kennedy alone among the Democratic as ? pirants could have turned the trick . It is clear enough that he could not have done it without the assistance of Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson as his running mate . ( It is equally clear that he could not have done it without notably solid Negro support in key states of North and South alike . ) It is doubtful that he could have prevailed had Nelson Rockefeller been his adversary . The combi nation that was realized was probably the only one susceptible of being turned into a Democratic victory . The winning candidate 's coat-tails proved scanty . Save in two or three Northeastern states he ran gener ? ally behind his ticket . For the second time in a century the party winning the Presidency incurred net losses in the Senate and the House . They were too slight to im ? peril @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that strength was eroded in victory . In the House , at least , diminution is significant both qualitatively and quantitatively . Representatives Frank Coffin of Maine , George McGovern of South Dakota , and Lee Metcalf of Montana ? stalwarts who tried with varying success for other offices ? will be sorely missed . Fortunately , such valuable House members as Richard Bolling , Stewart Udall , Sidney Yates , John Brademas and Thomas Ash ? ley were returned . The outcome was far closer than appeared to be like ? ly only a week or 10 days before election day . It was in that last phase that the Republicans turned to unin ? hibited demagoguery . The tactic seems to have proved productive , even if not completely successful , and the lesson is probably not lost on the practitioners . The temptation to resume the drumfire of extreme partisan ? ship against the victor may be irresistible . New Presi ? dents traditionally enjoy a honeymoon period of at least 90 days . Senator Kennedy has often referred to this ex ? pectation . He may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week . The results presumably leave Richard Nixon as a political force of sorts for the time being at least . The effect of the candidate 's Catholicism helped in some states . It hurt in some others . On balance it probably did him more benefit than harm . The point , however , remains a sensitive one . It may vanish from political discourse for a time , but it will remain latent in many minds . How to allay the religious issue must be the subject of much quiet counsel . Senator Kennedy must strive to enclose his adver ? saries by raising political discourse to better and higher levels . This means that as President-elect and then as President he must henceforth speak more informatively and more creatively then he chose to do in the cam ? paign . We are not criticizing his tactics as campaigner . We seek only to suggest that he must now unfold and explain his thoughts and purposes with greater care and in greater depth . His habitual resort to idioms of speed and motion will not be enough in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourse to match the seriousness and intricacy of the true issues . He has won , but narrowly . Now he must widen his margins , and to do this he must broaden his range of communication with the people . His mandate is not clear enough . Now he must strive to create one , and , like Andrew Jackson , who barely squeaked through , act as if he had won handsomely .                     