@@488216

Republican moderates , whose inept performance before and at San Francisco proved such an asset to the Goldwater forces , have begun scratching their heads for a way to recapture the party . Reading the polls , they foresee a debacle for the Republican Presidential candidate on November 3 , but they also know that a debacle does not mean the Goldwater radicals will skulk away , humiliated , returning the party Machinery to their hands . On the contrary , it has been clear for some time that the Goldwater forces ? even before their candidate was nominated  --  have never expected to in this election . Their principal goal has been to win the Party . It is remembered now that Goldwater himself spoke a year or two ago of ' Settling for 45 per cent of the vote . His first move as a candidate was not to establish a campaign organization , which is the normal procedure , but to seize the party apparatus . His campaign tac- - Milton Viorst is a free-lance writer , living in Washington , D.C. His Hos-t* Allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in February . tics in recent weeks indicate that he has virtually foreclosed the possibility of gaining the support of substantial numbers of moderates , which means that he is now resigned to receiving less than 45 per cent of the vote and to a major defeat . But he and his cohorts have continued to tighten their grip on the party machinery . Goldwaterites are still pressing forward at the state levels . Win or Jose , the ultraconservatives plan to retain direction of the GOP . The line which the'defeated Goldwaterites will take is now emerging . One disaffected , moderate from the National Committee has said : " They 'll react like the Germans after World War I. They 'll claim they were stabbed in the back by their own people " The New York Daily News , reliable indicator of trends inside the Goldwater camp , ran a column early this month quoting Rogers C. Dunn , an election statistician who has long been in the pay of the Republican right wing . Dunn has for years maintained , in Goldwater 's behalf , that within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 million , he saidl  --  that hasnever voted in the past , but that will bring victory in the future , still : ply by going to the polls . Now , con-Ceding Goldwater 's defeat , he has modified his song : Goldwater will get those 10 million ex-abstainers , but will be robbed of an equivalent 10 million or so by a " conspiracy " of the moderates . Dunn argues that the GOP liberals , by beclouding the real issues of the election with aspersions on Goldwater 's intelligence , have deprived the party not only of votes but of badly needed financial support  --  the very support that could pay for the dissemination of the truth . Dunn still insists that a substantial majority of Americans favor Goldwater . But because Republican liberals have beftiddled them , he says , Goldwater is degtined to lose overwhelmingly this fall . The Republican Right has thus prepared its doctrine for disaster . By shifting the onus of the defeat to the Left , they hope to come back for more in 1968 and thereafter . They will claim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distortions ; they will demand the right to try again . There is much truth , of course , to the charge that the liberal Republicans have abandoned Goldwater . In addition to Senators Javits and Keating , Case and Kuchel , who from the beginning expressed their contempt for the ticket , more and more Republicans have parted company with Goldwater and Miller as the campaign has disintegrated . If the apostates of the early days spurned the ticket out of conviction , those in mid-campaign have departed out of fear of being dragged down by a general collapse . Unquestionably they have risked forfeiting their influence within the party , despite their claims to the contrary . Their consciences may be purer , but in the aftermath to November 3 , their voices will be weaker than those of the men who , however unwillingly , remained to face the music . Governor ' Scranton of Pennsylvania and Charles Percy , would-be Governor of Illinois , should theoretically be in ' an ideal position to pick up the , pieces of the Republican Party . Both have supported Goldwater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Michigan 's Governor , has also made evident his lack of enthusiasm for Goldwater without actually repudiating him . Any of the three might therefore be qualified to lead a moderate renaissance . But Romney and Percy must first be elected , and 218 Scranton must make up for his clumsy behavior in San Francisco . Most important , none of the three showed that he possessed the resources to challenge Goldwater before San Francisco and there is no certainty that any will put up a tougher fight after Election Day . The moderate Republicans still suffer from a critical lack of leadership . If they could rally around a chief , as they once did around Eisenhower , they could probably regain control of the machinery behind the Republican National Committee , which has been Goldwater in complexion since William Miller took over as chairman after the 1960 election . A rough count of the 106-member committee , which theoretically makes policy for the party , suggests that an anti-Goldwater majority could be assembled . A strong moderate leader ? particularly one with ample financial backing ? could infuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dean Burch , John Grenier and the rest of the far Right Goldwater crew . But in reality the National Committee has not set policy for decades . The national machinery has been in the hands of the party professionals . And no one really believes that a competent , forceful leader will come forth . The best strategy for the moderates , in their own judgment , is to win back control of the national party through the state party organizations . Rockefeller and Scranton demonstrated ' at San Francisco , for a while at least , that they could retain the loyalty of their state delegations , despite Goldwater 's juggernaut . They obviously lacked the strength for a sustained holding action , but their ' brief success showed that capture of the state houses is the most promising strategy available . At least three outstanding moderate Senators ? Javits of New York , Case of New Jersey and Kuchel of California  --  are giving serious consideration to running for Governor of their states between now and 1968 . None of them want the job ; all prefer the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But if all three won , and arrived at the Republican convention of 1968 supported by the delegations of Pennsylvania under Scranton , Michigan under Romney , Illinois under Percy and Oregon under Hatfield , the moderates would be hard to beat . They would have seven of the largest states under their control and the psychological advantage of being on the upswing . But this stategy , however - great its attractions , is predicated on an almost uninterrupted string Of electoral victories , none of which is by any means certain . Even more important , it , assumes a certain dedication and strength of purpose  --  neither of which virtues was conspicuous among the moderates during the 1964 campaign for the Republican nomination . A Goldwater rout may very well consolidate the power of the extreme right wing in the Republican Party . In the races for Congress , the Republican moderates will be more vulnerable than the conservatives . If a right winger has established himself in office over a period of years , it is probable that his constituents like him that way and ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tide . But those Republicans who have campaigned as moderates will carry Goldwater around their necks , as heavy as any albatross . Thus Senator Keating in New York and ' Senator Beall in Maryland are apt to go down , although under other circumstances they might have won . Also , quite a few House moderates ? Sibal from Connecticut ? and McDade from The NATION Permsylvania , for , instance  --  are serious underdogs . John Lindsay and Seymour Halpern , bath from New York City , ? and both with good records in the House , will be running under heavy handicaps . The absence of such men would make the GOP delegations  --  in both Senate and House more conservative than before . It would certainly make a resurgence of Republican moderation more difficult . An early transfer of power within the Republican Party faces a further obstacle in the huge debt that will encumber the National Committee , after November . The best current estimate is that it will reach $5 million .. One of the important factors of the 1964 campaign is that much big-business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's men are so angry that they are seeking , as sour grapes , to pin the " big business " tag on the Democratic Party , and calling themselves  --  alas  --  the party of the common man . The deficit will substantially reduce the attractiveness of Republican Party leadership , for the top echelon will be preoCcupied during the next four years with paying bills . It would be a stouthearted moderate who would seek such a privilege , and no stout hearts have appeared . The Goldwater conservatives have not overlooked the prospect of a past-election fight . If they lose badly in November , it is more than conceivable that they will wage it without Goldwater . Senator Thruston Morton of Kentucky , when he was Republican National Chairman , once remarked that if he lost the Presidential election , " Barry would , be content to go home and play with his ham radio for the rest of his life . " Goldwater has waged a dismal campaign ; Richard Nixon , a far more astute manipulator who earned the party 's loyalty in a dogged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support after the 1960 election . And unlike Nixon or Jahn Kennedy , Goldwater did not create the movement that led to his candidacy . His relationship to the conservative movement fits a modification of Voltaire 's quip : " if he did n't exist , we 'd have to invent him . " If Goldwater becomes too conspicuous a liability , the conservatives will simply invent someone else . The talent among them is thin , but ' there remain in the background such attractive possibilities as Senator Peter Dominick of Colorado or Rep. Gerald Ford of Michigan . Goldwater 's departure would not bring an end to Goldwaterism . What has upset the moderates most in recent weeks has been the defection of Senator Strom Thurmond to the Goldwater banner . Thurmond has walked out of the Democratic Party before , so it was no surprise . But the act , accompanied as it was by Goldwater 's warm public embrace , seemed to foretell the very polarization of parties that the Republicans of the Center most fear . A mass defection of the Thurmonds of the South would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . for the moderates , who have long had trouble justifying their presence there anyway . Such a development would mean the end of the two-party system as the country knows it . Though some might be tempted to say " good riddance , " for Republican moderates it would be unmitigated disaster . It would press middle-of-the-road voters into the Democratic camp , where Lyndon Johnson has already extended a big welcome . It would narrow the base of Republican support to an even smaller national minority . It would definitely threaten American political stability . But it would give the ultraconservatives what they want and what they have been striving for  --  a party all their own . Many Republican ' moderates know that they are struggling bath for their personal survival and that of their party as a significant political force . They seem to understand now that they can not assume that what the active members of the party want above anything else is to win elections . They might have reached that conclusion in 1960 , when the party rejected Rockefeller , who was almost sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That the rank and file of Republican voters is not enthusiastic about Goldwater extremism seems almost irrelevant now . The Republicans who were active liberals and moderates appear to have fled to the Democratic Party some time ago . Even the apathetic ones will vote Democratic in huge numbers in 1964 . They may never return to Republicanism . The failure of the moderate wing of the Republican Party to come up with a serious alternative to Goldwater in 1964 reflects a basic weakness , not a mere coincidence of circumstance 's . Its job after the election would not be easy under the best of circumstances . But now the moderates have raised the question of whether they possess the inner resources to come back at all . The Goldwaterites are betting that they do not .                     