@@246409

Traditionally , a Party Congress in Russia blends parliamentary trappings with jungle techniques . Beneath the solemn propaganda ritual , beneath the automatic votes on prefabricated resolutions by hand-picked delegates , there is a half-hidden reality : rivalries of men and cliques , hardheaded appraisal of how well the party leadership is doing . This week , as the elite of world Communism eyed each other at the 22nd Party Congress , the public mood was unusually harmonious . From jampacked bleachers in Mayakovsky Square , a pride of poets droned odes in honor of the event . To welcome 4,500 Soviet delegates and " observers " from Communist parties of some 80 foreign lands , Moscow 's streets had been scoured , shop windows filled with enticements . Behind the Kremlin 's red walls and golden domes , Khrushchev had rushed to completion a starkly modern new Congress hall , equipped with " stereophonic " sound and translation equipment in 29 languages-the better to spread boast and threat , praise and invective . <P> All types of Communists came to listen : comrades from small Russian villages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowds awaited such stalwarts as Viet Minh 's Ho Chi Minh and Red China 's Chou Enlai , Astronaut Gherman Titov , Lieut . Colonel Mikhail Voronov ( billed as " the man who shot down the U-2 " ) was there , and so , imprisoned in a vast new bust that stared across Sverdlov Square , was the old Russian-hater who started it all , Karl Marx .. <P> Record Reviewed . There was no expectation of the kind of drastic policy change or major party infighting that has marked many congresses in the past. * In 44 years and 15 Party Congresses since the October 1917 Revolution , Communism 's inner hierarchy has never seemed more stable or more successful . Since the previous congress in 1959 , Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev had routed the last implacable Stalinists from positions of power . In his major scheduled address about past accomplishments and future progress , he could point to Soviet industry and science riding a high curve of technological advance . Abroad , he could point to steady Communist erosion of the West 's position from Laos to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through Eastern Europe this week , Khrushchev would impress many delegates , even if he did not succeed in intimidating the West . Soviet experts predicted that he would cap the Congress with a spectacular space feat or a vast nuclear explosion . <P> And yet in the jungle world of the party , there was plenty of room for snarling and backbiting . Khrushchev is plagued by disastrous crop failures , particularly in his own pet " virgin lands . " Internationally , it has been three years since he first started issuing ultimatums on Berlin , and though hard pressed , the West still stands firm ; Africa is in the balance and Asia desperately menaced by Communism . But despite fulminations and victory claims , Khrushchev can not really record a major recent cold war success except Cuba . That , at least , is the situation as it must seem to extremists-or ' " maximalists " - including Red China .                     