@@491715

3 2 over the whine of racing cars and motorcycles from nearby Balboa Stadium . And a resident of Gardner , Kansas , irked by the racket from a hay drier in a grain elevator near his home , pioneered a do-it-yourself solution to the problems of our new Age of Noise . Sheriff 's deputies arrested him after the grain-elevator management complained that its machinery had been silenced by gunfire ; fourteen empty rifle cartridges were found near the quiet scene . Are there better means than bullets for quelling intolerable noises ? " Of course there are , " says Dr. Leo L. Beranek , president of Bolt , Beranek &; Newman Inc. , an acoustical consulting firm with headquarters in Cambridge , Massachusetts . " Except for the sonic boom from planes and missiles traveling faster than sound , there 's no noise scientific ingenuity can generate that scientific ingenuity ca n't suppress  --  if you give us money enough , room enough and weight tolerance enough . Controlling noise may slow down some of our ( Continued on Par 79 ) 72 quickly decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of routes and the plan would have to be revised substantially . So the members sat down each with a map and some colored pencils to draw the routes they felt the region should have . It took them fifteen sessions , totaling some thirty hours . During this period it seemed to Mr. Hector that the prodigious labors of the examiner and the millions of words written and spoken by the parties to the case were having relatively little to do with shaping the final decision . In a moment of whimsey he decided to test this theory . He remembered , years ago , hearing his father , who migrated from Iowa to Florida , speak of the little town of Clarinda , and the melodious name had stuck in his mind . He looked on the map to see if Clarinda was still there . It was  --  a county seat in southern Iowa with a population of 5086 . Clarinda had not been one of the cities recommended for air service by the examiner , and it had not appealed to the board to cure this omission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Hector , with tongue in cheek nevertheless made an impassioned plea that Clarinda. as the site of a state hospital , should have air service . Without protest , his fellow board members amiably agreed to draw a line upon the map , giving an air route to Clarinda . They also added another line . giving air service to Spencer , Iowa , the home town of one of the assistants to the board . In the long run . neither Clarinda nor Spencer got an air route . Mr. Hector explained that he was only joking . and the native of Spencer had left the board before the final opinion was made public , In May of 1958 the board announced its decision in a press release . Then a staff of " opinion writers " ? experts in legalistic prose , who from the same set of Facts , Mr. Hector claims , can preach the theory that the world is either round or flat  --  took over to explain and lustily the board 's new plan . No member of the board took part in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purported to be a statement by the members of the board of the reasons for their decision . Then , more than three years after the board 's original action , the new air service went into effect . in Mr. Hector 's view , the Seven States case epitomized the weakness of the CAB 's procedures . In the first place , he says , the examiner was working in the dark , with no set policy to guide him . Thus handicapped , he had to accept a great deal of testimony that had no real bearing on the matter , thus increasing his own labors and prolonging the case . Once his decision had been made , it was largely ignored by the board . The board 's final decision , in Mr. Hector 's opinion , was based not on the facts presented , but on the personal ideas of each member of the board as to which communities should have service and which airlines should sere them , But most offensive of all to Mr. Hector 's legal mind , was that this decision plucked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then supported by a ponderous legal document written by men who had taken no part in reaching the decision . A study of these decisions , Mr. Hector says , will reveal no consistent policy ; for the opinion writers , knowing that a few months hence they may have to write an opposite opinion from a similar set of facts , cake care to express themselves in misty generalities . In each case , the decision makers " play it by ear , " and it is only natural that the litigants , knowing this , should try to get a commissioner 's ear and put a bug in it . The case-by-case approach , Mr. Hector believes , is almost an open invitation to parties who feel that , since there arc no set rules or principles , they must resort to some other means to win their cases . These " other means " may take many forms other than a crass effort to buttonhole a commissioner and ask for his vote . The CAB , for example , is charged with promoting aviation as well as regulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know intimately the men who run it . This leads to social associations , to bridge and cocktail parties , luncheons and dinners , fishing and golfing trips and long junkets  --  at industry 's expense  --  to inspect new air routes . At appropriate times such as Christmas , gifts may be sent to the commissioners . There is nothing venal in this , in Hector 's view , though it may lead to suspicious practices , as the House oversight subcommittee discovered when it found that some members of the FCC had accepted Thanksgiving turkeys and color-TV sets from the broadcasting industry . It does prove his point , he argues  --  that a man charged with promoting the expansion of an industry can not at the same time be a completely unbiased judge . For example , CAB for some years has urged the airlines to try new , lower fares as a means of promoting passenger business . When one line tries it and another protests , the same men then have to sit solemnly in judgment on the merits of the case . It is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its swaddling clothes , and its management should be allowed more leeway in making purely business decisions . One line , for example , last year added steeper-type seats on its transcontinental flights at no extra fare . A competitor protested . The CAB ruled that the line which was trying to give the passenger more leg room for the same money would have to stop it or charge a premium fare . These are matters , Hector feels , that should be left to the airlines ' own business judgment . Under the law , CAB is charged with regulating the aviation industry " in the public interest . " The public interest he thinks , would best be served by allowing the airlines more freedom to compete . The tight rein on competition , the long , drawn-out hearings , the decisions based on personal attitudes , not on clear-cut policy , can not continue much longer , Mr. Hector feels . " If a private business tried to conduct its affairs this way . it would go broke , " he told the American Bar Association at its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our foreign policy or plan our national defense this way , we would still be a third-rate power . And if we keep on trying to plan our national transportation system this way , we 'll wake up one morning to find it wo n't do the job . Clearly these procedures must be overhauled . " Mr. Hector knows that in his efforts to overhaul them he is in the position of a Don Quixote in a sincere suit , jousting at windmills which many people in Washington do not wish to see destroyed or greatly changed . He is well aware that many regulated businesses are quite content with their chains . They fume occasionally , when a decision goes against them , but in the main they are happy to be under the wing of a friendly Federal agency which protects them not only from the antitrust laws but from predatory competitors in their own ranks . He knows also that his recommendations for a cure  --  that policy making in the agencies become an executive function and that adjudication be turned over to special courts  --  raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house wants to see more power channeled into the executive department . Nor do many congressmen want to give up their right to call up a commissioner to pressure him gently on behalf of a worthy constituent . Woh these powerful forces opposing him , Mr. Hector is not naive enough to believe that the changes he has called for will come immediately ; and he knows that they may never come in the form he recommends . He is convinced , though , that many of the agencies , tangled in their procedures and drawn ever closer to the industries they are supposed to regulate , have forgotten that their first and foremost duty is to function " in the public interest . " When it finally dawns on the public that this is so , the reforms , he thinks , will be inevitable . Is the Noise Getting You Down 1Continlicd from Page 33 ) vehicles , increase some costs and lower the efficiency of some industrial processes ; but it can be done if society is willing to pay the price . " Doctor Beranek speaks for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is one of an estimated 1500 physicists , acoustical engineers , mathematicians , neurologists and psychologists who spend their time hushing military , industrial and transport noises as well as the noise from ordinary household equipment . The acoustical experts have even silenced the barely audible " tick " of thermostats in electric blankets  --  a sound Consumers Union once likened to the stomping of a robin on the lawn . One of their most baffling problems at the moment is jet-airplane noise near airports , to be considered separately in a later issue of The Saturday Evening- Post . Another thorny challenge is traffic noise , which is still the most widespread source of noise complaints over most of the United States . Offensive traffic noise , Doctor Beranek explains , is primarily truck noise , for a reason deeply imbedded in the curious arithmetic of noise multiplication . Suppose that you live near a highway and that the average automobile as it passes injects a moderate noise into your living room by day and your bedroom by night , It would take nine similar cars , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noise . But a single truck  --  even one with a good muffler  --  can inject as much noise as the nine cars ; and one truck with a defective muffler can produce a roar equivalent to ninety or 100 passenger cars passing simultaneously . Six years ago , when The Saturday Evening Past last surveyed the nation 's noises ( THis SCREAMING WORLD , by Steven M. Spencer , August 15 , 19531 , the villains in the truck noise pandemonium were the trucking and truck-manufacturing associtions , which had spent five years in a study of the situation , but had not yet agreed upon standards governing how noisy a truck should be . That Post article created a considerable stir in trucking circles , and within seven months the Automobile Manufacturers ' Association issued the long-awaited A.M.A. truck-noise standard . Today , according to the American Trucking Associations , more than 99 per cent of all new trucks have mufflers which meet or better the standard . But alas , all is still far from serene along the nation 's streets and highways . To find out why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the six-lane Connecticut Turnpike in Westport , just east of the Norwalk tollgate . The first big diesel rig flagged down by Trooper Robert Malesky , noise specialist for the Connecticut Stale Police , was emitting an obnoxious cross between a rasp and a bellow . Climbing down under the rig with Trooper Malesky 's flashlight , we could easily spot the reason . The muffler had been excellent when new ; but the quieting baffles inside it had been completely eaten away by exhaust fumes . What was originally a muffler had become an echo chamber . " How long has that thing been on ? " Trooper Malesky asked the driver . " I would n't try to kid you three hundred sixty thousand miles , " was the reply . The useful life of a good muffler is usually estimated at 100,000 miles  --  six months to a year of over-the-road service . Among the other trucks netted that night was one with a muffler less than two months old . It looked tine to us ; but Trooper Malesky showed us how someone had sawed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case back together . The driver readily conceded that his muffler had been deliberately " sodded . " The sodding , he told us , increases the speed of his rig , gives him more power uphill , saves fuel and extends the life of his valves . We asked Lewis Kibbee. automotive engineer for the American Trucking Associations , about sodding . Ten years ago , Kibbee conceded , truck mufflers really did build up a strong back pressure in the engines . But the best new mufflers produce less back pressure as well as more quieting , The roar from a substandard or rodded muffler may give the driver an illusion of greater power , but the actual gain is negligible . " Replacement mufflers meeting or bettering the A.M.A. standard are available today for almost every truck on the road , " Kibbee told us , " and enlightened trucking companies are increasingly installing the best , " The trucking associations are educating the laggards to the importance of replacing mufflers often enough , and of selecting replacement mufflers that meet the A.M.A. standard . Law-enforcement programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fining offenders . " This two-pronged approach has accomplished a lot , " says Kibbee , " but we do n't deny that more can still be done . " Trooper Malesky 's chief problem at the moment is that there is n't a meter available for measuring truck noise accurately . We asked Doctor Beranek about this meter problem . Scientists , he explained , have long measured noise in decibels ; but the decibel scale is not an accurate measurement of loudness to the human car , and is misleading for truck noise , jet noise and many other kinds of noise , To understand why , consider two tones of equal " intensity " as measured in decibels , one a bass note near the lower end of the piano keyboard and the other a note just one octave higher . Both may kick the ordinary decibel meter to the same eighty-decibel level , but to the human car the February ri , Iu ( 5O higher note sounds four times as loud as the lower . As a step toward more realistic noise measurement , Doctor Beranek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . for calculating loudness in " tones " instead of decibels . This takes into account pitch as well as intensity . Scientists at the Armour Research Foundation under Dr. Howard C. Hardy  --  now an acoustical consultant in Chicago  --  adapted the sone scale for truck-noise measurement . The A.M.A. standard provides that noise from a truck may not exceed 125 cones under specified measuring conditions . Some trucks emitted 300 tones or more before the standard was adopted . Law-enforcement officers like Trooper Malesky still have to depend on either a decibel meter or their own ears , since complex laboratory equipment and a series of mathematical calculations arc required to determine how loud a noise is in tones . At the Acoustical Society of America meeting in Cleveland last October we witnessed the first public demonstration of what noise-abatement officers need most  --  a lightweight portable meter , designed by Floyd C. Anderson of Boeing Airplane Company , which measures noise simply and directly intones . " With one of those gadgets , " says Trooper Malesky longingly , " I could really quiet this pike , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has proved reasonably effective . " Complaints from householders along the pike have tapered off to a trickle , " says First Selectman Herbert E. Baldwin of Westport , " and property values have been recovering . " In the first three months some 300 arrests were made  --  but that 's only part of the story . " Within forty-eight hours after we launched our truck-muffler program , " Trooper Malesky declares , " the drivers ' grapevine had carried the news from Maine to Florida . Thousands of other truckers either bought new mufflers or detoured around Connecticut altogether . " Truck manufacturers and other large industrial concerns these days have acoustical experts on their own staffs ; but for highly technical analyses many still rely on outside consultants . Consulting services arc available throughout the country from some forty firms registered with the Acoustical Society of America . Local governments also use consultants to determine what can be done about noises which irk the community . Bolt , Beranek &; Newman is by far the largest of the consulting firms ; B.B.N. clients have included the Army , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturers and a wide range of other industries . One of its most dramatic assignments came in 1950 , when the whole West End of Cleveland , Ohio , and half a dozen neighboring suburbs were shaken by a terrifying rumble which awakened householders throughout an area estimated at more than fifty square miles . " It was n't the loudness of the noise which alarmed everyone , " an car-witness recalls , " but its eerie , rafter-shaking quality and its midnight onset . " One neighbor thought his own furnace had blown up , and he rushed out into the street in his nightshirt . " It was the kind of noise that you 'd think could n't possibly last , " one observer told us , " but it kept right on , hour after hour , until three-fifteen a.m . " By breakfast time excited radio commentators were announcing the source of this awe-inspiring " noise of the future " ? a new supersonic wind tunnel designed for jet research at the Lewis Research Center near Cleveland 's Hopkins Airport . A ramjet engine being tested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We will spend whatever it takes to quiet that noise , " Dr. Edward R. Sharp , director of the research center , assured neighbors threatening injunctions . Then he phoned for Prof. Richard H. Bolt of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , chairman of the B.B.N. board , and for Doctor Beranek . The jet engine which rocked Cleveland , Doctor Beranek explains , was being operated at full throttle in a metal-lined test chamber eight feet high and six feet wide ; reverberations within the metal shell built up the acoustic energy to several times its initial intensity . Extending outward from the test chamber was a metal cone more than 200 feet long , which acted as a highly effective horn to focus the noise and further amplify it . Noise travels best downwind ; the tunnel was generating its own noise-carrying wind at Mach 2-1480 miles per hour , or double the speed of sound at sea level . Much of the energy emerging from the cone , moreover , was in the very-lowfrequency octave from five to ten cycles per second . Waves at these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But they pass with case through houses and other obstacles ; and on their way through they shake entire structures , producing  --  at a distance from their source  --  the mysterious rumbling and rattling of windowpanes that had awakened whole suburbs . Because these structure-shaking frequencies had not been anticipated , the original soundproofing of the wind tunnel had made no provision for their suppression . Under ordinary conditions even a noise source like this one could he throttled with relative ease . " But because this was a wind tunnel , " says Dr. John Evvard of Lewis Research Center , " no noise-abatement steps could be taken which would slow down the **36;1783;TOOLONG blast of wind through the test chamber . It took four months and four hundred fifty thousand dollars to quiet the noise without choking off the wind . " First , to eliminate those house-shaking five-to-ten cycle waves , live sets of slots were cut through the 200-foot-long exhaust cone . These slots open into live sound traps or cavities known as " Helmholtz resonators , " each cavity precisely tuned to trap sound ofa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organ is tuned to emit sound ofa particular pitch . As the blast from the jet engine being tested roars along the great cone , acoustic energy below ten cycles per second is trapped in the cavities and there quelled . The noise above ten cycles per second continues out through the cone and is dumped into an enormous " plenum chamber , " forty feet square with a ceiling more than forty feet high . Within the plenum chamber the noise must turn a right angle  --  another effective method for suppressing it  --  and enters a set of six tuned ducts , each ten feet square in cross section and more than 150 feet long , which suppress noise from twenty to 800 cycles . Noise pitched above 800 cycles emerges from the other end of the ducts into a second plenum chamber , turns another right angle , and then flows outside through parallel baffles which absorb most of the remaining acoustic energy . To test the effectiveness of this gigantic muffler , B.B.N. sound-measuring crews were called in , and one observer was stationed at a point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home of the most vociferous injunction seeker . When the wind began to blow , he could just hear it emerging from the baffles like a gentle zephyr in the distance . He waited ten minutes for the ram-jet to be fired up , then phoned to ask what was the matter . " Nothing 's the matter , " he was told . " The jet 's been at full power all along . " Noises from man-made machines are mostly of two kinds  --  those which bother 74 the people who buy and use the machines , and those which annoy the neighbors instead . Great progress has been made in quieting equipment such as refrigerators because the housewives who choose among the models are also the ones who benefit from having them quiet . Jet planes are relatively quiet inside , where the paying passengers sit . Room air-conditioners were initially quieted on the inside only , for the benefit of the families which had bought them ; outside , some were so noisy that apartment-house dwellers brought Suit to prohibit their use by neighbors . Today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An acoustical engineer for one of the air-conditioning companies told us why . " We soon discovered , " he said , " that people were n't going to buy our brand next summer if they 'd been kept awake all last summer by one of our blankety-blank machines in a window across the court . " Propaganda has been used instead of acoustics to minimize noise complaints , but rarely with much success . When purchasers objected , for example , to the loud thumping noise emitted by a well-known washing machine some years ago , salesmen were instructed to call particular attention to the noise and to warn the housewife , " If that thumping ever stops , be sure to call a serviceman right away . " Complaints diminished  --  but so did sales , and the manufacturer eventually called in a noise consultant who actually eliminated the thumping . The principles of noise abatement arc relatively simple . Sound waves are essentially air motions ; most of them are generated by objects vibrating at frequencies to which the human ear responds . If a gear is causing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected material which cuts down the vibrations ; or the number of gear teeth may be increased until the vibrations are so high-pitched they ca n't be heard . An acoustical engineer may surround the sound source with a noise-absorbing material like glass fibers or wall in the noise with barriers too heavy to transmit the vibrations or too limp to respond to them . Techniques such as these have been used to quiet many factory noises . " The trick , " says Doctor Beranek , " is to accomplish the desired result within acceptable cost , space and weight limitations , and without impairing the usefulness of the device you 're trying to quiet . " Sometimes unorthodox methods must be improvised on the spot . Among the many noises of which Boston residents used to complain , for example , was the screeching of elevated trains as they hurtled around a curve near the heart of the city . Then someone noticed that the screech was absent on rainy days . Transit officials have now installed a sprinkler system over the rails at the curve ; as each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the train glides by in relative silence . A dog-breeding dentist in a Midwestern city has similarly silenced his kennels . If the dogs begin to howl at night , he pulls a cord near his bed , spray emerges from sprinklers at the kennels , and the water-doused dogs shake themselves dry in silence . Outboard motors on peaceful rural lakes were for a generation among the nation 's most hated noise scourges , for they assailed the ears of vacationers who had come to the lake for the specific purpose of escaping urban hubbub . Some efforts were made to quiet the early outboards by means of underwater exhaust pipes , but with negligible success ; outboard hot rodders removed the clean-out plates on the pipes so that the noise continued to roar out over the water . The clean-out plates were next eliminated , whereupon noise-loving boat owners sawed or drilled holes in the pipes . Then , during World War II , the need for a truly quiet outboard suddenly became acute . The Office of Strategic Services wanted to launch inflatable rubber boats from offshore submarines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missions behind enemy lines , But how could the boats be propelled to the beaches without alerting enemy sentries ? The problem was brought to Doctor Beranek 's ElectroAcoustics Laboratory at Harvard , then engaged in quieting the bridges of battleships and the cockpits of bombers and tighter planes ; and to the makers of Evinrude and Johnson outboards . " The outboard-company engineers accomplished much in brief time , " Doctor Beranek recalls . In addition to an underwater exhaust , each motor was equipped with an intake muffler to quiet the carburetor noise . Rubber mountings were inserted between motor and boat to curb the sounding-board effect . A noise-absorbing cover called a " Barney " was fitted over the motor , and other changes made . Then Harold L. Ericson of Doctor Beranek 's laboratory took a batch of the motors to Florida , borrowed a detachment of sentries from a nearby Army base to serve as a listening jury and put the motors through mock landing maneuvers along the Gulf of Mexico . Unquieted , those motors might easily have been detected a mile or more offshore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a few hundred yards at full throttle . During some tests at reduced power , sentinels heard the lapping of the waves against the bow of the boat before they heard the motor . The climax came when one big motor propelled a boat all the way in without being heard over the noise of the combers . Quieted outboards were used during the war to put agents ashore on the south coast of France , to patrol the Rhine and for evacuating the wounded from Pacific islands , But after the war , outboards on American lakes and waterways continued to harass the ears of vacationers . " Public annoyance , " says Harry C. Conover , chief engineer of Outboard Marine Corporation , which manufactures both Evinrudes and Johnsons , " was becoming a serious factor . Legislation to limit the size of motors was passed in some areas , and it was apparent that the number of such restricted areas would tend to increase . " Faced with this legal threat , Outboard Marine in 1953 set its engineers to work TETE once more on motor-quieting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doctor Beranek as consultant . The methods hurriedly pioneered during World War II were refined and extended . To almost everyone 's amazement , sales skyrocketed . Market research showed why . The hot-rod enthusiasts who liked noise were a small part of the potential market ; men might welcome the racket , but wives and girl friends did not . Quieter motors made boating a family affair . The commercial success of the redesigned outboards taught American industry a lessors : People really will pay for quiet . Similar quieting methods are now being applied to lawn mowers , pumps , home-heating equipment and a variety of other devices . But while progress is being made here on earth , the din from the skies grows louder . Hardest to cope with of all the aerial noises is the sonic boom engendered by planes , missiles and space vehicles traveling faster than the speed of sound  --  Mach 1 , or about 740 miles per hour . Sonic boom is widely misunderstood , When early planes " crashed the sound barrier , " they did it by nose-diving for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallacious but popular notion that a sonic boom is generated only during the split second when a plane is accelerating from subsonic to supersonic speed . " If that sound barrier is making so much trouble , " one indignant old lady told an upstate New York newspaper editor , " why do n't they take it down ? " As a matter of fact , a supersonic plane in steady flight drags a continuous pair of sonic booms , timed a fraction of a second apart , along its entire course . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has released some data on how loud sonic boom can be , based on test flights made over Virginia . Even with the plane at a height of five miles , the NASA reports , the boom sounded on the ground like close-range thunder , and was rated " objectionable " by listeners . At this height a quarter-inch-thick plate-glass window in a store under the flight path was cracked from edge to edge . The higher the plane , moreover , the wider the path along which the boom can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high altitude might well drag its sonic boom over a swath eighty miles wide from coast to coast ; such a boom would be audible over an area of 240,000 square miles . Military planes , of course , are already flying over us at supersonic speeds . One SATURDAY EVE NINC POST source estimates that they are loggin supersonic hours per day  --  Which means 1000 hours daily of sonic boom . In the course of our talks with acoustical experts we encountered numerous rumors of windows broken and householders frightened by supersonic jets . The Air Force , naturally enough , does not go out of its way to publicize or confirm such incidents . Robert C. Toth of the New York Herald Tribune nailed down one such story of a supersonic jet bomber which flew low from Seattle to Chicago ; its course , he reported , could be plotted on a map by spotting complaints of broken windows all across the West . Toth 's story was never denied . It is probable that such window-breaking flights are radar-evasion exercises which must necessarily be carried on at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has any suggestion for quieting sonic booms except by flying higher and higher . Worse booms may be on the way . Lockheed engineers , for example , are planning a supersonic civilian passenger plane which will fly at Mach 6 . " That 's roughly one mile per heartbeat , " Dr. John J. Dreher of Lockheed told an acoustical conference recently . A big plane flying from New York to California at that speed might have to cruise at a height of thirteen miles or more  --  though " cruise " is hardly the word . By the time a Mach 6 transcontinental plane reached that altitude , it would almost be time to head down again . One crumb of solace for boom-bothered groundlings : the Internal Revenue Service has now ruled that damage caused by sonic boom from supersonic planes may be deducted from your Federal income tax . Beyond the supersonic planes lie the missiles and space vehicles . At the Acoustical Society of America meetings we heard an NASA tape recording of the noise inside a Mercury space capsule launched from Cape Canaveral , Florida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear the roar of the rocket engines before the blast-off , the blast-off itself , the bang as the capsule separated from its rocket , the clanking of the gyros inside the capsule and the aerodynamic roar as the capsule re-entered the earth 's atmosphere . The experience was awe-inspiring  --  even though the tape was being played back at a fraction of its original loudness . Professor Bolt of B.B.N. and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology summed up the future of nonmilitary noise as it sounds from where he sits , close to the heart of the problem . " Ours is rapidly becoming an affluent society , " he told us , " with two cars in many garages and two television sets in many homes . Already some moderate-income families are faced with the question of what they most want next . " One of the blessings they might well add to their want list is an atmosphere that is n't polluted by smoke , smog or smell . Another is an atmosphere that is n't polluted by noise . What profiteth it a man to have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every room in his house if he ca n't hear what is being said over them because of the noise that comes through the windows and walls ? " Standards of ' acceptable noise , " tolerable noise , ' and ' objectionable noise ' are now being set all around us , not only for trucks and civilian planes but for household appliances , offices and factories . These standards will govern what we are forced to hear for years oreven decades to come . If we do want to live in an environment quiet enough for enjoyment , we 'd better say so rightTnHowE. ' ;                     