@@313773

VIRTUALLY every man has experienced pain and therefore knows just how it feels . But he can not tell anybody else what it is really like . Pain can not even be precisely defined . Lay and medical dictionaries alike offer essentially circular definitions of it as hurt , distress or suffering-pain is pain . Half the medical textbooks say little about it , except for extreme and uncommon forms , and doctors learn correspondingly little about it in medical school . The great British physiologist Sir Charles Sherrington described pain as " the psychical adjunct of an imperative protective reflex . " More simply , pain is what the victim perceives in his mind after he has touched a hot stove-and reflexively pulled back his hand to guard against further burn damage . <P> Pattern of Responses . It is only since World War II that the investigation of pain has been pursued as energetically as the search for disease-causing microbes . One of the difficulties that must be understood , says University of Wisconsin Psychologist Richard A. Sternbach , is that pain is not a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing , but an abstract concept used by observers to describe three different things : " 1 ) A personal , private sensation of hurt ; 2 ) a harmful stimulus , which signals current or impending tissue damage ; and 3 ) a pattern of responses , which operates to protect the organism from harm . " Sternbach concedes that his use of " hurt " in the first part of his redefinition is circular , but insists that the important consideration is the total . <P> How a pain researcher views this pattern depends mainly on his specialty , Sternbach told a pain symposium last month at the City of Hope Medical Center in Duarte , Calif . Each investigator , he said , is " locked in " to thinking of pain in his own terms . Thus the psychologist views it as a basic , elementary sensation like sight or hearing . To the psychiatrist , it is an affect or emotion , like depression or anxiety ; to the analyst , the product of an internal psychic conflict ; to the neurologist or neurosurgeon , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value . The existential philosopher , Frederik J. J. Buytendijk , regards pain as a potentially character-building phenomenon that unites an individual with the rest of humanity in its existential suffering . <P> Specialists in these related sciences have begun to seek a common language to describe the many varieties of pain , to chart its pathways from the burned finger or the stubbed toe to the brain , to assess its total impact , and to find better ways of relieving it . Mind doctors and body doctors are at last recognizing that in their evolving concern with pain they are really talking about the same thing in different terms . Increasingly , they realize that even the most obviously real and physical pain , as from a burn or a fracture , is processed in the mind . By the application of psychotherapeutic techniques , notably hypnosis , they are teaching patients to control their reactions to such pain .                     