@@271418

Ecuador 's Galo Plaza , U.N . mediator for Cyprus , once described himself as a pathological optimist . He was employing no such label last week , as he presented the results of a yearlong study of the labyrinthine Cyprus problem . <P> As expected , Plaza 's plan pleased no one . He ruled out enosis ( union with Greece ) , which is what many Greeks and Greek Cypriots want , as well as federalism or partition of the island , which is what Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots want . In effect , Plaza said that the U.N . as mediator could do nothing further until the two communities on Cyprus sat down face to face to discuss establishment of a government in which all would have equal rights without regard to racial origin . <P> Beyond the Boundaries ? Turkish Cypriots recoiled from the idea of direct talks because of the predominant Greek position on the island ; they are well aware that their top negotiator , Vice President Fazil Kuchuk , is no match for the wily Greek Cypriot leader , Archbishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Turkish government railed at the report , accused Plaza of being pro-Greek and denounced him for going beyond the " boundaries of his duty . " Instead of solving one problem , complained a Turkish official , Plaza had created a new one . But U.N . Secretary-General U Thant defended Plaza 's report as perfectly proper . <P> On Cyprus itself last week there were the usual minor altercations . Shots were exchanged across the Green Line , dividing Nicosia into Greek and Turkish quarters , and a Greek Cypriot was wounded at Ambelikou , a small village near Lefka whose Turkish inhabitants are surrounded by Greek Cypriots . The week 's most intriguing development was the mystery of the missile ship . After the island was hit by a retaliatory Turkish air raid last August , Makarios ordered ground-to-air missiles from Russia , and the weapons were shipped to Egypt to await transshipment . Greek Cypriot missile crews , officered by " volunteers " from the Greek army who have worked with similar missiles in NATO , trained for months in Egypt . Last week reliable reports said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there the mystery begins . One version has it that the ship never left port . Another maintains that the freighter sailed but was turned back by units of the U.S. Sixth Fleet that constantly patrol the seas around Cyprus . A third version insists that the freighter docked at Boghaz , the new port built by the Greek Cypriots near Famagusta ( TIME , March 26 ) , but was not unloaded because Washington , opposing any escalation of arms in the Cyprus dispute , prevailed upon Athens to put pressure on Makarios . According to this rumor , the mystery vessel returned with its missiles to Alexandria . <P> Word from Grivas . Observers expected to see at least some glamorous , new Soviet equipment at last week 's military parade in Nicosia to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Greek Cypriot uprising against the British . The parade was a disappointment , and the only Soviet weapons on display were trucks pulling old British field guns .                     