@@494871

Junius Scales , the North Carolina Communist , is now doing six years in a federal prison for violating the new Alien and Sedition Law , and one of his friends sends a letter asking support of a plea for executive clemency . Since I do n't believe anybody should ever have gone to jail under that law , I am of course in favor of letting Scales out , but I doubt that he has a Chinaman 's chance . If the man had murdered somebody , there would always be the chance of convincing the public that the deceased ought to have been murdered , which would set up a strong demand for Scales ' release . But he , like Thoreau , is in jail not for what he did , but for what he did n't do . He was convicted of not thinking the right thoughts back in 1954 , and I , for one , am persuaded ' that he was guilty . Furthermore , I can imagine no way of proving that he is thinking the right thoughts now , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for wrong think ? ing , Scales ' friends have no case at all . What happened was that Junius Scales , a sixth-gen ? eration native , white Protestant , of Anglo-Saxon ances ? try ? therefore a man with no organized friends at all ? shortly after he came of voting age swallowed the Com ? munist rumble-bumble and held it down until 1956 , when Khrushchev 's famous speech formally admitted that Stalin had been what sensible people had all along believed he was . This was too much for Scales and he renounced the doctrine , thereby incurring the venom ? ous hatred of the Communist Party . But at first he had been its fair-haired darling . For generations his family had been wealthy and socially prominent ? a great-uncle had been governor of the state and there was some connection with a Revolu ? tionary patriot who became an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court . Such a convert was a prize indeed for the Communists , and they promptly made him state chairman . So in 1954 he was indicted under the Smith Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been out of the party for two years . The government offered no evidence that he had advocated overthrowing the government by force and violence , and certainly he must have made no effort to do so . But it was charged that he knew the Communist Party was dedicated to violence against the govern ? ment , therefore he must have approved that policy ? he thought well of it , even though he did nothing about it . That was thinking the wrong thoughts , so he got six years ? a heavier penalty than was imposed on any other violator of the Smith Act , even those who stayed in the party after Khrushchev 's revelations . It was n't even hinted at in the trial , but current be ? lief is that Scales might have saved himself , or certainly drawn a lighter sentence , if he had been willing to save the government gumshoe boys a lot of work by ratting on all other members of the party . That he refused to do . He answered truthfully , as far as is known , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names , thereby attaining , in the estimation of this superficial observer , the rating of a damfool and a gentleman . In Valhalla , or wherever good governors go , Junius Scales ' great-uncle may be snorting in disgust . But he is n't blushing . Yet what can President Kennedy do about it ? In the old days President Jefferson pardoned everybody con ? victed under the first Alien and Sedition Law on the ground that thinking the wrong thoughts , even think ? ing that elected persons are swine and saying so out loud , is not a crime , and a so-called law making it a crime is no more real law than if Congress had ordered everybody to bow down and worship the image of Baal . But John Marshall put the kibosh on that . He estab ? lished the Supreme Court as the sole arbiter of what is and what is not real law and President Kennedy 's opinion on the subject is just about as authoritative as yours and mine . I wish that Scales were out of jail , not on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but because it seems to me that every day he stays there is a new proclama ? tion that it is criminal to think that " whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends ( life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness ) , it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it . " Those words are in the document that created the United States of America . But modern times are different , better illustrated by a cartoon that , in the unhappy days of prohibition , was published by Life ? not the picture magazine , but the earlier one that was intentionally humorous . It por ? trayed a character coming down the street , head up , and grinning from ear to ear , while behind him a harridan screeched at a cop , " Officer , arrest that man ! He seems to be thinking of beer . "                     