@@478107

The handouts they are getting are a national scandal ? but there are some good reasons why nobody is likely to do anything about it for quite a while . The National Flog Farmer , published at Grundy Center , Iowa , has announced : Manure Smell Furnishes Farmstead 's Power Needs ; Gas Produced From Dung : Fertilizer Value Saved . Those of us who hail from the hog latitudes have known for a long time that the odors are powerful , but we never suspected they could be put to good use . Our next feat should be to harness the gas agriculture produces in the Halls of Congress . This year Congress is proving , as it has time and again in the past , that it ca n't solve the farm problem . In essence , the problem amounts to this : We have too many farms , which produce so much thatsupply outruns demand . This has two effects . Farmers receive low prices for their products ; the government has to spend billions to bolster farm income . So far , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held a candle to our genius for discovering new ways to create them . Although there have been many recent innovations in farming methods even more incredible than the manure motor , our farm programs are the same old models designed during the Great Depression . Whether or not these government control schemes ever did provide satisfactory regulation of agriculture , they do n't today . Since they were started , we have doubled farm output , while halving the farm labor force . Successive Secretaries of Agriculture have coaxed , bribed , and coerced farmers into planting fewer acres ? but , at the same time , technicians in the Department have been busy discovering improved fertilizers , tillage methods , and hybrid crop varieties . These now enable farmers to grow 100 bushels where 50 grew in the 1930s . Surpluses , stored in grain 62 THOSE ANNOYING FARMERS bins all over the countryside , are huge . " The government pays over a million dollars a day in storage costs alone . But the evils of the farm programs have been pointed out so many times , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reciting once more the commonplace enormities . The more interesting ? and difficult ? question is : What are we going to do about it ? Since World War II there have been several major attempts to change these laws . Different reformers offered a wide variety of approaches . Congress rejected all of them . Presidential Candidate Kennedy opined that agriculture presented " our number one domestic problem , " but since taking office he has n't made much more progress toward solving it than did his predecessors . Last year , the Administration made an all-out effort to get real changes in the programs . In spite of political pressure which made one strong Congressman weep that his arm was sore " from the twisting it has taken , " the Legislative Branch decided to put the Administration 's plan in storage and continue the existing programs for another year . So we are still stuck with an expensive , outmoded system of regulations and subsidies . Why ? The Mythical Farm Bloc Urban newspaper editors seem to believe that the programs are shoved down city folks ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bloc . There is no such thing . Today farmers are in chaotic conflict among themselves . The old Farm Bloc ? never such a phalanx as the popular mythology would have it ? has been thoroughly dispersed.t Many competing , conflicting factions within American agriculture have separate , narrow interests ? based on the particular crops they grow , or on the area they come from . Government programs help only some of these factions . To others , the plans are a pestilence . Still , farm bills are made by and for farm interests ? they are the only ones who take part in the legislative milling . Reformers usually view If we continue to use farmland as sites for storage bins , a friend of mine once hypothesized , we must eventually reach a puint where enough land has been removed from farming to create a shortage of grain , therefore causing the bins to begin to empty . This is long-term thinking . I- For the first indications that this might be taking place , see Carroll Kilpatrick , " What Happened to the Farm Bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative process as a battle between " The Public " and " The Special Interests . " In real life , however , struggles over farm bills take place between special agricultural interests on one side , and other special agricultural interests on the other . Other parts of The Public are busy struggling over special interests of their own . When voting on farm bills , city Congressmen usually go along with the farm Congressmen of their own party . Their motive may be fence-mending , with an eye toward rural support for bills in which cities are interested . Representative Victor Anfuso. a Brooklyn Democrat who had been placed on the Agriculture Committee to get urban support , tried in 1958 to do just that in one of the least subtle vote-trading speeches ever made on the floor of Congress : As a city person ... it is my philosophy that farm legislation is not a one-way street and that we must travel the road on a two-way basis . If we do something for the farmers , we expect the farmers to do something for us , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am going to support this bill and I am going to ask my city friends on both sides of the aisle to support this bill . . . . I am hopeful that we will have a housing bill , but for the time being I am not going to deny the farmers of America their right to legislation . The impasse in farm legislation is not the result of a deadlock between farm and city Congressmen , but of a stalemate among the different farm interests . We continue to stumble along under old programs because the fragmentation of farm political power has created a great many " veto groups " on farm policy . No one faction has enough power to get the program it wants . but cumbersome Congressional procedures give each of them the power to block bills it does n't like . These factions will not reunite in another Farm Bloc , for their differences are not the kind they can compromise . If a farmer raises livestock , and has to buy corn to feed it , he wants low corn prices . Naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corn and other feed grains . For example , since corn growing is much less important in Wisconsin than the raising of dairy cattle ( which chomp up a lot of corn ) , Dairyland 's Senator Proxmire Jack Heinz , a 1962 graduate of Yale Law School , practices law in Washington , D.C. He was formerly an assistant to a rural Congressman , and a graduate teaching assistant in political science at Washington University ( St. Louis ) . deserted his fellow Midwestern Democrats last year . and opposed the Administration 's feed-grain bill . Farmers also fight when the crops they grow compete for the same markets . There is even such a conflict within the grain-growing camp . Charles uneven of Iowa , ranking Republican on the House Agriculture Committee , has taken great pains to make certain that surplus wheat will not be used for animal feed , in competition with corn . To Iowa corn farmers , apparently , it is important that wheat rot in government bins . Competition causes many crops to conflict with others ? often for reasons not immediately apparent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soybeans , took the Senate floor to attack a bill which would have increased cotton acreage . He reasoned : As more cotton is produced , cottonseed production is , of course , also increased , and hence more cottonseed oil will help to drive down the prices of soybean oil and soybeans . " To complicate matters further , dairymen oppose both the soybean and the cotton farmers , since both soybeans and cotton are sources of oleomargarine . Butterfat , corn oil , cottonseed oil , soybean shortenings , and lard all compete in the general market for fats . Even growers of the same crop may feud over farm bills . Western cotton growers in Arizona , New Mexico , and California , for instance , strongly oppose the law restricting the number of acres each farmer may plant to cotton , because they feel it favors the growers of the Old South . Even Barry Goldwater , who usually worries about the Big Problem , fights to get for his Arizona constituents their inalienable right to plant as much cotton as they like . But perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Midwest . The Farm Bloc first became a powerful force in national politics when corn Congressmen from the Midwest and cotton Congressmen from the South joined to put over the McNary-Hangen farm-relief bills in the 1920s . The alliance worked well for many years , but by the late ' fifties there was bad blood between the two camps . Senator Ellender of Louisiana , Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture , opposed a corn bill in these words I do not know of a commodity which has received more consideration than has corn . Corn happens to be the sweet little blue-eyed , curly-haired girl of the farm program . It gets almost anything it desires . The trouble started when tight controls on the amount of cotton each farmer may plant , designed to reduce cotton surpluses , caused many Southerners to go into livestock raising . The old cotton farmer now has reason to oppose high price supports for the Midwestern corn he buys for his new livestock . He is also wary of production controls which would prevent him from making further shifts into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alliance which had prevailed since the ' twenties , has destroyed The Farmers ' ability to make farm policy . Since there is no common ground among all those people called " farmers , " it is apparently impossible to write legislation that will satisfy even a working majority of them . Ironically , our political inability to cope with farm problems may stem from the same technological developments which have made them so serious . New techniques enabled us to overproduce . They also changed the alignment of farm political interests . The irrigation of desert land , and the development of new machinery adapted to it , made it possible to grow cotton in the West . These developments , therefore , produced the new group of Western cotton growers who oppose the Southerners . Then , the competition from Western cotton made the South look for new crops to raise ? and led to its conflicts with the Midwest . Technology is now about to aggravate them : cattle breeders are working on a milk cow that will be contented in hot weather , so that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 64 THOSE ANNOYING FARMERS These specific changes in farming ? and in the political interests of different farm areas ? have been accompanied by a general trend toward specialization . A farmer who once grew many crops may now grow only one or two . Since each region is increasingly concentrating on the crops for which its soil and climate are best suited , each Congressional District is now likely to produce only a few different crops . Therefore , much of the common ground which once united the old Farm Bloc is gone . Congressmen are no longer interested in raising the general level of agricultural prices ; instead , each is concerned with increasing the profit on the few crops grown in his district , As the diversity of crops grown on the typical farm decreases , the political diversity within all of agriculture increases . Even the Cows Get Frustrated It is n't very clear where all this will finally take us . Lately , farm politicians have accomplished about as much as a flock of scratching chickens . They kick a lot of dust into each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they never get rid of the gravel or arrange it in an orderly pattern . So far , all attempts to impose order on this chaos have failed . Charles Brannan , Secretary of Agriculture under President Truman , and Ezra Taft Benson , Eisenhower 's Secretary , both advocated bold new programs . Although they took opposite approaches ? Brannan favoring high government payments to farmers and Benson favoring low ones ? both were repudiated . There was reason to think President Kennedy and Secretary Orville Freeman might be more successful . Their proposals were less ambitious . They accepted the existing system , but sought reform within it . A look at how much Congress gave them might , then , give us an idea of what we can expect in the future . First , some background . The idea behind price supports and production controls is that if you restrict the number of acres farmers may plant , this will make crops scarce enough to raise their prices above the government-guaranteed support level ; thus , the government will not have to spend so much to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has n't worked . Farmers pour fertilizer onto the fewer acres permitted them , and produce more than they did before . They then get the high , government-guaranteed price for each bushel without really having to reduce the number of bushels . To stop this , the Kennedy Administration moved to tighten production controls , in part by applying them directly to the number of bushels a farmer could sell , as well as to the number of acres he could plant . In effect , the Kennedy program said to the farmers , if you do n't want price supports , O.K. ? but if you do want the government to guarantee your prices , you have to cut back on production . Congress defeated the bill , for an obvious reason . Farmers who profit from this loophole did n't want it closed . They are perfectly happy with the ineffective controls and high prices . Even a group which opposes the current controls prefers them to the Kennedy approach . Livestock raisers , whose prices are not supported , dislike any controls which would raise the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the present , ineffective acreage restrictions do not reduce grain supplies enough to raise the price very much ; while stricter controls of the Kennedy type really might . Many different kinds of farmers ( some of whom are on opposite sides of the market ) opposed effective controls . They all hollered about " the freedom to farm , " and paraded the horrors of " socialism . " * Attempts to get really effective legislation for other crops were also defeated . One important bill asked that unprecedented , direct controls be put on the supply of milk . Our cows had been outdoing themselves , and our citizens had been unappreciative . Fear of cholesterol and Strontium 90 , and a new-found distaste for the elegantly ample silhouette , all drove people to drink something else . Milk production rose , while per capita consumption fell . The government 's costs rose to a record $600 million for the year . Desperately , the President toasted a news conference in milk , and allowed the sides of buses to be covered with a portrait of him holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as sort of a Minnesota Man of Distinction ) . Only when all this failed did the Administration give up trying to get people to drink the stuff , and start trying to get controls instead . In less than a month , the dairy interests had the tight-control proposal beat . Like grain farmers , they manage to have their programs and avoid them too . In our legislative system , it takes strength and skill to pass new laws , but much less power to block them . Last year the President got very *Socialism , apparently , is where the government makes you give up something for the money you get . If you get paid without having to give anything in return , that is n't socialism ? that 's a grant to promote the rural virtues . little of what he asked . The dairy and feed-grain control programs were entirely lost . The Administration 's strict wheat control plan made it through Congress by a narrow margin , but was soundly defeated in a national referendum of wheat farmers held late this May . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than the necessary two-thirds vote . The Kennedy program ? which called for direct controls on the number of bushels sold in addition to the traditional . less effective controls en the number of acres planted ? failed to get even a simple majority . The prevailing farm viewpoint was expressed in a letter to the weekly newspaper in my home town in southern Illinois : " The issue at stake here is not for more money in our pockets but the entire future of farming and our way of life . I for one want to take this opportunity for a public stand for Freedom . " * Such unlikely traveling fellows as the New York Times and the National Farmers Union , however , urged a " yes " vote since the program seemed to them a fair compromise . It would have provided price supports high enough to guarantee the farmers an adequate income , and controls effective enough to guarantee urban taxpayers a limit on the number of bushels supported at those high prices . The alternative offered by the referendum was unlimited production and about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed , however , that if they defeated the program , Congress would pass some other emergency wheat plan this summer to keep prices up . They believed this in spite of the Administration 's warning before the vote that there would not be another chance this year if its program failed to be passed by the farmers . When the returns came in , the President still predicted that no wheat , hill would get by Congress this year since there is " no consensus on agricultural matters . " But if the Administration would actively support a compromise wheat bill , the bill would probably pass . Many Democratic Congressmen who will he up for election next year , including majority leaders Mansfield and Albert , come from wheat-growing areas . Moreover , Corn Belt Congressmen are eager to pass a program to prevent cheap wheat . from moving into animal feed markets . On the other hand , if the Administration opposes the bill , either openly or tacitly , the passage will be more doubtful . Urban Congressmen must realize that if they bail farmers out now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposite of " socialism , " defined above . them to accept effective controls in return for price supports . Without Party pressure , which has caused many city Democrats to vote for farm bills in the past , they might let the farmers have their " Freedom . " So far in this session of Congress , the Administration has appeared to be resting up after its political beatings . It has supported no major new legislation ? and is unlikely to . A feed-grain bill passed in May but it was just another extension of the present programs . Several attempts by cotton and dairy interests to get much-needed legislation for these crops have been frustrated by disagreement within each industry . If it is left to the farmers , the problem will be with us long after the cows have come home . City people have not concerned themselves with farm policy . As the remarks of Representative Anfuso show , urban Congressmen prefer to follow the lead of one or more of the rural elements in their party . The much-bemoaned overrepresentation of rural areas is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as city Representatives do n't act independently anyhow . In their own best interests , the cities logically should support more effective controls on farm output . Since a control program like the 1962 Kennedy bill would not raise the price guarantees to farmers appreciably , and since farmers get such a small portion of the prices charged in supermarkets , grocery bills should n't go up much. * And , as taxpayers , city people can only gain by having the government pay farmers the same amount per bushel , for a smaller number of bushels . But even if city people do get indignant enough to exert real pressure , they probably wo n't be sophisticated enough to support the Administration 's program . More likely , they will just make heated demands to get the farm hogs out of the public trough . If they do that , they will help their opposition . Arguments against government interference will only aid those farm interests who are fighting tighter controls ? thereby preserving the expensive , absurd status quo . The cities can never succeed in abolishing farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm interests are divided , enough could quickly reunite to prevent that . But all this is academic , for it is extremely *Although food prices have risen in recent years , most of the increase has come from fancier packaging and more " labor-saving " services performed on the food before the housewife gets it ( the ultimate absurdity in this trend is the TV dinner ) . Even with these increases , groceries have been taking a smaller share of the average household budget . 66 THOSE ANNOYING FARMERS unlikely that city people will get interested enough in the farm problem to exert any real pressure . It only touches them directly once each year , and then it is hidden in their total tax bill . They have lots of other things they can see and worry about every day . Urbanites have never become excited about the farm problem before . Why should they now ? The overwhelming chances are , then , that there will be no major reform of the present system in the foreseeable future . This does not mean that there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some proposed changes have a good chance , precisely because they do not attempt to reform the present programs , but rather would provide supplementary relief outside of the established subsidy system . For example , plans are now well advanced for a World Food Bank , to be affiliated with the United Nations . The surplus-producing countries would lend agricultural commodities to nations which are short of them ? similar to the way the World Bank now makes loans of harder stuff . This would put the crops we have piled up to good use , and at the same time reduce storage costs . Several other proposals may be adopted . One calls for larger appropriations for research on possible industrial uses of farm products . If we ca n't eat it all up , maybe we can ride on it , or make plastics out of it , or something . A third plan would turn our farms into parks . The argument goes that we need more outdoor recreation areas , complete with wildlife , since we are breeding more and more people , and since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " with a large , unruly poodle . Finally , economy-minded types have suggested spending our money on a more permanent solution to our surplus problems ? retraining farmers for other work , which really needs doing , and relocating them in the cities . Some of these plans , or parts of them , stand a good chance of getting Congressional approval . Everyone supports the principle of making constructive use of excess farm products , excess farms , and excess farmers , rather than just forcing them to stand idle . In fact , one politician likes to call these proposals " Motherhood " programs , since taking a four-square stand for them is like endorsing Mother Love . Yet , there are obstacles even to the Motherhood programs . Our past efforts to distribute excess crops around the world , through such programs as Food for Peace , have been frustrated by problems of international relations . Surplus-producing allies have complained that we depressthe prices they get for their crops , when we " dump " our excess supplies abroad . Advocates of the World Food Bank hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these differences . But it certainly will not eliminate them ? no amount of cooperation can change the essential conflict of national interests . Other plans face even more serious problems . Finding industrial uses for corn , wheat , and cotton would be nice ? but Agriculture Department scientists have been working on this for years , with meager results . Technology , in fact , has found many more substitutes for farm crops ( especially synthetic fibers ) than it has found ways to substitute these crops for other raw materials . The proposal to turn our farms into playgrounds for the urban idle also has major limitations ? in spite of the fact that a modest , pilot version of the program was enacted as a part of last year 's farm bill . Converting good farmland , worth several hundred dollars per acre , into relatively low-paying picnic . camping , or hunting grounds would be costly . Wooded land would come cheaper , and would make better recreation areas , but since crops do n't grow there , that would n't reduce surpluses . Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might make good , inhuman economic sense ? if there were enough jobs . But since we already have a lot of unskilled labor out of work , our factories are n't likely to absorb the million or more workers we would have to transfer in order to have much effect on farm output . And if these farmers simply increased the number of unemployed , the cost of relief payments might be greater than the savings in the farm program . In short , no dcus ex machina is going to get us out of this one . Nobody Loses All the Time The disaster is not as great as it may seem . The controls may be bad , but they are not guilty of the worst charge brought against them ? that by disturbing the free market mechanism and freezing production in old patterns , they will make our agriculture stagnant and inefficient . According to classic economic dogma , as soon as you start interfering with competition , the unfit start surviving ? and this is bad . But during the ' fifties , farm output per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two to three times as great as the average in our other industries . In spite of restrictions , our agriculture remains dynamic . Great shifts in production have taken place , from one crop to another , and from one area to another , ( Changes in farmland use , 195358 : wheat down 23 million acres ; cotton down 13 million ; soybeans up 8.5 million ; grain sorghum up 10.5 million . ) Because these shifts increase efficiency , they make grocery prices lower than they would otherwise be ? but also increase surpluses , and thus raise government costs . What we need most is to renive from agriculture significant amounts of all tee productive resources ? farmers , land , and capital . Happily , this is also taking place , slowly . Farmland is being changed into housing developments , shopping centers , highways , and airports at the rate of two to three million acres per year , and farmers are being changed into city dwellers at a rate of about 850,000 per year . Subsidies have not made farming so attractive that farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that the countryside is teeming with affluent bumpkins who drive Cadillacs to town to pick up government checks . In fact , according to the Census , people who live on farms make less than half as much money as people who live anywhere else . In 1959 , farm families averaged about $650 per person from their farming operations . They received another $320 per person from other work or investments , for an average net income per capita of less than $1,000. * Those of us fortunate enough to live elsewhere averaged over $2,200 . Most farmers do n't acquire their red necks by going to sleep under a sun lamp . Without the government programs , farm incomes would be even lower . Economists at several universities have attempted to estimate just how much . One major study found that the removal of controls could reduce net receipts by as much as 75 per cent , depending on the crop grown , even if the transition to a free market were made gradually , over a period of several years . Although such a cut in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diet of grits and gravy , the study predicted that few would quit farming . Where would they go ? The poorest ? uneducated Southern cotton farmers , with their mules and small plots of land ? are not fit for any other work . Ironically , the most modern , most efficient farmers might be forced out * We might also credit the farmers with a small additional amount of non-cash income , for the value they receive from living on the land and producing some of their own food . But as farms become larger and more highly commercialized , farmers produce less for family consumption . first . Many of them went heavily in debt to buy fancy new machinery . If they could n't meet their payments , they would fold ? although their land and machinery would probably still be operated , by the banks . The Invisible Hand The result would probably he politically as well as economically harmful to the nation . Farm protest movements threaten the political stability of several European governments. * Even de Gaulle was forced this spring to take measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm subsidies . In our country , where political protest is traditionally limited to switching a disfavored politician off the TV screen , revolt may seem unlikely . But early last fall , a Midwestern farm group called the National Farmers Organization received a great deal of publicity when it staged a dramatic , if ineffective , " holding action " . the rough equivalent of a strike . In a more fanciful protest , NFO members dumped their Sears-Roebuck catalogues on sidewalks in front of Sears stores . A Sears executive is the vice-chairman of the Committee for Economic Development , which had urged government action to remove two million farmers from the land . If a mere recom- *Transition from an agricultural or mixed economy to a highly industrial one is difficult in any country . In many , it is accompanied by some sort of political strife . Virtually all of the Western nations with highly developed economies have a farm problem . Most have responded with a government subsidy program . In fact , the aid given is usually proportionately greater than that provided by the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 19 per cent of gross farm income , compared to only 6 per cent in the United States . 68 THOSE ANNOYING FARMERS mendation can cause farmers to part with their mail-order catalogues , what would happen if price supports were , in fact , substantially reduced ? At the least , the farm problem would then become the one decisive political issue in rural communities . Rural overrepresentation in Congress might then become more significant ; farmers still control more than enough seats to give them the power to block legislation . They could prevent the passage of tax-reform or foreign-aid bills , not to mention welfare legislation , until they got what they wanted . And if their incomes were really going to hell , there is no reason why farmers would not do exactly that , It would not be unprecedented . In the early ' twenties , when the farmers suffered a postwar depression while the rest of the economy prospered , the newly organized Farm Bloc got what it wanted after it had threatened to tie up the entire government . Perhaps some sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marketplace , where many different interest groups compete for the favors of government . Accommodation among competing interests promotes political stability . Unfortunately , it also prevents the adoption of rational , internally consistent government policies . Either the solution unsuccessfully advocated by the Committee for Economic Development ( get the government out of agriculture ) or that unsuccessfully advocated by the Kennedy Administration ( impose tighter controls ) might make more economic sense and cost less than the present , pragmatic hodge-podge of programs . But neither is likely to be adopted . Policies which result from the conflicting pulls of several political forces are likely to be compromises which neither entirely please , nor particularly outrage anyone . Moreover , for a related reason , such policies are not usually changed quickly . The current programs reflect the existing interests . The only way to alter the reflection is to change what is being reflected . One important change in the political forces might result from recent Supreme Court decisions which have held that a city person is entitled to have his vote count as much as a rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw new electoral districts which will provide this equality . Farmers are going to lose their present , disproportionate power in Congress with all the deliberate speed of the judicial process . But thanks to such creations of the genius of American democracy as the filibuster and Rules Committee , they will retain for some time their power to tie up the Congress . Besides , a further decrease in rural voting strength on the floor of Congress will not bring any real reforms of the programs . Too much is settled before the bills ever reach the floor . Real reforms will require a change in the groups which take an interest in the development of farm policy and frame the alternatives presented to the rest of Congress in roll-call votes . This change could come either from a shift in those already participating in the primary debate , or from city groups getting into the argument . Both possibilities are unlikely . At present , city people know very little about farm programs , and neither they nor their Congressmen show much desire to get bogged down in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talking about , they can be of only limited effectiveness . But there may be some hope . Last year , the Committee fur Economic Development took a more direct role in the debate than had been played by any city group in several years . There would be even more hope if the President succeeded in getting a tax cut which stimulated the economy and made more jobs available in the cities . With work going ' begging , city people might then find it more outrageous to give farmers handouts , and become angry enough to have a real effect in Congress. * The second way we might get reform is through a change in the groups already participating in the debate ? the farm groups . This change might occur if we had another widespread agricultural depression of the 1920s variety . The misfortune of all farmers would transcend their present differences , and would probably cause them to unite on a new program . Each of these hypothetical political changes , then , would result from a change in the economy which made the existing programs intolerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests a final reason why we can not solve the farm problem . The farm problem is not bad enough ? the programs are not , at present , intolerable . In fact , the invisible Hand may have achieved a rough balance . We are giving farmers enough to preserve political stability , but not so much as to prevent the gradual readjustment of the economy or to bankrupt the country . The United States can afford the farm program . It only costs us money . It could be worse . * And for their part , farmers , if they could get jobs in the cities , might find lower subsidies less objectionable , since another way of earning a living would be open . Furthermore , if a large number of farmers moved to cities , those remaining could tolerate lower prices , since fewer of them would be splitting up the pot of total farm income . 