@@490674

JUNE 3 MARTIN LUTHER KING , JR. , was a great man for metaphors . Among Southern Negro ministers in general , of course , the metaphor has always been indispensable to human communication , but King used it with unique effectiveness . In the early sixties , the civil-rights movement in the South included almost nightly mass meetings in Negro churches , and sometimes , as I sat listening to King explain how the long , dark night of discrimination was going to give way to the great dawn of emancipation , bringing a bright new day of equality and freedom , it occurred to me that the easiest way for white Southerners to cripple the movement would be to pass city ordinances against the use of metaphors in public . Their lawyers would argue solemnly that the ban was strictly non-racial in character , although everyone would know that white-segregationist orators would be unaffected , since their indispensable figure of speech was the simile ( " Why , that ole boy was just as happy as a turkey on the day after Thanksgiving " ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when a reporter asked Ralph Abernathy if members of the Poor People 's Campaign were responsible for throwing rocks through some windows in the Supreme Court building and he said that the only rocks his people were concerned with were " the rocks of injustice that we are banging against until they come crumbling down . " For anyone who sat through those church meetings in the South , Resurrection City , the encampment that the Poor People 's Campaign has strung along the parkland between the Lincoln Memorial and the AN-ashington Monument , sometimes seems like not only the implementation of a Martin Luther King idea but the materialization of a Martin Luther King metaphor  --  some elabo rate , resonant , five- or six-sentence construction about the community of the impoverished being a crumbling eyesore among the shiny monuments to American democracy . One of the problems of making a metaphor visible is that it becomes an issue itself . N:Vhen the mud in Resurrection City became so thick that overshoes were sucked right off people 's feet , I half expected to hear something about the pour people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the affluent whisked by them on the broad throughways of indifference ; instead , most of the talk in Washington was about how muddy it was in Resurrection City . Andrew Young , the executive vice-president of King 's Southern Christian Leadership Conference , tried to tell reporters that the important point about the mud was that the poor people in America  --  at least , the poor people in small towns and rural areas  --  live in mud all of their lives , but the news stories were about whether or not Resurrection City had become a health hazard . Young told me that the S.C.L.C. had taken a medical survey of the four hundred people who came to Washington from Memphis and had found that a hundred of them were sick . " Everybody said that there were sick people on the march , " he said . " The point is that on any given day a quarter of the poor people in this country are sick . " Abernathy tried to redirect attention one day when reporters were asking about some stress between the Negroes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not Resurrection City , " he said at a press conference . " The issue is nut any kind of dissension or strife that might arise in Resurrection City . The issue is poverty . " But Washington has not accepted Resurrection City as a metaphor . Having agreed that Congress is unlikely to be affected by the sight of a few thousand poor people , commentators tend to blame the Poor People 's Campaign for a futile demonstration rather than blame Congess for being unresponsive to the needs of the poor . The poor in Resurrection City have come to Washington to show that the poor in America are sick , dirty , disorganized , and powerless  --  and they are criticized daily for being sick , dirty , disorganized , and powerless . ROUND Resurrec- tion City , everyone is addressed as Brother or Sister . The habit is so widespread that I even heard one of the Indian spokesmen referred to as Brothet ? Mad Bear . When Jesse Jackson , the first city manager of Resurrection City , began leading demonstrators to the Department of Agriculture every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department was the Assistant Secretary for Administration , an erect , businesslike , tight-lipped man named Joseph M. Robertson ; Jackson merrily greeted him as Brother Joe or Brother Roberts . The Secretary of Agriculture himself is referred to as Brother Freeman . Members of one of a variety of peace-keeping organizations in Resurrection City are identified by stencilled letters on the hack of their jackets as Peace Brothers . " Brother " and " Sister " are used more or less in the black-ghetto sense of " Soul Brother " and " Soul Sister " ? in fact , " Soul " is another popular word in Resurrection City , and the most prominent chant of the movement is " Soul Power " ? but there are echoes of the " Brother " and " Sister " heard in Southern Negro churches . The S.C.L.C. is still dominated by ministers , and when one of them begins to speak an invisible pulpit often Seems to slide into place in front of him , melting a news conference or a private conversation into a mass meeting . The demonstrations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sit-ins and marches . At one point , the issue between the Poor People 's Campaign and the Department of Agriculture was  --  in addition to how the program for feeding the poor was being administered  --  whether or not the demonstrators could eat in the Department of Agriculture cafeteria that day . When negotiations had been carried past two o'clock and the Department could report that the cafeteria had closed , Abernathy told the demonstrators that the Department had turned them away in the rain , that the rejection showed how difficult their task would be , and that they therefore must all attend a meeting the next night at the John Wesley A.M.E. Zion Church . After the poor people had gone hack to Resurrection City , the Department of Agriculture held a press conference so that Joseph M. Robertson could tell reporters , " This cafeteria is not a public cafeteria and is run primarily for the benefit of the employees of the Department of Agriculture . " It might have been a scene from the South in the early sixties  --  a businesslike white manager carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrators , and the demonstrators planning to retaliate with a mass meeting at a Negro church . In using the same techniques to demonstrate in Washington for an end to poverty as they used in the South to demonstrate for an end to segregation , S.C.L.C. leaders have to get along without some useful old enemies , such as Bull Connor and Jim Clark , and have to get along with some independent new friends , such as Appalachian whites , Mexican-Americans , and Indians . Resurrection City was overcrowded when the first large contingent Indians were staying told me one rainy day that most of them had gone to the Smithsonian Institution , I asked if a tour had been arranged so that they could pass the time by seeing some of the sights of the capital . " No , " he said . " They arranged this themselves . They say there are some relics there that belong to them . " The various groups of poor people have what rich people call communications problems At a public meeting in the Resurrection City " cultural tent " one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoulders  --  a member of the California delegation  --  listened to plans for forming a city council , rose to say that " we do n't want to play the white man 's game , " and suggested , to the horror of the organization-minded Negroes present , that Resurrection City might better be run on some triba arrangement borrowed from the wonderfully sophisticated governmental structure of one of the great Indian nations . Another day , I saw Abernathy at a meeting in which Negro leaders joined with Mexicans in supporting a cause of the Indians  --  or , as Abernathy would say , " joined with our brown brothers in supporting our red brothers . " The issue was a Supreme Court decision against some Nisqually and Puyallup Indians who were in a fishing-rights dispute with the State of Washington . Abernathy told the audience  --  largely Mexican  --  that denying fishing rights in Washington was the same as denying food to poor people in Mississippi , and he reminded everyone about the mass meeting at the John Wesley A.M.E. Zion Church . " That 's easy to remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the famous Methodist preacher . Then African Methodist Episcopal Zion . " The next day , Abernathy was marching arm in arm with Indian and Mexican leaders to demonstrate against the decision  --  undoubtedly the first Negro civil-rights leader to be in the front line of a demonstration against the Supreme Court . At demonstrations , the issues  --  the fishing rights of Indians , the size of the delegation allowed in become less important than the mood of militancy . At the end of the day , Tijerina , standing on the steps of the court , orated against " this criminal conspiracy called the Supreme Court of the United States , " and a Negro in the audience shouted , " Preach , brother , preach ! " AFEW days after the Supreme Court demonstration , a group of Indians went to the National Press Building to protest the coverage  --  most of which was concerned more with the broken windows than with the fishing rights of Indians . The demonstration was , in fact , a good illustration of how difficult it is for Indians to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on somebody in Indian regalia , the reporters bunt down some Indian with a strange name , somebody makes a joke about the Indians being on the warpath again -- and that is usually that . The Pour People 's Campaign in general has a problem with the press . In a way , it exists for the press  --  the press is the means of making the metaphor visible all over the country  --  and at a Senate-subcommittee hearing Abernathy was told by Senator Gaylord Nelson , of Wisconsin , that the Campaign had already been a success hg inspiring so much coverage of poverty by magazines and television . But relations with the press have been complicated . Neither the press nor the residents of Resurrection City are ever quite certain if a picture of a little boy standing in mud is going to he considered a matter of showing the nation the plight of the poor or exploiting a child 's misery . When organizations like the S.C.L.C. were demonstrating in the South , reporters who did n't come from overtly racist papers often seemed to feel that they deserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be there , and those who come m Resurrection City with that attitude are quickly offended . Perhaps because the opportunities to display militancy are limited in a non-violent campaign of poor folks asking for food , there is a kind of territorial ferocity in Resurrection City . White reporters who are curious about what it must he like to be a young Negro constantly harassed by the police learn more than they want to know about the subject Ater a couple of days of being harassed by y oung Negro marshals in Resurrection City . Although almost everybody seems to assume the role . of a marshal occasionally , the best-organized group is called the Tent City Rangers . Its members wear blue-jean outfits , work hoots , and the kind of hat identified with Stewart Granger in African movies  --  with a leopardskin hand and the brim snapped up on one side . To visitors  --  who are usually reporters  --  they sometimes rake on the appearance of a kind of Wild West tonton ma  --  oute . The S.C.L.C. has sent some of the more hostile young Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Supreme Court both Abernathy and Young spent some time trying to persuade the Mexican marshals to leave cameramen alone . Both of them hold frequent press briefings . But the real problem can not be solved by better relations with reporters . The S.C.L.C. has found that the advantage of having the huge Washington press corps on hand is also a disadvantage . Something has to be written about or photographed every day , and the more visible the metaphor gets the more vulnerable it becomes . Young talks about how everyone in America is on some kind of welfare except the poor , and reporters ask him if Abernathy has been sleeping in Resurrection City . Abernathy talks about current policies toward the poor being genocide , and reporters ask him why his demands to Congress arc not more specific . Reporters are assigned to examine the phenomenon  --  to find out how well it 's working and what it might accomplish . And the ministers of the S.C.L.C. will never be able to persuade them that a minute examination of Resurrection City is like a minute examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not made visible  --  as if a press conference had been held and reporters had asked , " Which mountaintop did you say you 've been to , Dr. King ? , " or , " Tell us , Dr. King , exactly what night was it that you first started having this dream ? "                     