@@488160

Mr. Desmond , a political writer for the New York Daily News , is the author of Nelson Rockefeller ( Macmillan ) . Albinty The New York gubernatorial campaign in these critical October weeks is running , true to form all is confusion . The Democrats , who put up the colorless Queens County District Attorney , Frank D. O'Connor , at their convention last month are dismayed , dispirited and , as of this writing at least , broke . The Republicans , gradually moving toward some sort of togetherness because of Nelson A. Rockefeller 's rebound from the low his popularity hit last year , are still bedeviled by factionalism and the conflicting national ambitions of Rockefeller , Sen. Jacob K. Javits and Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York City . And the ' Liberal Party , which , was euchred by Alex Rose and David Dubin-sky , its elder statesmen , into nominating , the somewhat shopworn Franklin D. Roosevelt , Jr. , is so fragmented that it may well lose the third line on the election machines ? a line it has profitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties , for more than twenty years . Only the Conservatives are showing anything like unity . Still feeling the momentum of the substantial vote polled by ' William F. Buckley , Jr. , in last year 's New York City mayoralty election , they are bidding ' to dislodge the Liberals from third place among the state parties with a platform somewhat to the right of Barry Goldwater and an evident , but unexpressed , solicitation of the " white backlash " vote . Whether Paul Adams , the obscure upstate college dean who heads the Conservative ticket , will be able to draiv yotes as did the puckish Buckley last year is a big question . Buckley , incidentally , could n't be the nominee , a role he probably would have relished , because he moved back to New York from Connecticut only last year and there is a five-year residency requirement for governor . THE NATION / October 17 , 1966 The Democrats are in the deepest trouble and ; as usual , their troubles are all out in public . Neither Robert Kennedy nor Robert Wagner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now co-chairmen of his campaign , their fervor at this point can best be described as tepid . The fact that Kennedy pushed his own candidate , Eugene Nickerson , the Nassau County executive , until the cause proved hopeless ? and even then ' refused a , kind word for the nominee until after the September 7-8 convention ? still rankles in the O'Connor camp . And Wagner made no friends at the convention by quietly putting out word that he was available if anybody was interested . Moreover , neither Kennedy nor Wagner did anything , to prevent the so-called convention " uprising " that snatched the nomination for lieutenant governor from the preferred Orin Lehman , with his famous name and ready access to campaign money in the board rooms of New York City finance , and gave it to Howard Samuels , the upstate industrialist who was O'Connor 's only remaining opponent when the convention opened . Additionally , Wagner waited three full weeks after the convention before coming out for O'Connor , and when he did so his phrases suggested duty more than pleasure . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , week after ' he accepted second place , Samuels publicly criticized O'Connor in an airport interview . And Frank Sedita , of Buffalo , who confidently expected to be named for lieutenant governor after the important Erie County delegation switched to O'Connor , felt he was jobbed , although he grabbed at the chance to run for attorney general . In fact , the only one-on the Democratic ticket who was not embroiled was the state 's strongest Democratic vote getter , Comptroller Arthur Levitt . Considered unbeatable for his office , ' Levitt was routinely nominated fOr a fourth term , but he was never seriously- considered for the top spot . All this was in SepteMber , when Democratic hopes were 379 soaring on the notoriously erratic summer polls that showed any Democrat could beat Rockefeller ( Why experienced politicians give credence to such polls must always remain a puzzle ) Now in October everything is changed . Rockefeller has been gaining since mid-August and now must be rated even money , or better , to win a third term Not that the Republicans are without their troubles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention , also held September 7-8 , neither was there any enthusiasm until the final session when Rockefeller 's magnetism lifted the delegates to their feet with his acceptance speech . The scene recalled 1958. when a disgruntled Republican convention dutifully nominated Rockefeller and caught fire only when he was first presented on the platform . But the Republican troubles , as always , are more subtle and far less publicized than the Democratic squabbles First , there is the hard core of upstaters , conservatives all , who tried last winter to get Senator Javits to run against Rockefeller for the nomination and fired him up to the point where he made a state tour to count delegates before realizing that his cause was dead . This bloc would never go Democratic , and few are likely to stray as far right as the Conservative Party . But going fishing on Election Day is an old GOP tradition north of the city line , and it worries the Rockefeller campaign managers . This worry is ameliorated somewhat by reports that GOP legislative candidates , who ran the other way when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative election , now clamor to be at his side when he reaches their home grounds . More complex is the matter of personal ambitions . Few around him doubt that Rockefeller , despite statements to the contrary , will be right back in the 1968 Presidential picture if he wins a third term The disclaimers , in fact , are accepted as political necessities in a state election year and not to be taken seriously . A defeat would of course make the whole question academic . But Rockefeller on the national scene in 1968 would all but doom Senator Javits ' very apparent hope of winning second place on the ticket With Rockefeller in control of the delegation and personally involved , Javits would have no leverage for seeking the nomination for Vice President . This has created a delicate situation Javits is chairman of the Rockefeller campaign with very little to do about running it , but when he speaks out on policy he often puts his foot in the Governor 's mouth ? as , for example , his pronouncement that Rockefeller would campaign for the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came out on the very day that Rockefeller was declaring he considered the matter a local question Then there is the young man in a hurry , Mayor Lindsay . He has given lip service to Rockefeller , but refuses to campaign for him , and frequently criticizes the Governor There are those around Lindsay who say he hopes to make some sort of splash at the 1968 Republican convention ? not necessarily as contestant for a nomination but a big enough splash to win him national party recognition A revived Rockefeller candidacy would put an end to such hopes . These are intra-party affairs and probably will not surface before Election Day , particularly because the Rockefeller campaign is rolling and any GOP chance of regaining control of the legislature rests on the success of his run There remain the minority parties . Little has been heard from the Conservatives , and their man , Adams . has difficulty being even recognized by his party colleagues outside the top levels But although Rockefeller wrote them off as insignificant in 1962 when they polled 141,000 votes for David Jaquith for governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because analysis of the 1964 Conservative vote in the New York City mayoral election showed that they cut into conservative Democratic strength , particularly among the Irish , as well as hurting the Republicans whom they had set out to wreck The Liberals are an even more uncertain factor . The International Ladies ' Garment Workers Union , long the moneybag for Liberal candidates , is n't going to put up money for Junior Roosevelt , which greatly diminishes their influence . And Roosevelt , who introduced the bossism issue into the campaign when he was contesting O'Connor for the Democratic nomination , has failed to start any fires . The labor situation is highly unusual . Unions representing about 600,000 workers have already pledged themselves to Rockefeller ; this represents nearly 30 per cent Of labor 's claimed membership in the state . Perhaps as many are neutral , and many others have simply avoided disclosing ' their political plans , The numbers are unimportant . What counts is that labor , which since the days of FDR has ( with a few notable exceptions ) been wedded to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the doorbell ringers , wo n't be on the firing line this time . The blow could be fatal to Democratic hopes . On balance , therefore , the situation sums up this ways The Republicans , well heeled , with a veteran staff running the campaign , and steadily picking up adherents in the labor unions , look like the winners of the gubernatorial race ? barring a wholesale desertion to the Conservative banner . The Democrats , starved for finances , because big labor unions most notably the state AFL-CIO ? are denying them funds by staying neutral or switching to Rockefeller , are in deep trouble with the road ahead all uphill .                     