@@493485

NATO DIVIDED Nuclear Weapons , Europe and the LLS by Alastair ' Buchan Each year , when the outside air begins to fill with carols , the corridors of NATO begin to fill with rumors as the Ministers assemble for the main annual meeting of the Atlantic Council . This year , the rumors were flying thicker and faster than ever . The alliance is slowly moving toward a great debate on its future strategy . If there ever was any likelihood that either Britain or France would decide to relinquish its nuclear capability and reestablish an American monopoly , the Cuba crisis significantly diminished the possibility . In both London and Paris there has been considerable admiration and support for the way in which the President and his advisers handled the situation ; but Cuba has reinforced the conviction of both governments that crises can arise in which the US would act independently , and the Europeans would have to look after their own interests . Furthermore , if it pays the US to act unilaterally on occasion , the same may be true of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small efficient French force ( not necessarily the Mirage ! Vs that becomes operational in a year 's time , but the solid-fuel MRBM 's and the Polaris type submarines which are planned for about 1969 ) will not only protect France but Europe , whatever the Americans may do . The British , more versed in the pitfalls of independent nuclear power , are less ambitious . They are dubious about the wisdom of laying down a new strategic weapons system , as their own military-industrial complex is loudly urging . However , they hope to use their position as a nuclear power to help make some important progress toward nuclear arms control agreements within the next few years . In the meantime , they can not allow the strategic credibility of their existing force to be devalued . Hence the cries of anger and anguish as it became clear that the United States planned to abandon the Skybolt airto-ground missile , without which , in a few years time , neither US B-5z 's nor the British V-Bombers would be able to penetrate Soviet air defenses . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken or unspoken , over Macmillan 's converALASTAIR BITCHAN is Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies in London . sations with de Gaulle and Kennedy in the week before Christmas . The technical doubts raised by Skybolt and the political doubts raised by Cuba stand against the background of the Common Market negotiations , now mired down in arguments over agriculture . Since French farmers are a major obstacle to British entry into the Common Market , and since Britain has reason to think that the US is quietly trying to kill the British nuclear force by letting Skybolt sink to the bottom of its research and development priorities , is there any basis for an Anglo-French deal ? On the face of it there is . Britain has a large nuclear reactor program , whose military components are now idling in low gear , since she has all the nuclear warheads she needs . Yet France is about to spend $qoo million to build an isotope separation plant at Pierrelatte . Conversely , the French aircraft and missile industry is one of the most vigorous in the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development programs and the speed with which it can move from development to production . The recent Anglo-French agreement to build a joint supersonic airliner is evidence of the scope for fruitful collaboration between the two countries . Could not Britain save France a huge investment in nuclear warheads , while the combined resources of French and British aerospace industry freed both from dependence on America ? The answer is that neither Macmillan nor de Gaulle is at present interested in such a bargain . Both are skeptical about certain American policies , but there the common interest ends . For one thing , Britain could only transfer enriched uranium to France . To do more would infringe her 1958 agreement with the US which forbids the transfer of any knowledge or material acquired as a result of Anglo-American cooperation . This covers the whole field of bombs and warheads . Thus an Anglo-French partnership that was of real value to France would abrogate the 1958 agreement , ending Anglo-American cooperation not only on questions of nuclear strategy but on such diplomatic initiatives as the test ban . Anglo-French cooperation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Neither is Paris interested in such a bargain . De THE NEW REPUBLIC Gaulle wishes to promote the influence of France , both with the United States and in Europe . To strike a bargain with the European country he distrusts most , and in so doing to jeopardize all hopes of a closer strategic relationship with the US , does not appeal to France . But while an Anglo-French nuclear bargain is unlikely , is it not probable that the European Community itself will , if Britain is admitted , insist on its own nuclear force ? If it did , the Community would only be applying the logic of a great many official American statements ( George Ball , McGeorge Bundy and others ) . The image of Europe as a new great power , comparable with the Soviet Union , the United States and China , rather than as a specialized economic grouping within a large alliance , is partly of American origin ; Europeans can hardly be blamed for pointing out that the central attribute of a great power is the ability to pursue an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tight control over all strategic planning and decisions , she appears to be denying in the field of military power what she is enthusiastically promoting in the field of economic power . However sound the arguments for a central control of strategic decisions ? and to my mind they are overwhelming ? it is this unresolved duality in American policy toward Europe which accounts for much of the skepticism with which the McNamara doctrine has been greeted in Europe . The Pentagon can not have Western military unity if , across the Potomac , the State Department is promoting dualism . A " Counter-City Force " for Europe In theory , a European nuclear deterrent , even without American cooperation , is a feasible proposition . If one assumes as most continental Europeans would , that its sole purpose would be to make any Soviet attack on Western Europe itself too costly and dangerous to contemplate , rather than raising a general umbrella of protection over the whole free world as the American deterrent does , then it could be largely a counter-city force . This means it need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea launched missiles , with a high degree of invulnerability . The entry of Britain into the Community would solve the problem of nuclear material and warheads , enabling French resources to be devoted to other projects . Drawing on the overall resources of British , French , Italian and German industry , it would seem feasible to construct a limited , but diversified force by about 1968-69 . This might consist of a solid fuelled IRBM , in hardened silos in the two empty areas of Europe , the Scottish Highlands and the French Alps ; a fleet of missile-firing surface ships , to be replaced by Anglo-French nuclear submarines as they came into service ; supersonic low-level attack aircraft like the British TSR2 ; and vertical take-off planes with an air-launched missile . Given the considerably lower costs of European research and development , a crude estimate of cost suggests an expenditure of about $4.5 billion a year to create this force and keep it up to date . At present Britain and the Six spend just under $14 billion on defense , or about five percent of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear force would increase their expenditure to seven percent . The US now spends 11 percent and the USSR an estimated i8 percent . I do not mean to suggest that such a program would be easy to fulfill . There are obvious technical snags . One is that European firms , for all their skill in aircraft design , have nothing like the experience in missile design and guidance of their American counterparts . Still , the knowledge that American firms have gained is now increasingly diffused throughout the scientific and technical world . Another problem is that with Algeria now a sovereign country , Europe has no nuclear test areas handy ; and with no island chain off Western Europe , it would not seem easy to create a missile test range in the vicinity . Much of the development work would therefore have to be done in Australia ( if she agreed ) or in the French and British islands of the Pacific . But the real difficulty concerns the control of such a force . A united Europe will not emerge like Aphrodite from the sea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the success of the technocrats in Brussels in helping to shape national policies so that they broadly conform to a common plan ; as yet there is no agreement even on a confederal political structure . But , assuming that agreement is soon reached on the political framework of the European Community within a year , it is conceivable that the Council of Ministers could decide to create a European deterrent . Operational control is another matter . This would require both a strong federal executive ? and the advance from confederatism to federalism is a long step ? combined with a real sense of identity which would make a Frenchman or a Dutchman ready to allow Italians or Englishmen to decide whether to use or withhold nuclear weapons . It can , of course , be argued that the decision to become a major nuclear power would force the creation of a strong European executive . But it could not accelerate a reconciliation of national viewpoints or a sense of common identity . Indeed , to attempt to make the European Community into an operational nuclear power might well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europeans , even serious and informed ones , have hardly begun to do more than toy with the prospect of a European deterrent . When they get down to serious reflection , three points must , I think , become clear . The first is that few German , Italian or Dutch leaders will be satisfied by a formula whereby the British and French nuclear forces , under national or even joint control , are called a " European " deterrent . The smaller countries are not going to subscribe resources to any scheme over which they have not a proportionate share of control , or which means substituting two parasols for the American nuclear umbrella . The second reservation is that any attempt to create a European deterrent risks the withdrawal of the US from Europe . No American Administration is likely to accept a situation in which nearly half a million American lives could be jeopardized by European action . While to President de Gaulle this might seem the basis of a sensible Soviet-European settlement , the prospect of American withdrawal would appall most Europeans , including most Frenchmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that however strong European bargaining power with the US may become in the economic field , particularly when the Administration is on Europe 's side as happened with the Trade Expansion Act , she could never influence American strategic policy simply by the weight of her own nuclear forces . The third reservation concerns the Soviet Union . Russia has already good reason to fear the strength and dynamism of the European Community . Europe is the area from which the Soviet Union has always feared attack and invasion . If an increasingly dynamic Europe were to decide to acquire a powerful nuclear force , would the Soviet Union be content to do nothing during the six or eight years while the force was growing from drawing board to actuality ? Might she not be tempted to exploit the vulnerability of Europe before it was too late , especially if one of the publicized motives for creating such a force was European doubt about the continuing integrity of the American commitment to Europe . If so , 20 judiciously placed Soviet 60-megaton warheads could obliterate European industrial life for half a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , the indispensability of a NATO solution to the problem of nuclear weapons and the control of strategy will become apparent . But I doubt if it will be the kind of solution which certain agencies of the US Government have been advocating recently . These are of two kinds : first , there is the hardy annual , General Norstad 's belief that mobile medium-range missiles must be deployed in Europe to replace her increasingly vulnerable fighter bombers . By this means , Norstad would hope to offset the growing number of Soviet intermediate-range missiles targeted on Western Europe , and to cope with a wide range of East European military targets which are of more urgent priority to the Supreme Allied Commander in Europe than they are for the Strategic Air Command or the British Bomber Command . Norstad has hitherto failed to con-vince either the British or American governments , but it now looks as if he may win his case . Even if this missile force were internationally manned it would still be within the American command and within control arrangements that apply to the existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scheme Of greater political significance is the State Department 's attempt to lay the groundwork of a coordinated European-American strategic system by blueprinting an international force of missile-firing surface ships or submarines which would come under European control if the European countries could agree on a multilateral control system . Unfortunately there is some suspicion , most loudly voiced in France , that this is really an attempt to sell Europe a very expensive American weapon system in order to offset the American balance of payments . More important , most Europeans are skeptical as to whether they could evolve the multilateral control arrangements on which tthe scheme is conditioned . Moreover , the scheme seems to me to be animated by a false hypothesis , namely that Germany will decide to become an independent nuclear power unless she shortly acquires some share in the physical control of nuclear weapons . Such a fear , which overlooks the formidable technical , legal and political difficulties which would confront Germany in making such a decision , rests on an American misreading of German apprehensions and requirements . Like all European countries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is anxious to influence the framing of NATO policy , the deployment , number and targets of nuclear forces in Germany . A month before he fell from power , Franz-Josef Strauss said to me , " Germany is not a strategic power and grand strategy is not our business ; it is over plans for the defense of Germany that we wish to exert our influence . " With the current trend of German politics , still less is likely to be heard about independent German nuclear power . But the German Government has merely expressed more vocally what all European governments feel , namely that they have too little say in the formulation of plans that affect them all . For instance , the McNamara doctrine of a centrally ( US ) controlled counterforce response was evolved without any reference to allied governments . One consequence of this exclusion from nuclear policy making is that they have become preoccupied with nuclear weapons and nuclear strength , and indifferent to the non-nuclear alternatives which the United States keeps pressing them to take seriously . The right road seems to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard European control and influence over the planning of NATO strategy as separate from European control of operational decisions , and to seek these objectives consecutively rather than concurrently . A short step toward the attainment of the first objective was taken last spring by the creation of the Nuclear Committee of the NATO Council through which the US undertook to keep the allies informed of its strategic plans . But this is only a very limited advance for it provides no means for the resolution of conflicting views . No real progress can be made until the ramshackle political and military structure of NATO has been reorganized , so as to create the central machinery whereby an allied strategy can be hammered out , after the prolonged private argument and compromise between conflicting views with which we are all familiar in the realm of national planning . It is my own belief that as the European governments acquire greater control in the planning process that certainly Britain , and probably France also , will become satisfied with a tactical rather than a strategic nuclear force for European defense purposes only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US a greater consistency of strategic doctrine , so that yesterday 's orthodoxy ( for instance on tactical nuclear weapons ) does not become today 's heresy . These rapid changes of US policy ( what happened to civil defense ? ) undermine European confidence and make it hard to accept American pretensions to be the fount of military wisdom . The US also needs a closer correlation between political and military planning . The State Department 's proposals for a European nuclear force are , for instance , basically incompatible with the McNamara doctrine . What is American policy ? Finally , Washington must acknowledge that any formula for interdependence that leaves advanced technology ? not necessarily for nuclear weapons ? in American hands while Europe is expected to concentrate on boots and barbed wire is now fundamentally irreconcilable with European aspirations . Much of the ungenerous attitude that at present pervades European thinking on this question springs from resentment at such disastrous bargains as the unloading of the F-i.o4 on Europe , or the Pentagon 's refusal to leave the production of small missiles for the allied ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to improve its balance of payments by selling expensive weapons to Europe , not only will it complicate its arms control policy , but it will precipitate a conflict of economic and technical ambition . Europe , for its part , must reflect on the limitations of its own power . The mood of euphoria which the success of the Community has stimulated tends to make Europeans forget how profoundly the existence of thermonuclear weapons has affected the security of the small Asian peninsula on which its inhabitants dwell ; and how limited , therefore , is its freedom of strategic choice , even though it unites into a powerful and concerted economic community . This process of adjustment can not be hastened by public hectoring across the Atlantic for there is now an inherent conflict of strategic interest between the United States and Europe . The United States , with world wide commitments and as the prime object of attack if nuclear war occurs , is rightly interested in creating the most flexible system of defense in Europe that is possible within the limits of Western resources . The European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with no geographic depth are inevitably more interested in deterrence than defense . But these are differences which can he bridged by the kind of intense private debate which occurs between the protagonists of different strategic concepts within national governments . The road to safety , therefore , lies not in grandiose blueprints for mechanical control of weapons but in revitalizing the central institutions of the alliance so that NATO can again become the focus of the argument , rather than an impotent spectator of the public quarrels of national governments .                     