@@494801

BOOKS AND THE ARTS Those who regard legal vengeance as a proper aim of criminal justice , and approve of the death penalty , may find nothing disquieting about the promised grandstand trial of the notorious Adolf Eichmann , who is accused of organizing Hitler 's " Final Solution " of the Jewish problem in Europe . They may , indeed , agree with Mr. Ben-Gurion that for Eichmann to be tried in Israel before the Jewish people is a " moral imperative . " And they will likely have no quarrel with a new book called Minister of Death , The Adolf Eichmann Story , which Quentin Reynolds has written on the basis of material supplied him by two Israeli journalists , Ephraim Katz and Zwy Aldouby , and which can be read as a curtain-raiser to the trial . In spite of its sensationalized and manifestly prejudicial title , which reads like a hint to Hollywood , this is neither a cheap nor a bloodthirsty book . Though it appears to have been written hurriedly without much respect for stylistic grace , it is also written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany , of his stupendous criminal record , of his flight at the end of the war and of his eventual capture is told clearly and straightforwardly , and is evidently authentic . The rights and wrongs in the dispute that arose between Israel and Argentina over the abduction of Eichmann , and the arguments for and against Eichmann 's being tried in Israel rather than in Germany , or before an International Tribunal , are presented lucidly and with reasonable objectivity . Nevertheless , Minister of Death can not be accepted merely as an impartial piece of reporting . There is a message in it which saysimplicitly , and to some extent explicitly , that while Adolf Eichmann is virtually bound to be executed , he will get " justice . " With such a message any wholehearted opponent of capital punishment , anyone who holds that justice and legal vengeance are quite incompatible , is bound to take issue . Now it is possible , of course , to dislike capital punishment on various grounds , and to a greater or lesser degree ; it is possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemns the death penalty outright as a barbarity for which there should be no place in a civilized society , one is logically precluded from condoning its use even against a perpetrator of the most heinous crimes imaginable ; to admit the possibility of exceptions is to betray one 's own case . At the same time , there is no necessary inconsistency in believing that capital punishment should be outlawed and yet in remaining unconvinced that the taking of human life is an absolute wrong under any circumstances . Bernard Shaw , while he was totally opposed to the death sentence ( and imprisonment , too ) , went so far as to suggest in his preface to the Webb 's history of the British penal system that , short of a major advance in psychiatric knowledge and curative techniques , society might be justified in dealing with its incurably anti-social and dangerous members , non-punitively , by euthanasia . And he voiced a similar kind of argument through his mouthpiece , Julius Caesar . Shaw 's Caesar , it may be recalled , " feels no horror at natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's own or the State 's defense ? and when his henchman , Rufio , admits to having committed such. - an act , Caesar cheerfully takes the blame on himself . But legal vengeance none the less appalls him . " Had you set yourself in the seat of the judge , " he says to Rufio , " and with hateful ceremonies and appeals to the gods handed that woman over tosome hired executioner to be slain before the people in the name of justice , never again would I have touched your hand without a shudder . " According to Mr. Reynolds ' book , the Israeli agents who kidnaped Adolf Eichmann in Buenos Aires last May threatened at one point to shoot him dead if he tried to escape , and meant what they said . Such a summary execution could , it is true , hardly have been justified as an essential preventive measure . However implacable an enemy of the Jewish people Eichmann may ? have been then , and may still be now , his capacity for harm had ended fifteen years before with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one alien country or another , he had been living ever since a restless , hunted , fear-haunted life , but a wholly innocuous one ; and there was no greater practical need left to " incapacitate " him than there would be to incapacitate a man-eating tiger who had lost all its claws and teeth . Nor was this Eichmann , who had done his best to disappear , in any position to rally new followers or make new converts to his loathsome creed . As a matter of fact , he had never been a Nazi leader or policy-maker . He had been a highly placed , zealous and objectively speaking , a gluttonously cruel executant of policy , who may yet have been sincerely if psychotically convinced that the extermination of the Jews was something done in vital defense of his country . Ironically enough , indeed , he may have been , according to his own perverted lights , a " natural slayer " in Shaw 's sense . But even though the Adolf Eichmann who was finally run to ground in Buenos Aires had no sting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finished him off then and there ( as , I repeat , they were fully prepared to do as a last resort ) , the action would have been legally only by degree less defensible than what was in fact done to him and would have been morally far preferable to what may be done to him . One does not doubt that Eichmann will have a " fair " trial in the sense that it will be scrupulously conducted according to the rules of law . But equally one can not seriously doubt that this man , who once boasted that he would jump into his grave laughing because the fact that he had the death of five million Jews on his conscience gave him extraordinary satisfaction , will be convicted . He has , so far as is known , no substantial defense except that he acted under orders , and precedent exists in plenty for rejecting that particular plea ; besides , it is alleged that for a time at least he overstepped his orders . Indeed , to judge from what Mr. Reynolds says , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question of the full extent of his guilt and that of the whole Nazi Movement . Admittedly , since Israel has an accusative system of justice , the fiction is being maintained , both officially and by the Israeli press , that even Adolf Eichmann must be considered innocent until proved guilty . Yet Mr. Ben-Gurion himself paid scant lip-service to this fiction when he wrote to President Frondizi of Argentina : " They ( the survivors of Hitler 's ' Final Solution ' ) regarded it as their mission in life to bring the man responsible for his crime ( the execution of Hitler 's orders ) , without precedent in history , to stand trial before the Jewish people . " Moreover though Eichmann 's arrest and promised trial may , as Mr. Ben-Gurion would presumably contend , have had a morally uplifting effect on the Jewish people and produced a thirst for justice , it has also , manifestly , had a degrading effect on them and produced a thirst for vengeance . The Israeli Government has acknowledged the receipt of numerous applications , both from within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executioner . And Mr. Reynolds also reports , though without comment or apparent awareness of its significance , the story of a small boy who nearly lost his life in Haifa recently as a result of all the excitement . He was the defendant in a game that the chil.dren had invented called " Eichmann 's Trial . " His playmates found him guilty , condemned him to death , and then , forgetting make-believe , actually hanged him from a tree . His elder brother rushed up only just in time to save him from strangulation . One wonders whether Max Lerner knew of this gruesome little story when he wrote ( as quoted by Mr. Reynolds ) : " The intent behind the trial ? The intent is not revenge or retribution , but justice . " It is odd how even the most intelligent and liberal-minded of people tend to become irrational in any discussion of crime and punishment . Mr. Lerner goes on to remark that no punishment could ever be adequate for the monstrousness of Eichmann 's crimes : an obviously irrelevant point if the intent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but an indisputable statement of fact for anyone who believes that " justice " means giving the criminal what he " deserves , " making the " punishment fit the crime , " demanding " life for life " and so on . Unwittingly , Mr. Lerner sounds like a frusrated retributionist when he expresses the hope that because of the impossibility of dealing with Eichmann according to his deserts " the Israelis will be imaginative enough to assign a symbolic punishment . " Uncompromising opponents of legal vengeance might nevertheless find that a welcome suggestion , if it were at all a practical one . Unfortunately , it is n't . For Mr. Lerner ignores the fact that Israel has not , like Western Germany , outlawed the death penalty . It is true that no execution has thus far taken place in Israel ; and it is also true that Israel is ordinarily classed among the so-called abolition States , because it does not execute murderers . But it has specifically reserved the power to use capital punishment in the case of treason and Nazi war crimes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within the limits of its duty to administer the law . The Israeli court which tries and convicts Eichmann will be equipped with the power to pass sentence of death on him . How , one may fairly ask , can it pass a lesser sentence without making a mockery of the law which it is sworn to administer ? How , indeed , can it do so without implying that Eichmann is less culpable than some of the humblest of his subordinates were : than the twentyyear-old Irma Grese , for example , an SS wardress at Belsen concentration camp , who was executed by the British after the Luneberg trials . In other words , so long as the death-sentencing power for Eichmann 's crimes exists , a purely retributive result of the trial seems unavoidable . The only way out would be for the Israeli Knesset to meet in time and wipe capital punishment off the Statute Books . One presumes , however , that even if Mr. Lerner were convinced that Adolf Eichmann is going to be executed , he would stick to his view that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than revenge or retribution . " Put differently , " he says , " the intent is that the fate which the death camp inmates met shall never again be the fate of any people . . . . " Put differently again , and more simply , the intent behind the trial , in Mr. Lerner 's opinion , is deterrence . Granting that to be true for the sake of argument , is it an intent that can be achieved through executing Eichmann ? Most criminologists concede that the death penalty can theoretically be deterrent , though whether it can ever be uniquely deterrent is another matter . But all criminologists agree that the deterrent effectiveness of any threatened punishment is dependent on the speed and certainty with which that punishment is likely to follow the offense in question . During the time that Eichmann committed his crimes , he could not , of course , have known that he risked the trial and punishment which he now faces , for neither the law under which he is being prosecuted nor the State of Israel itself were in existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible sanction of being condemned to death in an Israeli court have seemed to him , as a servant of Hitler 's apparently all-powerful Reich , much more remote ? Is it conceivable that he would have been deterred by it ? Is it conceivable that anyone in the future with similarly vicious inclinations , and finding himself in the same seemingly impregnable position , would be deterred by it ? After all , the intent behind the Nuremberg trials was also supposed to be primarily deterrent . But those who built up hopes on Nuremberg , and on the lesser Nurembergs , already have solid grounds for disillusionment . The alleged " lesson " of these trials did not deter the North Korean Communist leaders from launching their armies against the South in 195o . It did not deter the Russians from their cruel and unlawful Hungarian intervention in 1956 . It did not deter Perez Jimenez of Venezuela from continuing to deal with his political opponents by illegal imprisonment and torture . Nor has it deterred the People 's Police in East Germany from beating and starving the inmates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Russians in 1945 . This is not to suggest for a moment that the war criminals should have escaped trial or that the trials were in themselves valueless and indefensible . Nuremberg exposed crimes of an unparalleled magnitude , which it was undoubtedly a moral and historical necessity to expose and prove ; and the Israeli Government may very well be on firm ground when it claims that the trial of Adolf Eichmann will serve a similarly high purpose . Nevertheless , the hanging of Von Ribbentrop and other Nazi leaders can now plainly be seen as legal vengeance of the most naked kind . If the Eichmann trial is to be something better than a repeat performance of Nuremberg , the Israeli Knesset must act in time to outlaw capital punishment . One may hope that it will , and that the gallant Jewish people will be saved from adding a crime of their own to the myriads of crimes committed against them through the centuries . 