@@312972

The work of the city planner is highly technical , complex and occasionally grubby . It is also exciting , full of heady schemes and grandiose concepts . Among the most grandiose are those advanced by Constantinos Apostolos Doxiadis , 56 , inventor and prophet of " ekistics , " meaning the science of human settlements . His planning and design firms employ more than a thousand people in Athens , Washington and 17 other cities . His smallest projects these days are complete university campuses , his largest embrace thousands of square miles , such as the River Plate Basin Development Program , involving new towns and transportation in five South American countries . A better stimulator of ideas than he is a designer , he is also a tireless preacher of the notion that ekistics must include many different disciplines . <P> For the past six years , Doxiadis has invited 30 or so distinguished architects , businessmen , politicians and academics to a week-long superseminar on environment problems aboard a chartered Aegean cruise ship . Most expenses are paid by Doxiadis-who may or may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends at the island of Delos , sacred to the ancient Greeks as the birthplace of Apollo and Artemis , where a formal summation of the results is read in the ancient theater . The event suggests that growing numbers of what might be called glamour intellectuals are drawn to the idea of city planning-although they are finding its problems difficult to articulate . A few days ago , TIME Correspondent Horace ludson was aboard for the seventh symposium . His report : <P> The chief characteristics of the symposium are the sea and air and sun , and endless talk . Anthropologist Margaret Mead , who has been on all but one of the trips , says that the symposium is the closest thing she knows to the great English country house parties at the turn of the century , and the comparison is just . <P> Athens Apex . The talk starts smoothly at the reception Doxiadis gives on the evening before embarkation . His triplex apartment is on the highest rooftop on the highest street in Athens . His guests look out on painfully appropriate urban contrasts : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city to the ruined perfection of the floodlit Parthenon . This year former Democratic Senator William Benton was holding court on a huge sofa , playing the part he loves : the crusty old American millionaire . Former Interior Secretary Stewart Udall , now a consultant on conservation , silently contemplated a Boeotian vase . Buckminster Fuller , a chunky little figure in black tie and white jacket , bald head shining , talked to Dr. Thomas Lambo , a towering blue-black Nigerian psychiatrist in flowing tribal robes . The guests ranged from British Economist Austin Robinson and French Geographer Jean Gottmann to American urbanists like Robert Wood of M.I.T. and Martin Meyerson , president of the University of Buffalo . Mingling easily among them all was Dox-iadis , a silvery fox of a man-academic , politician , humanitarian , man of influence .                     