@@441289

LIKE many other presidents before him , President Kennedy has begun work with his second Congress with more limited and realistic objectives than he put forward two years ago . Instead of a long list of controversial measures , many of which he knew would not be accepted , the President has asked the 88th Congress for concentrated work on a comparatively small number of major proposals as a kind of bridge to a second term . He outlined his program in detail in his State of the Union message and in the other basic documents he sent to Congress in January . Above all , he made it clear that he wants substantial tax reduction and reform this year . " This is the most urgent task confronting the Congress in 1963 , " the President said . He argued that only with a sizable cut could the domestic economy be strengthened to provide the underpinning necessary to deal with the " stubborn and troublesome " balance-of-payments problem . In nearly all his speeches , the President emphasized the close alliance between domestic and foreign policies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would help them half as much as a booming United States economy , " he said . " And nothing our opponents could do to encourage their own ambitions would encourage them half as much as a chronic , lagging United States economy . " Months will be required to win House and Senate approval of President Kennedy 's far-reaching tax proposals . But however long the battle will take , he is resolved to see it through . For on the success of the effort to strengthen the domestic economy this year rests his main hope of winning approval for his other proposals . The honeymoon period with his first Congress , the 87th , was more difficult for President Kennedy than for most presidents because of the uncertaintyof his mandate in the close election of 1960 and because of the narrow margin between Kennedy supporters in Congress and the conservative coalition . Now , although the numbers are not greatly changed between Democrats and Republicans , a new atmosphere is apparent as both parties attempt to assess the meaning of the President 's strength with the voters , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maneuver for the 1964 presidential election campaign . New directions in Congress The ease with which the President won his fight to enlarge the House Rules Committee this year , as contrasted with 1961 , and the revolt of the young Republican House members against the orthodoxy of their House leaders underline the fact that there is political ferment and a search , however halting and uncertain , for new paths . It should be noted that 28 Republicans and a majority of Southern Democrats voted this year with the Democratic leadership to enlarge the Rules Committee . And the Young Turk rebellion that ousted veteran Representative Charles B. Hoeven of Iowa from the chairmanship of the House Republican Conference and replaced him with Representative Gerald R. Ford , Jr. , of Michigan won by a vote of 86 to 78 . The revolt was a painful shock to House Republican Leader Charles A. Halleck and Republican Whip Leslie C. Arends . They recognized at once that the attack on Hoeven was a warning that the younger men will not oppose every Administration measure just for the sake of opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the warnings of many in his party who said he could lead Congress only if he marshaled public opinion against the obstructionists , the President has resolutely fol- lowed the path of conciliation , cooperation , and persuasion . In his approach , he has been more orthodox than most of his Democratic predecessors . While he has attempted to assert presidential power , he does not usually do so at the expense of congressional feelings , which are sensitive in the extreme . He has refused to quarrel openly with the powerful committee chairmen who opposed him . Rather , he has sought to bring them into his camp . When critics told him how often men like Chairman Wilbur D. Mills of the House Ways and Means Committee or the late Senator Robert S. Kerr opposed him , the President replied with a list of Administration measures they supported . He rejected the advice of men like Professor James MacGregor Burns of Williams College that he should attempt to lead in the reform of Congress . That is not the way a President who wants to win rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect . He stated what is for him a basic philosophy when , in a television interview in December , he was asked about last year 's fight with the steel companies : " There is no sense in raising hell and then not being successful . There is no sense in putting the office of the presidency on the line on an issue and then being defeated . " The President accepts the inevitable difficulties of the seniority system because he believes that there is nothing he can do to change it . He has continued to act within the existing system and to , accept philosophically the limitations on his power . For example , he was never particularly fond of Representative John W. McCormack . But when Speaker Sam Rayburn died in 1961 , Kennedy 's political sense , his sense of what is possible , told him that to try to deny the Speaker-'ship to McCormack would stir the bitterest kind of party strife . The President therefore worked to establish the best possible relationship with Speaker McCormack . Today Kennedy is convinced that his efforts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the President describes his relations with him as excellent . To the surprise of nearly everyone , when the Rules Committee fight came up on the opening day of the new Congress , McCormack won it by 39 votes . Two years earlier Rayburn led the fight and won it by5 votes . McCormack and his associates could claim an exceptional victory . So , also , could John F. Kennedy , who is convinced that he knows more about the art of dealing with Congress than any of his critics . Who 's who in Congress While the leadership group under McCormack is not wholly united and of single purpose , it does have a strength that has not always been present in recent years . At the top of the list in general influence is Carl Albert , the quiet-spoken Oklahoman who is more conservative than most New Frontiersmen and whose homespun appearance hides a quick and resourceful intellect . In his unobtrusive way , this former Rhodes Scholar is a tower of strength to the Administration as the House Majority Leader . If Albert is at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Means Chairman Mills is at the top in specific influence , and his influence is not always used as the President wishes . An independent conservative of extraordinary ability , Mills commands what is easily the most important House committee , because it has original jurisdiction over all revenue bills and because its 15 Democratic members serve as their party 's committee on committees to fill Democratic vacancies on other committees . On the Ways and Means calendar are or have been Kennedy 's trade-expansion bill , the principal Administration measure in the last Congress ; the new tax bill , the principal measure this year ; the medical care for the aged bill ; unemployment compensation ; and debt limitation measures . No one in Congress has a greater sense of what the House will do than Mills . Rarely does he take a bill to the floor until he is sure it is bulletproof . Fortunately for the President , Representative Hale Boggs of Louisiana , the Majority Whip in the House , is a senior member of Ways and Means . He has been influential in persuading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less conservative than Mills and more a party stalwart . His relations with the President are excellent . As Whip he has played a leading role in sizing up the party 's chances in advance of key votes . Two other members who , like Boggs , have played a significant role in persuading Southerners to support the Administration are two representatives from Alabama , Albert Rains , on the Banking and Currency Committee , and Carl Elliott , an Administration leader on the Rules Committee and an expert on education . Elliott was co-author of the National Defense Education Act and will play a key role in the fight for education programs this year . Both Rains and Elliott long ago were aroused against the Rules Committee because it blocked the housing and education bills they fathered . Representative Richard Bolling of Missouri was passed over a year ago when the leadership team was formed . Now he has regained some of the influence he had when he was Rayburn 's spokesman on the Rules Committee , and his counsel is increasingly sought . Finally , the powerful Representative Carl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , will play a dominant role in defense policy . Of more than passing interest is the future of the GOP rebels who surprised their colleagues the day before Congress convened by installing Ford as chairman of the House Republican Conference . They unquestionably had their eyes on the 1964 campaign . Although there have been substantial changes in the Senate membership , the leadership on both sides of the aisle remains the same ? which is to say , moderate but not very forceful . Increasingly , the second man on each side is providing the push : Democratic Whip Hubert H. Humphrey , and Republican Whip Thomas H. Kuchel , who won a resounding victory in California last November when former Vice President Nixon was defeated in his bid for the governorship . The death of Senator Kerr removed the most powerful figure from the upper chamber at a critical time , since the President was relying on him to help win Senate approval of the tax bill . Ironically , Kerr 's death makes the Administration task in another field easier , however . He led the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when it was narrowly defeated on the Senate floor . One of the most powerful obstructionists in the Senate is Richard B. Russell of Georgia , ; the chairman of the Armed Services Committee and the leader of the little band of Southerners who are less and less effective with each passing year . If Russell 's energies were directed toward posi- tive accomplishments rather than opposition , he would hold a commanding position in the station and in his party , for there are few abler men in Congress . As soon as he reached Washington this year , he assailed the Administration 's ' plan to give military aid to India , His statement recalled the comment of Harold Laski that no private member of any other legislative body in the world enjoys so much power and influence as do members of Congress . The fact that he directly challenged the leader of his party , that he raised in India grave doubts about America 's intentions , and that he put his knowledge of foreign policy requirements above that of the President and the Secretaries of State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his outcry was useful in reminding the President that the 88th Congress was not very different from the 87th in its determination to assert its own powers and maintain its independence of presidential leadership . Mood of the Capital While there is generally more optimism in Washington since the Cuban crisis about the future course of the cold war , the President is on guard . He does not believe that a government which less than a year ago planned to place nuclear missiles in Cuba has been changed by one setback . In the President 's view there will be more perils and more opportunities as 1963 unfolds . He can not foresee the effects on world affairs of the Sino-Soviet differences , and he recognizes that China may have altered the balance of power in Asia by its attack on India , Domestically , the President shares the somewhat restrained optimism prevalent this winter about the economy . The winter was not so bad as he had feared , although unemployment remained discouragingly high . His big battle with business is a thing of the past , he believes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of automation and loss of jobs , bother him , and he feels that they will get worse rather than better . But if Congress will approve the tax bill , nearly everything on the domestic front will improve , he feels , from the unemployment rate to labor relations . ENLAND is often thought to be behind the Iron Curtain . If so , it is news to the Kremlin . It would be nearer the truth to say that Finland is astridi that parlous boundary and upright still only through its own remarkable feats of agility . In the summer of 1962 the Finns played host to the Communist Youth Festival , which began with tear gas and ended in nuclear explosions . Earlier they received two notes from Russia which seemed to threaten immediate Estonianization ; they escaped . Meanwhile , Pentti Nikula has become one of the three best pole vaulters in the world ; the Finns have discovered the automobile and the accelerator pedal , but not the brakes ; and the only clear statement of foreign policy was issued by the young poetess Sirja Kumo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few inches nearer to the West , " Finns need no reminder of the fragility of their existence . Forty-five years of independence has been but a series of impossible barriers turned into bare possibilities . Their country is a small country , of necessity neutral . They are prepared io accept the isolation imposed by their geography . And they are willing to face , without help , their great economic problems . But being small and isolated , they are occasionally subjected to wholly irrational demands from the outside , and these they find more difficult to manage . The Kremlin sends a note The first note from the Kremlin , seventeen months ago , seemed to be just that . What the great explosion was all about is still a mystery . The note , which spent most of its pages excoriating Denmark and Norway , claimed that there was danger in the Baltic and , according to the Treaty of 1948 , called for consultations on mutual defense . But no danger was anywhere visible . True , the West German Defense Minister was planning a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a unified command in the Baltic , but that either of these small countries would be party to an attack on the U.S.S.R. was absurd . Whatever the real issue , it was further obscured by wall building in Berlin , by President Kekkonen 's visit to Canada and the United States , by negotiations over a new Finnish-Soviet trade pact , and by the huge nuclear explosions over Novaya Zemlya . Was this note , after the oblique fashion of such messages , a warning to Denmark and Norway ? Was it directed at Swedish trade , or at West Berlin , or at China ? Nobody knew . Was it pressure to get Finland to be the first Western country to recognize the proposed East German republic ? Or only an elaborate method of forcing Finland deeper into economic dependence upon Russia ? Nobody knew . Finland , at the time , was engrossed in an election campaign in which President Kekkonen of the Agrarian Party was being hard pressed by the Social Democratic candidate , Olavi Honka . After three weeks , a second , more urgent note arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and demanding immediate talks , possibly " military concessions . " This was clearly a summons . Finns recognized both the words and music of the exchanges of 1939 which led to the Winter War . Was this , then , a manufactured crisis to be followed by a take-over , Czechoslovakia style ? Twice since the war Finns had managed to squeak past similar schemes . President Kekkonen decided to go at once to see Khrushchev , then in Novosibirsk . At this critical juncture , Honka announced he was withdrawing from the presidential race , and everything was settled with the speed of light : the danger of attack had evaporated , talk of military concessions could be postponed , there was " complete agreement . " Kekkonen was duly elected for his second six-year term . But what there had been complete agreement about , only the principals knew . It is an axiom of Finnish politics that when you do not know something , do not talk ; when you do know , do not talk ? and above all , do not publish . In retrospect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this megaton diplomacy was set going mainly to ensure the re-election of Kekkonen as President , or , rather , to continue to disrupt and suppress the Social Democratic Party . It is not that the Agrarians are acceptable to the Communists , but that the Social Democrats are a positive menace . Finland 's Communists , the People 's Democratic League , for a long time the largest political party , are well organized and well financed . Finns do not hate Communists , and they do not hate Russians except as agents of Russian imperialism . The People 's Democratic League constitutes a permanent bridgehead for the Kremlin in Finland . The Social Democrats threaten this bridgehead . Having social and economic aims somewhat similar to those of the Communists but very different political objectives , they appear to be the one party which could bring about the withering away of the Finnish Communists . With the re-election of Kekkonen , the issue was postponed and the crisis passed . Compared with it the Youth Festival in Helsinki from July 29 to August 6 was merely an annoyance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the festival provides an interesting study of young people in general and Finns in particular . After three years of preparation and an expenditure of some $25 million by its Eastern backers , the festival was not a great success . Finns behaving like Finns Of course , young people , wherever they get together , will have a noisy , gay time . Some 10,000 came to Finland in national costumes , or duffle coats and sandals , Castro beards , and hairdos inspired by yaks . They bunked in ships or on school floors or in campgrounds especially fenced off for them . Riots and tear gas and truncheons only added spice to the ceremonies . Many delegates were surprised by the hostility of the Finns . The Finns had not asked to hold this festival ; they had tried in every way they could to back out . Student groups other than the Communists had vigorously protested this violation of their neutrality ; failing this , they agreed on nonparticipation . Members of the government had made speeches raising " grave doubts . " But after the notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became clear that the government would have to give official welcome to the festival , if only to remain neutral . Newspaper editors would not print anything against the festival ? they would not print anything at all . Tear gas did make the headlines . It had never before been used in Finland , and the people were shocked and humiliated . There was talk of " Cossacks riding in the streets . " Trouble began during the opening evening rally in the square near the Olympic stadium . Thousands of delegates were there , and thousands of onlookers . In the middle of the ceremonies someone started singing the Finnish national anthem , and this , seized on by the crowd , drowned out the loudspeakers . Festival organizers , trying to restore a peace-loving silence , were assailed by rocks and sticks and bottles . Then the police arrived , and the rally was dispersed . While the Communist press accused the United States of organizing the demonstrations and West German provocateurs and Finnish diehards of " feeding whiskey to hooligans , " it was quite clear after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons that the reactions were unorganized . Finns were simply behaving like Finns . There were , of course , hoodlums having fun in Helsinki and refugees from Eastern countries having their say . There were defections across the border into Sweden . And there were also well-organized anti-festival groups . A large Dutch and Swiss contingent came to protest all nuclear tests and stayed to run a popular nightclub on a ship in Helsinki harbor ; the Americans had an exhibit at the A teneum ? " paintings of rags and moult in the best new tradition " ; books were given away by the thousands ; and two jazz clubs were at work , it seemed , nonstop . Finnish students booked full hotel rooms and youth hostels ; they misdirected festival buses ; they set up and ran a special newspaper , printed in three languages , to counter the propaganda of the political meetings . But the real coup de grdce was delivered by the unknowing left hand of Russia . It came on the next to the last day of the festival , when the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wind of reality blew through the meeting halls , and the shamefaced secretary of the organizing committee found himself tearing up placards protesting all tests , by East or West . Vividly turned into truth were the words of an Asian delegation which had walked out of a political meeting because " youth was being systematically exploited for purposes of cold war politics . " Probably the festival was a good thing . Few delegates could have missed seeing the glittering shops of Helsinki or failed to notice the uncowering ways of the Finns . They must have learned something about what it is to be a small country , neutral , astride the Iron Curtain , and still alive and kicking . Finland faces east and west Delegates would be mistaken if they assumed that Finnish neutrality was merely the product of geography and the bitter lessons of history . It is profoundly psychological as well . There are no hitchhikers in Finland . One often sees men walking the long forest roads from one job to the next , packing their gear on their backs , but no man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man will humble himself to his thumb . The same is true of the man up to his elbows in the workings of a broken-down car . He neither asks for help nor expects it . He does not even look up . The nation itself reacts in much the same way . Yet in political and economic affairs Finnish neutrality is based on a total paradox : in foreign policy Finland asks only to be left strictly alone to go its own way as best it can ; and in economics Finland has one foot planted firmly in the East , and one inextricably in the West . For the moment , Finland is prosperous , its arts flourish , its clean , bright architecture is renowned , its books and bookstores are probably unrivaled , its children are well clothed and happy , and the names of its designers ? Wirkkala , Poutila , Sarpaneva , and others ? are chanted in the civilized world like incantations to excellence . The heavy debt of war reparations demanded by Russia in 1944 has been turned into a valuable resource . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wire-rope manufacture , copper products , instruments and tools ? have diversified its economic base and now account for 20 percent of its export trade . In its traditional export industries Finland has not only regained its former markets for raw wood , pulp , paper , and lumber , but has supplemented these with new processed wood products ? cardboard , fiberboard , wallboard , prefabricated houses . It is only eleven years since Finland shook off its war debt to Russia . In that short time it has become one of the fifteen most prosperous nations in the world . Its recovery , if less showy than that of West Germany , is even more remarkable , for it had to be begun and carried out without Marshall aid . Yet , as the Finns well know , prosperity is a kind of trap . More than almost any other country , Finland depends upon foreign trade . One quarter of its per capita income is earned through exports . And here the paradox still abides : its exports are strictly divided ? metal products to the East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finland can do . If it is to keep its standard of living it most go with both East and West . The Common Market The present impetus for a Common Market in Europe , valuable as it may be for some countries , creates a special new dilemma for Finland . It can not join because of its agreements with Russia , and it can not stay out without risking the loss of its best customers , England and Germany . Some time ago Khrushchev generously conceded that Finland had to develop its markets in the West . He further agreed that it could become an associate member of the European Free Trade Area ( EFTA ) , provided this did not change Russia 's status as " most favored nation " and provided such association did not involve membership in a supranational organization . It is not yet clear how far the EFTA and EEC countries will go in establishing a Common Market , or whether Great Britain will be a part of it , or how much organization such an association will involve . But if a Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitably grow into pan-European institutions ? toward the much-discussed federation of Europe . Thus , the Finns will have to wait and see and make whatever moves are possible . It seems unlikely that their country will be moved many " inches nearer to the West . " Logic would say that little by little this resourceful and energetic people will be incorporated into the Soviet economic empire . Logic would say that , despite occasional outbursts of suspicion , this is Russia 's friendly strategy . Yet the Finns would not be impressed . Their very existence over the past forty-five years is a cool smile in the face of logic . FOR a long time , this storybook kingdom on the roof of the world between India and Tibet had been spared violence . The only casualties in the quiet years were minor and not the result of armed clashes . Overzealous searchers for the yetis , or Abominable Snowmen , which by legend inhabit the Himalayas , would sometimes sprain an ankle . An occasional mountain climber , attempting to scale Mount Everest or one of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with altitude sickness . A few tourists , visiting the valley towns of Katmandu , Bhadgaon , and Patan , acquired stiff necks gazing at the ubiquitous temple carvings that can only be described as pornographic by Western standards . Nepalese explain them and their vivid coloring by saying that their goddess of lightning is a virgin and that if she sees the carvings , she will be scared away . Against this background of years of tranquillity , the past twelve months have been chaotic . Rebel raids occurred daily and slackened only when the China-India border war flared nearby . By the end of 1962 more than two hundred Nepalese had lost their lives in the domestic fighting . Buffer state Politically , recent months have been marked by efforts on Nepal 's part to move away from traditional dependence on India and to seek friendly ties with China . Communist China welcomed this shift in Nepalese policy but seemed to have plans of its own for the area . Last summer , Radio Peiping called for a Himalayan Mongoloid Federation , to include Nepal and the semi-autonomous states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This would give expansionist China both a suitable buffer with India and boundaries similar to those at the height of past Chinese dynasties . India , Russia , Communist China , Britain , and the United States all have embassies and aid programs operating in Nepal . But in this nation with a population of about 9.5 million and an area of 54,000 square miles , it is the competition between India and China that matters . Nepal 's primary ethnic elements are Mongolians , who migrated to Nepal by way of Tibet , Sikkim , Assam , and northern Bengal , and IndoAryans from the Indian plains and the sub-Himalayan areas west of Nepal . India has made a large contribution to Nepal 's development , but in view of the developing situation , it perhaps should have done more . China claims that historically the Himalayan states were linked to it and that British imperialist expansion in India severed the ties and set the areas up as semi-autonomous buffers relying on India . Nepal 's King Mahendra began wooing the Chinese as animosity toward India mounted in his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement had fired Nepalese patriots to rise up against the rana regime . King Tribhuvan was smuggled from the palace where he was under virtual house arrest and flown to New Delhi . Soon he was able to return , triumphantly , as the rightful ruler of Nepal . The Ranas were chopped down to size and retained an understandable hatred for all things Indian . From 1952 onward , India speeded development of Nepal . The Indians built roads , bridges , irrigation dams , power stations , hospitals , and communications facilities . As Americans have discovered , however , donor nations can become resented , and Indians were so tactless in giving their aid that great hostility was aroused . The King died in a Switzerland hospital in 1955 , and his son Mahendra had ideas of his own that differed from his father 's vision of democracy . Open anti-Indian feelings came to the surface in 1960 , when King Mahendra dismissed the elected government and assumed personal power . Former Premier B. P. Koirala was thrown in a Katmandu prison , where he remains today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " setback to democracy , " which may have been true but was tactless in view of the growing anti-Indian feeling fanned by the deposed ranas . The King envisaged an eventual return to democracy and has allowed elections to village and city panchayats , or councils . New Delhi remains cold to his genuine efforts , however , and Nepalese can not understand this since India recognizes other dictators , including Nasser and Ayub Khan , The King and his followers were further riled when India gave asylum and , seemingly , support to ousted politicians of the Congress Party , who fled to Calcutta and set up a government in exile under former Deputy Premier General Subarna Shamsher . India 's newspapers began boosting this group 's " liberation movement " and its plan to oust the King and restore democracy . Wooing the Chinese With these events as a background , King Mahendra began in earnest to woo the Chinese , who were already a step ahead of him in exploiting and agitating the situation . The King 's announcement in October , 1961 , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 miles to the northeast ) , which is already linked by unpaved road to the Tibetan capital of Lhasa , took India by surprise . The project , to be completed by 1966 , will include the training of Nepalese in road-building skills . India feels the road opens not only Nepal to penetration from China but India as well . There is a road built by the Indian Army linking Katmandu with Raxaul on the Indian border . India was angered by the fact that it was not consulted on the project , which by treaty it had a right to be , and also because the project meant that another two to three hundred Chinese road builders would be allowed in Nepal to spread propaganda as well as gravel . About this time , General Subarna Shamsher 's rebel group from Calcutta began making raids across the border , signaling a general breakdown of order in south Nepal . As a countermeasure , King Mahendra undertook a " get to know the people " tour early last year , concentrating on the southeastern Terai , or farming district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party . In February , at the town of Jnakpur , an attempt was made on the life of the King when a homemade bomb was thrown at his car . Suspects were arrested , but accomplices were believed to have fled to India , joining other exiles . In April , the King went to New Delhi for a meeting with Prime Minister Nehru , and a communique signed by the leaders announced that a joint Indian-Nepalese committee would investigate rebel raids on request of either party . Nepal insisted that the raids took place from Indian territory , while India claimed just as emphatically that they originated within Nepal . In fact , the 600-mile border between the two was almost impossible to police . Three joint inquiries were held after April , but they did not satisfy either side . A serious incident occurred on September 29 at Raxaul , the busy Indian border town and the gateway to Nepal . A band of Nepalese reportedly entered the town and fired on residents , killing five . The Nepal government blamed the raid on Nepalese rebels " stationed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian transport operators , and goods destined for Nepal were held up for a week in a blockade which severely disrupted the Nepalese economy and demonstrated the country 's economic dependence on India , and added to the ill feeling between the two countries . Second thoughts about China King Mahendra was threatening to take India 's " encouragement " of the border raids to the United Nations when China began its massive attacks on the Indian border in October . Meanwhile , the Chinese had been subtly agitating the situation within Nepal and taking advantage of the strained relations between India and Nepal . Speaking in Peiping on October 5 , on the first anniversary of the signing of the Chinese-Nepalese boundary treaty , Communist China 's Foreign Minister Chen Yi said the Chinese people would come to the aid of Nepal if Nepal was attacked by a foreign power . The Katmandu-Peiping cordiality was increased by a spirited United Nations speech by the Nepalese delegate on behalf of Communist China 's admission . The delegate 's statement that the Tibetan issue is closed since " Tibet has always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China , but caused rumblings domestically and in New Delhi . There are thousands of Tibetan refugees in Nepal . Some of them have told Western correspondents that their numbers are infiltrated with Communist China 's agents on missions of subversion . When the Sino-Indian war became intense in late October and early November , the Nepalese apparently had second thoughts about playing power politics . General Subarna Shamsher called off his liberation crusade for the duration . King Mahendra denied that he had been playing off the two giant neighbors against each other . Nepal went on record warning both China and India to stay clear of its territory . The King 's domestic program Domestically , King Mahendra has shown little inclination to relax his own tight grip on the country . Early in December , with an eye on the Sino-Indian situation , he announced that the state of emergency in Nepal would be extended for one year . On December 17 he announced a new constitution , but it failed to provide for the broad participation in government that opposition elements had hoped for . Agricultural reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's second Three-Year Economic Plan , begun in July last year , provides for an increase in agricultural productivity through planning and shifting from traditional to modern farming methods . Out of the total population of 9.5 million , it is estimated that 8 million draw their livelihood from some 6 million arable acres . With this small per-capita area of land , agricultural extension has been given priority . An Israeli agricultural expert has been advising the government on the resettlement of landless peasants . In the central valley , wheat , corn , buckwheat , millet , barley , sugarcane , and a variety of vegetables are grown . Tea , cotton , and tobacco are cultivated in the hot southern plains , while the temperate foothills yield a variety of fruits . Favored by a profusion of flowers , beekeeping is an important cottage industry . The highlight of Nepal 's 19621963 budget is its emphasis on mobilization of internal resources . Taxation has risen to its highest level in the country 's history ? until a few years ago there were no taxes at all in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cold-war battleground Nepal today is fast becoming a major cold-war battleground . Foreign assistance comes from both blocs and is made more interesting by the competition between Russian and Chinese efforts on the Communist side . In the past year , for example , several foreign-aid projects have been undertaken or completed . The Indian-assisted Phewa. tal Dam in Pokhara and the Tika Bhairab irrigation project were finished early last year . The United States completed installation of a 1500-line telephone system in the Katmandu Valley . Work began on Soviet-aided factories to produce sugar and cigarettes . Two other Soviet projects , the Panauti hydroelectric plant and a hospital in Katmandu , are nearing completion . A cultural program with the Soviet Union has also been instituted . China 's main efforts have been in surveying and other preliminary work on the KatmanduKodari road , which will open Nepal to new trade opportunities with Tibet . Nepal also signed a trade treaty recently with Pakistan and has been inquiring about barter deals with Japan , the Philippines , France , and Italy . As in other capitals , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoid fraternization with other diplomats , including Russians , who gather often at parties or around the fireplace at the Hotel Royal , which is managed by a Russian expatriate . However , the Chinese have begun a program of exchanges , and several Nepalese delegations have visited Peiping . THE republic of Senegal , lying at the extreme western tip of Africa , where the continent bulges out into the Atlantic and then curves in sharply toward the equator , is in many ways typical of the new West African nations . It is poor and it is ambitious , and it shares common problems with the multitude of new states which have sprung to life since 1959 , If the visitor steams into Dakar , Senegal 's modern capital , from the sea , his first sensation is surprise . A huge , sleek hotel looms up above the cliffs ten miles from the city . Farther on , apartment buildings dominate the plateau on which the new city is built . A short drive around Dakar confirms the initial impression . The banks have electric-eye doors ; American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lovely corniche road along the sea ; Parisian-style cafes line the main streets ; and Time magazine is on sale . In fact , Dakar looks like a very comfortable place to live . For most of the French and for the various embassy officials , for African politicians and for well-heeled visitors , it is . There are several tennis clubs , and there are sailing regattas . The stores stock Pernod , Scotch , American cigarettes , and fashionable clothes . The lovely sand beach at N'Gor is filled with laughing girls in bikinis . There are wonderful restaurants , comfortable movie houses , and horse shows occasionally on Sundays . Few white people are interested in the squalor . They do not see the sprawling medina where the Dakarois live , the rows of tumbledown shacks , the sewage flowing in ditches along the street , and the carefully apportioned daily ration of rice . Nor are they concerned that the average Senegalese annual income is about $240 . To the whites , both resident and transient , this means only that they can get a houseboy for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ washed for twenty cents . Yet the animosity that one would expect on both sides of the color line is conspicuously absent . Few Africans resent the French who have re-mained in Dakar . To the Senegalese , the Frenchman has been here for a long time , and he continues to need houseboys and to have his car washed ; and the African 's life is an entirely separate one . The Frenchman , on the other hand , resents the African only when the latter invades the former 's world , the world of offices and parties and dominance . The French find it hard to believe they are no longer masters here ; to their minds , West Africa would collapse without French financial and technical assistance and direction . Consequently , the African 's efforts at self-government are ridiculed . Otherwise , the Frenchman prides himself on the way he gets along with the African , with the boy and the marketwoman and the fain who does the washing . The Africans are , indeed , likable . In Dakar the women of the predominant group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exotic . They clothe themselves in colorful robes and headdresses , wear gold jewelry , and carry themselves stiffly erect and proud . With their babies wrapped on their backs , they walk the streets as if they own them . They joke with white women at the markets , and they push flowers at the tourist . The Ouolof men are hard pressed to support their wives , and many men take several jobs to keep their several wives in robes and jewels . Thus , the women parade through the teeming streets and the men sweat through their jobs , and the boulevards swarm with life , both African and French . At night , however , the center of the city is deserted , except for a few cafes and movie houses . The Africans troop back , on foot and in rickety cars rapider , to their medina , the maze of narrow streets and bidanvilles on the edges of the city : There , dinner is a bowl of rice , perhaps with some fish , and the nightly entertainment is the tam-tam , dancing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five miles from the center of the city is the University of Dakar , which was built by France , is financed by France , and is run by Franct ; . The professors , too , are French . The student body , with a few exceptions , is drawn from all over West Africa . The campus is modern , spread over several acres on the heights above the sea . In the dormitories , the elite of West Africa 's youth spend endless hours arguing politics , mainly attacking the incumbent government for its conservatism and alliance with France . These students seem to be sharply aware that they are the cream of West Africa , and believe that they are guaranteed high positions in government or business because they are all that West Africa can look to , aside from the French . But they are not content to wait , to he thought of as future leaders . Africans , they say , can run everything now . They demand , however , French and American financial aid as the least that is owed to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government scholarship money on clothes and radios , since their tuition , lodging , and meals are provided free . In a way , it is not difficult to understand their ambition . One need only look at the incumbent politicians to see the good life that these students aspire to . Deputies in the National Assembly ride through the streets in sleek , chauffeured sedans , and they live in the fashionable quarters of the city . They make more than $100 a week in government salary , and they have other income as well . Even in the interior , local African administrators live in comfortable , rambling houses , keep several servants , and enjoy the prestige of high status . The patterns of power Power patterns in Senegal are complex , and the sources of influence are many . Senegal is more than 85 percent Muslim , and on the local level real control lies in the hands of the marabout , the Muslim leader whose influence goes far beyond the religious sphere . The marabout directs the practice of Islam in his area . He also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes , and generally runs the society . The key to his power is his absolute hold over the minds of his people ; the African Muslim believes he can not get into heaven without the marabout 's intercession . The marabout 's influence , in this respect , is exerted in direct proportion to the amount of obedience he receives . Since he is rich and powerful , he must be courted by any aspiring African politician . Political power in Senegal is centered in the hands of one party , the UPS ( Union Progressiste Senegalaise ) . There are other small parties , but they offer only token opposition . In his last Independence Day message , President Leopold Sedar Senghor expressed the hope that opposition politicians and students would join the UPS , since Senegal 's plans for development would be hampered by divisive efforts . Students at the university greeted the statement with jeers and insults . Economic goals The policies of the Senghor government are easy enough to follow . The one phrase constantly heard is " development . " To achieve his economic goals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French and encouragement of new industrial investment . The first Four-Year Plan , 1961-1965 , outlines bold objectives in the area of industrial explosion , road building , agricultural development , and exploitation of natural resources . French assistance is heavily relied upon , but private capital is to provide 45 percent of the industrial growth . To lure this capital , the government has written an investment code promising substantial tax benefits and official encouragement to potential foreign investors . Despite these ambitious goals , one gets the feeling that there are constant beginnings but few results . Commissions are set up , and pilot projects are established by the score . Yet there is little to attract foreign capital . Senegal is a one-crop country , the base of the economy being peanuts . Aside from this , there is a coastal fishing industry that remains primitive , one phosphate plant in the north , some rice cultivation in the south , and little else . The land is most unyielding and dry , and there are few mineral resources . The one real resource is cheap labor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Effectively , economic power in Senegal remains in French hands . Octopus-like trading companies , French-owned , spread out from the capital cities and into the bush . They sell everything from real estate to ice cream , hardware to life insurance , and they carry on most of the important commerce in West Africa . Their hold is not as oligarchic as it was before independence , but it remains strong . Outside the big cities , competition can not get a foothold . Until recently these giant companies also bought the entire peanut crop , setting prices and wages according to their own intercompany agreements . The government has now established a cooperative which has in part taken over this buying and the processing which follows it , but the cooperative , though partly government-financed , is still largely owned by the French companies . French capital continues to predominate in almost every commercial enterprise . This French economic hegemony is one side of a two-way street . Senegal , as a member of the French Community , grants France tariff and import privileges and subsidies which are unavailable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excolony financial and technical assistance and buys the peanut crop at a price pegged above that of the world market . Thus , Senegal subsists and France retains its prestige as the mother country . Where Africans have taken over administrative positions , the picture is often a discouraging one . The high-living elected delegates to the Assembly pay lip service to their public patriotism , but their main concern is their bank accounts . In the administration , corruption is the rule rather than the exception . Senegal is fortunate , however , in having honest and capable men in the top ministerial offices . In the lower official echelons , performance is often sloppy and graft is common . The government is working hard to train capable administrators , but progress is slow . The new middle class But Africanization of the civil service , as well as of office workers and clerks , is inevitable and is proceeding rapidly . African bureau-crass , businessmen , salesmen , bookkeepers , mechanics , and small shopkeepers are gradually replacing their French counterparts . They have been trained mainly by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrogance of the university student nor the avarice of the high official . The growing influence of this African middle class can be seen in its expanding purchasing power , its higher standard of living , and in the new housing developments that are spreading on the outskirts of Dakar . In the interior , old habits and ideas change slowly . Despite the growth of Islam , tribal traditions and superstitions continue to dominate the bush African 's existence . But life in the bush has been complicated since independence . For one thing , the authority of the local chiefs has been undermined by the presence of African government administrators . For another thing , the lure of lights and good clothes is attracting the young people to the city , leaving the villages largely to the old and the infirm . Moreover , when the newly sophisticated boys and young women return to their natal home , their dissatisfaction gives rise to frequent family and tribal disputes . Improving the villages The government is trying to bring a better world into the bush . Centres d'Animation Rural have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here young men from the villages may come and live for ten days or two weeks . They are shown how to improve the looks of their villages and how to take various health precautions . The graduates of the camp are expected to spread their newly acquired knowledge in their villages , but the government is finding it hard to lure the villagers away from their traditional methods . Senegal is therefore a difficult and complicated place to understand . Perhaps the best evaluation is that offered by a Senegalese administrator in the Ministry of the Interior . When asked what he thought about his country 's chances for success and improvement , he answered cautiously : " We are black , we have strong friends , and we are ambitious . Is n't that a good beginning ? " 