@@272728

Despite alltime-record output of wheat , rice , feed grains , soybeans , pea nuts , sugar cane , meat , poultry and eggs , America 's 3,000,000 farmers will pock et 10% less income this year than in 1966 . After six straight years of rising income amid inflation , the slump in prices gives the farmer less net purchasing power than he has enjoyed since mid-Depression 1934 . While complaint has always been their bumper crop , U.S. farmers last week threatened to beat their plowshares into swords . <P> The National Farmers Organization , having staged its own market boycotts , now calls for collective bargaining to raise farm prices , and is getting encouragement from Agriculture Secretary Orville Freeman . Charles Shuman of the nation 's largest farm group likes the idea too , so long as it is free of Government interference , but this is about his only point of agreement with Freeman . As the American Farm Bureau Federation elected Shuman to his seventh term as president , he called for an end to all federal farm controls . Free man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut farm income a third , " but Shuman retorted : " Those who have been predicting that farmers would drown in a sea of surplus with Depression-level prices if farm programs were ended must be embarrassed to discover that this result has been achieved un der the Great Society 's management programs . " <P> The farmers ' problem is their masterful man-hour productivity , a 5.7% annual hike since 1950 , v. industry 's 2.6% . Despite a pastiche of Government programs to control production and protect prices , farmers continue to grow more on fewer acres through fertilization , mechanization and technology . Freeman indeed takes part of the blame for this year 's bumper crop because he trusted all-but-unanimous warnings of impending poor harvests and drastically increased planting quotas , then watched in dismay as ideal weather brought in history 's greatest yields-both of food and discontent .                     