@@493486

" Cooking " the Cuban News That Historic Week as Seen in Czechoslovakia by ? Stanislav Koutnik The former general director of the Soviet Press Agency Tass , Palgunov , once wrote in a brochure which later became the fundamental textbook for all Communist news agencies , that every news item or report printed must be a piece of " agitation . " News must be " fighting and persuasive , and for this reason it must be explained to the reader by a properly timely commentary . " Furthermore , wrote Palgunov , " Nothing can be left to chance . Readers can not simply be given the bare facts from which they might form their own opinions . " DECEMBER 29 , 1962 Just how these guide-lines apply in practice was explained by Antonin Buzek who , until recently , headed the London bureau of Cateka , the official Czechoslovak news agency , and , prior to that , served as the agency 's managing foreign editor . He chose to ask for political asylum in Great Britain just after he had offered the post of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote : " Almost all news must be slanted , adapted to the party line or , in the cynical jargon of a Communist journalist , ' cooked . ' The basic policy of Cateka , as far as foreign news is concerned , is to wait for a hint from Moscow ? ' waiting for Tass ' , so to speak . " ( Forum Service , London , March , 1962 . ) This technique of control over public opinion is important to keep in mind ; it is the guide by which the Czech press attempted to report the events which took place between the 22nd and 28th of October ? " an historical week of worldwide crisis , " as the Czech press now refers to it . President Kennedy 's announcement of American measures against the Soviet installations in Cuba apparently took the Czechoslovak regime and its propaganda apparatus by complete surprise . Rude Pravo ( the organ of the Central Committee of the Czechoslovak Communist Party ) , on October zo , was still writing about " several tourist excursions which would be flying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of " tourists " these would be . On Monday , October 22 , after the President 's declaration had already been made public , Radio Prague 's commentator first of all reported the news of the sudden return of leading government figures to Washington , but then added : " I suppose that this campaign . . . again is being exaggerated . . its purpose smells of propaganda and an effort to exert pressure . " He amplified his forecast : " I feel , first of all , that if the United States were to mount an invasion at this time , it would have to mass a substantially increased number of air and naval forces in the Caribbean area . . . It seems most probable that Washington needs this new anti-Cuban campaign for domestic and international reasons . . . . The US Government is , thereby , attempting to justify new arms expenditures . . . . It is , from the standpoint of international politics , an attempt at creating an atmosphere which will discourage English , Norwegian and Italian shipping concerns ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Economic , political and psychological pressure is naturally a double-edged weapon . . . , " he said . it is apparent from the allusions to various types of non-military pressure that the regime and its propa2 STANISLAV Kourmx , research associate at the Russian Research Center , Harvard University , has written extensively on Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union . ganda set-up were convinced up to the very last moment of the determination of the US President to take action in some manner other than military . The relatively restrained Czechoslovak government declaration , run by every newspaper in the country on the 23rd of October , merely stated : " No sovereign state can allow ships sailing under its flag to be detained by another state and prevented from reaching their destination .. . nor will they permit control to be exerted over the purposes of voyages . Note : Two Czech ships which had been on their way to Cuba returned to port . The assumption of such a right by the United States may result in an enormous expansion of the scope of international conflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict which could be construed to mean war , but , rather , of conflicts in general . The conflict might be nothing more than an exchange of notes of protest . Another sentence further along does not appear to regard the American blockade as aggression ; it rather warns against further steps by the American Government : " Every aggressor and the American militarists had better keep this in mind ? must reckon with the fact that if he were to run the risk of committing aggression , he is certain to be repaid with a crushing retaliatory blow . " In conclusion Prague declared that , " The Czechoslovak people fully and honorably intend to meet all their obligations to the Cuban Republic . " Similarly cautious as well was the concurrent " spontaneous declarations of all the workers " : " .. . We will , as suppliers of equipment for Cuban industry , fulfill all our commitments on time . " In neither of these two declarations is mention made of either military aid or further arms shipments . In the days that followed , every newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service of Soviet propaganda . Yet while the Prague regime was following the Soviet line in a reasonably meticulous manner , it did , nevertheless , deviate greatly enough from this line to merit attention . Especially noteworthy is the way in which the Czechoslovak Stalinist leadership spoke out not so much aggressively as with downright vulgarity . Thus Rude Pravo , on October 24 , characterized President Kennedy 's speech as : " . . . the sort of arrogance rarely witnessed in history . . . . Nations can not swindle with impugnity in today 's world .... " Radio Prague 's commentator of the day spoke of " Kennedy 's stupid announcement " ; and several hours later , on the program " Radio Prague 's Chat with Listeners , " the American President was identified with Hitler : " Hitler first wanted privileges for Henlein and then eventually occupied all the border territories until , finally , he occupied us as well . The same thing could happen today , were we to give ground . After Cuba could come Berlin , then all of Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE New REPUBLIC even worse conditions than before . . . . " This particular broadcast of the " Chat " then proceeded to examine the motives behind the American move . The commentator asserted : " A puppet government composed of Cuban counter-revolutionists would be brought into play . . . . In substance , Washington is planning the creation of some sort of new government resembling Chiang Kai-shek 's . " The commentator supplied an interesting answer to a listener 's question about " whether the American action has some connection with our preparations for signing a peace treaty with Germany . " The commentator appeared to expect Khrushchev to provoke a crisis in Berlin very soon : " A really very probable connection does seem to exist .... Two factors are particularly evident in the case of Berlin : First of all , Berlin would be militarily indefensible for the West , and , secondly , the signing of a peace treaty is certain to mean the utter defeat of American military policy in Europe . And this defeat is already underway . . . " Radio Prague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the following day by every paper in the country . Rude Pravo 's lead article ran this way : " Corporal Hitler , obsessed as he was by the self-same scheme for world domination , introduced a certain brand of crudity in his dealings . But even he , the worst mass murderer in history , took pains to provide each of his aggressions with a semblance of justification . . . . The college man sitting in the chair of the President of the United States of America has , as the representative of aggressive forces , gone even further than Hitler .... The inspection of imports on their way to Cuba is not only a move against freedom , but a move taken directly against humanity . . . . " Undone in Prague Very nearly the same words were broadcast by Radio Prague on the evening of the 25th of October in a dispatch from its New York correspondent , Karel Kyncl . Kyncl thus describes the response to the whole crisis as felt in the USA : " The only thing printed supporting the policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entrance to an office here in New York . . . . There were leaflets issued by the American Nazi Party . Nothing could be more characteristic of the aims of Kennedy 's policy . " During the succeeding days , after overseas radio stations had informed the Czechoslovak people that America was accusing the Soviet Union of shipping rockets with nuclear war-heads to Cuba , and of building launching pads for them , the regime maintained that these indictments were " slander and fabrication " : " an egregious assertion , " wrote Rude Pravo on October 25 : " Everyone knows " it added next day , " that neither do any Soviet military installations exist in Cuba , norare any being built " on the Caribbean island . On Saturday , October 27 , Khrushchev admitted the " universally known facts . " Just how this admission tripped up Czechoslovak Communist propaganda is revealed by Radio Prague 's commentator who , many hours after the admission had been made public , quoted from the Soviet newspapers Sovietskaja Rossija and Pravda , and the London Daily Worker , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy 's disclosure of the installations as a " lie . " That evening Radio Prague 's commentator offered the opinion that there would have to be an " exchange " worked out : the base in Cuba for the bases in Turkey . This was the first official Czech allusion to bases in Cuba ? and , at that , it was made en passant . The commentator declared that , " The American demand which attempted to restrict the liquidation of rocket installations to the Western Hemisphere alone has now boomeranged back against the United States ! " And , before the end of its evening transmission , the Radio broadcast a letter to Cuba " written by a Czechoslovak school-girl in the fifth grade , and published just prior to this program by Vecerni Praha : ' Dear Cuba , We know that you 'll stand fast ! ' " The press and radio had to retreat . Apparently it was a retreat which the Novotny regime wanted far less than Khrushchev . On Sunday , October 28 , the entire propaganda machinery turned to autumnal sentimentality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article for that day , entitled " This Sunday . . . " began with this sentence : " This Sunday seems like any other . . . . Time passes as it usually does . . . yet once again we 're one experience richer . . . . Our advance forward and our striving for peace obviously have not halted for a moment . On the contrary ! They 've not halted for the very reason that we know just what is happening . . . . " An outburst of rage follows : " Once again ... and all the more vividly . . . we have seen with what unconcealed ruthlessness , with what purely Hitler-like arrogance those gentlemen in their dinner-jackets and generals ' and admirals ' uniforms are capable of whipping up trouble against the peace of the world . . . . " And what of Nikita Khrushchev who had admitted that the Soviet Union did indeed have installations in Cuba , which he offered to ship back home ? Rude Pravo and with it all the organs of Czechoslovak Communist propaganda had this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious crisis for which the American imperialists are to blame . . . a further significant step was taken on Saturday by the Soviet Government . . . the proposals of the Soviet Union are equable , reasonable and realistic ... they give the world cause for hope ? and more time to the imperialists to do some reconsidering .. . in order that they might finally realize that an abyss DECEMBER 29 , 1962 lies agape before all of us ; that the path they have chosen will not lead to a liquidation of the crisis which has developed nor contribute to the establishment of normal , peaceful relations between states . These goals are implicit in the path chosen by the Soviet Union . It has chosen to follow this path , as it always has done in the past , because it has with it the sympathy of the entire world .... The Soviet Union has achieved a great new victory in its struggle for peace . . . " Rude Pravo thereupon proceeded to instruct the population on how to help the forces of peace to victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us can contribute with his informed , citizenly demeanor , with steadfastness and discretion . . . . As always at such times as these , we are all the more strongly reinforced in the awareness of the fact that we are on the side of right , honor and law - now as in years past . All sensible people of the world now see the Soviet Union for what it truly is - it and its unchanging socialist peace policy , its stand for brotherhood and its struggle for the future of mankind . . . . " Elsewhere in the paper , bold headlines draw the reader to the contents of an important announcement : " TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE OF SUNDAY FOR A RAPID POTATO HARVEST . " Less conspicuous are the reports of artists and writers who had been hurriedly sent into the field by the regime to ascertain just how the people felt about the whole Cuban affair . The writer Krista Bendova sent from Bratislava a typical report : " The fact that Cuba was , in many instances , no longer being discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awareness of the issues : they are calmly and unrelentingly going about their seemingly ant-like occupations at the very moment when the threat of annihilation hangs over the world - at a time when the bourgeoisie and nihilists are losing their nerve and sense of purpose in life . . . . And it suddenly dawns upon you that this ant-like , steady-disciplined labor is a part of a more important historical framework . This labor does , in the final analysis , seem to say more than all the words which proclaim ' Cuba ; you 're not alone ! ' ' We 're with you Cuba ! ' ' We shall be victorious ! ' " And what should be told the school-children ? An entire issue of Rude Pravo 's " Sunday Supplement for Children " was devoted to Cuba . A school-boy named Josef Masin submitted a letter " To Pedro in Havana , " in the name of all Czechoslovak children , in which he wrote : " The American President is afraid of the example which Cuban patriots are setting for the other nations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even stronger ! " An account is given to the children in the article entitled " Hands off Cuba , Kennedy ! " " Do you know , dear children , what an American blockade of Cuba can do ? It can cause the slowdown of production and the over-all shortage of raw materials and machinery ; a lack of proper clothing , food , medicine - and even of school supplies . And that 's not all . If Cuba were not to have sufficient defenses any aggressive state could attack and destroy it . . . . The Soviet Government forcefully responded to the challenge that the USSR would not abandon Cuba in its hour of need . You children have already read in your history books about how the valiant , courageous Soviet Union and its people defeated Hitler and liberated many lands - including Czechoslovakia - from him . . . . So do n't worry , children . The Americans will have to retreat from the Caribbean ! " Milena Honzikova - apparently one of those " tourists " whose excursions were mentioned by Rude Pravo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the children of Prague were referred : " There are children from three years onward in the school in Candelaria . fair-haired little girls whom the sun never tans ; little Negro girls whose ebony skin can never pale . One of the very first notions they have about the world is " Fidel Khrushchev ? Paz . " For it 's only in Cuba that you can hear both The Internationale and the revolutionary march Adatante Cubanos sung naturally as the childrens ' first songs . The revolution is , after all , responsible for providing everything which fills their lives She observed something quite different and interesting in Cardenas , where " on the previous day zoo cowardly people were in the streets , while nearly everyone else was indoors because of the rain . They were shouting that they 'd had enough of the privations caused by the American embargo and that there ought to be a surrender . . . . " The situation the following day was , she writes , quite different : " Thousands came out today to give their answer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foot-soldiers passed by with automatic rifles slung over their shoulders . ... There was something incredibly moving about the joy with which they bore their weapons along , in an over-flowing tide whose power grows in the knowledge that the fate of the revolution is in their hands .... By Monday , October 29 , the entire gigantic propaganda apparatus had begun to admit to realities . Ott radio Prague 's " Chat , " during which the question " But wo n't Cuba be left defenseless ? " had often been asked by listeners , one of the program 's participants replied : " The question of the future of Cuba will henceforth basically depend upon the agreement to which President Kennedy has already assented in principle . " After a week of comparing Kennedy to Hitler , Mussolini and Nero , Czechoslovak propaganda admitted in a conciliatory manner over Radio Prague that " Cuba 's future does not depend so much upon the Soviet Union as it does upon the peaceful intentions of the United States . the possibilities for an agreement exist , and negotiations are what are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Technicians ? " This historic week " ? like every other fairy-tale ? had to end with a bit of moral advice . Hesitation and silence had lasted for several days . But on November 4 , Rude Pravo finally wrote : " Looked at strictly from the view-point of international law and logic . . . the Soviet Union and the Cuban Republic demonstrated during the course of the whole affair not only a determination to defend law and order , but , as well , a maximal effort to prevent war . Hundreds of millions of people throughout the world were aware of this stand and appreciated it enormously . . . . " And Radio Bratislava indulged in some deep brooding on the same day over " . . the pre-eminence of socialist morality over American morality . " Not a single word had been uttered all the while on the fate of several Czech " technicians " in Cuba during those " critical days . " What did the people think during that week ? They behaved much as they had during the 1956 Hungarian uprising . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . According to the Italian daily 1 ! Tempo ( May 5 , 1962 ) the chief slogan shouted during the May Day student demonstrations in Prague was " Cuba si ? meat No ! " France-Presse Agency reported several other slogans shouted on May Day : " We stint in great and small and to Cuba give it all ! " and " Prague 's lines lengthen that Havana 's may shorten . " Prague 's evening paper Voderni Praha wrote specifically about " the two Pragues " which were observable just at that time . One of them was the Prague of organized demonstrations and " unanimous protest resolutions . " " And the ' other ' Prague ? " the writer asked : " It 's really nothing more than a shadow . . . although , even so , one ca n't help but saying something about it . What about those scare-mongers and hoarders . . . who dodged the demonstrations in order to rush off to get to the stores before anyone else ? What about them ? Just what sort of front-line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international piracy by buying tins of cooking oil or cartons of salt ? What do these people really believe in ? . . . in the weight of hoarded provisions or in the power of our camp ? Shame on them ! Ought we not to assure our Cuban friends that we 're standing solidly behind them ... instead of massing in front of Prague 's stores ? " Here , from among innumerable quotations regarding the interests of the population during the crisis , are a few sentences from a commentary broadcast by Radio Prague on October z8 : " Do you know , madam , why you ca n't get beefsteak ? We 're exporting tons of meat to East Germany ! And to all those African countries ! And just look at all those brand-new statesmen taking trips here ! All that 's got to cost something , let me tell you ! It 's all got to come from somewhere ! " The Radio 's political commentator drew the following conclusion : " The most absurd nonsense is being spread about the influence of our foreign policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who appear to believe that there 's something to all this talk . . .. " A final note : by November 11 , Radio Bratislava was not only talking of peaceful coexistence , but also of " some kind of collaboration ... mutual concession ... " between capitalistic and socialistic systems . That same day , Radio Prague capped its gyrations by taking a brand new position , peaceful co-existence for the sake of " permitting the capitalistic world to slow down its acute and chronic economic problems . " President Kennedy , apparently , moved in two weeks from being Hitler to being a friend who needs support .                     