@@493989

It was only a question of time before some basic books on Surrealism appeared in this country , for since the first years of the war , when many leading French Surrealist writers and painters took refuge here , Surrealism has been the strongest foreign influence on the arts . In its emphasis on automatism it had a crucial effect on Abstract Expressionism , in its use of the common object and its social commentary on Pop art ; and its development in the visual arts has already been traced in Marcel Jean 's History of Surrealist Painting , published here a few years ago . That its literary side has had less impact is paradoxical , given the fact that Surrealism is primarily a literary , not an artistic , movement ? but it is easily explained . For one thing , Surrealist writing is the product of a tradition ? the Symbolist repertory of images and genres such as the prose poem ? that had no equivalent here . Neither did Surrealist art , but the language of forms is international while that of words is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their elliptical syntax and abstruse vocabulary , are not easy to read in French or translate into English . I think that at bottom we need look no farther than to this language barrier for the basic reason why Surrealist writing has had so little and such a slow effect in this country . Over the past decade , however , some Surrealist literature has been made available in translation . Julien Gracq and Rene Char were extensively translated early in the game , and there was a sampling of Eluard . They have been followed by additional samplings of Artaud , Mandiargues , Breton and others . Of Alquie 's book I should prefer just to say that the idea of translating it was a mistake and let it go at that , but in view of the author 's eminence something more seems needed : Alquie teaches philosophy at the Sorbonne , has done fundamental work on Descartes and with the exception of Pierre Naville is really the only person gifted at systematic , abstract thought to have been associated with the Surrealist movement , which he knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosopher is of very limited value here , for Surrealism was not a philosophical movement ; it was varied , contradictory and circumstantial , even makeshift . Alquie has tried to get around at least one of these difficulties , the differences of view among such leading figures as Breton , Eluard and Aragon , by singling out for study the ideas of Breton , and at first sight the approach might seem justified . Breton had always been the dominant personality and left by far the largest body of theoretical writings . I call them " theoretical " only for lack of a better word . Breton has been wholly miscast in the role of a theoretician or even of art orderly thinker : there is a well-known story that , when asked to prepare a statistical report for a communist meeting during the days of Surrealism 's flirtation with the Third International , he found the assignment so far beyond his abilities that he had to give it up . Breton has always followed an intuitive , not to say an impulsive , approach , hardly a cerebral one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular quality of Alquie 's prose one can see why the book is unsuccessful . There is a kind of souped-up rhetoric , a bewildering amalgam of both emotive and conceptual terms , that forms one of the established species of French expository prose , and while it says little in the original at least it flows along smoothly enough for its emptiness to go relatively unnoticed . The comparative inelegance of English exposes its slightest fault . Nadeau 's book , when it first appeared , was well received by everybody but the Surrealists ? partly , no doubt , because of its resolute refusal to indulge in the kind of rhetorical mystification that typifies most critical writing about Surrealism or by Surrealists : Nadeau writes prose . In approach he is entirely the opposite of Alquie , taking matters not topically but historically , and to me this seems not only the best but really the only proper method . What this historical development shows , broadly speaking , is the increasing predominance of a highly contrived , almost precious , estheticism , best seen today in the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of something quite different . For at the outset , the exploration of the unconscious through such characteristic means as automatic writing was only one aspect of a much larger aim . Na ? ve though it may seem today , what the Surrealists had hoped to achieve was a " total liberation " of the sensibility , and they recognized that compared with this goal literature in the usual sense of the word was a paltry thing , " anodyne and without consequence . " The reason for its insignificance was that it could not change the basic element , namely the social milieu that , for the Surrealists , stifled men and prevented them from exercising their faculties to the full . As Breton put it , what the Surrealists wanted was to " change the conditions of life . .. . We are not Utopians : the Revolution we seek is only conceivable as a social phenomenon . " It is Nadeau 's great merit to have realized the importance of the sociopolitical dimension Surrealism had in its early years and the effect of its failure in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manifesto , for example , only an appeal to a kind of hermetic occultism , Nadeau recounts the political debate that occasioned it and brings out the social message that comprises at least half its content . He traces , as no one else had thought of tracing , the various attempts ? all abortive ? of Surrealism to find an effective social persona , first in the twenties by uniting with the Marxists who published the two magazines Clarte and Grand Jeu , then in the thirties by the attempt , hesitation and finally refusal to merge into the CornTHE NEW REPUBLIC munist party itself . What was involved then had already been very lucidly pinpointed by Pierre Naville when he quit the Surrealists a decade earlier : their " refusal to compromise one 's own existence and the sacredness of individualism by a commitment to the disciplined action of class struggle , " a refusal to acknowledge that " spiritual strength .. . is ineradicably rooted in a social reality that conditions it . " What Nadeau shows , then , is how the repeated failure of Surrealism to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sapped its revolutionary ideal of so much of its content , leaving it in the end no choice but to retreat into the exquisite , but purely literary , exercises that the best of the Surrealist writers practice today . In this way , style and ideology are constantly and inextricably interrelated , and it is very much to Nadeau 's credit that he brought this out . His History is introduced by an intelligent and lively essay by Roger Shattuck . The book by J. H. Matthews ? not to be confused with Jackson Mathews , whose translations of Rene Char did so much in this country to give that poet the eminence he deserves ? is narrower in scope , although written in a less specialized manner . Matthews has done some very fine things on Surrealism : his Introduction to Surrealism , of 1965 , is the best general discussion of the subject after Nadeau 's , and , like Nadeau , he always avoids the febrile rhetoric that is endemic to this territory . His latest study has real merits . It includes the first extended discussions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eccentric multimillionaire who , early in this century , wrote books that sometimes approach Joyce in sheer intricacy and fascination ; Rene Crevel and Robert Desnos , two extremely interesting personalities , the former especially so ; Giorgio de Chirico , universally considered a master in painting but who also left a scarcely read novel that is a little jewel ; and Michel Leiris , whom I consider one of the greatest prose writers of the present day . Despite all this , Surrealism and the Novel is not entirely satisfactory . Part of the trouble lies in doing a book on this subject in English and one that seems addressed to the uninitiated , for the time is not yet ripe for it . Of the nine modern French writers Matthews discusses at length , only two have had the luck to see major works of theirs translated into English , Julien Gracq and Michel Leiris ; and the latter 's Manhood , published by Grossman in 1963 , went almost unnoticed . Of the others , one will be lucky to find a few pages in some out-of-the-way , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly to blame for the economics of publishing or the taste of the public , but the fact remains that here is a book about authors some of whom are still too marginal to deserve individual discussion , intended for a relatively wide public that will not have read them ; and this basic fact has several consequences . One has to do with the subject itself . As Matthews rightly remarks , Surrealism has tended to disdain the novel , with its almost inevitable baggage of prosaic , descriptive naturalism . Surrealist novels are not novels at all in any of the usual senses of that word : plot , characterization , point of view . What one finds instead are images , sometimes random , sometimes highly organized , but always very rich in overtones , for Surrealism , as we have seen , is very much aware of its literary antecedents . The images on which it depends refer to a long tradition of lothcentury writing ? some of which Matthews briefly discusses ? and indeed , for such relatively decent writers as Gracq and Mandiargues these literary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reader who is familiar with this tradition and has the works of its modern descendants open on his desk so he can look up chapter and verse , these images can be glossed and explicated ; but such a reader would not need an introductory book like Matthews ' . Matthews sensed this dilemma , for with his usual concern with intelligibility he has tried to give an idea of the novels he discusses by summarizing them . But as the novels are complex the summary tends to occupy the whole of the chapter , leaving little place for interpretation ; and the summary itself is usually less than successful , for " novels " that depend entirely on the resonance of their images instead of on plot or motivation do not lend themselves to resumes . Matthews has had the lucidity , and the courage , to avoid more prose paraphrases of what are usually closer to poetry , but on balance it is hard to see what he could have done instead for an interested but uninformed public . One positive fact emerges : for the present , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this regard , it is worth calling particular attention to the extremely valuable anthology of Surrealist " documents " ? tracts , manifestos , excerpts from creative works ? that follow Nadeau 's own text : the most effective preaching is by example , and the presence of these " documents " will do far more to give the reader an idea of what Surrealist writing is like than any summary possibly could . Copyright of New Republic is the property of NON Republic and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use .                     