@@493448

THE NEW REPUBLIC In an article entitled " Sicknik Time , " Benjamin DeMott anatomizes the satire of the so-called sick comedians , which he finds irresponsible , unclarified , and socially ineffectual . To illustrate this , Professor DeMott lumps together such diverse sources of humor as Nichols and May , Lenny Bruce , Jules Feiffer , Pinky Lee , Joe E. Lewis , and Mad magazine , all rendered into the same unBeyond the Fringe by and with Alan Bennett , Peter Cook , Jonathan Miller , and Dudley Moore ( John Golden Theater ) appetizing bowl of sour farina . This reductive method tells us little about the specific style and attack of the individual comics , but it is DeMott 's intention to consign them all to a generalized sociological category ; and the most impressive part of his essay catalogues the themes and conventions which sick comedy usually assails : racial subjects , bourgeois domesticity , commercialized religion , politics , public relations , and cultural improvement . Alas , DeMott the social scientist is only a torso supporting the disapproving head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is scoring all his subjects for their " lack of a moral center , " their scorn for healthy family life , their nastiness , their preoccupation with nuclear disaster , their " universal hostility ... to all positive assertion , " etc. ? finally dismissing them for their failure to affirm that man can change his time . This demonstrates , I think , what happens when an essentially anarchistic art falls into the critical hands of liberal-humanists : it is spanked for not serving the social hopes and ethical ideals of the community . More sophisticated than , say , President Kennedy , who tends to regard artists and entertainers as soldiers in the Cold War , DeMott , nevertheless , seems to share the official desire to impress private expressions into public service , which may end by emasculating culture altogether . Though I suspect that DeMott 's strictures could be applied to almost any Juvenalian satirist ( is Lenny Bruce , for example , any more scurrilous than John Marston ? ) , they are valid - as valid as Plato 's discovery that the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most satire is , by its very nature , destructive and impractical . The satirist is an immoderate man who is often repelled by the very ideal of civilized society . And if he has any positive social function at all , it is purely purgative : relieving the spectator of his outrage and frustration over the forces which manipulate his fate . If sick comedy is prone to explore hidden areas of experience , then this is because these forces have severely limited the remaining avenues of freedom : and if its response to the time is excessive and extreme , then this is because the danger , terror , and insanity of our age have almost reached the breaking point . I bring this up in order to introduce a discussion of Beyond the Fringe , the first British equivalent of American-type satire to reach our shores . This scorching review has all the qualifications of sick comedy as defined by De-Mott . It roasts all his categorical turkeys , it has no firm moral center , it is immoderate , irresponsible , and totally destructive , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be permitted an unDeMottian judgment of value - it is violently funny . The sketches certainly contain echoes of Jules Feiffer and Nichols and May , even occasional hints of Lenny Bruce , along with that rebellious tone and contempt for authority which one associates with the work of Amis , Osborne , and J. P. Donleavy . Beyond the Fringe has not yet been identified with sick comedy , perhaps because the community it attacks is not our own ; but even now , I suspect , English critics are expressing sociological disapproval over its anti-social behavior . The review 's title suggests its stance : DECEMBER 15 , 1962 that posture of disaffiliation from the system which DeMott seems to deplore . Beyond the fringe are four extremely talented and alienated young men : within the fringe are all the platitudes , pieties , and prejudices of the last English generation ; and the sketches consist of venomous darts hurled over the boundary line . The major political target is Prime Minister Macmillan : one episode finds him , ancient and confused , describing the youthful vigor of Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world ; another represents a duel between a Russian and a Briton , the weapons a chorus of raspberries for their respective leaders . Commercialized religion also gets the Bronx cheer as a TV theologian , who bubbles like a social worker , speaks of channeling juvenile violence toward God ( a later sketch shows a vicar explicating a passage from the Story of Jacob in terms of class distinctions ) . The English worship of royalty is assailed ; play censors and censors of pornography are identified with the perversions they would suppress ; an African statesman is made to look as venal , corrupt , and self-serving as his European counterparts . Four homosexuals admire each other 's hair and clothing before launching into a singing commercial for a man 's cigarette ; two linguistic philosophers trade " how questions " and " why questions " with examples from " real life " ; a Beaverbrook journalist and an adman discuss ways to express dissent ( the journalist titters at the boss behind his hand ) . Two members of the company are especially gifted : the pianist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who does wicked takes on Art songs , Benjamin Britten , and the endless codas of Romantic German composers , and the raconteur , Jonathan Miller , a perpetually unbalanced whooping crane whose fertile imagination can turn the most commonplace news story into a weird comic fantasy . As a group , however , the company excels in their longest numbers . The first act finale , " Aftermyth of War , " satirizes the blood-and-beaches attitudes of the English under Churchill , complete with stiff upper lips , upending cups of tea , and futile sacrifices , finally collapsing into utter desperation as the war generation hands the world over to the I. youngsters . And the funniest sketch of all decimates Shakespearean productions ( especially Olivier 's Henry V and the current Old Vic ) , and even Shakespeare himself - reducing the clown scenes , duels , and choral speeches to bluster and bombast , and the blank verse to absolute nonsense . If all these subjects lie within the fringe , there is one subject that extends beyond ; the H-bomb - and it is under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played out . The evening is studded with nuclear references , and two sketches deal with the bomb directly : in the first , a panel group , addressing itself to the question " Kill or Be Killed - or Both , " prescribes brown paper bags as a defense against radiation , thus suggesting the absolute idiocy of civil defense ; in the second , and final sketch , " The End is Nigh , " a group of fundamentalists are revealed , sitting on a mountaintop , awaiting apocalypse . It is this expectation of nuclear annihilation which accounts for the fury and savagery of much of this review , as it partly accounts for the extravagance of our own sick comedians . For if the young seem negative and irresponsible , then this may be because their positive and responsible elders have left them such a poisoned inheritance . And it is a measure of health , not sickness , that their inevitable anger and resentment can still be disciplined within a witty , sharp , and purgative art . ROBERT BRUSTEIN Correspondence Senility of the Young Rebel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that after negating and criticizing the literary Establishment and its values , they eventually come around to affirming the entire syndrome . But John Wain 's review of William S. Burroughs ' Naked Lunch ( December 1 ) is especially sad and disappointing because it suggests that in England the rebels turn square only ten years after their first splash , blinding themselves to the new in writing even before they turn forty . In the course of his cavalier dismissal of Burroughs and his admirers , Wain affirms several conventional values - the superiority of clean experience , the need for an affirmative art and the everyday notions of The Good Life . For examples , cleanliness : Wain takes Burroughs to task for his oppressive concern with filth and , thus for being incapable of " looking at a landscape and getting anything out of it r Affirmative Art : Echoing Life 's perennial plea for a positive literature , Wain condemns Burroughs for being unlike Henry Miller who " has something to offer , and that something is an affirmation . " Finally , The Good Life : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miller is criticized for preaching an adolescent existence . Of this message Wain comments , " As soon as one begins to think seriously about it , the emptiness and weariness come into focus . " To believe in these values , even worse to affirm them as vigorously as Wain does , is to disqualify oneself from saying anything significant about the new in modern literature . In its theme and techniques , the novel is open to misunderstanding by the highbrow Philistine ( an animal possessed of a highbrow sophistication and a lowbrow taste ) . It is finally concerned with the extremes of horror in human life ; and , therefore , it takes its place in that literary tradition preoccupied with the possibilities of emotional experience . In structure , it is a series of sketches on this theme . ( As a writer of a coherent of short narratives and essays , Burroughs resembles Miller ; but this Wain fails to see . ) For subject matter , it contains naturalistic descriptions of decay and surrealistic portraits of mental derangement . These vignettes are blended into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The effect of the book is Kafkaesque - a simultaneous sense of stark terror and reeling comedy ; and the essence of Burrough 's achievement lies in his ability as a writer to sustain this vision . In short , Naked Lunch is one of the more truly original and exciting pieces of prose to emerge from the fifties . It is precisely these elements that Wain , in his youthful senility , is incapable of seeing .                     