@@268742

Lincoln Day is the annual occasion for Republican orators to take to the field , potshot at the opposition , and praise the Grand Old Party . Last week there was plenty of potshotting and praising . In Niagara Falls , New York 's Governor Nelson Rockefeller charged the Democratic Administration and Congress with a civil-rights record that " must constitute one of the most cynical exploitations of minority aspirations that has ever occurred in the history of American politics . " Gibed G.O.P. National Committee Chairman William Miller in Battle Creek , Mich. : " To get a real top job in the New Frontier , you first must have failed in everything you ever tried to do . " In Independence . Kans. , Texas ' Senator John Tower warned that the " survival of Western civilization depends upon a Republican victory in 1962 . " <P> Out of Touch . But beneath much of the speechmaking ran a current of concern about the state of the Republican Party itself . In Pittsburgh , Hawaii 's Senator Hiram Fong asked if the G.O.P. had " lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer regard Republicans as their champions ? " Said Fong : " The preponderance of evidence suggests we have increasingly lost support of the people . Surveys show that Republicans fail to command majority allegiance of a single major group in America . " <P> Other Republicans were worried about the split on the far right . In Brooklyn , New York 's Senator Jacob K. Javits said that the party was doomed if it accepted the " freakish ideas " of those who sought to " repudiate the 20th century . " Massachusetts ' Leverett Saltonstall told a Seattle audience : " We wo n't survive by saying ' I wo n't play ' - or by finding an enemy under every rug . " Arizona 's Senator Barry Goldwater , who got a two-minute ovation when he was introduced to a crowd of 13,000 in Cincinnati , pleaded for unity : " Let 's forget about being Nixon Republicans or Rockefeller Republicans - stop trying to pigeon hole ourselves . We 're not far apart . From the middle of the Republican road to the far right is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maine 's Republican Senator Margaret Chase Smith was critical of " defeatism within Republican ranks , " suggested that three top G.O.P. presidential possibilities - Nixon , Rockefeller , Goldwater - are afraid to run against Kennedy in 1964 . Said she : " The impression , whether it be right or wrong , fair or unfair , is that they have refused to be the 1964 nominee because they do n't think President Kennedy can be beaten and believe that the Republicans ca n't win . " Thus , she said , the name of George Romney , who only last fortnight announced that he would run this year for Governor of Michigan , has been widely mentioned for 1964 . Said Maggie Smith : " This rarity in agreement makes me wonder-and I say very carefully to you that I do not make any charge-I merely wonder if the really true role contemplated for George Romney is to be the sacrificial lamb on the Republican altar in 1964. "                     