@@210842

Every Friday afternoon , Novelist and Screenwriter Budd Schulberg leaves his tree-shaded home in North Beverly Hills and drives across town to the Negro slum of Watts . There , at the Watts Happening Coffee House , a ramshackle building across the street from the charred foundation of a store razed in last year 's riots , the author of What Makes Sammy Run ? sits down for three hours with a small group of ghetto-scarred Negroes and teaches them how to write poetry , plays , short stories and novels . A onetime teacher of creative writing at Columbia , Schulberg says that their writing ability is " so much higher than my group of college students . " <P> Schulberg , whose standard fee for a script is $100,000 and up , takes no money for his teaching chore , for which he volunteered after driving around Watts one night in the wake of the troubles . Shocked by the evidence of repression and neglect , the following week he asked the Westminster Neighborhood Association , which runs a number of adult education programs in Watts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were plenty of people hanging around the settlement house with nothing to do ; maybe some of them could write . <P> Conquering Distrust . For the 52-year-old writer , the workshop at Watts has been his toughest task since the days when he prowled the docks gathering material for the screenplay of On the Waterfront . When the Westminster Association announced his first class , ten young Negroes signed up , but only two bothered to show . Undiscouraged , Schulberg kept at it , eventually conquered the distrust of his students . Now he has 18 regulars , ranging from boys in their teens to unemployed rniddle-aged workers . <P> To outsiders , the class seems like scarcely organized chaos . Schulberg , wearing chinos and loafers , sits on a sofa . Young Negroes in Bermudas and sawed-off jeans , women in simple dresses , are grouped around him on threadbare chairs . While one of the writers reads from his latest work , or Schulberg lectures on the mechanics of publishing , a stranger may enter the room to bang away at the scarred upright piano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found that the ghetto is " full of talent , full of innate ability , " and his charges have already produced enough poetry to consider publishing an anthology to be called Voices of Watts ( see box ) . Star pupil is unquestionably Johnie Scott , 20 , who was born in the ward of a women 's prison , nonetheless won a scholarship to Harvard but dropped out after a year . Scott , whose poem bad news has been published in Los Angeles magazine , has been contacted by Alfred A. Knopf Inc. and Harper 's magazine , is planning to return to college this fall . Schulberg is equally high on the talents of Leumas Sirrah , 18 , a high-school student whose poems are generally lyrical abstractions about God and life , and Jimmy Sherman , 22 , whose four-stanza verse TH ' WORKIN ' MACHINE is being set to music by television 's Steve Allen .                     