@@477699

Guest columnists this month are Senator Thomas Dodd of Connecticut and Kenneth Tynan , British drama critic . Their comments on Mr. Tynan 's article , " Command Performance . " raise some fundamental questions about free speech , a free press , and the proper role of Congressional investigating committees . They are followed by an editorial note on points not covered by either of the debaters . Senator Dodd begins . IN ITS issue for October , Harper 's ran an article by Mr. Kenneth Tynan , British drama critic , purportedly describing his appearance before the Senate Subcommittee on Internal Security , on May 5 , 1960 . Mr. Tynan 's article was full of inaccuracies , some minor , some grave . I regret that Harper 's saw fit to print Mr. Tynan 's statement without troubling to check his version of the facts or his allegations with the Subcommittee on internal Security . In the paragraphs that follow , I present the other side of the story . Mr. Tynan was one of several witnesses called before the Subcommittee for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Cuba Committee , " which announced itself to the public with a full-page advertisement supporting Castro in the New York Times for April 6 , 1960 . Since Mr. Tynan was one of the signers of this advertisement , it was reasonable for the Subcommittee to assume that he might be able to shed some light on the organization and on the origins and financing of the New York Times advertisement . The hearings in the case of the " Fair Play for Cuba Committee " have not been completed and it would therefore be improper for me to venture a final opinion . I assure you , however , that the Subcommittee on Internal Security had solid reasons for investigating the possibility of collusion between this pro-Castro organization and the Castro government . The specific reason for the hearings was to determine whether there may not have been a circumvention of the Foreign Agents Registration Act which warranted examination with a view to possible legislative remedy . As one item in a much larger case , there is the shocking fact that the Secretary of the " Fair Play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invoked the Fifth Amendment when called before the Subcommittee and asked a long series of questions relating to Communist affiliations and associations with the Castro government . The hearings were held in executive session , as is the Subcommittee 's general custom with initial hearings . The purpose of this procedure is to assure privacy to those witnesses who have only information to give and to protect those against whom the evidence is fragmentary or inconclusive or completely incorrect , as occasionally happens . The Subcommittee had made no public charges or allegations against Mr. Tynan , nor has it sought to expose him or harass him . A statement has , however , become necessary by way of replying to the serious public allegations which Mr. Tynan has now made against the Subcommittee . Mr. Tynan has endeavored to convey the impression that the Subcommittee 's action in calling him as a witness constituted a violation of freedom of the press . This is nonsensical . Under its mandate from Congress , the Subcommittee has the right and the duty to request information from visitors and residents , aliens and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that the information requested has a direct bearing on the matter under consideration . If the prerogatives that normally apply to freedom of the press are respected , I fail to see how a request for information , per se , can constitute an infringement of freedom of the press . In Mr. Tynan 's own case , there is another reason for rejecting his plea for immunity from Congressional committees . As a foreign journalist in a democratic country , Mr. Tynan ( who has now returned to England ) was completely free to think and write what he pleased about American politics . But when Mr. Tynan participated in a full-page advertisement in the New York Times obviously intended to exert pressure on the State Department in favor of the Castro regime , he was not expressing an opinion ? he was engaging , with American citizensand with an American organization , in a political pressure action vis-ii-vis the American government . There is no law preventing a visiting journalist from doing so ; but at the point where he does so , in my opinion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he is co-operating . To deal with all of the inaccuracies in Mr. Tynan 's article would require a 5,000-word article . Let me mention only those that I consider particularly glaring . Mr. Tynan said that he was unable to quote verbatim because he had been " forbidden access " to the transcript . Copies of testimony , for obvious reasons , can not be mailed out until the testimony has been released for publication . But in the long history of the Subcommittee , no witness or his counsel has been denied access to the transcript of his own testimony in executive session . The fact is that Mr. Tynan never requested access . Mr. Tynan stated that the questioning started with his TV show , " We Dissent . " The record shows that it started with the " Fair Play for Cuba Committee , " and his relations with it . The effect of this inversion of the facts is to create the impression that Mr. Tynan was really called before the Subcommittee because of his TV program and not because of his involvement with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about his relations with the " Fair Play for Cuba Committee , " Mr. Tynan staled that he was not a member , that he had not contributed to it , that he had simply given his signature to the statement which was printed in the New York Times On these points , Mr. Tynan 's account in Harper 's was accurate . At other points , however , his account lapses into the kind of fantasy that is difficult to explain . " Such was the caliber of the inquisition , " wrote Mr. Tynan , " that astonished amusement became the only possible response . Had I received money for signing the ad ? No . Was it paid for by Cuban gold ? No . . .. " I can state categorically that neither these questions nor any questions similar to them were asked of Mr. Tynan . Since he consistently took the stand that he knew nothing about the organization or workings of the " Fair Play for Cuba Committee , " however , I can not help marveling that he should now be able to respond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imaginary question number two : Was the ad paid for with Cuban gold ? According to Mr. Tynan , he was asked whether he thought himself " justified in holding opinions that openly defied those of the President of the United States " on the question of Cuba . The question addressed to Mr. Tynan by the Counsel for the Subcommittee had nothing to do with " opinions " ; it had to do with political action . The question was whether he had taken the action of participating in the petition , knowing that it ran completely counter to the policy of the United States government . Such a question , I submit , was valid . As is essential and proper in all such cases , Mr. Tynan was asked some general questions about his background . He was asked whether he had in March 1960 contributed an article to Mainstream , a periodical which consistently toes the Party line andwhich was identified as a publication of the Communist party in the Guide to Subversive Organizations published by the House Committee on Un-American Activities in 1951 . Mr. Tynan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but he said that he had done so without knowing whether it was a Communist publication , and without troubling to ask . He was also asked about the program which he had produced for the British Television Network which purportedly dealt with the matter of dissent and dissenters in America . I found Mr. Tynan 's discussion of the program in his Harper 's article a prime example of intellectual fuzziness . In his article he maintains the pretense that his program placed a heavy emphasis on the " Socialist " point of view because in a capitalist society Socialism and dissent are so frequently identified . Under the " Socialist " caption , he bracketed a long string of Communists and pro-Communists . Unless my information is completely mistaken , the great majority of Mr. Tynan 's colleagues in the British Labour party take the stand that Communism has nothing to do with democratic Socialism and that Socialism is being libeled when Communists are identified as Socialists . The " proud tradition of dissent " in America was represented on Mr. Tynan 's program by several legitimate dissenters like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norman Cousins . But I challenge Mr. Tynan 's contention that our tradition of dissent is in any way represented by most of the other members of his tendentiously composed amalgam ? by Communists , party-liners , and a convicted perjurer , by beatniks , eccentrics , a dope addict , and a self-described expert on sex deviation . Some of the eccentrics displayed no definite political bent . But so far as political viewpoints were represented , it was a pro-Communist viewpoint that predominated . There was Arnold Johnson , Legislative Director of the Communist party , one of the twenty-eight Communists sentenced to prison under the Smith Act . There was Clinton Jencks , head of the United Mine , Mill , and Smelter Workers ' Union , which was expelled from the CIO in 1950 because of its Communist control . In hearings before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee in October 1952 , Jencks was identified by two witnesses in sworn testimony , as a member of the Communist party and he invoked the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions about his Communist associations . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associations with Communist-front organizations are recorded in the hearings of the House Committee on Un-American Activities of September 12 , 1951 , and December 7 , 1956 , and who invoked the Fifth Amendment when he was asked about his membership in the Communist party and his other pro-Communist activities . There was Dalton Trumbo , one of the " Hollywood Ten " sentenced to prison for contempt of Congress because they refused to answer questions relating to their membership or activities in the Communist party . At the hearings before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in October 1947 , Trumbo 's Party membership card was produced and he was subsequently identified as a member of the Communist party by six witnesses . Finally , there was Alger Hiss . " We Dissent " described Hiss as someone who had been convicted of perjury in a famous trial . It failed to mention the fact that one count of the conviction was that he had perjured himself when he denied turning over secret . State Department documents to Whittaker Chambers , a self-admitted Soviet agent ; nor did it mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Communist underground in government by at least three independent witnesses in testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee on August 3 , 1918 , and before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on August 2 , 1951 , and February 19 , 1952 , respectively . The " so-called dissenters " were not simply members of the panel . Clinton Jencks was presented as the spokesman for non-conformist trade unionism in America ; the Reverend Stephen Fritchman as the spokesman for non-conformist religion in America ; Dalton Trumbo as the spokesman for non-conformist Hollywood writers . Only one of this group , Arnold Johnson , was formally identified as a Communist or Communist sympathizer , nor was any reference made to the fact that they had all either taken shelter behind the Fifth Amendment like the Reverend Fritchman , or else had been identified as Communists as stated above . Mr. Tynan obviously thinks otherwise , but , for my own part , I believe that there was no place on such a program for a single Communist or party-liner . I submit that Moscow agents and Moscow dupes have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not even " dissenters " but rigid totalitarian conformists who would deny the right of dissent to oil ' For my own part , too , I must r vel at either the miraculous workk , of the laws of chance or the esoteric knowledge of the roste Fifth Amendment cases which ablcd Mr. Tynan to select , with erring accuracy , names like Clir Jencks and Dah.on Trumbo Stephen Fritchman , which comm recognition by one American in thousand and probably by no n than one Englishman . in ten tl sand . Mr. Tynan asserts that part of purpose of this program was demonstrate that America was st land where the tradition of dis was very much alive . 1 challenge assertion . If the English lartgt has any meaning , his program trayed America as a land where formism and fear of non-conforn prevail and where dissenters are secuted , deprived of passports , carcerated , and black-listed . The program was severely c cited by three of its participi Mr. Norman Thomas , Mr. Nor Cousins , and Dr. Robert Hutcl Mr. Cousins and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ q ment with the description of program which I presented to United States Senate on Februar Mr. Cousins , in a cabled prote the Associated Television Nets said that he had not been infor that his interview would he use the context of " What 's Wrong ? America , " and he vigorously tested the misrepresentations had been made to him at the tim did the recording . He requested mission to organize a ninety-mi television program on the subjet " What 's Right with America . made a similar proposal in speech in the Senate and in a to the head of Associated Televi : Mr. Tynan , who believes in free of speech , apparently was oppose a counter-program , although it clear whether Associated Televi consulted him before deciding n ' accede to our request . Under ordinary circumstal Mr. Tynan 's testimony before Subcommittee on Internal Sect would probably not be publishes cause it is admittedly fragmer and inconclusive . Since Mr. T ' has publicly broached the ma however , I shall recommend that , in proper time , his testimony be printed together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba Committee . " ? Thomas J. Dodd Mr. Tynan replies : SENATOR DODD overestimates my capacity for total recall . There is not one sentence of verbatim transcription in my whole account of the interrogation . Nor did I pretend there was . I was working without a transcript and said so . I paraphrased what I could recall of the strange proceedings , in the manner of a drama critic outlining the plot of a play . I had returned to England shortly after the hearing , and it was not until more than a month later that I finally decided to write about it . I naturally sought legal advice about getting hold of the transcript . I was told that it was unavailable to me , and that under the Subcommittee 's standard procedure I would not be permitted to have copies or photostats made . This nettled me , since it meant that the factual evidence would be in the hands of the other side ; all the same . I decided to go ahead and write the piece from memory . . . . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have inspected it if I had been in Washington . As I was in London , this notion never occulted to me ... Hence I got the order of events slightly wrong , and either misheard or misremembered two questions . I take the Senator 's word for it that I was n't asked whether I was paid for signing the " Fair Play for Cuba " ad ; I was merely asked what I knew about its financial background . By the reference to " Cuban gold , " I hoped to clarify a similar question about the ad 's sponsorship , since it was perfectly obvious , in the context of doe hearing , that the Subcommittee thought the Cuban government had paid for it . In a recent TV interview broadcast by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation , Senator Dodd quoted me as having said " on the record " that I " did n't know who paid for the ad . " This seems odd , in view of the fact that he now claims I was never asked any such question . His other points arise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Play for Cuba " ad was not " a political pressure action vis-a-vis the American government " ; it was addressed solely to newspaper readers and recommended no " action " other than fuller and fairer reportage of the Cuban situation . The Senator further says that I was questioned about participating in a petition that ran counter to the policy of the U. S. government ; I said I was questioned about holding opinions that ran counter to that policy . The difference between holding opinions and publicly expressing or endorsing them seems to me infinitesimal ; or at least it ought to be , in a reasonable society . When , for example , an American newspaperman in London writes an article lambasting British policy , I feel no patriotic urge to have him hauled up for questioning about his loyalty to Mr. Macmillan . A sort of reflex action now prompts me to ask the Senator a few questions . Tf the purpose of interrogating me was to elicit information about the " Fair Play " committee , why were no subpoenas sent out to such other signatories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and James Baldwin ? Why was most of my hearing concerned not with Cuba but with my TV program on American dissent ? . . How does the Senator justify the Subcommittee 's demand that I should name the employees of an English TV company with whom , in England , I had discussed my TV show ? And is there not a touch of impertinence in questioning me at length about a program that neither Senator Dodd nor any other member of the Subcommittee had seen ? And is not that impertinence compounded by the fact that the Senator 's friend , Professor Eugene Rostow , Dean of the Yale University Law School , had stated in the closing session of the show : " I do n't think this program was unfavorable to America . It presented a very interesting and very significant part of the story of American life " ? And is the Senator not aware that I wholeheartedly supported : he screening , two days later on the same network , of an unrehearsed discussion entitled " Right to Reply , " on which the merits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of panelists including Dean Rostow ? For the Senator 's benefit , let me clarify a few things about the show 24 THE EASY CHAIR itself . There was nothing " esoteric " or " miraculous " in our knowledge of " Fifth Amendment cases . " The indictments of Dalton Trumbo and Clinton Jencks were widely reported in the European press ; and the circumstances of the Hiss case are part of the common knowledge of our time . As to the Reverend Stephen Fritchman , he is the minister of the First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles ( one of the three cities in which the program was filmed ) . We had been repeatedly informed that the Unitarian Church was among the most independent , and least conformist , of all American religious groups . We did not know that the Reverend Mr. Fritchman had ever taken the Fifth or any other Amendment , though even if someone had told us , I doubt whether we would have dropped him from the show ; we were concerned with his religion , not his politics . Senator Dodd asserts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Can he really have studied the transcript ? If he had , he would know that Clinton Jencks spoke in favor of an American labor party on the British pattern ; that Dalton Trumbo advocated " Socialism without jails " ; and that Mr. Fritchman passionately extolled the American tradition of religious liberty . Even Arnold Johnson , who was expressly identified as a member of the Communist party , did nothing more subversive than object to the imprisonment of American citizens because of their political beliefs . And Alger Hiss ? He deplored the spread of conformity , described the American legal heritage as " one of our finest areas of valuable non-conformity , " and called America a " dynamic , growing , developing country . " Does Senator Dodd really disagree with this testimony ? And would he like to repeat his statement , made over CBC-TV , that my program featured " sex perverts , " when it did nothing of the sort ? ( It included one spokesman for a society dedicated to the reform of the laws against homosexuality . ) ... And what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the four whom Senator Dodd regards as " legitimate dissenters " ? The truth is that I can not understand what the Senator means by " legitimate dissent . " It looks as if he meant safe , uncontroversial , toothless dissent ; which by my definition is not dissent at all . If I were invited to produce a program on British dissenters , I would feel myself bound to include advocates of civil disobedience and members of the Communist party ; if I did not , the British press would undoubtedly call me unfair , and complain of my conformist bias . It saddened me , incidentally , when Norman Cousins protested against my program . He was fully informed about its nature and purpose ; I attribute his lapse of memory to the fact that he was interviewed on the press day of the magazine he edits , and may not have absorbed everything that was told him . .. . Senator Dodd points out , as evidence of his magnanimity , that the Subcommittee has not sought to " expose " me ; as what , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , agree with him that I gave an article to a magazine called Mainstream without " troubling to ask " whether it was a Communist publication . I seem somehow to have got out of the habit of asking these indispensable questions . In the past decade I have contributed pieces to Vogue , Harper 's Bazaar , The Atlantic , Harper 's , The New Yorker , Holiday , Theatre Arts , the New York Times , the New York Herald Tribune , and The Paris Review without bothering to inquire about the editors ' political affiliations . In future I shall be more careful . George B. Merlis , an American tourist who was arrested last summer by the Russian secret police and expelled from the U.S.S.R. , has sent me a copy of a letter he has written to Senator Dodd . His alleged offense was distributing copies of the pro-American magazine , Amerika . " While I was in the custody of the Secret Police of the Soviet Union , " he tells the Senator , " no attempts were made to question my political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treated by these dread agents of a totalitarian state than Mr. Tynan was treated by elected representatives of a democracy . The actions of your Committee are shameful . " If it is any comfort to Mr. Merlis , I would never dream of judging America by the behavior of Senator Dodd ; nor would anyone I know and respect . We know an exception when we see one . But we can not help bristling , and being regretfully amused . ? Kenneth Tynan Editor 's Notes NEITHER comment reaches to the underlying question : What is the proper role of Congressional investigating committees ? Senator Dodd 's legal right to summon a foreign journalist is not open to question ; but his judgment in so doing certainly is . A little forethought should have warned him that journalists are likely to write about such experiences ? with highly damaging results to America 's reputation . ( It is fortunate that Mr. Tynan 's article was published in this country rather than abroad , where the repercussions almost certainly would have been much worse . ) And no explanation can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioning was likely to discourage free expression of political views in the press and on the air . Indeed , the whole record of Congressional inquiries into un-American activities indicates that they have done the United States far more harm than good . They have turned up remarkably few subversives who had not already been sported by the FBI or other security agencies . But they have furnished mountains of ammunition to hostile propagandists ; they have made it infinitely harder to recruit good men into the public service ; and ? particularly during the McCarthy era ? their excesses corroded the fabric of American life . Moreover , when a legislative body takes on the additional roles of policeman and judge , it breaks down the traditional boundaries between the three branches of government .. It undermines our basic doctrine of separation of powers , which holds that legislative committees should confine themselves to developing information needed for wise legislation ; while the pursuit of wrong- , doers should be left to the police agencies and their punishment to the courts . Perhaps the Tynan episode will help a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to consider in advance the consequences of their actions .                     