@@213030

One day in the spring of 1962 , President John F. Kennedy gave to a special White House courier a note on his personal stationery addressed to French President Charles de Gaulle . In it , Kennedy told De Gaulle that he had good reason to believe that Soviet spies had penetrated the highest echelons of French government - perhaps even the Cabinet - and offered to let De Gaulle 's representatives interview his source for themselves . The French counterintelligence agency , SDECE , conducted an investigation that lent substantial credence to the Kennedy contention-but somewhere along the line the investigation was called off and the matter dropped . This week the case comes to light again in the pages of LIFE , where Philippe Thyraud de Vosjoli , the former chief of French intelligence in the U.S. , tells a remarkable story of Russian espionage penetration and French apathy . <P> Kennedy 's source turned out to be a top-ranking defector from the KGB . Russia 's ubiquitous security apparatus , whose French code name was " Martel . " Martel 's marathon debriefing in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmasked some 200 KGB agents , including Georges Paques , a Frenchman and senior NATO official , who was imprisoned . When members of the French SDECE began questioning Martel , they were startled by his claims . He said that 1 ) he had " information pointing to " the presence of a Soviet spy among De Gaulle 's closest advisers ; 2 ) at least five French agencies , including the ministries of the Interior , Defense and Foreign Affairs , were infiltrated by espionage agents ; 3 ) a spy nest known to the Russians as " Sapphire " operated freely inside SDECE itself ; and 4 ) KGB agents could deliver any NATO secret from Paris to Moscow within three days . <P> Sinister Forces . The French intelligence experts , says De Vosjoli , left ashen-faced from their sessions with Martel and reported home with the emphatic finding that Martel knew what he was talking about . But except for the arrest of Paques , SDECE took no steps that Washington could see to flush out the spies . De Vosjoli 's superior at SDECE explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time when it was just recovering from the Algerian war , but De Vosjoli suspected that " other , possibly sinister , forces were the real reason for the inaction . " He leaves open to speculation whether it was inside work by Soviet agents , suspicion that the CIA was using the affair to smoke-screen its own activity in France , or mere Gaullist pique . <P> In any case , SDECE suddenly and inexplicably did a turnabout . It told De Vosjoli to forget about Martel and to set up an apparatus in Washington to collect information relating to U.S. military and scientific matters , including U.S. deployment of ICBMs . When De Vosjoli argued that this course was foolhardy , he was upbraided by his superiors for having played a considerable part in helping the U.S. discover the presence of Russian offensive missiles in Cuba . Alarmed by Paris ' new attitude toward the U.S. , De Vosjoli resigned his post in disgust .                     