@@271528

Ominous news poured out of Pittsburgh all last week . Meeting at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel , the 163-man wage policy committee of the United Steelworkers union voted to strike the steel industry May 1 unless the companies improve their wage proposals . At week 's end , the steel companies prepared to bank the fires of the great blast furnaces across the U.S. this week-a precaution designed to protect the expensive equipment against damage from a quick shutdown . There was still time for Lyndon Johnson , watching with growing concern from Washington , to step in and win or force some kind of postponement . Otherwise , the nation was headed for its sixth major steel strike since World War II , one that could seriously dampen the 50-month-long economic expansion . <P> Even if the strike is postponed-Johnson could invoke Taft-Hartley , as he did to put the dockworkers back to work-there are still enormous negotiating problems to be solved . The union has asked a minimum 3.2% wage increase , the maximum set by President Johnson 's wage guidelines ; the industry has insisted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had no success in seeking to negotiate an agreement , but both sides did agree that a new contract could not possibly be worked out by the May 1 deadline . The only possible alternative to Taft-Hartley 's cooling-off period : a temporary extension of the contract while negotiations continue . Last week each side set terms for this extension that were unacceptable to the other . <P> Dash for Diligence . Whether or not there is a strike , the union this week passes a major milestone that is certain to affect its future policies and negotiations . After a recount of last February 's ballots , its official tellers were ready to announce the election , by a margin of about 10,000 votes , of a new U.S.W. president : I. W. ( for Iorwith Wilbur ) Abel , 56 , the union secretary-treasurer who challenged and defeated David J. McDonald , 62 , the smooth and silvery-haired union president for twelve years . McDonald will contest the decision , but his chances of overturning Abel 's election are small . <P> When Abel takes over from McDonald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diligence , the colorful spellbinder for the quiet workhorse . A foundryman at the age of 17 , Abel has the rugged , barrel-chested look of a steelworker even after 28 years in union jobs . He is a strong admirer of Walter Reuther and a doctrinaire liberal whose political and social views are much akin to those of the British Labor Party , particularly on such bread-and-butter issues as social , labor and public works legislation . Ever since his days as a district leader in Canton , Ohio , Abel has sought to thrust the Steelworkers into a more forceful role in politics , can be expected to seek more political power for the nation 's third largest union ( after the Teamsters and the United Auto Workers ) . Says Abel : " We want to look at the union as something more than an instrument for negotiating wage increases and calling strikes . "                     