@@478526

If we bestir ourselves , we can save our cities ( and ourselves ) from choking to death , and make our standard of life equal to our standard of living . With liberal help from the mayors of our big cities , Congress early this summer quietly cut the guts out of the so-called " new towns " provisions of the Housing and Urban Development Act . This dashed our best hope of coming to grips with the problems of megalopolis ? problems that have since exploded with such violence in the Watts district of Los Angeles . Actually , the Administration had studiously avoided the words " new town , " a now generally accepted term for comprehensively planned communities where people can find employment and more than shelter . President Johnson obviously wanted to avoid the impression that he was proposing anything as sweeping as the British New Towns Act of 1946. under which both Labor and Conservative governments have , with equal enthusiasm , built seventeen new towns so far . Johnson 's proposal ? calling for federal insurance of large-scale loans to private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance acquisition of potential new-town sites ? merely offered some of the same federal help for the prevention of slums that has long been available for their clearance . Rather than contribute solely to urban sprawl , the proposal was to make a modest contribution to orderly growthas well . And rather than help build only one-class , one-color dormitory suburbs and housing projects , the government would also encourage and assist the creation of balanced communities for all kinds of people . Such communities , explained Mr. Johnson in his message to Congress last March , " can help break the pattern of central-city ghettos by providing low- and moderate-income housing in suburban areas . " The goal of our furious building and rebuilding , he said , must be " nothing less than to improve the quality of life for every American . . . to create and preserve the sense of community with others which gives us significance and security , a sense of belonging and of sharing in the common life . " Ti , is not surprising that the mortgage-banker , home-builder , and realtor organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation which has tended to favor their welfare over that of the people , they are doing fine , thank you , and have no interest in tidying the urban mess . But the mayors should have known better . it is deplorable that both the National League of Cities and the U. S. Conference of Mayors added their considerable weight to crush the proposal before it ever got out of committee . " I think it is more a question of fear of competition , " was the explanation Mayor Jerome P. Cavanaugh offered when pressed . " My job as the Mayor of Detroit is to try and make that city a more attractive place in which to live and retain what industry we have . " There was no Congressional , let alone public , debate . Despite all the noble talk lately about the virtues of " natural beauty " and the evils of unplanned urbanization , no one defended the proposal . And the Administration . which had failed with similar proposals last year , again did nothing to dramatize the idea , It is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and untried as Ira S. Robbins , president of the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials , asserted in his Congressional testimony , which echoed that of the mayors . An Englishman named Ebenezer Howard first proposed it in 1898 and Letchworth , near London , his first Garden City , as he called it , was dedicated more than sixty years ago . There is a lovely new town , Reston , well under way in Virginia , only seventeen miles from the Capitol . Construction of another , Columbia , Maryland , also near Washington , will begin shortly. , ' And NAHRO members , as well as architects and city planners , have made pilgrimages to the new towns of Europe for years by the chartered planeload . Perambulator Distances The most handsome European new town is probably Tapiola in Finland , where the first of now 17,000 residents moved in a dozen years ago . Its distinct apartment and office towers beckon you from afar , much like the church towers of medieval towns . On a clear day you can see them from Helsinki , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the cold blue of the gulf . The bus takes you to the edge of the town center . Terraced steps lure you up to the paved plaza , formed by a horseshoe of shopping arcades with offices , mostly for doctors , dentists , and lawyers , above them . It is flanked by the town 's tallest and most imposing building , a thirteen-story central office tower which houses the town administration . Large trees , big rocks , flower displays , and a gushing fountain blend with the bustle of people . Looking back , you have a superb , open view of Finnish landscape ? a large meadow with trees and rocks rolls softly down to the calm Otsolahti Bay . Ahead one of the arcades continues as a walkway through the building , framing a more urban vista of clustered apartment towers . The plaza has some of the drama of the Piazza San Marco , though without pigeons , and some of the intimacy of Verona 's Piazza dell ' Erbe . Nearby , clustered around a pool ? which solved the prob- ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by J. W. Anderson in Harper 's , November 1964. lem of an unsightly gravel pit ? is a movie house , a theater , a hotel , a swimming hall , and a restaurant . To all this , the center 's architect Aarne Ervi brought what usually only time can bring ? a sense of place . Ervi , a young Finn , won a competition for Tapiola 's overall master plan . It is based on what he calls " perambulator distances . " No young mother , he decided , should live further from any of his three neighborhood or village centers ? where she can buy her bread , fish . and other essentials , meet friends at the caf ? , or drop off her elementary-school children ? than she can conveniently push a baby carriage . The distance is never more than 250 yards . Ervi also harmonized the designs of Tapiola 's amazingly varied but always daringly modern and colorful houses , apartment towers , schools , manufacturing plants , and other buildings ? including the most attractive filling station I 've @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lighting fixtures , benches , and landscaping . Also the result of competitions , they are the work of twelve different architects . But the hero and prime mover of this marvel is Heikki von Hertzen , a youngish-looking man , now in his fifties , and a lawyer who heads a social-welfare agency . We talked in his eleventh-story office , which has a superb view of his now nearly completed first town . Before he pulled out his plans and charts he told me how he came to build it . " Prosperity came late to Finland , " he said , " because until recently the Soviets got every penny we earned as war reparations . Perhaps that was an advantage . We could learn from your mistakes . When we finally caught up . we asked ourselves : What are we to do with our new affluence ? We ca n't eat more . There is a Iimit to the automobiles and gadgets we really need . So I started to persuade my countrymen that we should build a beautiful and suitable environment for everyone . Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strains and tensions of modern urban life . " Von Hertzen began by persuading the Finnish Family Welfare League . the labor unions , and women 's clubs . They formed a foundation , got bank loans under conditions far more difficult than prevail in the United States , bought 670 acres of wooded land , and named their town after Tapio , a forest sprite in Finnish folklore . Surely he still Wolf Von Eckardt , architecture critic of the Washington " Post , " visited Europe 's new towns on a recent Ford Foundation grant . He has written or edited several books , including " Mid-Century Architecture in America . " 1 The choice of different types of apartments or houses ? if you get one at all , for the waiting list naturally is long ? is amazing , while prices are slightly below those prevailing in Helsinki . All of them are equipped with the inevitable sauna where , I was told , even the dog sometimes joins the family . But beyond this delightful family togetherness , there is as much privacy as community in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the industrial park where about half of Tapiola 's wage earners work , is within easy walking distance on walkways separate from the motorways . " It 's all just a matter of thoughtful planning , good organization , and efficient administration , " said von Hertzen , who is currently planning several other nonprofit new towns throughout Finland . Von Hertzen was too polite to asli what it is we in America do with our affluence . But , I 'm afraid , Tapiola is a sharp rejoinder , if any s needed , that our high standard of living has scfar failed to bring us a correspondingly high standard of life . It 's not just a matter of Watts and our other miserable pockets of despair . It is , of course , now fashionable to lament the fact , but nonetheless a malaise pervades all parts of oun metropolitan areas where seven out of ten Americans live . The white middle class , sped by federal superhighways and mortgage insurance , is spreading unsightly manifestations of its wealth all over the countryside . And poor in-migrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the struggle on the landilare spreading the diseases of their poverty all over the cities . City and country have blurred and neighborhoods and communities have lost their identity , Our idea Toe ? Thirty-seven town houses of the Hickory Cluster at Reston , Virginia . Nimmx ? Town houses at Reston ( foreground ) designed by Charles M. Goodman Assoc. ; ( background ) designed by Chloethiel W. Smith &; Assoc , BOTTOM ? Aerial view of Tapiola , Finland . 88 THE CASE FOR BUILDING 350 NEW TOWNS of " gracious living , " according to a recent real-estate news story , is " smartly improved ranch homes packed with new appliances and fixtures step-saving kitchens with hand-rubbed wood cabinets and glass-fronted wall ovens . " How Many Horsepower for a Loaf of Bread ? But no one saves us any steps to the store . Suburban Americans must mobilize all the 250 horsepower of their automobiles to get that loaf of bread or have a beer in the anonymous conviviality of a tavern . As city planner Constantinos A. Doxiadis has pointed out , the faster our means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around within the urban environment . In the eighteenth century it took man ten minutes to get from the outskirts to the center of his city . In the nineteenth century it took twenty minutes . Now , on the average , it takes more than forty minutes . The problem is not just a matter of wasting time . The automobile , with its insensate demands on space , has torn things apart to such an extent that it is dangerously dissipating the quality of our life and our society . Even the affluent American two-car family can no longer spontaneously do as it wants . Johnny can not attend his Buy Scout meeting , or Jane her dancing lesson , while Dad is at work and Mother out shopping . And even if they live in nearby Santa Monica , say , chances are none of them have ever been in the Watts district , let alone met anyone who lives there . The human and geographic isolation of our ghettos from the mainstream and the opportunities of American life accounts largely for the troubles there . The immigrants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ladder of " upward mobility . " Jim Crow pulled that ladder away from the Negro . Few manage to gel . out . And only a few poverty warriors and cops ever venture in . Ebenezer Howard 's Garden City concept , which inspired Tapiola and all new towns , is essentially still the most valid solution yet put forward . A mild and studious man , without much formal education , he was by profession a stenographer and by vocation an inventor , rather than a social reformer . He invented his Garden City , down to every administrative and financial detail , with much the same practical precision with which he invented improvements for the typewriter and other machinery . And he presented it sixty-seven years ago in a fascinating little book , originally entitled Tomorrow : A Peaceful Path to Real Reform , later reissued as Garden Cities of Tamer- The foremost problem of his time , as Howard saw it , was the magnetic pull of London and other big cities , which overcrowded their slums and depleted the countryside . His Garden City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus create a healthy ecological pattern for the habitat of industrial society . He had the audacity , as Lewis Mumford put it , " to conceive a new form of the city which would utilize the facilities of modern technology without sacrificing the social advantages of the historic city . " Starting fresh , out in the open country on a large , cooperatively purchased tract of land , Howard proposed to build his new town in one fell swoop . Right from the start he would build into it sufficient industry within easy reach of every home to provide " for workers of every grade .. . abundant opportunities for employment and bright opportunities for advancement . " He would give it " equal , nay better opportunities of social intercourse . . . than are enjoyed in any crowded city , while yet the beauties of nature may encompass and enfold each dweller therein . " Today this idea is even more important than it was in Howard 's day . If people can work , play and shop close to where they live they do n't need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their rush-hour commuting . Howard wanted to limit his city to about 30,000 inhabitants , a number he thought most congenial and manageable , yet sufficient to assure a varied population able to support a varied social and cultural life . Leonardo da Vinci , in his proposal to break up congested sixteenth-century Milan into ten new towns . had advocated the same number for each . But there is , of course , nothing magical about it . The ideal size of a city depends on what is expected of it . A regional capital should have its own theater and symphony orchestra , say , and obviously needs more people to support them than a satellite town , which can well get by with a couple of movie houses . Aristotle 's concept that a city , to be a good place to live , ought to be large enough to encompass all its functions but not too large to interfere with them still holds true . To keep his Garden City from expanding and spilling over into the countryside , Howard proposed to girdle it with an inviolate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fresh farm products , give its residents easy access to nature and , like the medieval city walls , tighten its coherence and internal unity . Ultimately Howard envisioned that metropolitan growth would be structured by whole constellations of such distinct satellites , kept apart from each other by green open space and connected by fast transportation . Again , in the age of air , water , and land pollution , as well as desperate lack of outdoor recreation , this concept is far more vital than Howard could possibly have dreamed . Sir Ebenezer Howard died in 1928 ? the knighted and honored leader of a worldwide movement ? in Welwyn , near London , his second thriving new town . His invention , somewhat updated , of course , has become national policy in England . London , to be sure , is still congested . But it is surrounded by a protected belt of lovely countryside that clearly defines where one town ends and another begins . New towns are being built or planned in most countries of the world now , including the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of this century eight new satellite towns are to be completed within forty miles of Paris . All of these towns , in fact all modern community planning , would be unthinkable without Radburn , New Jersey , the vital contribution of the American branch of the new-town movement , largely led by Lewis Mumford . Designed in 1929 by Clarence Stein and Henry Wright , with Mumford cheering them on , Radburn adapted the Garden City to the motor age . It was the first community anywhere to put the automobile in its place , to reconcile the demands of livability with mobility . Its buildings face two directions : One toward roads and services with their noise , smells , and dangers , the other toward open green space where children can roam freely and where , in planner Victor Gruen 's phrase , people can feel free to walk without attaching themselves to a dog . People and vehicles are kept out of each other 's way . Under Franklin D. Roosevelt , more than a quarter of a century ago , the United States government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities , the Greenbelt TownsGreenhills ( Ohio ) , Greendale ( Wisconsin ) , and Greenbelt ( Maryland ) . Their belts are still reasonably green . And like Radburn , they are still more pleasant places to live than most suburban areas that were to come . But they are part of suburbia and not , strictly speaking , new towns . They never succeeded in attracting the intended industry . We might have remembered at least the most elementary lessons of Radburn and the Greenbelt Towns . But the metropolitan explosion after the second world war completed what the industrial revolution had begun . It all but demolished America 's city-planning tradition . Early in our history we had planned and built some lovely cities , not all of them along a rigid gridiron street pattern , as is often assumed . Suddenly effective planning became almost un-American , and although planning boards , commissions , and committees proliferated they did nothing to counteract or even learn to understand the cataclysmic economic forces that were dramatically at work . For the sake of quick , private gain we indulged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious , for instance , that when you plan a community , you know where the children will live . Before the land cost skyrockets , therefore , you place the school where they can easily walk to it and you build walkways for them . You save money , school buses and , perhaps , lives . A shopping center , for another instance , needs parking only on weekdays . A church needs it only on Sundays . If you put the church next to the shops you can pool the parking and may acquire the beginning of a community center as well . You save not only land but the other costs of urban sprawl . The only aspect of the Garden City concept our planners did adopt ? with a vengeance ! ? was , ironically , its one serious error . Ebenezer Howard 's idea of taking " people from the crowded cities to the bosom of our kindly mother earth " has contributed considerably to urban spread and the suburbanization of our cities . Revolted by the London slums at the turn of the century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at nature 's bosom and intoxicated themselves with Thoreauvian ideals . Nothing Gained by Overcrowding was not only the title of a book by Sir Raymond Unwin , co-planner of Letchworth , the First Garden City , but also the battlecry of the planner-reformers who fought for decent , safe , and sanitary housing on both sides of the Atlantic . Is Acreage the Answer ? The low density of twenty-six people to the acre works in Tapiola because the town is small and exceedingly cleverly designed . In most larger communities and cities today , however , especially in the suburbanized cities of America , the problem is no longer that densities are too high but that they are , overall , too low . Yet the notion that lowering density will per se heighten livability , morality , and virtue still obsesses most of our planners and their zoning codes . They substitute compulsory open space and setbacks for creative urban design . With visions , no doubt , of deep woods , clear brooks , birds and bees , they paint green blotches on their plans . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the slightest idea how to make 92 THE CASE FOR BUILDING 350 NEW TOWNS CUMHERNAUTM PHOTOS BY DOUGLAS SCOTT Top ? A residential section of Tapiala . MIDDLE AND noTTom ? Two views of Cumbernauld , new town in Scotland , showing pedestrian way through a block of apartments , and cobbled play area . or keep them green on the actual landscape or even what people might do with them . Often they end up as nothing but a big weed patch . This is what happened in Harlow , a 1947 vintage new town of 60,000 located twenty-three miles from London . The center is a bit drab , though the development corporation has tried its best to decorate it with opulent flower boxes and a number of handsome modern sculptures . I visited on market day when the vendors who travel all the new towns around London set up their colorful stalls , and the center was lively enough . But the rest of Harlow is utterly dull , and the faces of the mop-topped teen-agers show it . The reason , it soon dawns on you as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drive around . The unkempt green spaces that wind through the town are too large to negotiate on foot . This keeps those Beatle types from making much use of the sports fields , clubs , and activities that the planners have thoughtfully provided for them . I suspect the posters offering five pounds reward for information leading to the arrest of vandals may be one result . The automobile traffic and positively American clutter of parked cars everywhere certainly are another . Nothing gained by overspacing. either ! But the British have learned , and subsequent new towns have become increasingly more compact . Their most exciting one , Cumbernauld , near Glasgow , will house 70,000 people within one-third mile of its center when it is completed in 1980 . Architect Hugh Wilson 's design points the way to the urban community of the future . Some people will live in apartment towers but most in two- and three-story town houses that are ingeniously stacked , much like a Mediterranean hilltown , on fairly steep hills . Everyone will have privacy and sunlight , yet no one looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this cluster are the suddenly rediscovered delights of corner stores , taverns , and other amenities , the surprising vistas , the charm , variety , and bustle that recently made places like Georgetown in Washington , D.C. , Beacon Hill in Boston , or Greenwich Village in New York so popular . But Cumbernauld 's coal miners will have one advantage over the residents of our Georgetowns . Their automobiles have been tamed . They can walk on a network of turning and twisting alleys with the schools and neighborhood stores set along the way . The street uncluttered by cars , parked or moving , has been returned to people , especially the children . They can rattle sticks as they run along the fences or walk , sit , and climb on the low walls . The streets open into paved courts or plazas , some with odd but delightful cobblestone-paved mounds with marvelous play sculptures . This open space is put to work . Yet the automobile can also go nearly every-where in Cumbernauld . There is parking room for one car per family , either below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to park right under but not in the town center , which is now being built . Escalators , elevators , and stairs take you up inside the buildings and onto the pedestrian streets , plazas , and terraces . Leonardo da Vinci , nearly five hundred years ago , envisoned such a city where all vehicles move underground , leaving man to move freely in the sun . Leonardo might also have sketched Cumbernauld 's town center , a soaring citadel surrounded by meadow that sets it apart from the residences . There will be sheep grazing on that meadow , the planners promise . Americans Want Both As enlightened free enterprises , new towns have at last caught on in this country , although not all builder subdivisions that have appropriated this suddenly fashionable term meet its definition . Reston , backed by the Gulf Oil Company , is almost the spitting image of Tapiola , which is the greatest compliment I can pay its designers , Whittlesey and Conklin . And Columbia , backed by the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company , also promises as happy " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Ebenezer 's phrase , as the Finnish jewel . With an ultimate population of 110,000 , it is much larger , of course , and will feature a strong , entirely urban town center on the shores of one of its man-made lakes . The rest of the plans and sketches , however , look rather suburban . Columbia 's designer , Morton Hoppenfeld , is a little disdainful of Cumhernauld and asserts that Americans will never go for " medieval hilltowns . " That , however , is exactly what William Pereira is designing on Santa Catalina Island , twenty-six miles offshore from Los Angeles , and at Mountain Park near Santa Monica . He took a special trip to study Mediterranean towns and sees planning " as an opportunity to make history anew . " Perhaps Californians are different . In the end , Americans will probably want both ? sylvan Tapiolas and urban Cumbernaulds . There is no sense generalizing about urban design , which must be determined by a town 's natural setting , its intended function and population , and a host of other circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is precisely to give us a greater choice and variety of good places in which to live . The point is design , any good design , instead of mere urban " happenings . " The slums in the big cities are growing faster than we can clear them . Worse , clearance or rehabilitation or anything that would get rid of the rats and squalor is frustrated by the fact that we do n't know where to house the slum dwellers . We ca n't seem to build enough housing they can afford . The main reason is that land within the city is increasingly scarce and prohibitively expensive . But neither can we build homes for the uprooted in the suburbs . It will be a good many years until established suburbia will accept people who are both colored and poor . Nor is it only the white middle class that no longer lives where it works . White-collar commuters on the way to the city in the morning have lately noticed blue-collar workers commuting the other way . Industrial plants are moving out to where their trucks can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also the reason so many big-city poor stay poor . It is hard to find jobs that are no longer there . As ' result our cities keep deteriorating . With taxpayers and industry leaving , the cities receive less and less tax income but must pay more and more for welfare , health , education , police protection , and all the other expenses of the growing ghetto . All this will get a lot worse . In the next twenty years the population of the United States will increase , it is estimated , from the present 195 million to 266 million ; this increase will occur in the metropolitan areas where 70 per cent of the total population already lives . But the general growth will be dwarfed by the even larger increase in the number of Negroes . In twenty-five years Chicago , for instance , will probably have a million and a half more Negroes than it has today . With our present rigidly stratified social and racial pattern , the statistical explosion may well be expressed again and again by explosions of violence such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attempt to break the pattern by taking substantial numbers of low-skilled Negroes out of the big city and moving substantial numbers of suburbanites back into it . In a paper published by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , developer Bernard Weiss-bound has suggested that new towns , built in accordance with regional open-space and transportation plans , " accommodate industrial workers and industries displaced by an intensified residential and industrial slum-clearance program in the core areas of our major cities . At the same time , on the land within the city made available by slum clearance , new communities can be established for middle-income families . " New towns would conserve precious open countryside . Not everyone will want to live in them , of course . But if we were to build just 350 new towns of 100,000 inhabitants each , they would house 35 million people , or about half of the estimated twenty-year population increase . Our present rate of urbanization is thirty acres per hundred people and these 35 million people would therefore use 10.5 million acres . Even low-density new towns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finland , despite their abundant green spaces , use only ten acres for a hundred people . The 350 new towns would thus consume only n total of 3.5 million acres ? a two-thirds saving . It is in our power to conserve seven million acres of countryside for better health and greater enjoyment not only of the new-town residents but of all the people in our metropolitan areas . But , welcome as this might be , private developers can not accomplish such a program without federal aid , at least not for a while . Both Robert Simon , the developer of Reston , and James Rouse , the developer of Columbia , are , to be sure , rare idealists . Once their towns are going concerns with enough industry to demand low-skilled labor , they will be happy to welcome subsidized housing for Iow-income families . But what with American prejudice against living next door to poor people , that day will never dawn if they hasten it unduly . They would be fools to risk their investment and the whole noble idea . They are in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance and state involvement , such as President Johnson has proposed , can get the big population switch started that is needed to save the cities . We simply ca n't count on enough private idealists like Simon and Rouse to build enough new towns ? not as long as developers can make plenty of money without all that trouble . The best , if not the only , way to create interracial and socially balanced communities is to offer housing bargains tempting enough to overcome prejudice . That takes financial help . Only the states , with their power to make special tax concessions , build special roads , and offer other favors , can effectively lure industry into the new towns . And , most important , only state and local governments can coordinate new-town planning with roads , sewers , and zoning , and make sure the towns are not engulfed by suburban sprawl . New towns are not , perhaps , the only answer to our urban dilemma . But as Mumford suggests , " In a period when automatic and irrational forces are driving mankind close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the rational , the human , the disciplined , and the purposeful . " It 's time someone told Congress .                     