@@491926

OUR NEGRO ARISTOCRACY Recently a young Australian student at U.C.L.A. was invited to the home of a judge in Los Angeles as part of a program to acquaint foreigners with how socially prominent Americans live . The judge 's home was in Bel Air , one of the wealthiest and most exclusive sections of Los Angeles . The student looked about at the swimming pool , the magnificent terraced gardens , the sleek and opulently furnished interior of the modern twelve-room house . His beautiful hostess , the judge 's wife , was tastefully but expensively gowned and coifed ; the judge himself was clad in costly Ivy League garb . The student regarded all this with perplexity . " I ca n't believe it , " he exclaimed . " Back home we think that all of you people live in hovels and dress in hand-me-downs . " The judge was David Williams , who presides over the Municipal Court in West Los Angeles . He and his wife are American Negroes . The Australian youth 's perplexity almost certainly would be shared by most foreigners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this day of sit-ins , school-desegregation riots and other racial strife , that there is a rapidly growing class of Negroes in the United States who are wealthy , well-educated , possessed of distinguished ancestry dating back in some cases to before the Revolutionary War and who belong to what can only be described as High Society . This is the other side of the coin to what you read on Page One of your newspapers about our slum-dwelling , downtrodden , struggling Negro minority . The best estimates are that there are about twenty-five Negroes who are millionaires ; there are 400 ( interestingly similar to the white 400 of fifty years or so ago ) who make $50,000 a year and upward ; and there now are about 10,000 Negroes in the **25;2201;TOOLONG class . The headlong progress of the upper-crust American Negro has been well chronicled recently in the society pages of our big metropolitan newspapers . Not long ago , for example , the world 's most exclusive yacht club , The Motor Yacht Club of the French Riviera , kicked out ex-King Farouk of Egypt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Alfred E. Thomas , who last November also became the first Negro in history to enter his show horses in one of society 's most glittering events , the Madison Square Garden Horse Show . Negro society news is no longer a rarity in many newspapers . In September , for example , a story in the Sunday society section of The New York Times was about a Negro wedding  --  the marriage of Miss Rae Face Alexander , the daughter of a distinguished Philadelphia judge , to Mr. Archie C. Epps Ill , a brilliant young scholar at Harvard University . In October there were accounts of Negro society girls making their debuts at the International Cotillion in the presence of such guests as The Infanta of the Portuguese royal family . And in their stories about the opening of the Metropolitan Opera Company season in New York , the society scribes mentioned that among those socialites in attendance were Dr. Godfrey Nurse and Mrs. Charlene Sawyer Williams , one of the illustrious Sawyers of Kansas . Negro society in America is new , expanding and dynamic . Whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as Nat ( King ) Cole and Jackie Robinson , as having attained wealth and status , there are distinguished Negro families in every American city , including those in the Deep South , who have progressed economically and socially far beyond the well-known show-business and sports personalities . The entertainers and athletes , in fact , are rarely accepted fully into the top echelon . Even so renowned a concert artist as Marian Anderson did not attain the upper stratum until she married architect Orpheus Fisher . a descendant of an old Pennsylvania family which , in slavery days , added aristocratic blood from the family of Mary Todd , the wife of President Abraham Lincoln , and from the Napoleon Bonaparte family in Martinique . At the same time the upper stratum also includes another world-famous architect , Paul Williams , whose father operated a fruit stand in Los Angeles 's original Olivera Street Plaza in the 1890 's ; and Judge David Williams of Los Angeles  --  no relation to Paul Williams  --  whose family were mostly domestic servants only two generations back . Whatever the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are comparable to the Lodges , Vanderbilts and Rockefellers of white society . Both Williams families in Los Angeles , the Delanys in New York , the Turners and Alexanders in Philadelphia , the Ish family in Little Rock , the Walkers and Kelsos in Memphis , the Dickersons and Barnetts in Chicago , the Yanceys and McLendons in Atlanta , the Jack-sons and McAdoos in Boston are all among the elite . They marry each other in magnificent cathedral wedding ceremonies , they send their sons and daughters to Harvard and Smith and Stanford , they are invited to State Department functions and have luncheon with the President at the White House , they serve on charity committees and on community-betterment councils . In many instances the Negro socialite millionaires live exactly like white socialite millionaires . Dr. Alfred E. Thomas of Detroit , for example , has a beautiful town house in the city and a country estate on his own twenty-five-acre private island on the Canadian side of the Detroit River . Doctor Thomas is a tall , handsome man who resembles the late Ronald Colman . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from two private hospitals  --  for both white and Negro patients  --  which he inherited from his father . He owns a fifty-acre breeding farm for his sixteen horses , with which he has won blue ribbons at the nation 's top horse shows . He has been breeding and showing horses for thirty years . Until recently he had his own fifty-foot yacht , which he berthed at a specially constructed dock at his island . When he was refused admittance to the all-white Detroit Yacht Club , he helped found the now-inactive interracial Lakeview Yacht Club and became its first commodore . Mrs. Thomas , a charming , attractive woman , is a Turner of Philadelphia . Her father , Dr. John P. Turner , was surgeon in chief at Douglass Hospital . in Philadelphia and later became the first Negro member of the board of education in that city . Mrs. Thomas was graduated from the University of Pennsylvania , studied music at the Sorbonne in Paris and had a brief career as a concert pianist , during which , however , she was a featured piano soloist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her last public concert just before she married Doctor Thomas  --  they met when their fathers were president and vice president respectively of the National Medical Association  --  but she still plays sonatas and etudes for her own amusement on a piano and an organ in their home . She and Doctor Thomas travel extensively in Europe , and she has been friendly with all the great musicians there , from Paderewski to Stravinsky . The Thomases have three daughters  --  Patricia , who was graduated from Vassar in 1957 ; Fredrika , a Sarah Lawrence alumna ; and Linda , who is in the sixth grade at the exclusive City and Country School outside Detroit . Both Patricia and Fredrika are married , and their weddings were covered as top society events in all the Detroit newspapers . Patricia 's wedding to Harold Fleming , a magazine executive , and Fredrika 's wedding to William Dulany Hill , a Washington , D.C. , dental student , both took place in the Episcopal Cathedral Church of St. Paul , with the white dean of the cathedral officiating . Each ceremony was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomases ' island estate . Scattered among the many distinguished Negro guests were mayors , a United States senator , a lieutenant governor and several judges  --  all white . Also present as bridesmaids were white society girls who had been roommates and friends of Patricia and Fredrika at college . All in all , the society quotient was higher than at most elite white weddings . So was the intellectual quotient . Counting their new sons-in-law , the Thomases now have ten university degrees in their immediate family . The wealthy , educated Negroes like the Thomases suffer little or no racial discrimination outside of the Deep South . Even there the line gradually is being broken . Last year , for example , two prominent Atlanta Negro women , Mrs. T. M. Alexander and Mrs. F. Earl McLendon  --  the wives respectively of a wealthy insurance executive and a millionaire physician  --  attempted to attend a performance of the Metropolitan Opera Association at the Fox Theater in Atlanta , an event sponsored by the Junior League . Mrs. Alexander , a long-time opera lover , had planned such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tickets through the co-operation of white friends . She and Mrs. McLendon were turned away at the door even though they had their tickets and were superbly gowned . Undaunted , they then stimulated a storm of letters of protest from both whites and Negroes to Rudolph Bing , the managing director of the opera association . A short time later Bing made a surprise announcement in New York , stating that the opera thenceforth would not appear in any place that was racially segregated . Mrs. Prentiss Yancey , another distinguished Negro socialite in Atlanta , told me , " Most of us assumed that Atlanta would not accept Mr. Bing 's condition . However , to our delight , it has now been decided that when the Met comes to Atlanta next spring , Negroes will be permitted in the audience . This was our first breakthrough . " Such breakthroughs , of course , have long since been accomplished in the North and the West . In many cities the distinguished Negro families even live where they please in the most exclusive white neighborhoods , a privilege which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Judge David Williams 's house , for example , is on the edge of the Bel Air Country Club in Los Angeles , perhaps the most exclusive golf course on the West Coast . All of the Williamses ' neighbors are white . When they moved into their house , a $150,000 structure designed for them by Negro architect Paul Williams , they did n't know what to expect . Mrs. Williams told me , " I was born and reared in Los Angeles , and I 've lived in mixed neighborhoods all my life . We have run into occasional problems , but my husband and 1 are cosmopolitan in outlook , and we have friends of all religions and colors . But this was Bel Air , and we just could n't anticipate what would happen . " Continued Mrs. Williams : " We were in the house about a week , and one day the doorbell rang . I opened it , and there was an Episcopal priest . 1 was terribly nervous , but I invited him in , and he said , ' I understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church . ' I almost sobbed with relief . We joined the church , and my two boys almost immediately became acolytes . That 's the way it 's been ever since . We have found that our neighbors are all intelligent and secure people , and , in fact , two of them have become very good friends of ours . " There is no set pattern of living among the distinguished and wealthy Negro families . Some of them prefer to live in Negro neighborhoods among their own people , but their homes are no less lavish . The Paul Williams home in the Crenshaw district of Los Angeles , for example , is as much of a showplace as the David Williams home in Bel Air . In Atlanta , where the Yanceys do not have much of a choice and are restricted to the Negro sections of town , their estate , complete with tennis court and formal gardens , is the equal of any in Georgia . As I drove through the imposing gates and up the long , winding , tree-lined drive , the white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Lordy , " he gasped , " this here is a mansion . " Nearby is the new Collier Hills development , with Negro homes averaging about $80,000 . The McLendon estate , with its vast lawns , its mammoth-sized swimming pool and its beautifully equipped recreation building surrounded by patios , seemed more sumptuous to me than any millionaire 's villa on the French Riviera . In addition to the upper-class creature comforts which they all enjoy , there are several other common denominators which you find in Negro high society all over the United States . First of all , there is a fierce pride of heritage . These people are not ashamed of being Negroes . In fact , they have developed strong subnationalioie feelings about their race . Wherever 1 went , I observed that many of the works of art in their homes reflected Negro themes . Their family histories are recounted with even more enthusiasm than you experience at a meeting of the Daughters of the American Revolution . The Sawyers of Kansas tell about how their forebears ran a Western branch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South in the pre-Civil War period . The Syphax family of Virginia boasts direct descent from a grandson of Martha Washington . Claude Barnett , of Chicago , the founder and president of the Associated Negro Press , has yellowed newspaper clippings describing how his great-grandfather , an emancipated slave , led a wagon train of other freedmen and their families from South Carolina to Indiana in 1832 . Barnett 's wife , singer Etta Moten  --  the Bess of the 1942 Broadway production of Porgy and Bess  --  can trace her ancestry back to an African prince who was sold into slavery in Colonial America . Along with this sense of pride in their past is a freshly awakened sense of pride in the present  --  centered around the emergence of the new African nations such as Ghana , Nigeria and Sierra Leone . This is much akin to the strengthened feelings of heritage which occurred in most American Jews when the State of Israel was established in 1948 . Nearly all the top Negro families travel to Africa to visit the new nations , and they compete with one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this competition are the Claude Barnetts , of Chicago , who began traveling to Africa in 1947 . Mr. Barnett had gone there in 1942 , when he was a representative of the Phelps-Stokes Fund and a special assistant to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture . The Barnett home is decorated with irreplaceable tables , chairs , rugs , ceremonial masks and ivory carvings from nearly every nation in Africa . The Barnetts ' collection is rated the finest of its kind , outside of museums , in the world . Like all the Negro society families , they are constantly entertaining dignitaries from Africa . On one recent weekend , for example , the Barnetts had as house guests A. E. Chimbuah of the Ghana Ministry of Agriculture , Prime Minister Abubakar Balewa of Nigeria , and Nigerian Housing Administrator Ayodele Okusaga . In Washington , D.C. , local Negro society has formed itself into organizations called Friends of Ghana , Friends of Nigeria , and so on , and they attend all the official functions at those embassies to which they feel most closely allied by language and persona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conversely , attend parties at the homes of such distinguished Negroes as Congressman Charles Diggs Jr . of Michigan , District of Columbia Commissioner John B. Duncan , and James C. Evans , an assistant to the Secretary of Defense . The English-speaking African embassies are the most popular . There is a language barrier with the French-speaking nations such as Mali and Guinea , and a religious barrier with Moslem countries such as Sudan . " Nevertheless , " says Ebony Washington correspondent Fannie Granton , " the emergence of all the new nations has given us a shot in the armwhich we needed to instill in us a feeling of heritage and a culture of our own . Suddenly we see these polished gentlemen educated at Oxford and Cambridge , with their gracious ladies wearing their striking native dress and jewelry , and we realize that they 're not all cannibals in grass skirts , which was the impression we got in school . On the other hand , they are amazed by us too . From the newspapers they read in Africa and in Europe , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lynched on every corner . It 's been a stimulating and educational experience on both sides . " One result of this exchange of revelations has been a wave of marriages between the daughters of American Negro society families and members of the African nobility who come here in diplomatic roles or as university students . The trend is not unlike that which the American white society underwent fifty years or so ago , when there was a wave of American heiresses marrying English earls and Italian dukes . The newspaper accounts of today 's American-African weddings even sound the same . For example , when Joyce Cooper of New York married Frederick Arkhurst , the first secretary of the Ghana mission and a descendant of the ancient chiefs of Ghana , the story of the wedding in the Pittsburgh Courier on October 17 , 1959 , read like one of Barbara Hutton 's multiple international marriages , except for certain little touches like " the groom wore the colorful kettle cloth of his native land with a background of blue and gold stripes . " Reported the Courier : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was born in Seattle , Washington , and educated at the University of Washington and Columbia University . She is the daughter of the late Dr. Felix Cooper of Seattle . She has traveled in Europe , South America and Africa . Her family roots are international . Her grandfather , Edward R. James , an architect , went to New Zealand where he lived and brought up his family . Her uncle , Harry James , is a leading architect in Ski Paulo , Brazil . The groom is the son of Dr. and Mrs. Frederick Arkhurst of Sekondi , Ghana . He is a graduate of Aberdeen University of Scotland and has an M.A. in economics . Soon after the Louisville wedding , which was attended by ambassadors and UN delegates , both Negro and white , Arkhurst and his American bride moved to Ethiopia , where he is now chief of a United Nations Mission there . The former Joyce Cooper of Seattle and New York today is one of the most scintillating hostesses in Addis Ababa  --  a role which few American Negro girls would even have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this new cultural identification with Africa and with the pride of heritage in their own American past is a third characteristic which I found , without exception , in the more than two dozen socially prominent Negro families I visited in cities all over the United States . This trait is an almost overriding desire not to turn their backs on their own people . This sentiment was best expressed by Mrs. Earl B. Dickerson , whose husband was a Chicago alderman for many years and now is president of the Supreme Liberty Life Insurance Company , one of the most profitable all- Negro businesses north of the Mason-Dixon line . Mrs. Dickerson is a close friend of the Kennedys , Roosevelts and Rockefellers . She lives with her husband in a luxurious apartment in Chicago and in a suite in the Waldorf Towers when they visit New York . She told me , " How can Negroes like us who have our heads above the water be smug , while there are masses of our people still struggling below the surface to attain first-class citizenship ? " All of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , the National Urban League , the National Council of Negro Women , and the like . Their charity affairs are all to raise money for these organizations . They all serve on committees with whites for the betterment of conditions for Negroes . In Detroit , for example , Dr. Alfred E. Thomas intervened with the mayor when there were charges of job discrimination against Negro policemen in that city , and now he is a member of the Detroit Police Procedure Board . In Atlanta Mrs. Prentiss Yancey walked the picket lines for the sit-ins and was an aide to the mayor in bringing about the peaceful desegregation of the Atlanta schools ; while millionaire Clayton Yates successfully crusaded to obtain parole for two Negro boys who killed a white man who had threatened their mother . In Los Angeles Mrs. David Williams , through the Links  --  a national organization of Negro society women  --  heads a project which is introducing poor but gifted Negro children to museums and concerts in the company of white children of their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is designed to integrate the Negro children , without fear and suspicion , into the white community in which they later will have to develop their creativity and talent . The ability to exist and co-operate with whites is the fourth main characteristic of Negro high society . Nearly all are graduates of predominantly white schools and universities , and so are their children , usually with honors . David Williams Jr. , for example , currently is the president of the junior class at Stanford University , the first Negro elected to any office at that institution . Young Williams , a handsome , six-foot-four-inch literature major , also is the first Negro to become a member of any fraternity on the Stanford campus . He is a Theta Xi . About half of the elder Williams 's friends are white . Judge Williams told me , " I associate mostly with other judges . We visit in one an-other 's homes and discuss our mutual problems and interests , and I guess no one ever thinks of what color anybody in the group might be . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Negro society . Friends usually were of the same cultural , economic and professional background . Because of their close personal association with whites , most Negro society affairs turn out to be integrated events . At the recent International Cotillion at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York , sponsored by the National Council of Negro Women , about one third of the guests were white . The master of ceremonies was.Baron Theo von Roth , an Austrian nobleman whose title dates back to A.D. 1546 . Of the forty-eight girls of Negro , Asian and Latin-American extraction who made their debuts at the ball , four were white debutantes . Among them were beautiful , blond Helene Peet , of Wilton , Connecticut , a sophomore at Swarthmore College , and beautiful brunet Margaret Brennan , daughter of the late John Patrick Brennan , a one-time great athlete at Ford ham University . Aside from the multiracial character of the participants , the International Cotillion was indistinguishable from the Christmas Cotillion , the debutante ball of New York white society , which I had attended the preceding December  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you can find similarities between the two echelons of High Society all the way down the line . The opposite number to Lester-Lanin and His Society Orchestra , for example , is Andy Kirk and His Society Orchestra . The opposite number of Cleveland Amory is Gerri Major , society editor of Ebony and Jet . " The principal difference , " says Mrs. Major , " is that we are less than 100 years out of slavery . Remember that until the Civil War we had no upper class and no middle class . We had no merchants and no professional people . We were mostly artisans and servants , even in Boston , the cradle of the abolitionist movement . In many respects , therefore , we 're fifty years behind white society , but we try to make up for it with cultural achievements and people of good character . We have our millionaires now , but we try to see to it that wealth is not the only thing that counts . " As with white society , however , there are severe criticisms from both inside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader in New York told me , " These people are developing the traits of all other rich people , and it 's not healthy . There 's snobbery , gossiping , inbreeding , dimfers and cocktail parties where the same husbands and wives see one another night after night , a lot of damn-fool buying of Louis XIV furniture and other status symbols . " In Los Angeles , a Negro , Tony Hill , one of the Hills of Missouri and the possessor of three college degrees , complains , " A growing , emerging society should have more important things to be concerned with than debutante balls . " All in all , however , Negro society has developed in recent years into a potent , vital force in American life . As Claude Barnett , the sage founder of the Associated Negro Press , told me , " It 's a shame that we have a separate Negro society in this country and a separate wire service for separate Negro newspapers . We are working toward the end that someday there will be no need for my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society  --  which at present the white community does not allow us to share . " Most of the distinguished Negroes with whom I spoke agree with Barnett and are not content to rest on their hard-won laurels . Says architect Paul Williams , " We must measure success from the depths from which we came , rather than by the heights we have attained . "                     