@@431608

 | Why You Wo n't Lose Your Baby : FOUR NEW METHODS OF PREVENTING MISCARRIAGE ARE ASSURING SAFE AND SUCCESSFUL BIRTHS FOR AN INCREASING NUMBER OF YOUNG MOTHERS In treating a group of women whose pregnancies had repeatedly ended in miscarriages , a team of New York obstetrical specialists concentrated on a psychotherapeutic program aimed at convincing their patients they were able to have babies once their emotional problems were eased . Through interviews , the doctors found that many of their patienthad remarkably similar personalities and family histories . A number of them were the daughters of dominating , overprotective mother- . Often their fathers had been lost to them through divorce , death , desertion , or alcoholism or had been intimidated by the dominating mother . Ever since childhood many of the patients had reacted to emotional stress with internal upsets . A quarrel between parents might have caused nausea and vomiting . Engagements and personal problems had brought on attacks of intestinal spasms or headaches . As the doctors patiently helped these women bring their fearabout themselves and about motherhood into the open and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the women bloomed with new-felt strength and independence . As confidence replaced anxiety , emotional tensions subsided . Eighty percent of the women eventually had healthy babies . They recovered rapidly from labor , developed none of the emotional symptoms that sometimes occur , and departed from the hospital full of enthusiasm for motherhood . Already a good many of these women have successfully given birth to additional children . The doctors concluded as a result of this study that treatment for 12  | repeated miscarriages must begin even before conception is attempted . Treatment , they decided , should include a painstaking program of tests , examinations , and interviews that may yield clues to the specific causes previous miscarriages . These causes may then be corrected or treated . The woman who repeatedly miscarries may be a person in whom pregnancy stirs deep , suppressed anxieties and fears . Very often she can be helped by the physician who understands her problems and takes time provide the reassurance , explanation , and strong emotional support which she , and many other expectant mothers , need at this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the psychological aspects of miscarriage , it is typical of a whole new approach in which doctors are seeking solutions to one of medicine 's most perplexing problems by attacking it on a broad and varied scientific front . This approach ? which might be labeled prevention because it is aimed at eliminating the causes of miscarriage has helped 80 to 90 percent of women in groups of miscarriage-prone women to give birth to normal , healthy babies . Doctors developed the new preventive approach as a result of their reasoning that miscarriage-causing faults may be laid to mechanical defects within the uterus that have prevented it from accommodating the baby , poor nourishment or support from the placenta or from the uterus , or something that has prematurely excited the powerful muscles of the uterus into contractions which in turn have broken down the placenta and dislodged the developing baby . This reasoning has led to the development of four new methods for preventing miscarriage . These recently developed treatments consist of : ( Continued on page 118 ) ODS OF PREVENTING ASSURING SAFE AND FLL BIRTHS FOR AN 1F @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Surgery . One of the four kinds of treatment uses surgery to repair a muscular weakness of the uterus . This condition , known as cervical incompetence , is one in which an expectant mother carries her baby uneventfully until the fifth or sixth month of pregnancy . Then , with heartbreaking regularity , she suffers a miscarriage as the muscles of the cervix , at the base of the uterus , suddenly soften and dilate . Left without proper support , the fetus is prematurely expelled . Studies pioneered by a physician in India , V. N. Shirodkar , have resulted in the development of a highly effective method for strengthening critically weak cervical muscles during the crucial @# months of pregnancy . Testing , implemented by improved X-ray diagnostic techniques , is carried out before the patient becomes pregnant . When an expectant mother with this condition reaches her fourteenth week of pregnancy , she is hospitalized and placed under general anesthesia . Then a surgeon places strong sutures in and around the cervix to help its muscles support the baby 's weight . With this operation , teams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 49 women , each of whom had suffered five successive miscarriages . Of this group , 43 then carried normal babies to fullterm delivery ? a success rate of nearly 90 percent . Rapidly becoming accepted as the best treatment for miscarriage proresearch has painted an altogether dif- ferent , much more hopeful picture . It seems today that many miscarriages may be due to unfavorable conditions within the mother 's body immediately before and during pregnancy . Among these the most important may be remediable nutritional and hormonal deficiencies . For example , it was noted by obstetricians that very frequently bleeding was the first warning that a miscarriage threatened ; not uncommonly it was the only symptom . And whether or not miscarriage did follow , the blood usually could be traced to breakdowns in the walls of the fragile capillary blood vessels of the placenta . Doctors speculated that weakness in the walls of these capillaries might be a major cause of miscarriage . If so , perhaps the capillaries could be strengthened and restored to their normal function . Elsewhere in the human body , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with doses of vitamins C and K , found in citrus fruits , and with the vitamin-P bioflavonoids extracted from citrus-fruit juice and peelings . Obstetricians , therefore , began to treat their pregnant patients who had previously miscarried with a diet rich in citrus fruits and with capsules containing vitamins C , K , and P. In most instances the vitamin treatment was begun before there was the slightest sign of bleeding . early in pregnancy or even before conception . The results have been good . Even though miscarriage threatened , the symptoms subsided and the women delivered normal , healthy babies . In one study , a Michigan obstetrician reported normal pregnancies in the case of three out of four patients with histories of successive miscarriages . A Tennessee doctor reported a success rate of nearly 80 percent with his chronic miscarriage patients . 3 . Hormones . Other obstetricians , seeking an explanation for miscarriages that could not be blamed on accidents . anatomical defects , severe illness . or imperfect eggs , have focused their attention on the female hormones , estrogen and progesterone . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uterus for receiving and nurturing a fertilized egg . The obstetricians wondered if failure of the ovaries to produce these hormones in sufficient quantities both before and after conception could be responsible for the loss of a baby . The first evidence that this might be true had turned up in studies of diabetic prospective mothers in whom miscarriages were common until controlled doses of estrogen and progesterone enabled many to have normal babies . Doctors saw in these results the possibility that hormones might help nondiabetic women as well . They reasoned that a fertilized egg might be unable to implant itself in the uterus because the hormones had failed to stimulate the tissues and fluids of the uterus in preparation for receiving the egg . Even if the egg did not wither and die immediately , the doctors reasoned , continued hormonal deficiency might cause blood vessels of the placenta to remain so weak and underdeveloped that they might break down and produce hemorrhage during a pregnancy . Studying samples of uterine tissue from several hundred patients with histories of repeated miscarriages , one California doctor discovered that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unprepared for nourishment of a fertilized egg . After treatment with small doses of estrogen to help prepare the uterus for pregnancy , 40 women out of 50 achieved successful pregnancies . Progesterone , given both before and during pregnancy in injection or capsule form , has also yielded excellent results . Consequently , today many obstetricians are convinced that hormonal treatments should be an integrated part of any concentrated attack on miscarriage. 4 . Psychotherapy . Beyond improving the condition of the uterus and the placenta , a fourth group of obstetricians and psychiatrists have obtained startling evidence suggesting that a woman 's emotions may be another key factor in causing miscarriage . These physicians became interested in the muscular contractions of the uterus which may bring on cramps and bleeding during pregnancy or , in some instances . cause the developing baby to be expelled . Ordinarily , these powerful muscles merely protect and support the baby until , at the climax of pregnancy , they begin the contractions of labor . It had been established that contractions occurring in women who had been subjected to severe emotional strain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miscarriage and premature birth . But why should they develop suddenly in a young and apparently healthy expectant mother who had been experiencing a perfectly normal pregnancy ? Puzzling over the mystery , the doctors recalled the evidence accumulating in recent years that prolonged emotional stress can cause damaging muscle spasms in the human heart , stomach . and intestines which may eventually lead to hemorrhages . Could a burden of emotional tension similarly initiate contractions in the muscles of the uterus of some pregnant women ? Were some women much more emotionally vulnerable during a pregnancy than others ? Did these women need not only vitamins and hormones but special psychological support and attention from their doctors ? In a pioneering study , doctors at St. Luke 's Hospital in New York City undertook to answer these questions . Selecting women who had suffered three or more consecutive miscarriages , these doctors placed each under a program of care that included correction of abnormalities of the reproductive organs that might interfere with a pregnancy , detection and correction of hormonal deficiencies , and a diet high in vitamins , citrus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pregnancy was established . smoking . sexual intercourse , hot baths , and even girdles , heating pads , hotwater bottles . and ice packs were forbidden , so that none of these could interfere with the relaxation of the uterine muscles . In addition , every effort was made to develop effective communication between the patient and the doctor . Each woman was encouraged to visit her doctor often and at length and to confide in him any anxieties she felt concerning her pregnancy . Soon it became evident that many of the chronic-miscarriage victims had strong psychological conflicts about motherhood . Some were uncertain about the attitudes of their husbands toward children . The majority admitted that repeated miscarriages had made pregnancy a terrifying prospect . To reduce each patient 's fears , the doctor repeatedly told her that , aas could be determined through m tests , there was no reason why she not successfully carry a baby . The d emphasized that he would be on whenever the mother-to-be felt upset frightened and that every effort was made to achieve normal pregnancy . Of 187 women classified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method , 147 , about 80 cent , achieved successful pregnant The St. Luke 's doctors ' conclusion : tendency to bleed combined with a - cial vulnerability to emotional stress pregnancy might result in a miscarri A program including vitamins , hormones and strong psychological support might prevent the catastrophe . AS MIGHT be expected , all these n methods for preventing miscarriages have stirred intense interest and elm : versy in medical circles . While some stetricians have hailed them as milestones. in the study of one of our most challenging medical problems , others have heatedly reported that they have not helped them cure miscarriage . Some physicians continue to insist that the roles of vitamins , hormones , and psychotherapy in preventing miscarriage remain unproved .. But the fact remains that patient dedicated research by doctors , singly and in groups . has produced astonishing cure rates . Although many questions remain to answered , the development of new techniques in preventing miscarriage hate led to some far-reaching conclusions is the basic thinking about the problem of miscarriage ? conclusions that will be reassuring to every woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unless a woman is prone to miscarriage , her habits involving walking . car-riding , sexual intercourse , warm baths , swimming , and housework will not endanger a pregnancy . ? Miscarriage symptoms , such as slight bleeding and uterine cramps , are not uncommon during the first six months of pregnancy . Very often they disappear altogether . However , these symptoms do represent a threatened miscarriage and should be reported promptly . ? Once a woman has overcome a threatened miscarriage and given birth . her chances of having a successful pregnancy the next time are equal to those of a woman who has suffered no past complications in pregnancy . ? Treatment will never prevent miscarriage in cases involving abnormalities . When a fertilized egg is defective , for example , the fetus fails to develop as it should . and a miscarriage occurs . ? Except in rare instances , a miscarriage represents no threat to an expectant mother 's life . nor will it have any effect on her general health . ? In most instances , one miscarriage does not lessen the chances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had one miscarriage can expect to experience a normal pregnancy the next time . 120                     