@@431735

 | She may despise children . She may not get along with her colleagues on the faculty . She may be given to violent emotional outbreaks in the classroom . She may be senile , paranoid , bigoted or brutal . More often -. he is just plain incompetent . Though her principal and her fellow teachers ca n't wait to get rid of her , though children return from her classes in tears , though parents file complaint after complaint about her , she manages to hang on to her job . Year after year she stays on in the classroom , miseducating or mutilating young minds . " She " is one of America 's " problem teachers " ? and in many states it is virtually impossible to dislodge her from her job , no matter how harmful she may be . It may surprise some parents to know that 70 percent of the nation 's 1,700,000 teachers today are protected by state " tenure " laws that make it frustratingly difficult for principals , superintendents or school boards to dismiss them . These laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arbitrary firings , have , in many states , turned into a near-guarantee of lifetime employment for the incompetent , the unstable and the unfit . Dismissing a bad teacher can prove so difficult that many school officials wo n't even try . Indeed , the very machinery for dismissal is falling into disuse . In Los Angeles , for example , with 30,000 teachers on the school rolls , the school system formally dismisses only about one a year . In Chicago the dismissal rate is one out of 22,000 each year . A similar situation exists in districts all over the United States , with the result that thousands of " bad " teachers continue to populate our classrooms . The vast majority of schoolteachers do a good ? even a heroic ? job , considering the conditions under which many of them are forced to work . Overcrowded classrooms , squalid faculty rooms , endless red tape and inadequate pay are only a few of the problems they confront . Most teachers deserve the protection that tenure laws afford them . Yet the present system locks the bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tenure laws are in force today in 37 states . In Alaska and Arizona , Rhode Island , West Virginia and 22 other states they blanket all school districts , while in another 11 states they apply to certain school systems , usually the larger ones . Only 13 states ? mainly in the South ? are without tenure laws altogether . Tenure laws take various forms , but most provide that , once a teacher has successfully completed a probationary period ( usually two or three years ) , she has what amounts to a lifelong right to continue teaching unless she can be proved guilty of certain stipulated offenses . Proving guilt , however , may be extremely difficult to do . Often the proof must satisfy a court of law . In theory , tenure laws permit the firing of problem teachers . According to School Management magazine , however , " It 's easier to divorce your wife than it is to fire a teacher who has tenure . " And one New York City schoolteacher wryly remarks , " You practically have to kill a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are locked into their jobs by tenure laws ? Nobody knows . Unfortunately , there is no objective definition of the term " bad teacher . " The problem is further complicated by the fact that each school district sets its own standards , so that a teacher who is effective in one place may be regarded as incompetent in another . Nevertheless , there is evidence that as many as five to ten percent of all American schoolteachers are incompetent in one way or another by almost any set of reasonable standards . For example , in discussing incompetent teachers , Edna Hickey , director of the Bureau of Teacher Personnel of the Chicago school system , the nation 's third largest , says , " We 're about average . I 'd guess that about five percent of our people are in that category . " With 22,000 teachers in Chicago , this means that about 1,100 incompetent teachers are now sitting behind desks in that city 's classrooms , misteaching , by conservative count , 27,500 children . Other school personnel experts set the percentage of poor teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affluent southern California district ? one which , incidentally , attracts 100 applicants for every vacant teaching position ? declares : " If the tenure law were eased , probably ten percent of our teachers would not be retained . " Teachers themselves appear to support such estimates . In a recent survey the National Education Association asked teachers the following question : " Are you now teaching a grade or a subject which , in your opinion , your college and professional preparation does not qualify you to teach ? " Across the board , fully 8.1 percent of those who replied stated that they were not qualified for the job they were being paid to do . Another 1.6 percent listed themselves as " uncertain . " Such figures , the NEA declared , " may appear to be small . Nevertheless , this group accounts for approximately 150,000 teachers who teach 4,000,000 American children . " Of course , not all these teachers are truly incompetent . Some might do excellent work if switched to subjects they know better or to different grades or schools . Some , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it is safe to say that thousands of these teachers simply do not belong in the schools at all . In addition to those who are professionally unequipped for their jobs , every school system has its alcoholics and , according to Martin Mayer , author of The Schools , " its callous routiners , its cynical slobs , its politicians , its sadists and homosexuals , its lazy and indifferent timeservers . " Every system also has its superannuated teachers . While many elderly teachers are magnificent , age and good teaching do not always go together . " The real problem , " says Dr. Irving A. Gladstone , an elementary school principal in Brooklyn , N. Y. , " is the older teacher who was marginal to begin with . There are many marginal teachers , marginal emotionally , that is , who get by the first five or ten years at the job . But as they get older , they get emotionally and physically weaker and ca n't cope with the problems that come up in the classroom . " Still other teachers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technically and otherwise qualified . An example of this is the teacher described to Good HouseKEEPING by an assistant school superintendent : " He ca n't organize his work . There 's a complete lack of student control in his room . If you set out deliberately to infuriate kids , you 'd behave as he does . He 'll grab hold of a kid and shake him . He 'll tell the kid he 's stupid . " A parent last week asked us to take her child out of his class . The teacher took a swing at the kid . Every year something like this happens . The man is utterly incompetent . Yet he 's been with us for ten years . All we can do is bring charges against him to start a dismissal proceeding . So far no one 's been willing to do so . The complications are impossible . " The teacher who " takes a swing at a kid " may be a hard-pressed , overworked , decent teacher who has , for some reason , reached the limit of his patience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many teachers are . A fifty-seven-year old Wisconsin teacher suffering from severe schizophrenia was so sure she was being persecuted by her principal and the FBI that she made her class write letters to the FBI asking it to stop harassing her . Her principal , she told a psychiatrist , was in cahoots with the FBI and had electrified her bed and sent messages to her over the radio . Parents who objected to their children 's writing to the FBI for her were , according to the teacher , " in the plot . " What might be said of the mental stability of a teacher who , according to one of his colleagues , pinned a student to the floor of the school gym , held a heavy ring of keys over him , and threatened to drop them on the boy 's  | genitals ? Or the teacher who for years slapped and choked her charges and pulled their hair ? It was n't until she smashed a cello over one child 's head that she was finally removed from the school . There is another case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three members of his school board were trying to plant a bomb under his house . And still another teacher has been known to mount the auditorium stage after three o'clock when the hall is empty and deliver speeches to an invisible audience of children . In The Mentally Disturbed Teacher , Dr. Joseph T. Shipley , himself a former teacher , presents a haircurling catalogue of teacher aberrations under headings including " delusions of grandeur , " " sense of persecution , " " senile deterioration , " " sexual deviation and excesses , " etc . And Dr. Louis Kaplan , in a study entitled Mental Health and Human Relations in Education , states that by conservative estimate " each day approximately 3,000,000 youngsters are exposed to teachers who are so unbalanced that they should not be around children . " Tenure laws , as suggested earlier , do not flatly prevent the dismissal of bad teachers . They just make it difficult . All of them list acceptable grounds for dismissal . Ohio , for example , permits the discharge of a teacher for gross inefficiency , immorality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other reasons . The procedure to be followed , however , is complex . It begins , usually , by requiring that the teacher be notified in writing of her impending dismissal . This must be done by a certain date six or eight weeks before the end of the spring semester . At this point , the teacher may demand a written list of the charges against her , a hearing before some administrative body , and , very often , a public hearing . She may be represented by legal counsel . She may call witnesses . She may appeal the decision of the hearing body to a higher authority . And if that fails , she can then start all over again by taking the whole case into the courts . Once her case is in the courts , she frequently can fight her dismissal , step by step , all the way to the Supreme Court . Not surprisingly , therefore , a dismissal action can drag on interminably . During this period the teacher may muster support from inside and outside the schools . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Covina Unified School District in California , " A postman can be dismissed and nobody knows about it . But in the schools parents become involved emotionally . Teachers have their supporters . Students frequently become involved . It becomes a public issue . " Ironically , even very bad teachers are usually able to produce at least one or two parents who will testify for them . " I 've never seen a single case , " says an official of the Los Angeles schools , " in which a group of parents did n't show up to say the teacher is good . They 're not lying . Almost anything a teacher does is bound to get through to some kid . " In this situation , says Superintendent William Cunningham of the Hayward Unified School District just outside San Francisco , " there will be controversy . Unfortunately , school districts are reluctant to face controversy , even when they 're right . " One reason for this is that controversy over a dismissal may spill over into other matters . It can lead to political battles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school budget . It can result in putting the entire school system on trial in the community . Such controversies can become white hot when the teacher is defended against the school system by lawyers or officials of the American Federation of Teachers ? the teachers ' union ? or by the powerful National Education Association . Both organizations frequently spring to the defense of teachers ? sometimes bad ones ? not because they wish to coddle incompetents ( they do n't ) , but because they believe it necessary to defend the tenure principle at all costs . As the influence of these teacher organizations increases , it is becoming more difficult than ever to win a dismissal proceeding . Frequently , the school official bringing charges against the teacher is himself put in the position of defendant . " Let 's face it , " says a veteran New York City high school principal , " when you go to a hearing you have to face union lawyers who have had more training in educational law than you have , and the principal is at a disadvantage . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during cross-examination . So I say to myself : Why should I look for trouble ? " Recently Richard Gabriel , director of personnel for the schools in Riverside , California , went through a case involving the dismissal of a thirtythree-year-old male speech teacher who admitted having kissed a fifteenyear-old girl student , but who insisted that what he had done was no more than reward her with victory kisses following a speech tournament . Here the question was not the teacher 's technical competence , but his moral fitness . In fact , the teacher in question was regarded as first rate technically . The trouble began when the girl reported to another teacher that the speech teacher had kissed her in a parked car on the way home from a debate at another school . Confronted by the charge , the teacher admitted he had kissed this girl on two separate occasions . He admitted that he might have shown poor judgment , but insisted that his action did not warrant dismissal . For five weeks thereafter he continued to teach . Then , after an informal hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay , pending further investigation . A month later the board formally dismissed him . He demanded a hearing before the Superior Court of California . From February , throughout the remainder of the semester , the summer months and on into September , Gabriel , who has plenty of other responsibilities , was occupied with preparing for the court fight . Last September 13 it came . For four days the case made local headlines . The teacher testified . A number of his girl students testified . There was conflicting testimony about whether or not he had also " fondled " the girls . Gabriel testified on behalf of the district . Finally , on September 23 , the teacher was found guilty of " immoral conduct , unprofessional conduct , evident unfitness for service . " The school board was upheld . As of this writing , the teacher has the right to appeal the decision , and the case may still wend its way upward through the courts . Says Gabriel , who is , incidentally , an able and thoughtful man , not without a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I was the only one representing the district , and we were painted as the big bad wolves . I had countless sleepless nights , and it cost the district $5,000 , plus the cost of substitute teachers called to fill in for teachers who had to come to court to testify . This is the only dismissal I know of in the history of Riverside . " Actually , if the dismissal holds up in court , it will have been an inexpensive victory , compared with most cases . School administrators agree that the easiest cases to document and win are those involving immorality . The courts and the community are frequently sympathetic with the administration , and evidence tends to be clear-cut . But when it comes to proving in court that a teacher is n't adequately motivating her students , or that she is n't effective in planning lessons , or that she is unable to establish proper rapport with children , or that she is professionally incompetent in some other respect , school authorities face much greater difficulty , and the courts frequently upset the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so rocky , school administrators resort to a number of unofficial stratagems to " beat the system . " The most common is " counseling out . " Here the principal or superintendent informally advises a teacher that her performance is substandard and that she might be better  | off elsewhere . " You tell her that it 's for the benefit of the boys and girls , " adds Dr. Charles E. Brake , former superintendent of schools in Wayne County , Michigan , " and you try to keep as much of it as possible out of the newspapers . " Sometimes a friendly agreement is reached and the teacher leaves . In fact , sometimes the administrator is so eager to rid himself of the misfit that he writes enthusiastic letters recommending her to unsuspecting principals or personnel men in other districts , hoping , in this way , to palm his problem off on someone else . Thus a homosexual in an Alaska school is foisted off on a California school , and an alcoholic from Minnesota takes over a classroom in Missouri . This passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible by the lax personnel screening methods still common in many school systems . Often , however , the teacher refuses to leave . When this happens , the administrator may initiate a quiet campaign intended to force her to resign . Says a veteran teachers ' union militant : " The harassment is all done legally . For example , you may make the teacher a floater . ' That 's a teacher who has no set home room and is programmed to move around to different locations in the school to teach . The program may be fixed so that she 's on the fourth floor , then the first , then the fifth floor , then the basement . Or you can schedule her so she gets all her free periods in one day and none the rest of the week . Or you can assign her to teach some course she does n't like . " All this , of course , adds up to guerilla warfare in the schoolhouse . It represents the use of a kind of unofficial terrorism to accomplish an end that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it unfair , it disrupts the school and undermines the educational process . " Why , " asks an English teacher , " should you have to go through such nonsense to get rid of incompetents ? " No easy formula will improve the quality of teaching in American schools . To keep up with the rising tide of enrollments , the schools need more money , more buildings , more books . They also need more teachers . One reason administrators do n't attack the problem of misfit teachers with more vigor is that often they do n't know where the replacements will come from . The teacher shortage is not universal . But " We need bodies " is a refrain heard again and again in the schools . These " bodies " also need better training than most teachers have been get-  | ting in teacher colleges . In the words of F. C. Rosecranze , former dean of the College of Education , Wayne State University , " Teacher education now is where medical education was in 1910 . " Also outmoded are the procedures by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods of teacher certification , " says James B. Conant , former president of Harvard , " assure the public of competent and adequately prepared teachers . " Similarly , there is much to be desired in what happens to the teacher once she finds a place in the school . Good districts attempt to evaluate teacher performance at least once or twice a year , not in an effort to " mark down " the teacher , but as a means of learning how best to counsel her and help her improve . Evaluation procedures , however , remain largely subjective , and not infrequently they degenerate into what David Selden , assistant to the president of the American Federation of Teachers , calls " snoopervision " ? prying on and generally harassing teachers disliked by the administration . Or administrators are so overburdened that the evaluation becomes little more than a ritual . Teachers are routinely marked " satisfactory . " While facts such as these make it plain that the tenure trap is only part of a much larger problem in American education , it would be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In fact , these other problems simply make more urgent the discovery of ways to weed out the misfits . One way , of course , is to repeal the tenure laws . Yet few educators , even among those who are sharply critical of tenure , favor this course . Most agree that teachers , because of their unusual position in the community , need special job protection . They need safeguards not merely against the possibility of highhanded treatment by their employers , but also against irresponsible attack by groups outside the schools . Thus , in many communities , teachers have been attacked by political fanatics who happen to disagree with their views regarding the United Nations or other public issues . Similarly , teachers in southern communities have sometimes been attacked because they held unpopular views on racial issues . In such situations , tenure may protect good teachers . It may actually free the teacher to be a good teacher . Granted that some form of tenure protection is necessary , therefore . what can he done to rid the schools of problem teachers ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that what is needed is more courage on the part of administrators . Administrators , they say , give up too easily . They are n't willing to use the procedures available to them . Much as one may admire these sentiments , it is hard to attribute the astonishingly low number of dismissals in American schools purely to the timidity of administrators . No doubt many wish to avoid controversy at all cost . But , one asks oneself , is n't there something wrong with the law if schools have to face a battle royal over each bad teacher ? How much time , trouble and money should it cost to remove an unfit teacher from the classroom ? Such considerations suggest that what is needed is more than a psychological pep talk . And the need for action will increase . As the pace of social and technical change in society speeds up , teachers will have to learn new skills . If tenure prevents the dismissal of those who refuse to , the percentage of incompetents will rise sharply . Tenure laws today , in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wrong with tenure , " says Bill Cunningham , the energetic young superintendent in Hayward , California , " is that it does n't take account of change . It assumes that if a teacher completed a three-year probationary period , 20 years later she 's still a good teacher . " Thus Cunningham proposes that we modify the laws to make tenure renewable instead of permanent . " If I were in a state legislature , " he says , " I would favor a law requiring renewal of tenure every seven or ten years . It would help keep everyone on the ball , rethinking , re-evaluating themselves . " Other school administrators concur . In Redwood City , California , superintendent Andrew Spinas says , " Right now you have three groups of teachers : ( 1 ) the good ones . . . ( 2 ) the bad teachers , the ones who should never have gotten into the profession in the first place . . . ( 3 ) the teachers who fall into a gray area . Most of the last group are good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But in many cases they have little or no incentive to improve their work . These are the ones who present the greatest difficulty . " Renewable tenure , he argues , " would work to spur these teachers on . " Under such a plan , a teacher 's tenure might come up for renewal every three , five , seven , ten years . The exact period could be determined by each state . But it would provide an opportunity for constant upgrading of the teaching force . It would provide decent protection for the good teacher ? a longer assurance of employment than most Americans in private employment enjoy ? yet not offer a guarantee of lifetime security for the inept . Bill Cunningham recognizes that , " This is a hot political potato . Teachers , " he says , " have fought hard and long for our present laws . Understandably , they 'd be most reluctant to see them modified . ... But as dismissals become more and more difficult , there will be more and more need , and most teachers , really , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't like being stuck with unfit colleagues . " The reluctance of the teaching profession could be turned into support if , along with modification of tenure , teachers were given more responsibility for policing themselves . The great fear of the profession is that , without tenure , teachers would be helpless against unfair administrators . But what if teachers themselves were given a voice in passing on the cases of teachers brought up on dismissal charges ? Renewable tenure thus could be linked with the kind of program now being tried in Connecticut , where the Connecticut Education Association , NEA 's state affiliate , has created a Professional Practices Panel of 43 teachers and administrators . A team composed of members of this panel can go into any community where there is a dismissal dispute , not to defend the teacher blindly , but to hear the evidence pro and con , and serve as expert witnesses in determining the teacher 's competency . The use of such an impartial group provides the school board or court with relatively clear-cut and acceptable evidence , while at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally , it has been suggested that the tenure logjam might be cleared ? or at least greatly eased ? if a way were found to take the whole business of dismissal out of the courts . Without taking a direct position on the question of renewable tenure or professional practices panels , Albert Shanker , president of the United Federation of Teachers , proposes that the schools adopt a practice widely used in labor disputes elsewhere : arbitration . The United Federation of Teachers represents 45,000 teachers in and around New York City and is the largest local of the national teachers ' union , the AFT . Shanker , a math teacher turned union president , says , " I 'd like to see simple adjudication of dismissal disputes , with no recourse to the courts . We could write into a teacher 's contract or into a union contract a provision giving the teacher the right to waive his recourse to the courts in dismissal proceedings and to go before an impartial arbitrator , instead . Since the court route is likely to be long and expensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , we could get a decision in , say , two weeks , instead of having to drag it out over months and years . Arbitrators are used constantly to settle all kinds of disputes in other industries . Why not use them in educa-tion ? " From the point of view of the parent ? and , more important , the child ? it matters little which particular approach is adopted . What matters is that something sensible be done ? and done soon ? to remove the sick , the apathetic or the incompetent from the classroom . The title " teacher " is too good , too important , too proud to belong to such people . Every day that passes without some change in this situation cheats or scars thousands , perhaps millions , of American kids .                     