@@478689

There are two main schools of argument about the reasons for Britain 's ghastly economic performance in recent years . One school puts the blame on certain specific mistakes in economic policy committed by both our previous nominally Conservative and our present nominally Labour governments ? mistakes whose dreary and illogical continuance has un fortunately been elevated into a high moral duty by the permanent civil service and the financial establishment through which Britain is mostly ruled . This school believes that a fairly simple reversal of these technical mistakes could go a long way toward transforming Britain during the next decade into an economic miracle country , like continental Europe and Japan of the last decade and a half . It therefore considers itself to he an optimistic , thrustful , reformist school of cool-headed analysts . But it is currently regarded in most polite circles in Britain as impossibly arty and starry-eyed . The second explanation is that Britain is in a deplorable mess because the whole British working class is a collection of lazy slobs , because the managerial class is a collection of incompetent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole fabric of British society . When the head of a nationalized industry is superannuated into the House of Lords ( as all heads of those old-fashioned Socialist enterprises evenHarper 's Magazine , February 1967 tually are ) , and when he says there that there is a deep " moral rot " in British society , he can be sure that their lordships ' house will echo with " hear , hears . " Lately the same refrain has been taken up by some American journalists , and for a very apparent reason . While we British journalists bathe ourselves too freely in the conventional wisdom of London 's upper-class clubland , many correspondents from your supposedly un-class-conscious society tend absolutely to soak themselves in it . Colonel Blimp has recruited himself wholeheartedly into the corps of American observers of the British scene , and it has become part of its gospel that all the abstruse economic problems of Britain can be explained by those characteristics of modern British society which our old-fashioned upper class most dislikes . Hence the myth in the United States ? which I used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather alarming ? that these last two years of runs on sterling somehow are only to be expected in an age when some of our young girls wear rather short skirts and some of our young fellows ( for a few teen-age years only ) wear overlong hair , and when British workers drink midmorning cups of tea . A British economic journalist , trying to explain to an American audience the reasons for Britain 's maddening present malaise , therefore finds himself in something of a quandary . The truth , I am convinced , lies much nearer to the views of the first school , which argues simply that British governments have made some rather obvious mistakes in economic policy . But this is not the whole truth . Even when these mistakes of policy are put right ? and at present there is no sign of them being put right ? the position may not turn round as quickly as it should ; because by now there really are some flaws in our society , which have grown worse during the years while the mistakes have been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more attractive journalism than writing about the technical economic errors : it always is more fun to write a romantic social essay than a brutal commercial memo . What I will try to do here is to square my social conscience by writing the brutal commercial memo first ; and then go on to discuss how far there really are peculiar social debilities in this supposedly swinging Britain of today . The simplest and most fundamental reason for Britain 's economic weakness is that the pound sterling is overvalued . It is overvalued largely because , like America , we won the last The guest in the Easy Chair is deputy editor of " The Economist " in London . After wartime service in the RAF he did postgraduate work in economics at Cambridge . His views here are his own rather than the editorial opinions of " The Economist . " war . When the pattern of world exchange rates was last set in 1949 , four of what are now the half-dozen biggest industrial trading countries of the Free World lay in war-devastated ruins : they were Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not : they were the United States and Britain . And it was awkward that the two countries which were not devastated were the guardians of the two great banking currencies of the world : the so-called almighty dollar and the much less mighty sterling . They were also the two policemen of the . Free World , with a high proportion of their defense budgets spent in foreign exchange as they shouldered , peace-keeping ( once called imperialist ) responsibilities round the globe : The U.S. was the big policeman , and Britain the much smaller policeman 's mate . Even in 1949 the war-devastated countries of continental Europe and Japan had a skilled labor force and a modern , commercially-oriented business class . What they lacked , temporarily , was capital equipment , because it lay beneath the rubble that Hitler 's and Tojo 's war had caused . But four things were quite evident . First , it was clear that capital equipment in the devastated countries would soon be built up again . Secondly , as this happened , it was almost inevitable that the exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overvalued relative to the exchange rates of the mark , yen , franc , and ( probably ) lira . The exchange rate that was appropriate between sterling and the yen in 1949 mirrored the relative economic strength of Britain and Japan at that time . It was always silly to suppose that the same relative THE EASY CHAIR strength would persist , and thus exactly the same exchange rate would be appropriate in 1966 . This would have become illogical even if Japan had followed a silly economic policy since 1949 , and Britain an extremely wise one , which is the reverse of what has happened in fact . Thirdly , it was therefore evident ? and very awkward ? that as reconstruction began in the war-devastated countries , people would begin to wonder whether it was sensible to hold the great . majority of their foreign . exchange reserves ( as they still do ) in the form of sterling and dollars . After all , Britain and the United States were finding it more difficult to increase their exports than were countries like Germany and Japan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports would be by making them cheaper relative to German and Japanese exports ? that is to say , by devaluing sterling and the dollar relative to the mark and the yen . And , for Britain at least , the idea of cheapening its exports in this way has for some years now made a lot of economic sense . But it was also inevitable that the mere idea of devaluing either of the currencies in which people held so much of their foreign-exchange reserves would meet a great deal of impassioned opposition . For a lot of orthodox banking people would say that a devaluation of either of the two reserve currencies might destroy the existing international monetary order before anybody had thought of a new one to put in its place . ( To some extent , these banking people might be at least partially right . ) Finally , it was clear that the weight of this speculation against the tworeserve currencies would fall mainly on the weaker of them ? almost inevitably sterling . Prime Minister Wilson is fond of talking about " the strength of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the strength of sterling is almost bound , in these days of a two-key-currency monetary system , to he very like the strength of the weaker of the two precious metals in the old days of bimetallism . For sterling read old-time silver , for the dollar read old-time gold . And Americans will remember above all that silver was constantly in a hell of a mess , not always because of its own producers ' fault . Additionally , of course , the dollar started from a much stronger position . The relapse of the dollar from the late 1940s to its present posture is not , relatively , much smaller than the relapse of sterling from being a fairly weak currency then to a very weak one now . Surefire World Beaters The burden of struggling on with an overvalued sterling exchange rate , since 1957 at least , has also been aggravated by two other developments . One is that a successful export drive has become the sine qua non for internal economic expansion in all medium-sized industrial countries like Britain . In a modern , advancing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those industries which are most capable of exporting is by definition moving them into the industries where it has most chance of beating the world . An industrial country like Germany , with a relatively undervalued exchange rate , has found that its export-led growth has impelled its resources into the newest capital-goods industries , the newer forms of chemicals . Lhe newest forms of manufacture of machine tools . It is precisely these capital-goods industries that depend on export profitability in the world markets which have been least profitable in Britain at the old 1949 exchange rate . Then , because British exports are insufficient , Britain runs into balance-of-payments deficits . When a country runs a balance-of-payments deficit , it is spending more than it is earning . The orthodox way to meet that situation is to cut down its spending . This policy of cutting back spending by crisis measures of deflation and restriction is a policy to which Britain has resorted again and again , When total spending is cut . it becomes less profitable for industry to invest . When industry cuts back its investment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the industrial equipment of all British industries less up-to-date . And so the vicious circle of confinement has spun round and round . The second peculiar disadvantage from which Britain has suffered is that its own domestic market is now too small for any country that hopes to be a modern and rapidly expanding industrial power . The size of the economic base required to support the really new and more sophisticated industries has been steadily growing . There seems to be an almost immutable economic law about this : the later an important industry develops , the bigger ? generally ? is the economic base and available market it requires . It is possible nowadays for even a small and underdeveloped country to build a viable cotton-textile industry . It is possible to have a modest but healthy steel industry in a medium-sized economy . It has proved rather more difficult for any country to have a modern and effective automobile industry with a population much less than 20 million or annual national income ( which means home demand ) of much less than about $40 billion ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maturing of production techniques ) the minimum population required is nowadays probably going down . But the automobile is itself a development that is by now three-quarters of a century old , The development of many of the much newer , sophisticated industries is prejudiced unless industrialists have a very large free market indeed to aim at . Unless risk-takers feel they can aim at an assured and profitable free market of something well over Britain 's 55 million people , and gross national product of about $85 billion , they are unwilling to take the risks of plowing in the heavy new capital and industrial research required . It is pretty clear that Britain has reached this stage now , and so is suffering a double disadvantage : it is not only failing to develop the new industries as quickly as it ought to do , but it is also depriving itself of the new technologies that would strengthen its existing industries . The recipe for Britain that emerges from all this is pretty evident . Devalue . and enter the European Common Market . Devalue , because that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the present exchange rate of $2.80 to the any British firm with $100,000 in annual export earnings gets under ? 36,000 in domestic money ; if the rate went to $2 instead ( although that might be too far ) it would get ? 50,000 a year ? and it is surprising how many firms would then decide that exporting was much more fun . Go into the European Common Market , because that is the most obvious way of widening the free-trade market that a modernized British industry would require . It will be better if the devaluation takes place when there are already some unemployed resources in Britain , as there are going to he in the coming recession , so that they can flow into the newly profitable export industries . It will be right to enter the European Common Market on almost any terms at all . When these two things happen Britain may very well surprise the world by the speed with which its economic miracle breaks out . Or will it ? Have the corroding effects of the last two decades of relative stagnation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerously as pessimists suppose ? How to Discourage Aggressive Managers The main corrosive effect of slow economic growth on British society has been simply this : that the pacemakers have not been given their THE EASY CHAIR head , either at top-management level or down in the workshop . Let us discuss management first , because the effects on it have been the most important . Again and again one has seen battles in British companies between two groups of executives : the brute thrusters for efficiency , and the suave , more easygoing men . I know that similar battles go on in every country , but in Britain the difference is that the suave men nearly always win . I know that a lot of people shade between the two groups , but the distinction in this country is more nearly accurate than most Britons ( especially suave ones ) consider it polite to admit . Usually , the bathes have ranged over two fields . First , the efficiency men are ready to disturb established ways of doing things ; the suave , more easygoing men ? although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lengths to avert uncongenial and ( especially ) embarrassing changes and tasks . You see this most obviously if you talk to these two groups about schemes for departmental reorganization , or for carrying out programs suggested by management consultants ( now employed in increasing measure ) , or for branching out into new products . The brute thrusters are all in favor of innovating . The suave men will say that they are in favor too ? but only in a few years ' time when Mr. Smith ( he may be a quite lowly Mr. Smith ) has retired . Mr. Smith , it will be explained , has been doing his present job in his present way since 1930 , and the reorganization would cut across his privileges or sense of status or manner of working intolerably in the old chap 's last years . I have known instances of this sort of thing interfering even with the export drive , in the most ridiculous way . It is Britain 's misfortune that , partly because of the old system of imperial preference , its most traditional export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now all industrializing like mad , chiefly in order to make the very manufactured goods which Britain has been selling to them in the past . New markets have now become more promising and dynamic , but for a firm to put its main sales emphasis on them would sometimes involve awkward problems in rearranging seniority , because the Commonwealth export manager ? with his dwindling old contacts ? is the chap who has traditionally had first say about the main production and sales effort . Bewhiskered Antiquarianism The second main battlefield has been about modern machinery . Too many British executives in their workaday lives instinctively hate anything modern and new , while it is nowadays more common for American and European executives to be instinctively captivated by it . In the British Establishment 's mating forum , the letters to the editor columns of the Times , you will constantly find some gleeful story about how a computer has by mistake sent out a check for one thousand pounds and sixpence instead of the ? 1 . Os. 6d. that was intended . A thousand comfortable bellies will then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with delighted mirth , although a similar joke about some poor little clerk with a cashbook who had made a similar mistake would be regarded as very bad taste . You can see the same antiquarianism raise its bewhiskered head whenever any idea springs up for modernizing the physical conditions in which Britons work . For example , the nationalized British railways are at last considering a proposal for partly demolishing and rebuilding the most horrendously inefficient of London 's monstrously ugly railroad stations , St. Pancras . As I write , the chief topic of correspondence in the letters to the editor column of the Times is , inevitably , that St. Pancras ? which , legend has it , was originally botched up by the architect , Sir Gilbert Scott , from plans that had been turned down for a new Foreign Office in Lord Palmerston 's days ? is an irreplaceable architectural gem . ( The same attitude has , as you might expect , always prevented the physical modernization of the most important and inefficient workplace in the whole country ? namely our Victorian Houses of Parliament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every British workshop . Go into a British factory to see its latest machinery , and you will often be shown it by people who will tell you delightedly how frequently during its teething troubles the damned thing broke down . You will then be taken aside to see the real pride of the arm , some ghastly Edwardian relic , which , it is explained , is still working almost as well as in 1905 , although it probably also takes five times as many expensive men as a modern machine . What is the reason for these fatal British attitudes of entrenched opposition to disturbance and resentment of innovation ? Britons were obviously not guilty of them in Victorian times , when Britons ' image as aggressive innovators exceeded that of even Japanese businessmen now . Perhaps part of the trouble does lie in Britain 's history , and in the fact that Britain has never had a really bloody revolution , so that when the Victorian mill master prospered he began to ape the " civilized attitudes " of the old aristocratic class , who have been resisting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even today a self-made Englishman who can afford a posh house in Sussex and a son at . Eton becomes more than ever loath to risk his fortune on a technical innovation ? because the pains of going down the social ladder are greater than in America and the joys of going further up , from being a millionaire to being a multimillionaire , are much less here . No doubt the upper-class public-school system has carried this attitude on , and so has the ethos of the two prestigious universities of Oxford and Cambridge . They , more than anybody , have elevated pursuit of the interest ing and congenial but ( above all ) traditional , instead of the dangerously newfangled or crudely useful , to the status of a cult which only vulgar men impugn . This last is a peculiar British misfortune , which has grown worse since Oxford and Cambridge have been thrown open to all of the nation 's best brains instead of only to the pampered sons of the relatively rich . Today our worst fuddy-duddies , emerging from these universities , happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into vigorous , innovative management types , if they had not been converted by their universities into charming , cultured traditionalists . But in the Victorian industrial revolution , some men did break through these old attitudes . Why have n't they done so during the new ? and bigger ? scientific and industrial revolution which has been breaking over the world in the last twenty years ? THE EASY CHAIR The answer , I believe , is quite largely that stop-go policies ? mostly springing from Britain 's balance-of-payments troubles ? have made the suave men seem right more often than the pushful innovators . The folk history of executive battles in British industries in the last two decades has been that a fashion has started for giving their head to new-style managers , with stars in their eyes , only at times of extreme prosperity ? that is to say , in the last decade , only during Britain 's short-lived internal booms : in 1955 , 1959 , 1964 . These people therefore push forward their investment and reorganization programs just when the boom is turning the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach fruition when the government has already punctured the internal boom in order to restore the balance of payments to rights . Consequently , it looks as if such ambitious programs have lost the firm a great deal of money . When this happens , the rising men of the last boom are not sacked ; nothing so dramatic or crude . Instead they hastily decide to become suave detractors of any further pushfulness , and hold down their former disciples who are coming up behind them ? until such time as extreme prosperity in the next short-lived boom ( and emerging balance-of-payments crisis ) makes it seem desirable to give them their heads for a while . And then the cycle starts all over again . Is the Worker Bone Lazy ? My argument , therefore , is that at executive level the crippling British feeling that " it is not quite nice to be pushful " has sprung in large measure from the fact that recently it has not proved profitable to be . The same is true of British workers and trade unions . This view , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propagandists of the conventional wisdom . The orthodox thing to believe is that the British worker is bone lazy ? not because the economy is failing to advance quickly enough , but precisely because he has been having it good too easily . It is said that an increase in unemployment ? such as is happening now ? may do wonders to mitigate or remove the restrictive working practices of many British trade unions . If this were true , one might expect that union restrictive practices would be at their lowest today in the industries where unemployment has in the past decade tended to rise above the low ( under 1.5 per cent ) national average . There are three main groups of such industries . One group is declining industries , which are hit by some at least semimodern competitor : such as shipbuilding ( hit by aviation ) , newspaper printing ( by television ) , coal mining ( by oil ) , railway transport ( by road transport ) . Another is the industries hit by the British weather , where unemployment rises each year to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third group is made up of the cyclically affected industries , which advance in times of boom but are the first to lay off workers in any slowdown ? such as automobile factories . In each of these groups , restrictive labor practices are appalling . In the more steady-employment or rising-employment science-based industries of the new age , British employers are much more likely to get a full day 's work for a full day 's pay . Is this thesis a pessimistic or an optimistic one ? For the short term , it is pessimistic . Britain is now dipping into a recession , and it is conventional to believe ( or hope ) that this will lead to a great regeneration of British working habits once the whip of slightly higher unemployment bites into the land . In fact , the reverse is much more likely . But in another sense , the thesis here is optimistic . The " English sickness " in economic and industrial affairs is probably not an incurable cancer which is slowly killing the patient . It is a disease that is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The main solution is not to be found in the terms that Edmund Burke once dismissed as impossible , that " of drawing up an indictment against a whole people . " It is more likely to be found in certain rather obvious and prosaic political-economic moves ? such as getting into the European Common Market , and devaluing sterling to a more reasonable level . And then , quite suddenly , and in a sense quite absurdly , the newspapers of the 1970s may talk of the great supposed social regeneration lying behind Britain 's so-called miracle economic cure .                     