@@493909

Do n't Expect de Gaulle To Change by Michel g ordey Paris After his reelection in the run-off on December 19 , Charles de Gaulle 's " foreign policy of independence " will remain basically the same . The Western facet of his diplomacy will be the growing strain on the Atlantic Alliance , the dangerous crisis of the Common Market and the loosening of French ties with Bonn . The rapprochement with Moscow and the Soviet-bloc countries , the cultivation of his good relations with Peking will be carried on in the East ? to an extent . The special position of France toward Japan and the underdeveloped countries of Asia , Africa and Latin America , will be used as another tool for raising the status ? or , as the Gaullists prefer to call it ? the prestige of France . However , future French foreign policy may be influenced , in a negative or positive way , by the short but violent election campaign . At long last , de Gaulle maytake into consideration new trends of French public opinion which he has hitherto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? surprise , foreign policy played a major role in the weeks preceding the Presidential election . As recently as six months ago , the vast majority did not care about their government 's diplomatic games . In 1964 , only one-quarter of the population considered foreign policy a matter of prime importance . " Let the Old Man take care of it , " most of them thought . And the Old Man did , in his own unique way , with sudden turnabouts , far-fetched statements about the far-off future , and with surprising short-range decisions , made in such a way that even his most trusted associates and ministers never knew beforehand what ' was going to happen . The government-controlled television and radio fed a steady diet of news , DECEMBER 18 , 1965 comments and features stressing the success and respect enjoyed abroad by French diplomacy . " Le Grand Charles " knew how to play up to the nationalistic tendencies of his countrymen . In return , they gave him free rein to go about his policy of grandeur as he pleased . Misinformed about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their country was now universally respected , liked and admired . The election campaign brought a rude awakening . It had started at the end of June , 1965 , with the sudden crisis of the Common Market , provoked mostly by the uncompromising attitude of Paris . Farmers , businessmen , and all those earning their living from trade with the five other EEC countries , started to worry about their present and past investments as well as about their future incomes . Simultaneously , last summer the steady worsening of relations with America and West Germany was not counterbalanced by the seemingly " good standing " and new friendships of the General in the Communist and underdeveloped countries . There was a creeping feeling of isolation . People talked about it during the summer vacation but the official TV and radio kept telling them : " Everything is all right . " Then , suddenly , between November 19 and December 3 , de Gaulle 's opponents at last had the opportunity to use freely , for the first time in seven years , the tightly controlled and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politic experienced what the American , British , West German voters had known for a long time : the enormous impact of the electronic mass media on a national election . A real psychological explosion occurred during those two weeks . The opposition came in , shattering a long period of apathy and lack of information , like a political supersonic " bang . " At first , the public was startled , then greatly interested . For two weeks de Gaulle 's opponents had top ratings on TV and radio peak hours . And one of their main areas of attack against the General was foreign policy ( the others being bad housing , insufficient school and education efforts , heavy taxes ) . The General had decided almost to disregard the campaign , by announcing his decision to run again at the last minute and then letting the opposition " bore their audience to switching off their sets . " But the three main contenders for the Elysee Palace ? Francois Mitterand on the left , Jean Lecanuet for the center and Jean Louis Tixier Vignancour on the extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three accusing de Gaulle of destroying the hopes of European Union and of shattering the Western Alliance . As public opinion polls reported a fast and steady decline of the General 's popularity , they also noticed that the controversial issue of Europe had played a big MICHEL GORDEY is a well-known French journalist who specializes in political analysis . part in this downward trend . Reversing his plans , de Gaulle went on the air and restated , in rather harsh terms , the main targets of his ' foreign policy . Once again , he refused any " subordination " to America which would be " unworthy of France and could , in certain cases , throw her automatically into conflicts unwanted by her . " He also reaffirmed his opposition to any degree of integration in Europe and stuck by his independent nuclear force , which the opposition had tried to ridicule . But his statements failed to reverse the trend . The huge TV and radio audiences had heard the other side . They did not run back to the General in great numbers . During those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserved domain " ( mostly foreign policy ) had been opened to debate . Nevertheless , under heavy attack , the General did not retreat one inch from the main lines of his diplomacy . In a summary form , they are the following : 1 . United States ? The almost constant criticism of " American hegemony " in the military , political and economic fields is the basis of de Gaulle 's private foreign policy . In times of serious international tension with threats of war ( Berlin and Cuba ) he remains , as he says , " the ally of our allies , " if only because he knows that he needs American nuclear protection . But when he believes that there is no danger of a local , far-off conflict spreading into a global holocaust , he takes an aloof position toward Washington . Such is the case in Vietnam , Laos , the Congo and Santo Domingo . As do many others in Europe , de Gaulle believes that we have now entered a period of long peace on a worldwide scale , that Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , and that therefore the weight of American influence on the Old Continent should be removed : Consequently , he is trying to weaken the US hold on Europe by his " salami tactics " within NATO . He has publicly threatened to quit the Atlantic Alliance by 1969 and has called the military integration of the West an unacceptable " subordination . " He wants to replace present arrangements by bilateral defense agreements with the United States , an alternative thus far rejected by Washington . It is possible that in 1966 de Gaulle will finally put forward his long-expected plans for the reorganization of the Atlantic Pact . They will be incompatible not only with the ideas . of Washington , but also with those of the other members of the alliance . Meanwhile , French diplomatic action in the Near East , in Asia , in Latin America and Africa takes a more and more independent course . Independent , that is , from America . 2 . Western Europe ? When he came back to power in 1958 , de Gaulle already saw himself as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe of the Six " if not of all Western Europe . He first tried to get from Washington and London the appointment of France to a three-power directorate of the West . Having been turned down , he decided that under his leadership Western Europe ( with the exception of Britain ) would be a sort of Third Force contributing to the " equilibrium " ? another favorite Gaullist term ? between the " two hegemonies " ( US and USSR ) . He then discovered that the West European countries did not need nor want his guidance . De Gaulle 's last attempt to strengthen his hand was the treaty of friendship he signed with Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , thereby trying to bind West Germany to his chariot . But in thus offering Bonn an impossible choice between Washington and Paris , the General soon found out that the old Chancellor 's successors would not loosen their ties with the United States . Inadvertently , he had raised West Germany 's bargaining power in the alliance , but he had done more than that . He had made real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promoting indirectly a growing special relationship between Germany and America . For all practical purposes the French-German treaty of friendship is a dead duck . At the same time , his adamant defense of French interests within the Common Market created a sort of united front of the five other members of the organization against France . Though some technical compromises may still be found to stop the present paralysis of the Common Market , the General 's theory of " a Europe of the fatherlands " ? the refusal of any degree of integration ? is working precisely against his vision of Europe 's future role . The relatively small economic and military weight of France alone , and de Gaulle 's stubborn determination to keep his hands free even in Europe , shatter all dreams of a united Europe . It is precisely this self-created predicament which French public opinion has finally grasped and is so much worried about . For the time being , France 's " road to Europe " seems to be blocked . And so the General has been lately promoting a new " Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing in of Eastern Europe , again under French guidance , into the divided Old Continent . 3 . The Soviet Bloc ? In 1964 and ' 65 , the number of ministerial visits , diplomatic contacts , trade and cultural agreements between Paris , Moscow and other East European Communist capitals grew while French propaganda played up the new " rapprochement with the East . " In 1966 , de Gaulle may go on a long-expected state visit to the Soviet Union , perhaps stopping off in Warsaw . Both de Gaulle and the Soviet leaders want to intimidate Bonn and have some common objectives about West Germany , such as blocking a German share in nuclear armaments and strategy . This fear is shared by the overwhelming majority of the French people and by almost all European countries ? West and East . In that respect , the General 's independent policy is meeting with approval in many more sectors than Washington seems to realize . The French effort at closer cooperation with Warsaw , Bucharest , Budapest , Prague and Sofia is also going in the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to pursue if it had not been for the war in Vietnam . Even de Gaulle 's long-range idea of trying to solve the German problem with the cooperation of all European countries , both from the Western Alliance and from the Soviet bloc , could be sound . However , up to now , the lonely road that the General has chosen to travel has not brought him any real political profit . French trade with Eastern Europe has risen , but so has West Germany 's ( in spite of Bonn 's bad relations with the East ) . Rumors of a French-Soviet treaty of friendship or alliance are to be discounted : they merely serve the purpose of bringing pressure on West Germany and letting America too know that Paris could go that far . In fact , the Russians themselves only use their flirtation with Paris as a divisive weapon against the Western Alliance and as a blackmailing instrument against the Federal Republic . Moscow knows that a real detente can be had only in Washington , not in Paris . At the same time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national traditions in Eastern Europe could hardly please the Kremlin . Finally , the General 's well-known prediction that one day China will take away from the Soviet Union all her Asian territories certainly has not been received by the Soviet leaders with enthusiasm . Here again , Gaullist diplomacy is making " interesting noises " without visible concrete achievements . However , the policy of " friendship with the East " probably gave the General thousands of Communist votes in the election . 4 . China ? When de Gaulle recognized the Peking government last year he not only made headlines but ' raised hopes that France could contribute to solving some problems in Asia , such as the Vietnam conflict . Nothing of the kind has happened . Paris has been unable to play the " angel of peace " in Southeat Asia or on the Indian subcontinent . France has acquired a listening post in Communist China , but when questioned about future developments of French-Chinese relations , Gaullist diplomats speak in very vague terms . Only in their opposition to the nuclear test ban treaty , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy between Paris and Peking . And that was true before the General recognized Communist China . 5 . Nuclear Policy ? One of the mainstays of the General 's diplomacy is the steady buildup of the French independent nuclear force . It is also one of the main causes of worsening relations with Washington . In the recent campaign , the opposition talked a lot about contributing French nuclear weapons to a European force . De Gaulle has never indicated any desire to do so . It is to be expected that under his rule the testing of French H-bombs in the Pacific and the building of independent French nuclear vehicles ? and not only supersonic planes ? will go on . The General considers that these are vital to national defense . He also thinks ? and says ? that France 's nuclear armament , even small , is a sign of status and a tool in dealing with the " two hegemonies . " French public opinion is more and more hesitant about the huge amount of money that is being spent in this field . 6 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Algeria and the " decolonization " without bloodshed of the French African colonies , are certainly among de Gaulle 's great achievements . They have brought him growing admiration and popularity in Asia , Africa and Latin America . He makes a great point of traveling to some of these countries , and receiving their leaders in Paris . With the limited economic and financial potential of his country , de Gaulle can not back up his policies with great resources , except in former French Africa . If he wanted to cooperate with other Western countries in launching a common effort on the three continents , he would probably achieve great personal success . But once again his unshakable ideas about the " exclusive national interests of France " prevent his going that way . In the coming years , what will de Gaulle do with his foreign policy ? Nobody , including his Prime Minister or his Foreign Minister , purports to know what is on his mind . Considering his temper , he should go on in the same directions and with the same methods as before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , being very sensitive to popular trends , he may draw his lessons from the public debates during the campaign and soften his position on some issues in Europe . This is a very optimistic view , shared by only a few " Elyseeologists , " and not by me. 