@@488222

With the elections less than a month away , Newsweek ( October 22 ) sees signs that the " loudest political issue " of the campaign may be Cuba . There are certainly Republicans who would like it to be just that . Searching for a detonating issue , Representative William E. Miller ( N Y. ) , chairman of the Republican National Committee ; Senator Barry Goldwater ( Ariz. ) and Representative Bob Wilson ( Calif. ) issued ' a manifesto on October 16 labeling Cuba the " dominant issue . " The three eminent statesmen are willing to forget and forgive the Bay of Pigs fiasco , if only the Administration will now show itself " willing to face reality . " The nature of this reality is left safely vague , as is the remedy offered : " a resolute foreign policy that bars any further retreat . " At the same time , an equally eminent stateswoman , Hon. ' Clare Boothe Luce , declares in Life that the decision for intervention or nonintervention in Cuba " is the question not only of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facing reality , applauds resolution , condemns retreat and wishes America to survive , pronouncements in these terms seem reasonably well designed to catch votes , especially the votes of political jerks which , once the lever has been pulled down , count the same as those of the informed and wise . The question is , however , whether there are enough jerks to make the Cuban issue a rewarding one . Endeavoring to find out how . uch substance there really was to the Cuban issue , Newsweek made an impressionistic survey . Its correspondents in all fifty states went around ringing doorbells , buttonholing passers-by , questioning barbers and telephoning community leaders and nobodies alike . The consensus of some 2,000 such catechisms was at sharp variance with earlier samplings which indicated a warlike mood toward the miscreant Castro . While nearly all were concerned , 90 per cent of the citizens did n't want to invade Cuba now , and there was general confusion as to what could or should ' e done . No more favorable to Republican hopes of inflating Cuba into the dominant issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gallup samplers first divided theirsubjects into two groups : those who believed that war with the Soviet Union would result if we invaded Cuba , and those who thought all-out war unlikely . Fifty-one per cent thought it likely and 12 per cent had no opinion . Of the 51 per cent , only 19 per cent were willing to invade . Even among those who thought all-out war unlikely , only 36 per cent , were for invasion . A majority of voters , then , seem to be showing good sense , and the more good sense they show , the less chance the GOP has of upsetting the apple cart on this particular issue between now and November 6 . The voters evidently do n't feel that there is a moral compulsion to invade Cuba and restore free enterprise , any more than they felt impelled to overthrow Batista because he was a grafter and gangster . As for tl-16 ninetymiles-off-Florida argument , it is beginning to sink in that it is , no farther measured from west , to east than from east to west . Guantanamo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuba . The waters around Cuba , and the ' air above , are swarming with our surface craft and aircraft and submarines , not to speak of the PT-boats of Cuban exiles who are unhindered in shooting up Castro 's minions ( and even neutral shipping ) to express their indignation . Some of the voters may even realize that Castro 's hands are not altogether dirty , nor ours altogether clean . It looks as if Representative Miller and his colleagues will have to do some more prospecting for issues that are not only loud , but sound . And time is running out . The Long View Just the same , the Kennedy Administration has a problem on its hands in Cuba ; and the solutions , or attempted solutions , will have far-reaching effects on America 's and the world 's future . The President 's current policy is one of improvisation and temporization . He counters the war hawks by enlisting Cuban exiles in the U.S. Armed Forces , provoking Castro militarily , rallying Latin American governments to his standard as far as possible , imposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaking his finger at press conferences . But he avoids any precipitate action of the type which miscarried so disastrously at the Bay of Pigs . In short , he has no solution at the moment . The policy of hostile improvisation may , nevertheless , bring him into trouble even more serious and humilitatmg than the trouble of April , 1961 . What we do voluntarily today may determine , by a process of development , what we aie compelled to do tomorrow . Worse , the action of tomorrow may be on a vastly larger scale than the details that led up to it . Policy is not designed like an electronic circuit : , it is a complex product of trial and error , thought and passion and blind chance . In the shadowy outlines thus emerging , the future Kennedy policy looks ominous enough . Two forecasts by experienced observers are at hand . In The New York Times , Max Frankel , quoting " au= thoritative sources " in Washington , reports that " close and occasionally provocative surveillance " of Cuba is being exercised and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a tone of regret , these sources note ' ( in Frankel 's words ) that the Cuban armed forces " have gone to great lengths to avoid any brush with the U.S. aid and sea patrols . " According to Frankel ( who is indirectly quoting his sources ) , the surveillance and incursions " have demonstrated not only the cautious conduct of the Cubans and their Soviet advisers , but produced evidence that Dr. Castro himself is moving in ways that betray a fear of assassination . " The sources add that , " in any case , military intervention will remain an alternatn ! re if the present policy fails . " In plain language , Castro is to be brought down by hook or crook . In the New York Post , Eric Sevareid substantially concurs . Our ultimate goal is to bring down the Castro regime , and we should be under no illusion that " Castro is going to give us a pretext for direct invasion by touching Guantanamo or by installing atomic missiles or by any overseas expeditions against Latin countries . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the estab , lishment of a Cuban government-in-exile to carry on propaganda , political warfare and limited military action , such as hampering Russian shipments to Cuba with Cuban-owned and operated ( and presumably American-supplied ) ships and aircraft . Otherwise , the Castro revolUtion may spread to Latin America . Rather than endure such calamity , Sevareid is willing to see many Cubans die ; they are begging for the right to take that risk . There are at least four things wrong here . One is that if Mr. Kennedy takes this kind of advice and hostilities reach this level , there will be any number of Latin Americans equally ready to die fighting the counterrevolution . Another is that revolutions are best spread by armed conflict ; still another , the fact that much of the rest of the world does not share the United States ' counterrevolutionary zeal , as shown by Ben Bella 's visit to Castro in meaningful sequence to his meeting with Kennedy . Finally , in an age of revolution , it is smarter to roll with the punches than to mount a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United States , with its wealth and military power , is in a perfect position to follow a policy of accommodation while itself remain-mg capitalist . Yet Mr. Kennedy may choose the road of folly  --  may , in fact , already be choosing it . Bipartisanship on November 6 Despite the paucity of national issues in the current election , the intelligent voter can serve himself and his country by discriminate choice , regardless of party affiliation or lack of it . The Nation would suggest the following procedures . In those instances , as in Massachusetts , where peace candidates of the stature of H. Stuart Hughes appear on the ballot , they are the obvious choice . Even if they lose , a large vote for such people will have an impact on both major parties out of all relation to the size of the vote . 2 Where the Democrats have failed to present acceptable candidates , and where there are modern moderate Republicans ( as with Rockefeller and Javits in New York State ) , do n't hesitate to vote for the Republicans because ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party that need to be strengthened and ( b ) it will rebuke the Democrats for not presenting acceptable candidates . 3 . Vote for the ninety or so members of the Democratic Study Group in the House and their counterparts , in the Senate ? men like Reuss of Wisconsin , Blatnik of Minnesota , Thompson of New Jersey , Kastenmeier of Wisconsin . These are the men who , as Robert G. Spivak points out , " give ' the party its character and idealism " and who , if their numbers grow , could free the party from the incubus of the Dixiecrats . Since both parties are divided , - the obvious tactic is to vote for the better elements in each . 4 . Bounce the malefactors in both parties wherever and whenever the opportunity offers itself , as by voting against the avowed Birchers Rousellot and Hiestand in California . As long as the Democratic Party refuses , to purge itself of its Dixiecrats , and the Republican Party is riddled with Capeharts and Hallecks , there is no virtue per se in giving the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Eisenhower more Republicans . Tests and Protests When the Russians resumed nuclear testing , there was an uproar of indignation which reverberated around the world . When the United States followed suit ( after warning that it might take the initiative at any time ) , The NATION there was another flare-up , but on a smaller scale . And now almost , everyone seems to be resigned to an indefinite continuation of testing , as if it were a phenomenon , like the weather itself , which had to be patiently endured . Like the weather ! Aside from the gradual poisoning of the atmosphere , it may be that nuclear testing , especially at high altitudes , can affect the world 's weather , and not for the better either . John Davy , the science correspondent of the London Observer , mentions a NASA statement which describes the phenomena in the regions beyond the earth 's lower atmosphere as " one of the biggest mysteries in the history of mankind , " and says of the particles in the earth 's radiation belts : " Possibly they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Yet , although so little is known as yet of what actually goes on in these fields of force , the superpowers do not hesitate to change their ' characteristics by nuclear detonations . The scientists who plan these experiments may be no more aware of the possible consequences than the early radiologists were of the harm X-rays could do .. The National Observer ( September 24 ) is another informed medium which carries some ' educated speculations on this topic . Dr. Irving P. Krick , president of a private weather forecasting film in Denver , has noted peCuliarities in weather ' in North America which ' he thinks may be the result of , Russian and American tests in the upper atmosphere . He points out that our Weather is determined by the distribution of barometric pressures , which in turn are a response to energy from space , primarily from the sun . The sun 's output of energy is variable and this causes variations in the weather . Changes in the high atmosphere can also play , a part in altering the ' energy flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belt , or an intensification of a natural radiation belt ? either of which can be produced by a high-altitude nuclear detonation ? can have the same effect as an increase in the output of solar ' energy . , Last winter , , cold waves were more intense and penetrated farther south than would be expected in a period of low solar output , ' such-as we are in now . This summer and fall , hurricane , activity in " the North Atlantic has been slight , which , may be because these surges of cold have disturbed the breeding places of hurricanes in the Caribbean . This is fine ( if it is so ) , but when the solar ? output rises , as it will later in the decade , the further intensification and spread of cold waves might be extreme . Dr. Krick thinks we are o , n the threshold of global weather control , but he adds : " Perhaps we have unwittingly ' opened the Pandora 's Box with these current high altitude explosions . " The purpose of , these explosions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latestnightmare is that weather might become a new area of warfare . The scientists who plan these " experiments " have recently been somewhat embarrassed by the unforeseen results of the Johnston Island test in July . Perhaps they should be more nonplussed than they have been , and certainly the rest of us should be less tolerant of ventures based on insufficient knowledge and swollen pretensions . The Fine Print On many a campus flags were unfurled and bells rung when university deans , presidents and student editors learned that Congress had approved repeal of the mischievous loyalty , oath , required for scholarship awards under the National Defense Education Act ( see " Oathism ' on the Campus " by Kevin Sullivan , The Nation , December 5 , 1959 ) . Some university presidents who had held out against the scholarship program in 1958 because of the hateful oath , promptly announced that their institutions would now participate . It was the alert editors of the Columbia Spectator who first spotted the fine print . For while Congress had repealed the oath , it had added three new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of University Admissions and Financial Aid at Columbia , as " most deplorable " and a " step backward . " The provisions ( 1 ) make it a crime for any member of a " Communist organization " to apply for NDEA aid ( Communist organization being defined by the Subversive Activities Control Act ) ; ( 2 ) require applicants to list all criminal convictions ( including traffic violations ) which resulted in fines over $25 , but excluding crimes committed before the age of sixteen ; and ( 3 ) give ' the NDEA commissioner arbitrary authority to ' reject " such an award scholarship " if he ' believes the award would not be " in the best interests of the United States . " With candor and ' exactitude , the editors of Spectator ' characterized this quick shuffle - of the cards as " a witless practical joke played by both Houses of Congress on enlightened supporters of higher education . " Unhappily the President , who had favored repeal : of the oath , last week fell for the " practical joke " ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still possible tOr enlightened university administrators to have the last word . ' Those institutions of higher learning that held out against the scholarship program in 1958 because of the oath can continue to hold out until the new law is also repealed , or amended . And they could , if they would , urge other colleges and universities to do likewise . Under the pressure of this kind of " sit down " strike , the next ' Congress might conceivably be persuaded that the Subversive Activities Control Board is , - not the best judge of which students are deserving of NDEA scholarships . 