@@219404

THREE months ago , after police stormed the campus of Brasilia University , Congressman Marcio Moreira Alves rose in Brazil 's Chamber of Deputies and urged his countrymen to boycott Independence Day military parades to show their disapproval . Last week that seemingly insignificant act led to some startlingly drastic consequences for South America 's biggest , most populous nation . The government imposed censorship on the country 's radio and press , put the armed forces on alert , sent tanks rumbling down Rio de Janeiro 's broad Avenida Brasil and , finally , suspended Brazil 's constitution and shut down its Congress-both indefinitely . . Nest of Torturers . Alves , 32 , is the chief parliamentary critic of the military strongmen behind Brazil 's President Arthur da Costa e Silva . Last year , he wrote Tortures and the Tortured , a study of the brutal manner in which Brazil 's military deal with their political opponents . The book was banned temporarily . After his September speech , in which he assailed the military as a " nest of torturers , " the generals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They insisted that he be arrested , tried by the Supreme Court and stripped of his political rights for ten years . Before he could be brought to trial , however , the normally compliant Congress had to agree to suspend his immunity . The government foresaw little trouble . <P> Last week , just before the issue came to a vote , Alves rose to implore his colleagues to refuse " to turn over to a small group of extremists the cleaver for their beheading . " One by one the 369 assembled Congressmen left their seats in Brasilia 's modern Chamber of Deputies to deliver the ballots . When the count was in , the government had suffered a stunning defeat . Nearly 100 of Costa e Silva 's followers crossed party lines to vote with the opposition . By a margin of 216 to 141 , the deputies quashed the government 's motion to lift Alves ' parliamentary immunity and permit his conviction for " publicly inciting animosity between the armed forces or between these and social class es or institutions . " A handful of spectators in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sing the national anthem . After a moment 's hesitation , most of the deputies in the chamber joined in . <P> Their joy was short-lived . Brazil 's military wasted no time in acting . General Siseno Sarmento , commander of the crack First Army based in Rio de Janeiro , conferred for 50 minutes with Costa e Silva and other military leaders at Laranjeiras , the President 's Rio residence . Having failed to remove Alves by legal parliamentary procedures , they decided to do away with the procedures themselves . Costa e Silva , a former marshal , resisted briefly , then caved in-as he almost invariably has since succeeding another retired officer , Humberto Castello Branco , 22 months ago .                     