@@494840

THE NEW REPUBLIC It would be neat to be able to say that Billy Wilder 's comedy contains more truth than Kramer 's drama , but One , Two , Three - although frequently funny - is political satire aimed at familiar targets . The film has an air of daring without daring anything . Still , Wilder and I. A. L. Diamond , who wrote fresh dialogue for a Molnar plot , have wit ; Wilder has wit as a director , too-and the technique to implement it . The head of Coca-Cola in West Berlin ( James Cagney ) has - for complex amusing reasons - to convert a young East German Communist ( Horst Buchholz ) into a well-dressed nobleman-executive . And has to do it in a few hours . The farce is occasionally strained ( a man masquerading as a girl with balloons in his bodice , and After some years of neglect , the chronicle history play has been enjoying a rebirth among the more literary English and French dramatists . Up till now , the results have been rather indifferent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we finally have an effective example of the genre . A faithful account of the martyrdom of Sir A Man For All Seasons by Robert Bolt ( ANTA Theater ) The Policemen by Slawomir Mrozek Androcles and the Lion by Bernard Shaw ( Phoenix Theater ) Thomas More , this work is too diffuse to be completely successful ; yet , compared with more vulgar dramatic biographies like Anouilh 's Beck-et and Osborne 's Luther , it shows remarkable intelligence , historicity , theatrical ingenuity , and good taste . I confess that the work took me by surprise , for nothing in Bolt 's last entry , an inept piece of contemporary realism called do Communists grab whole chickens off plates ? ) . The trio of Russian trade delegates seem to be playing a return engagement from Ninotchka . But despite its disappointments , the film has an over-all intelligent energy . Buchholz , adequate in high comedy ( Felix Krull ) , has little talent for physical farce . Arlene Francis , the American 's wife , is an acceptable copy of the character that was George S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female chorus . Cagney is called upon to be the dynamo of the plot and never stops humming . The picture is worth seeing just to watch Cagney furiously ordering clothes , apartment , and aristocratic antecedents for the youth ; or to hear him say , " The race that produced the Taj Mahal , William Shakespeare and striped toothpaste ca n't be all bad . " STANLEY KAUFTMANN Flowering Cherry , prepared me for the kind of form and substance he handles with such authority here . Yet , I can think of at least two reasons why he and his contemporaries are now turning to history for their subject matter . As Bolt unwittingly demonstrated in Flowering Cherry , modern man has become so trivial and uninteresting that he has lost his power to involve us , while modern mass society has inhibited even the superior spirits from expressing themselves through significant action . When human destinies are arbitrated primarily by bureaucrats , " Crean 's secretaries , " to quote Duerrenmatt 's wistfully beautiful insight , " close Antigone 's books . " In an age without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like Samuel Beckett , or invent subjective heroic fantasies , like Jean Genet , or rake in the embers of the past for adequate human material , like the new dramatic chroniclers . Or , when they have no past , no history , no tradition , they can congratulate us on our triumphant mediocrity , like the Broadway dramatists - but this approach is DECEMBER 11 , 1961 beneath discussion . A second reason For the growing popularity of the history play has to do with the influence of Brecht who brought new eyes to the past and new techniques for putting it on the stage . It is Brecht 's spirit , tempered by the spirit of Elizabethan drama and of More himself ( whose writings , transcripts , and sayings appear as dialogue in the play ) , that hovers over Bolt 's new work , just as it is the spirit of Teo Otto , Brecht 's scenic designer , that inhabits Motley 's settings - a handsome unit of simple polished Tudor stairs , located by various signs , emblems , and props dropped from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bridging transitions , and commenting on the action , Bolt has supplied a Brechtian Chorus , who also plays all the lower class characters - a greedy , ironic , calculating opportunist called ( with none of the usual Broadway toadying to this type ) The Common Man . And just as Bolt 's Chorus assumes some of the functions of the Story Teller in The Caucasian Chalk Circle , so Bolt 's interpretation of More - the great humanist , lawyer , statesman , and saint , who was put to death for opposing Henry VIII 's divorce and the English Reformation which followed it - recalls Brecht 's concept of Galileo , another historical figure hounded by authorities . More ( whose conversation , according to Erasmus , was " all of jesting and of fun " ) has usually been treated on the stage as a madcap : the Elizabethan play , Sir Thomas More , even has him cracking jokes on the scaffold . Without scanting More 's wit , Bolt interprets him more as a melancholy intellectual aristocrat , desperately trying to preserve some private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time . Unlike some of the rasher spirits who surround him , More is prudent and discreet ( " Our natural business lies in escaping " ) , and inclined to protect himself behind legalistic subterfuges . When asked to swear to the Acts of Succession , establishing Henry 's divorce and his control over the English Church , he simply maintains silence . Determined not to be a martyr if he can help it , he could probably defend his strategy with the same aphorism as Brecht 's Galileo : " Unhappy is THE NEW REPUBLIC the lands that needs a hero . " More , however , is reluctantly nudged into heroism when all escape routes have been closed . Imprisoned and brought to trial by Henry 's minister , a " dockside bully " named Thomas Cromwell , More is badgered to break his silence ; but only when he has been convicted on the basis of a witness ' perjury does he rise to declare the new Acts " directly repugnant to the law of God . " As he delivers himself to the headsman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wink : " It is n't difficult to stay alive , friends ? just do n't make trouble ! " More 's death , the wages of integrity , is for the ages ; but the moral is for our own time , when the common man ( " the master statesmen of us all " ) preserves his skin through compromise and accommodation . Noel Willman 's production is excellent tight , fluid , graceful , by turns both rowdy and dignified ? and the entire cast is impeccable , from George Rose 's sardonic Common Man , hastily burrowing in a basket for his various costume changes , through Albert Dekker 's Norfolk , played with the robustness of a growling Tudor mastiff , Keith Baxter 's Henry , cast against type as a lithe , muscular , egocentric golden boy , and Leo McKern 's Cromwell , a pudgy Machiavellian humorist of astonishing dexterity ( at one audacious moment he leaps backward upon a table ) . But the play is really a tour de force for Paul Scofield , who superbly endows the leading role with that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Looking like Holbein 's portrait , dowdy , laconic , wry , sweet , mellow , dreamy and humorous ( his irony is reminiscent of Olivier 's ) , he tells us almost as much about the quality of More 's mind as the play itself , and a good deal more about the quality of More 's emotions ? especially in one scene where he breaks down quietly over a custard that his wife has brought him in prison . It is a soft expressive moment in a performance of exquisitely subtle modulations ( Scofield raises his voice only once in the entire evening ) ; and , if the play tends to fade a little after its initial impact , Scofield 's More remains indelibly fixed in your memory . The Phoenix is back , operating , as it should have been a long time ago , in a smaller theater . The initial play in its double bill , a catastrophic Polish attempt at political satire called The Policemen , has already been withdrawn ; it is one of those disasters which producers sometimes embrace , hoping for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lion , designed and directed like one of Aesop 's fables . The production , fair enough in concept , has been routinized by some bad casting and inferior acting , but it has a few engaging moments , especially when the Phoenix 's comics take over . John Heffernan 's Androcles , a kind of gooney Simple Simon with an affection for animals , is full of modest geniality , sweet but not sticky ; and Frederic Warriner 's Caesar , in the tradition of this character , is a grape-plucking effiminate who alternates , amusingly , between cowardice and bravura . These two , and of course the sure-fire Lion ( Ted Graeber ) occasionally rescue the evening from that intolerable mediocrity which so afflicts our theater today , on both sides of the curtain .                     