@@478439

So far as I can discover , nobody has yet written a good book on editing . And , for reasons to be rioted in a moment , it is quite possible that nobody ever will . This may seem odd , since how-todo-it books on everything from golf to sex pour out of the printing plants in an ever-swelling stream . Moreover , in fields closely related to editing , the supply of ' books is copious . At least once a week somebody turns out a new meditation on writing ; and a few of them ? for example , E. M. Forster 's Aspects of the Novel or Eudora Welty on the short story ? are indispensable to anyone interested in learning the craft . About once a month we get another book on advertising . Some ? such as David Ogilvy 's Confessions of an Advertising Man ? make excellent reading , while others ? notably Rosser Reeves 's Reality in Advertising ? offer a useful , if rather chilling , glimpse of the way a supersalesman stalks his prey . Perhaps once in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as William Jovanovich 's recent Now , Barabbas . Yet it is extremely rare for anyone even to try to write intelligibly about the editor 's trade . Although there are plenty of manuals on the technical details , such as copy editing and English usage , I do n't know of any that attempts to explain its essentials . When James Thurber sat down to record what he knew about the founding editor of The New Yorker , he turned out an entertaining memoir , a postmortem on a complex personality and a treasure vault of anecdotes . But he never told us what Harold Ross actually did . When you finish reading The Years with Ross you know all about his drinking habits , views on sex , and contempt for Alexander Woollcott ; you have no idea how Ross handled his job . Somehow he managed to make The New Yorker monumentally successful , while scores of other editorial ventures ? often started more auspiciously and with stronger financing ? failed . Why ? Thurber ca n't tell us . Nor does he give us a clue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( I do n't think Thurber knew . Like most writers , he had only the dimmest notion about what editors are up to , and really did n't care . Which probably is a good thing ; the world is poorer for every minute Thurber devoted to thinking about anything except his own writing . ) Similarly , W. A. Swanherg 's recent biography of Theodore Dreiser gives us every significant fact except one : How could a man who lived such a messy and disorganized life , and whose mind was so muddled that he could cheer for the Communists and the Nazis at the same time , contrive to edit the Butterick fashion magazines with reasonable competence ? Autobiographies are n't much help either . Few editors have written them , and I know of only one ? William Allen White of the Emporia , Kansas , Gazette ? who conveyed a little useful information about his operating methods . Even that is fragmentary and scattered through several books . Since I 've been trying to edit something ? newspapers , books , or magazines ? most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pointed interest to me . Because I could n't learn much about it from books , and since trial and error is a suicidally expensive method of education ( one bad error and you are out of business ) , I tried to pick up what I could by watching veteran editors . I 've had the good luck to work under three superb ones , two who were abysmally bad , and a dozen or so in between ; and naturally I spend many an evening talking shop with other editors of all sorts . The main conclusion I 've reached from some thirty years of such tuition is that most editors are utterly incapable of explaining what they do , or why . This does n't mean that they do n't know ; it is simply that they ca n't put it into words which will convey much to outsiders ? just as my old friend Wiley Post could not have told anyone how to pilot an airplane . Like the early aviators , editors generally seem to fly by the seat of their pants . To put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good editor probably is an instinct , or hunch , which tells him what people will want to read a month , a year , or a decade from now . ( Books often are contracted for years ahead of publication , and even daily newspapers have to plan their major projects months in advance . ) In addition to this hunchability , a trait always hard to explain , an editor needs to persuade the right authors to produce the copy he wants ? on time . Equally important , and often harder , he has to keep out of print those things which in his judgment do n't belong there . Is there a recipe for developing these rather specialized skills ? I am not at all sure ; and if there is . I 'm not confident that I understand it . Certainly I no longer have much faith in certain formulae that I accepted as gospel some ten or fifteen years ago . Nevertheless I do think it is possible at least to spot some of the ingredients that go into the making of an editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I lack . An obvious one is curiosity , in abnormal quantity . ( I do n't know whether people are born with this characteristic , or whether it can be developed , like a biceps . ) All of the good editors I have known have been intensely inquisitive about almost everything , from oceanography to Hollywood starlets . Once I worked with a night editor in the Washington bureau of the Associated Press who would spend the quiet hours before dawn reading the encyclopedia ? not dutifully , but with avidity . Another man on the same staff used his spare time in preparing a commentary on James Joyce , simply because he was curious about both the way Joyce 's mind worked and the Dublin of his day . Such an inflamed cariosity no doubt contributes a lot to the Essential Instinct . If an editor is passionately eager to know all about , say , birth control in India , then there is a good possibility that a lot of readers may feel the same way . But wait a minute ... Six months from now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will potential readers still be interested ? Maybe by that time they will have heard all they ' want about India 's population problems ? Maybe the subject will have been covered , to the point of boredom , by the newspapers and TV documentaries ? Or , horrid thought , maybe nobody else ever was anything like as curious about it as the editor himself . ( In the latter case , THE EDITOR 'S EASY CHAIR he had better become a demographer or go to work for the Planned . Parenthood Federation . ) This knack for projecting into the future , for estimating what people will be eager to read at some remote date , seems to he associated with three characteristics . One of them is a certain ordinariness . A good editor reacts , in his bones and belly , the same way as most of the people in his audience ? whether it is large or small , general or specialized . He will have much the same range of interests , the same values , the same kind of enthusiasms , a capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prime example is DeWitt Wallace , the founder and still the presiding genius of The Reader 's Digest . Because he is a sort of human litmus paper , anything that interests him is almost certain to interest at least thirty million other Americans , plus millions overseas . Anyone who knows him realizes that he has gathered the biggest readership of any periodical in history , not by cold-blooded analysis of mass tastes , but simply because he is himself the quintessential middle-class American citizen . For even the most specialized publications , the same rule holds . The editors of Seventeen , Scientific American , and Partisan . Review must each be tuned to vibrate to the chords which will stir his particular audience . A really great editor is one who vibrates a little ahead of time . As they turn his pages , the readers ' reaction will be " How true ! Why did n't I think of that myself ? " or " That 's what I 've always believed , really , but I could never put it into words . " Such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not take too long a lead , for once he gets out of sight his following is likely to trail off after some other Pied Piper who is not quite so avant-garde . Publishing history is littered with the dead logotypes of brilliant periodicals which were too far in advance of their times . Also with those which lagged behind . H. L. Mencken presents a classic case history . During the ' twenties his raucous cynicism expressed a mood which was widespread but which had remained latent until The American . Mercury gave it a voice . Almost immediately Mencken rallied an astonishing following of disenchanted intellectuals , rebellious youngsters , and dissenters from the smug crassness of Boom-time America . But in the ' thirties the Depression and the approach of war brought a change of mood . Mencken failed to sense it . ( He predicted that even a Chinaman could beat . Roosevelt in 1936 ? the year FOR carried every state but two . ) In any case he would have scorned to refocus his Weltanschauung to accommodate a mere shift in popular temper . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to curiosity and an intellectual companionship with his constituents , a good editor usually has the enthusiasm of an adolescent in the spasms of first love . Often he actually is young ; a surprising number of editors ? including Henry Luce , Harold Ross , Horace Live-right , and Frank Harris madetheir marks before thirty , Others have just been emotionally retarded , like Horace Greeley , who all his life chased fads with childlike eagerness , his snowy whiskers flapping in the breeze . There is no substitute for this kind of enthusiasm , to fetch the best authors ( who usually value appreciation as much as money ) , to attract a vigorous staff , to make the printed page twitch with life . . . and to keep the editor himself ( as Thurber tells of Ross ) tinkering away on recalcitrant manuscripts till all hours , to the neglect of family , friends , and blonde actresses . It ca n't be faked . A reader will become passionately concerned with a publication only when its editors believe , truly and passionately , that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , their lack of enthusiasm will show on every page ? in the uncombed syntax , the jaded idea , the unweeded clich ? , the routine caption , the perfunctory proofreading . Such dispirited editing has become commonplace among American newspapers during the past generation , as competition has disappeared from one city after another . When all the papers in town , plus the broadcasting stations , are owned by one firm ? and especially when that firm is dominated by businessmen who have no vocation for journalism and regard their media simply as moneymachines ? then most of the incentive for good editing and writing is likely to evaporate . This has happened to two newspapers where I once worked : the Amarillo , Texas , Globe and the Oklahoma City Daily Oklahoman . They used to be edited , respectively , by Gene Howe and Walter Harrison ? both skilled journalists with a fanatic devotion to their trade ? and when I was learning the rudiments of reporting under their harsh direction , both were up against rough competition . Howe and Harrison saw to it that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or produce a better-than-ordinary piece of copy without praise . The result was two newspapers full of bounce and human juices . In addition , Harrison ( who was the better teacher ) trained scores of men who moved on to become editors and writers of some distinction for wire services , magazines , and metropolitan dailies . Today the two papers , having absorbed their competitors , are plump but plodding ; they still deliver a fairamount of news with routine competence , but ( to my nostalgic eye , at least ) most of the old zing is gone . Perhaps it is no coincidence that the old-fashioned 110-proof Marse Henry Watterson editorial zeal shows up most often nowadays in the ferociously competitive worlds of book and magazine publishing . A current instance is The New York Review of Books , edited by Robert Silvers , formerly of this magazine . Armed with nothing except enthusiasm , youthful energy , taste , overconfidence , and the absolute minimum of financing , he and a few associates ( mostly unpaid ) launched their venture two years ago in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ odds for survival were about those of a twelve-foot sloop in a hurricane . Yet it not only has survived , but has established a national reputation for thoughtful ( if sometimes a mite overearnest ) literary criticism . At the other extreme , Playboy seems to demonstrate the same point . Whatever you may think of it in other respects , its editors ' enthusiasm for girlies has been established beyond all doubt . A third trait common to most successful editors is simple ruthlessness . Happy is he who is born cruel , for if not he will have to school himself in cruelty . Without it , he is unlit for his job ; because the kindly editor soon finds his columns filled with junk . " I know too many people , " Harold Ross once remarked ? and every editor knows just what he meant . Hardly ever does an editor go to a dinner party without acquiring a manuscript , thrust into his hands by some sweet old lady who was always sure she could write ? " I feel it here ! " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It happens on the street , too . A London cab driver once produced four hundred pages of a novel from under his seat the moment I asked him to drive me to the office of a well-known publisher . And just last summer I came away from a college commencement with three manuscripts , slipped to me by a pretty undergraduate , a professor , and a parent . All are nice people , and only a brute could refuse to publish their work . In addition to such windfalls , a typical magazine office will get through the mail at least twenty thousand manuscripts a year . It can publish perhaps one per cent of them . Among the rest will be many articles and stories which are entirely publishable ? but not quite as good as something else in sight . Each of them represents a heavy investment of the author 's efforts and emotions . A surprising number will be accompanied by a note or phone call from one of the editor 's friends , or a valued contributor , or an advertising executive , or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every manuscript has to be examined carefully ? because it just might disclose a fresh talent , which is the lifeblood of any publication . But in the end , at least 19,800 of the year 's inflow will have to be rejected heartlessly , regardless of broken friendships , crushed ambitions , and the tears of charming poetesses just out of Vassar . This is the hardest lesson of all , and one I have not yet mastered . I still waste far too much time salving bruised egos and writing what I hope are comforting notes explaining why this piece wo n't quite do . But I 'm learning ; I get meaner every day . Yet somehow the indispensable ruthlessness must be combined with a genuine liking for writers , a wide acquaintanceship among them and their agents , a sympathy for their problems and respect for their work . The best editors ? Frederick Lewis Allen , for example , and Maxwell Perkins ? seemed to blend the two qualities effortlessly and unconsciously . They could n't have told you how they did it because ( I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their character . Lesser editors suffer from recurrent schizophrenia . During the last sad months of Collier 's magazine , a series of miracle workers was brought in to save it . One of them told his friends confidently that he hoped to do it within six months by building a new staff and a new stable of writers . He did n't last six months , but if he had his methods probably would n't have worked . For , so far as I can observe , a wise editor does n't try to " build " anything . He does n't think of writers orthe members of his staff as so many chunks of masonry , to be chipped and hammered into his design . Instead he thinks rather in the manner of a Japanese gardener . This can be most easily understood by contrast with Italian gardening . For 2,500 years the Italians have been preeminent builders , and they do n't really like nature ? for reasons explained by Luigi Barzini in his recent , splendid book , The Italians . So when they want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They lay out geometrical paths , align the flowers and shrubs into formal patterns , clip the trees into topiary shapes , channel the water into cascades and fountains . All of which would horrify a Japanese . His object is to make a garden look as natural as possible ? but better than nature could manage without his help . His method is not to construct an artificial design , but to guide and encourage natural growth To this end , he places a clump of bamboo where it will thrive best , sites an azalea bush to complement it . plants moss between them , and then tries to make sure that everything gets just the right amount of water , food , and sunshine . He may move a rock . redirect a stream , or by gentle weights and pressures encourage a pine branch to develop into a more graceful shape . But in each case he is striving , not to make the rock or the pine into something different , but to make the most of its own essential nature . In much the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with writers and with their junior associates . They do n't try to change a novelist into a reporter , or to push a sociologist into the style of a poet ; nor do they attempt to " build " a natural-born fiction editor into an economist . Instead ? if I understand their methods correctly ? they seek to bring together talents of many sorts , place them into harmonious relationships with each other , and then provide the conditions under which each can flourish best . It is a slow process ? but in the end it may produce a well-balanced publisher 's list or a periodical of character . Yes , I know this sounds pretty high-flown . But then I told you to begin with that nobody finds it easy to explain the editor 's trade .                     