@@218497

During his four years as Pennsylvania 's lieutenant governor , Raymond Shafer stayed so dutifully on the sidelines that he was virtually a new face when he decided to run for outgoing Governor William Scranton 's job . Buoyed by his heady victory last year , Republican Shafer lost no time rushing in where angels-and Scranton-had trod to their regret . As his administration 's first major project , he chose revision of the state 's antiquated constitution . Since the voters had already nixed six previous attempts ( including one by Scranton ) to change the 93-year-old constitution , old political pros gave Shafer 's ambitious scheme less chance than a wallflower at a garden party . Last week Pennsylvanians rewarded the Governor 's bold effort , approving a constitutional convention by a margin of nearly 400,000 votes . <P> " It was a big gamble , " said Deputy Democratic State Chairman John Lynch . " Shafer laid his administration on the line and he came through . " Said Republican Senator Hugh Scott : " It shows he 'll take a big risk for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husky Shafer , 50 , a small-town attorney , there was never any question that the advantages of a modernized constitution were worth the risks . " I was advised by a great many people not to do this , " he says . " I do n't think I ever hesitated . " Indeed , from the day of his inauguration , Shafer began plotting and plugging for reform . With his aides , he set up a special office wryly dubbed " Fort Courage " in the Penn-Harris Motor Inn near the capitol building in Harrisburg . He enlisted Scranton 's help , as well as that of former Democratic Governor George M. Leader ; he raised $50,000 to finance the campaign and began a fatiguing round of personal appearances . He especially emphasized constitutional reforms that would : 1 ) upgrade Pennsylvania 's outmoded judicial system ; 2 ) periodically reapportion the state legislature to give city dwellers a fair share of representation ; and 3 ) eliminate the 19th century prohibition against state indebtedness of more than $1,000,000 . <P> Dismal Disunity . The successful campaign represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50,000 patronage jobs he controls as Governor , it added up to strengthened leadership over Pennsylvania 's resurgent Republican Party . Both John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson carried Pennsylvania and its bagful of electoral votes largely because of Democratic strength in Philadelphia . But in the same election last week that showed Shafer 's strength , Philadelphia Democrats displayed dismal disunity : the regular party 's nominee for mayor , Alexander Hemphill , was beaten nearly 2 to 1 by Mayor Jim Tate for the Democratic nomination . Republican Arlen Specter now is the favorite to become the first G.O.P. mayor in Philadelphia in 16 years . If that happens , said Senator Scott , " I do n't see how the President can carry Pennsylvania next year . "                     