@@491262

VIETNAM : HOW DO If the new President of the United States poses to himsell two questions and answers them honestly and realistically , he will find the solution to the war in Vietnam that eluded his predecessor . First , he must ask . What is best for the American people ? Not best for vindicating a former President who had sworn not to " lose " a war . Second . What is best for the people of South Vietnam ? Not best for perpetuating a dozen generals in Saigon or another dozen in Bangkok and Taipeh . Honesty provides the same answer to both questions : an end to the Vietnam war on almost any terms . Realism supplies a postscript : Americans must not be misled again into thinking that there arc any real prospects of forging a " third force ? in Vietnam . In the decade after 1954. the United States thrashed about Indochina , looking for a middle way between Vietnamese Communism and French colonialism . More recently , Washington has abandoned the search and taken up the same III military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to everyone . Yet even today a few tempting voices promise that South Vietnam can still have its model democracy  --  not this year perhaps , or next . but one day when the war has been won . The new President must not be tempted . The war will not be won . From the shambtes in Vietnam the new President inherits one political asset , the Paris peace talks . Their very existence has conditioned the United States to accepting , after appropriate and protracted bargaining . Hanoi 's major demands . Politically , it has become safer for the Republican President to end the war than to resume it . He must instruct his representatives in Paris to negotiate a cease-fire , negotiate a government for the South and negotiate a withdrawal of American troops . The agreement they reach may As roving correspondent in Southeast Asia and Saigon bureau chief for The New York Times in 1964 and 1965 , A. J. Langguth closely studied the complex issues of Vietnam . He revisited Saigon on special assignment for the paper last year . WHAT SHOULD BE OUR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the negotiations . restraining not only America 's opponents but also her allies , how should they function as the talks go forward ? Leaders in Hanoi have said repeatedly that peace talks would be accompanied by fighting that would strengthen the Communist hand at the conference table . With that warning , Viet Cong artillery attacks and ground probes may be expected until the signing of a cease-fire . The reaction of the United States commanders has been to strike back  --  even to strike first . For what ? When Lyndon Johnson retired from the Presidency , when Richard Nixon endorsed the Paris talks , the strategists in Hanoi knew that Washington was prepared to bring its troops home . By persisting in offensive operations now , the United States gains the smallest kind of military advantage and one that will not affect the ultimate future of ' Vietnam . A few thousand more American men will be killed , a few thousand Vietnamese . But the essential terms of the agreement in Paris have been clear from the night of President Johnson 's retirement speech last March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not affect those terms . Beginning immediately , the United States should limit its troops to defensive operations . Such a unilateral cease-fire would achieve a result something like the enclaves proposed three years ago by U. Gen. James Gavin , a strategy treated contemptuously then by men who thought they knew a better way . Hanoi has shown since then a willingness to settle the conflict by a peace conference . The North would have nothing to gain from trying to push the Americans out by force while their representatives in Paris are easing the troops out by treaty . Drawing its men hack to the areas that can be effectively defended , the Pentagon would also be giving up one of its self-deluding myths . Washington and Saigon would have to acknowledge that control over a country is not measured by the amount of territory that can be bombed every day . Political maps would have to be adjusted to show the true strength of the Saigon government . The areas now marked " contested " would he recognized for what they arc  --  jungle and rice land through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months but upon which the Viet Cong and their sympathizers live , farm and train their troops . The limiting of American forces to a defensive role should include a further restriction : The United States should halt all bombing in South Vietnam and Laos . One exception would have to be made . If the Communists shell the cities or assault them with ground forces , the United States would be entitled to use air power to support its troops and allies . With the level of fighti ng reduced , the negotiations could proceed toward the kind of conciliation between the Saigonese and the National Liberation Front that any settlement will demand . Before that settlement can he reached , however , the American negotiators must be sure they understand what each of the three other parties in Paris is seeking and what is meant by the talk of independence . freedom and liberation . WHAT DO THE NEGOTIATORS WANT ? On the evidence , Hanoi wants a Vietnam unified under the political leadership of Ho Chi Minh . With reason , the Communists consider Vietnam not two countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along roads throughout the South testify to that , as they register the number of kilometers to Hanoi . Nor were the Geneva Accords of 1954 intended to separate North from South indefinitely . Leaders in Hanoi have sometimes said that they were in no hurry to unite the country . America 's representatives should assume , however , that North Vietnam will make every effort to set up a government it can influence ; or , failing that , to win over or subvert any strictly neutralist government . The goals of the Saigon government are not at all hard to fathom . General Nguyen Van Thieu and Air Vice Marshal Nguyen Cao Ky want to stay in power because they enjoy the prerogatives of office . Both men speak of democracy and freedom while they exile and jail their political opponents and shut down newspapers that criticize the government . Both men have moved slowly and ineffectually toward reforming a political system that punishes the honest and rewards the conniving and vicious . With all of the resources of their junta behind them , with election procedures that made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won just over one third of the total vote in 1967 . Since the 40 percent of the population living in N.L.F. areas did not vote at all , the Thieu-Ky government speaks for little more than the South Vietnamese Army , and may be treated accordingly . That the Saigon delegation wants no settlement is understandable . Early last year Tran Van Do , then foreign minister , estimated that the Thieu government would require five years to build the social institutions that could compete in appeal with the Front 's program . Until then , Thieu , Ky and their cabinet want to continue the war with more American money and men . The aims of the National Liberation Front are the most difficult to assess . The creation of the Front was first announced by Hanoi eight years ago , and an apparatus within the Front called the People 's Revolutionary Party was instituted in 1962 , apparently to guard against any autonomy the Front might have been developing . The N.L.F. chairman , Nguyen Huu Tho , has not been identified as a Communist Party member , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in doubt from its formation . Some able interpreters of the Front maintain that its leadership may pursue a policy of independence from Hanoi . They believe that resentments built up between the two forces during the war will outweigh the solidarity of a common cause . But the evidence for this now is slim . Looking around the conference table , then . America 's representatives can conclude that two parties want South Vietnam controlled by Hanoi but do not demand it immediately . Their willingness to wait works to America 's advantage , since any settlement that provides a facade of independence for the South offers a measure of face-saving for the United States . What is the most the American Government may expect from a treaty ? Time . Nothing else . In 1954 the United States hoped that the time it was buying in Geneva could be used to build an anti-Communist South Vietnam . With a new treaty the United States can again hope for time , but only for the reaching of three modest goals : to allow an orderly retreat of American troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who allied themselves with the United States ; and to lessen at home the impact of the Paris settlement . Since the wishes of three of the four negotiating teams in Paris are opposed only by the South Vietnamese government . President Thieu and his fellow generals must give way , and they will . HOW CAN A COALITION WORK ? As in Laos , where we have tried to buy time to produce a neutralist nation under Prince Souvanna Phouma , the most practical kind of government to establish by treaty is a three-party coalition . Thieu and Ky have sworn they will not accept that solution . Nevertheless , the new coalition government in the South must include Communists and neutralists , and the United States must help to impose it on Saigon . American representatives should accustom themselves to the word " impose . " It will be heard regularly from the Saigon delegates as the Paris talks approach their end . Historically , most South Vietnamese governments have been imposed . the most recent being the Thieu-Ky regime . The makeup of the coalition necessarily will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American negotiators largely ienorant of Viet namese politics , and its allies at the conference table sullen and uncommunicative , 111c initiative will fall to Hanoi , whit guidance from the Front . Thal procedure is not unprecedented . It was the Communists who proposed Souvanna Phounia as Laotian premier in 1962 . Averell Harriman accepted him against warnings from the State Department that Souvanna was either deceitful or a Communist dupe . Later events have supported Harriman 's decision . In making their selections for Saigon , the Communists will probably not again suggest a genuine neutralist . In Vietnam the closest parallels to Souvanna are Nguyen Hun Tho , the N.L.F. president , and Duong Van ( Big ) Minh , the Southern general long exiled in Bangkok . Thieu and Ky allowed Minh to return to South Vietnam in mid-1968 when the approaching peace talks required them to broaden the appeal of their government . Since that time , Minh has rejected an active role in Saigon , and he has pointedly been spared criticism by the Front 's propagandists . Vietnam is not very susceptible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-Communist Southerners . Big Minh appears to be the most admired Saigon general because he led the coup against President Diem in 1963 . Washington might ponder how it happens that he won esteem , not by killing Viet Cong but by overthrowing the man America had backed . If the Communists would accept Duong Van Minh , he could prove to he an admirable choice to head a coalition . Affable and more than a little lazy , he scared no one during his several weeks in power except those officials at the American Embassy who were afraid he was not tough enough to stave off the Communists . But the same qualities that disqualified him as a crusader could serve in reconciling the country . At least as likely , the coalition leader will be some prudent man who has stayed away from politics on either side , a lawyer or professor who has kept lines out to both Thieu 's government and the Front . There are more of such men than Washington may suspect . In Vietnam they are regarded not as Quislings. merely as sensible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such men as Tran Van Huong , the current prime minister , who has a reputation for honesty rare in South Vietnam . Were they willing to serve , men of his background would lend spine and honor to the civilian and nationalist faction that would form the core of a coalition . Joining them from the Front might be President Tho , and several N.L.F. officials who , according to Western intelligence , are not members of the People 's Revolutionary Party  --  the Communist organization within the Front . Hanoi will want to name the coalition 's minister of interior . Huynh Tan Phat. the N.L.F. 's secretary general and a Communist , could be their choice . From that post he would undoubtedly hasten the conversion to Communism throughout the countryside . HOW CAN TROOPS BE SEPARATED ? On a rare occasion when Vice President Ky admitted that the war would have to end through negotiation , he offered an idea of how to achieve reconciliation . He said the country should not attempt to integrate its warring factions too quickly . Too much blood had been spilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the armies of the Front and the Saigon government stay separated for a time . each in areas their armies controlled , and let passions cool . Ky may be right about native Southerners , but all other troops should withdraw at once , The American and North Vietnamese forces should begin to leave the South the day the accords are signed . At the same time , South Vietnam 's air force should be disbanded . As the country moves leftward . any direct challenge to the new coalition may he expected to come from the right . For such an attempt , Marshal Ky would need his air force . The planes have formed his base of political power since he seized their command during the overthrow of Diem . Ky himself might he appointed ambassador to the government of Chiang Kai-shek , with whom he enjoys a reciprocal admiration . Over a two-year period the swollen South Vietnamese army could be cut to the small force a small nation needs . The N.L.F. soldiers would return to their farms , once the Front 's command was convinced American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not be in a position to resume lighting . America 's withdrawal must he prompt and complete . U.S. officials once pledged to leave South Vietnam within six months of a treaty . They should keep to their word . American leaders have reiterated that the United States did not covet permanent bases on Asian soil . But already the U.S. Navy is letting it he known that American commanders would like to go on using the fine port at Cam Ranh Bay . For the United States to try to stay there would be to invite incidents of the kind provoked at Guantanamo and the Canal Zone . A coalition government might authorize the U.N . or the International Control Commission to operate Cam Ranh as an open port . In any case , violence will not end immediately . After their victory in the North in 1954 , Communist People 's Courts put to death thousands of landowners and collaborators  --  estimates range from 50.000 to 100,000 . Leaders in Hanoi have publicly deplored the scope of those executions , and officials of the Front have promised that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All the same , the United States can anticipate a large and vocal group of South Vietnamese demanding help in fleeing their country . Without the American presence , General Thieu and other Saigonese may prefer exile to the risk of assassination . And in the countryside , some returning soldiers from each side must be expected to persecute and kill their former enemies . No number of international observers can prevent those incidents . But at least a coalition would not make retribution its official policy . The United States can probably accept a few thousand of the most compromised Saigonese . The remainder , including the large Roman Catholic population , many of whom are refugees from the North , will have to stay behind to make peace with the Communists . Reports on the experience of Catholics still in the North suggest that the adjustment may not be as harsh as is feared . WILL REVOLUTION SPREAD ? As the talks near an end , each delegation at Paris will he weighing the effect of any final compromises upon the prestige of its government at home and abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he emerging from the talks without having achieved its stated purpose : self-determination for the people of South Vietnam . That purpose was illusory . W hat Washington had sought was to persuade the Vietnamese to build a form of government the United States could approve , and to endure in the interim a series of dictatorships . If Hanoi wins the kind of compliant coalition it wants , free elections may never be held . But this idea has bulked so large in American thinking that provision for elections should he made in Paris . With all its faults , the I.C.C . set up at Geneva remains the logical organization for overseeing them . Election of delegates to a National Assembly could he held within a year of the Paris agreement . Under a coalition , the Assembly elected with Thieu and Ky in 1967 would have no function , and the Paris accords should provide for its dissolution . The effect of a U.S. compromise in Vietnam should not be as disastrous as proponents of the war have claimed . Certainly , whatever happens can not be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the Bay of Pigs , President John Kennedy suffered humiliation at the hands of a small power . In the process , he endorsed an official policy of bureaucratic lying . The President went on to take full blame for the Bay of Pigs and lived long enough to become admired around the world . Nikita Khrushchev suffered another kind of defeat in Cuba . Charles de Gaulle accepted the unacceptable for France in Algeria . l'he friends and enemies of their countries did not drastically realign Ihcntselvesaticrward . A frequeut argument has been that if the Communists were to succeed in a - war of liberation " in South Vietnam , their victor ) would lead to other 7 .. tich Nuys throughout the world . Rut even as the Pentagon was claiming that the U.S. was winning in Vietnam , re-hellions ranging from nationalist or inhal outbreaks to Communist-dire:led guerrilla lighting were in evidence in many parts of the worm . Whatever the outcome in vietaan-L when masses of men feel their government unjust or despotic , they will seek to revolt . And for the poor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what kind of boon would a halt to revolutionary activity he ? What leverage would the non-Communist Left have to encourage land reform in South America , for example , if the military regimes and the corporations did not fear the threat of Communist revolt ? The realization that American power has its limits may spur nations to help themselves more effectively . Thieu 's attempts at improving his government came only after President Johnson declined to send another large increase of American troops . Thieu saw that if the dreaded talks were finally to get under way , he had better present himself in Paris as more than a master of the coup d'ena . Thailand 's military rulers may now move faster toward reform in their impoverished and rebellious Northeast if they realize the United States is not going to send American troops to shore up their failures . Throughout Indochina , Hanoi 's gains in Paris will probably result in Laos and Cambodia eventually coming under some form of Communist control . For years American military attaches in the Laotian capital of Vientiane have said that if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wanted Laos , they could take it within a week . " Or , " one senior American official said , " however long it would take them to march down from the mountains . " So far , the North Vietnamese have been satisfied with holding open the eastern edge of the country  --  the Ho Chi Minh Trail  --  for the men and supplies moving into South Vietnam . During the period of coalition in Saigon , the Communists might leave Laos alone . But it would be reasonable to predict that by the middle of the next decade Laos will he under Communist control . In Cambodia , Prince Norodom Sihanouk is so genuinely popular that during his lifetime he may he able to keep his country neutral . His has been a neutrality , though , that favors China over the United States . On his death , Cambodia could be expected to move into the Communist bloc . What will have been the lesson of Vietnam ? Surely not that " warsof liberation " always succeed  --  any more than ( - he Guevara 's experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mil , china , America has learned I hat Fre itch colonialism left a desire to be free or foreign control and a hatred 01 the white man , which Ho Chi Minh could turn 1 ( 1 his advantage . Other conclusions arc there to be drawn : that within America 's own hemisphere lies a huge continent exploited and ignored . That while the United States has managed to spend $30 billion a year on Vietnam , it spends less than one tenth that amount on aid projects throughout the rest of the world . At home , the new President during his first year in office should be able to win over the American people to virtually any settlement in Vietnam . Polls that once showed two thirds of the nation approving the bombing of the North , and then a large majority later favoring a bombing halt , prove merely that the American people know little about the details of waging war in Vietnam . They want the war to end . They want to hear either that it was a victory or that the mistake will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to tell them both . No official explanation , however , will comfort the wives and parents of men killed or disabled in Vietnam . They will be bitter and they have reason to he . President Nixon 's position will be strengthened by the fact that his natural foes  --  the writers , scholars and artists of the country  --  will celebrate any cease-tire and any coalition . Perhaps three years from now , as the results of the agreement become apparent , a third-party candidate or voices within his own party will fault the President for his solution . In an election year , the Democrats may join the criticism . President Nixon can answer that he inherited another man 's war and that he ended it . Finally , Lyndon Johnson 's pledge or Inc billion dollars fro ' development in Southeast Asia should he redeemed by his successor with a program administered by the United Nations For hospitals , schools , orphanages , roads and dams throughout Indochina . When the crier was made , it seemed like nothing more than a crude bribe . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Certainly , the money will not erase the last eight years , restore the lives or heal the wounds in South Vietnam . It is for the good of the American people , more than for the Vietnamese , that some attempt at reparation must he made .                     