@@477991

ON June 1 , 1961 , after the riots in Montgomery and Birmingham , Professor Robert M. Wallace of the University of Alabama wrote to fourteen college and university presidents of the state : " The bleak and frightful truth is that ... it is dangerous for an educator to stand openly , actively , and vigorously for decency and moderation . " In spite of a decline in outright violence , academic freedom is still taking a beating in the lower South , from Texas to Florida . Faculty dismissals and harassments have been increasing , and reprisals against students reached a new peak this year . The outstanding cases of academic freedom arid tenure in the files of the American Association of University Professors increased from thirty-seven in April 1961 to fifty-five a year later . Twenty-three of the cases and a majority of the institutions censured are in the South . When I visited more than a score of Southern campuses during the spring term last year I found some of them nursing fresh wounds , others worried over immediate prospects , and several in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the last two years a wave of reaction ? led by the White Citizens Councils , the John Birch Society , and the Ku Kluxers ? has clashed with the great movement for Negro rights . Both movements are not involved in all cases of academic freedom , but when they are the troubles are intensified . What the colleges are up against is illustrated most recently by the high-handed firing of Professor Rupert C. Koeninger of Sam Houston State Teachers College at Huntsville , Texas . A native of Texas and head of the college 's sociology department for fifteen years , Dr. Koeninger is described in a petition signed by 175 of his 190 colleagues as " the most eminent professor on the campus . " Several of his colleagues planned to resign in protest . An investigating committee of the Texas Association of College Teachers reported that everyone interviewed " spoke in highest terms of Dr. Koeninger as a man , as a teacher , and as a citizen .. ? the pressures operating ... seem to stem from the John Birch Society in Huntsville and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political activities . " Chairman C. S. Ramsey of the board of regents is the brother and law partner of former Lieutenant Governor Ben Ramsey . The investigating committee described the professor 's political activities as " not only proper but .. . sanctioned by the statement on political activity adopted by the board in 1919 , " One such " activity " was a speech in 1955 factually reviewing the first year of school desegregation . When the board met on May 22 , 1962 , to take final action , Chairman Ramsey flatly refused to reveal any charges or bill of particulars against Dr. Koeninger or to give any reason for firing him . " This is like a blindfolded boxer entering the ring against an opponent who can see , " declared Koeninger 's attorney . " It 's impossible to defend your client properly when you have n't any idea what he 's been accused of . " Ramsey refused to see a representative of the American Association of University Professors , saying , " I am a busy man . " This was not the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy of academic freedom . In July 1957 , the hoard of Texas Technological College in Lubbock went into secret session , excluding the president of the college . They came forth with the announcement that they had unanimously voted to fire three professors ? Byron R. Abernethy , professor of government with more than len years service , Herbert M. Greenberg , assistant professor of psychology , who had come in 1955 , and Per G. Stensland , professor of education , who had been at Tech since 1952 . TWO of the professors learned of their dis- missal through the press and the third was out of town . The faculty immediately condemned the action as a blow that would " destroy faculty morale , " and Dean R. C. Goodwin said there was no question of the professional competence of the men dismissed . The board nevertheless refused to reconsider its action , to give the dismissed men a formal hearing , or to state the charges against them . The faculty and the state press believe that the professors were dismissed because of their political , social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the liberal wing of the state Democratic party ; Greenberg conducted an opinion poll on school integration ; and Stensland organized discussion groups for adult education . The investigating committee of the AAUP justly found the board guilty of " arbitrary action and a flagrant denial of the principles of due process . " J. Everts Haley , a member of the Texas Tech board of directors , figured recently in a more physical assault on academic freedom . Haley , a cattleman and a former candidate for Governor , had previously offered a resolution at a board meeting deploring " the unctuous and dishonest cloak of ' academic freedom ' " and promising " tax-paying parents of Texas " to run the college without regard to " felt-wing clamor , innuendo , and agitation . " In May 1961 , at a showing of the House Un-American Activities Committee 's controversial movie , " Operation Aty ? lition , " at West Texas State College , Haley exchanged sharp words with John W. Cooke , a history instructor , who challenged the fairness of the film . Though Haley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had its president call Cooke into his office the next day . There in the presence of the president , Haley and his son berated Cooke for political heresy and followed through with a physical assault . They swapped several punches before being separated . Instructor Cooke was not fired , but he took a job elsewhere and did not return . These vigilante tactics are not confined to Texas . A recent victim in Florida is Thomas P. Hardeman , assistant professor of philosophy at the University of Tampa . Although technically a member of the faculty until August 1962 , Hardeman received notice of his dismissal in June 1961 , and was not only forbidden to teach but banned from the campus for the ensuing year . The dismissal followed an attack on Hardeman by the " Florida Coalition of Patriotic Societies , " headed by Sumter Lowry , a Tampa businessman and retired National Guard general . Lowry is a member of the John Birch Society 's " Committee of Endorsers , " and his son-in-law is head of one of the Tampa chapters of the society . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Birchite attack was the reason for Hardeman 's firing but announced that " I will certainly tell him to keep his mouth shut . " But the professor refused to stop speaking in favor of the United Nations and the World Court or to give up his opposition to the House Un-American Activities Committee and the Birch Society . He was fired without a formal hearing or written charges against him . The weaker institutions are more vulnerable to pressure , but the big state universities of the lower South have also suffered indignities . The University of Florida at Gainesville , for example , submitted to an outrageous inquisition three years ago . It was conducted by a committee of the state legislature , headed by a gubernatorial candidate , which held hearings for seven months on or near the campus . With the aid of lawyers , police , detectives , and paid informers , the committee dragged in hundreds of witnesses , mainly students , to testify against professors . Disclosures of political heresies were disappointing , but sexual deviations supplied headlines . Louisiana State University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960-1961 , but in the process was compelled to sacrifice a professor who became embroiled with influential members of the legislature over public-school integration . Faculty resignations at the University of Mississippi , which is under constant harassment by politicians , have been crippling . Within one recent two-year period nearly a fourth of the faculty resigned . Undeterred by this , powerful members of the State Senate undertook more than a year ago to make an object lesson of William P. Murphy , a prominent member of the Law School faculty . His offense was membership in the American Civil Liberties Union and an openly professed opinion that Supreme Court decisions are the law of the land . After extended leave of absence that probably avoided outright dismissal , Professor Murphy recently resigned to accept a desirable job elsewhere . His former colleagues , along with all other teachers in public institutions of the state , are still required by law to file annually a list of all organizations to which they belong or to which they have contributed . An Arkansas statute of exactly the same kind was declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Mississippi continues to enforce her law regardless . The University of Alabama still lives in the shadow of the Authcrine Lucy mob incident and the Ku Klux . Though Klan activity has abated , a man who calls himself the National Grand Wizard and was prominent in Governor John Patter-son 's 1959 campaign , runs a Riling station adjacent to the campus . Last year he told the university newspaper that , " If anyone can stop integration at the university , the Klan can do it , " and that he had " a definite plan of action . " In March 1961 , hooded men took a ministerial student from his church after an integrated seminar , blindfolded him , took him out of town , and beat him . The University of Alabama is still under judicial order to admit Negro students and still postpones integration . No university in the South has a prouder tradition of Freedom nor a more spirited Faculty than Vanderbilt . But early in 1960 , while tempers were hot over sit-ins , Mayor Ben ' West of Nashville took offense at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr. , who said publicly that the law had been used to keep the Negro in his place . " As a missionary to India , Lawson had studied Gandhi 's doctrine of passive resistance . He had taken no part in the sit-ins , but refused to forswear future participation . Chancellor Harvie Branscomb with the support of the executive committee of the trustees expelled Lawson on the ground that he identified the university " with a continuing campaign of mass disobedience of law as a means of protest . " The faculty 's protest stirred national interest . When Chancellor Branscomb refused to yield , twelve professors of the divinity school , led by Dean J. Robert Nelson , turned in their resignations . Eventually Dean Nelson 's resignation was accepted and the other professors reluctantlywithdrew theirs with the statement that Nelson 's dismissal was " unjust and ungracious . " The faculty retired from the fight with bruised consciences and damaged morale . A PROMISE TO PURGE T H E plight of the Negro colleges is much worse than the cases so far cited . Fifty-one such colleges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students , are constant targets for attacks on the Negro rights movement as well as on academic freedom . Presidents of state-supported institutions in particular must walk a tightrope . Typical of the reprisals and harassments that president , students , and faculty can suffer is the recent history of Alabama State College in Montgomery . Birthplace of the nonviolent crusade against segregation led by Martin Luther King , Jr. , Montgomery was the scene of the successful boycott to desegregate city buses in 1956 and the mob attack on Freedom Riders in 1961 . On February 25 , 1960 , thirty-five students from Alabama State College staged the first sit-in demonstration in the Deep South . When Governor John Patterson threatened to expel them from college , a thousand fellow students demonstrated on the steps of the state Capitol ? once the Confederate Capitol . Montgomery police then arrested thirty-four students and a faculty member at a protest meeting near the campus and threatened to close the college . At the Governor 's request the State Board of Education at once ordered the expulsion of nine students , placed some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For several months a police inspector appeared on the campus almost daily to question students , attend their meetings , and collect evidence , The investigation " uncovered " at least eleven faculty members who were not " loyal " to the institution . Then on the demand of Governor Patterson , President H. Co/1mi11 Trenhohn promised " to purge the college of disloyal faculty members . " If the President failed " to straighten out the situation , " Patterson announced that he would " find someone who can . " Before the end of the term seventeen members of the faculty resigned , some under pressure , some in fear of reprisals , and some for other reasons . Professor Lawrence 1 ) . Reddick , chairman of the history department for five years , was the only one fired . He had already resigned effective August 31 , 1960 , but on June 14 , without any warning whatever , Patterson denounced him on television as " a Communist sympathizer and racial agitator " and 86 CRISIS IN SOUTHERN COLLEGES demanded that President Trenholm dismiss him " before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teacher of twenty-seven years ' experience , Dr. Reddick was the author of a biography of Martin Luther King and a companion of King 's on a trip to India . He made vigorous demand for his rights and received the full support of the American Association of University Professors and the American Civil Liberties Union . In spite of this , he was dismissed in violation of his contract , without a hearing , without seeing the charges and evidence against him , and without salary due . The humiliations of President Trenholm were not yet ended . Before the television camera Governor Patterson exacted from him promises to keep " a close watch " on students , to retain only such members of the faculty as maintained " proper conduct , " and to " enforce more strictly " the admission requirements for students . The opening of the college the next fail was long delayed while the president personally interviewed applicants . He required all to sign an " oath of honor " pledging " gentlemanly " and " ladylike " conduct , and inquired closely into their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including the president of the student body , only on probation . Enrollment fell off sharply , vacancies in the faculty remained unfilled , and the Southern Association of Colleges , which carried Alabama State on its probationary list of accredited institutions , dropped it . And in spite of Trenholm 's compliant policy , Patterson removed him from office and placed him on leave . " In the meantime Tennessee , Georgia , and Louisiana followed Alabama 's example . in April 1960 , the Tennessee State Commissioner of Education instructed all state colleges to " dismiss promptly any student . arrested and convicted on charges involving personal misconduct . " In May of the following year , fourteen students at Tennessee A I State University in Nashville joined the Freedom Ride through Alabama after the sponsoring organization , CORE , had decided the going was too rough and called off the ride . The Tennessee students survived the riots and imprisonment , but Governor Buford Ellington saw to it that thirteen of them were expelled from college without a hearing . Uncle threat of a student boycott of commencement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her class . The others brought suit and eight of them were ordered readmitted by a federal court . After the mass demonstrations at Albany , Georgia , which led to the arrest of sevenhundred Negroes last December , the president of the local college suspended more than forty students for " conduct detrimental to Albany Shale College , " in sharp contrast to the lenient treatment of the white students who demonstrated a year before in favor of segregation at the University of Georgia . In January , some thirty Negro students of Alabanut .4 dr 11 College joined sit-in demonstrations at Huntsville in northern Alabama . Whereupon Governor Patterson removed the president of the college with the professed purpose of finding another " who will require discipline , make the students behave , and make them study . " In President Felum G. Clark of Southern University , Louisiana found a disciplinarian who needed liti le gubernatorial prompting . The largest institution of higher learning in America with an all-Negro student body , Southern occupies a new campus full of striking contemporary architecture near Baton Rouge . Last December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rouge jail to protest the imprisonment of twenty-two fellow students . Police broke up the demonstration with tear gas and jailed Fifty . The next day the State Board of Education ordered the automatic expulsion of any student arrested or jailed and forbade all unsanctioned demonstrations . President Clark not only complied with the board ruling but closed the university until after Christmas holidays . Students had scarcely returned when further protest prompted Clark to close the university again until further notice . He ordered every student off the campus with his belongings by five-thirty that afternoon . Upon reopening ten days later , the president required all students readmitted to register anew . The purpose , according to the Baton Rouge State-Times , was " to weed out trouble makers . " The number denied readmisson has not been revealed , but a hundred students were simply not informed of the reopening and some two hundred were readmitted on probation after " good citizenship " pledges . Among those who did not return , according to well-informed faculty members , were many of the best students and campus leaders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " are interested in education , and nothing else . " Privately supported Negro colleges have put up a better defense , but they are by no means immune from state pressures . Sit ? in demonstrations by students of Talladega College , which has a few white students , brought Alabama 's Attorney General MacDonald Gallion down upon them last April with an injunction prohibiting all such demonstrations . In the midst of a desperate campaign for Governor in May , Ca/lion followed up by threatening to revoke the college charter . He dropped the proceedings after losing his race . Under pressure from state officials , President Frank R. Veal of Allen University in Columbia , South Carolina , asked in June 19ri7 for the resignation of three faculty members who held strong views on racial equality . They refused to resign , and the board declined to approve their dismissal . The State Board of Education , with Governor George B. Timmerman , Jr. , as chairman , then denied Allen graduates certification to teach in public schools . Since Allen is largely a teachers ' college , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his efforts to get rid of the objectionable professors , only to be officially informed that the African Methodist Episcopal Church which contributed to Allen 's budget would withdraw all support if it knuckled under to the Governor . President Veal was clearly damned if he did and damned if he did n't . At this juncture Governor Timmerman attacked the professors , without naming them , as " Communist workers " and abused the Allen board for reappointing them . The chairman of the board ruthlessly overrode opposition at the next meeting and ousted the professors without a hearing . He told the press that he " assumed the restoration of our certification would follow . " It did , a month later . The subjugation of Benedict College , a Baptist affiliate also in Columbia , followed the same pattern of threats and humiliations . The dismissal of three faculty members violated all accepted principles of academic procedure . The professors were not given a hearing or confronted with specific charges , and such tenure as they had was ignored , Both Benedict and Allen were later censured by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming " an instrumentality of treason . " Under a new administration Allen University has recently apologized and offered to make amends to the professors , and the AAUP has removed its censure . APOLOGIES and restitutions may help injured individuals and reputations but they can not compensate for timidity and shame in the classroom , nor dispel the cloud of distrust and suspicion between trustees and state officials , between faculty and administration , between students and teachers . What happens to the pursuit of troth and the advancement of learning in such an atmosphere as the heresy hunters and thought controllers have created in parts of the South can only be conjectured . If there is any disposition to shrug off these outrages as an unfortunate regional peculiarity , it might be well to recall the plight of other regions a decade ago at the height of Senator Joseph McCarthy 's rampage and to remember that the present revival of McCarthyism is by no means confined to the South . A recent outcropping in Pennsylvania , for example , resulted in the firing of Professor Larry Gara at Grove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Complaints of interference by Radical Right organizations come in constantly from colleges of the Midwest and the West Coast . It was inevitable that the greatest protest movement in the history of the American Negro should have made its hardest impact in the South . The colleges have felt the wrath of the resistance to the movement and the fury of the Radical Right because they are vulnerable targets and because they have sometimes furnished enlightened opposition to the reactionaries . Freedom to investigate , to think , to teach , and to learn are a standing threat to the program of those who lead the assault on academic freedom . The colleges need help . Two significant federal court decisions in cases arising From Alabama and Tennessee furnished help of one kind within the past year . Both decisions struck at state use of academic discipline and dismissal to curb student protest and demonstrations . Further assistance may come from the courts , but college faculties still rely mainly on their own defense organization , the AAUP . It has earned respect by its methods and results , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not take the initiative against politicians and pressure groups who are causing the trouble . An aroused public opinion informed by exposure of outrages and abuses should count in the long run . One encouraging thing about the present crisis is the spirit that many embattled collegians , students as well as faculty , have shown in defending their walls from the assaults of the mob and the reprisals of its flatterers in high office . It is true that the South is losing professors and many have fled the fight , but most of them have remained to fight it out . " The place University of Alabama to do just that , " is where it is a living issue , not where it is an accomplished fact , and still less where it has become a mere object of sanctimonious self-congratulations. "                     