@@494590

From the Streets o the Polls by James David Barber and David R. Mayhew Tell a hawk congressman you are planning a peace march through his district , and you 're likely to get a cold rebuff . Tell the same man you have organized a thousand volunteers to canvass his district in the next primary in support of a dove opponent . Then his attention picks up . Show him you know the law , the ins and outs of the nominating process . Show him a substantial campaign fund already available for peace candidates . Tell him the name of the popular citizen who has agreed to contest his nomination if necessary . At this point he is listening hard . . . . Perhaps there is something to that Goodell Resolution after all . The next step for the peace movement is from the streets to the polls . The massive Moratorium of October 15 and the immense ( and 9g and 44/iooths percent pure nonviolent ) march of November 15 made their point : a majority of Americans recognize that the war in Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sentiment into political power . The President can always back up his popularity by appealing for personal support in time of crisis . He may yet discern in the flux of opinion the difference between allegiance to the flag and acceptance of his slow and secret policy . But he has nearly three more years for maneuver before he faces the electorate . Four-hundred thirty-five representatives and a third of the senators The authors teach political science at Yale University . face that test in the coming year . The machinery for ' 70 is already in motion . Incumbents are watching the election calendar , wondering if challengers will let the key dates pass without action . In Connecticut , for example , registration to vote in party primaries in 1970 closes on January 9 . In other states candidates must file as early as the first or second week in February . Normally , all this early maneuvering takes place in obscurity ; the public is not much interested , and the politicians are willing to leave it that way . But unless the peace forces want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vs . Nixon type , the time to shape the choices is upon us . Success in a campaign for a peace Congress depends on mobilizing quickly to implement a plan with at least the following elements : r . Money . It is an old political maxim that a dollar in January is worth $5 in July . The shift in public confidence from newspapers to television has escalated the cost of campaigning far beyond what most candidates can afford . A national effort to elect a peace Congress will cost millions , but in the early days of the campaign it is the thousand-dollar checks which count . Before a candidate takes on an intrenched opponent , he needs ? and deserves ? to know whether he has a realistic chance . Money helps that confidence . 2 . Candidate Recruitment . In some states and districts , registration and petition efforts will have to get started before candidates appear , simply because the deadlines are approaching so rapidly . As soon as possible , however , these actions must be organized around specific candidates who articulate and lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's determination to take an active , aggressive role , in cooperation with other congressmen , to stop the war . That comes first . But reactionaries , ideological wild men , and political inepts ? however loudly they proclaim their dedication to peace ? have to be screened out . The point is to win and get the US out of Vietnam . 3 . Leg Power . Personal contact with voters canvassing ? is probably the most effective way to bring out the votes . In the hoopla of Presidential campaigns other factors may be more important , but congressional primaries are prime targets for personal politics . Primaries can be won by small margins : in many of them , only 20 to 25 percent of eligible voters make it to the polls . There is much room for education at the doorstep : Gallup found in 1965 that 57 percent of American adults did not even know their congressman 's name ; 70 percent did not know when he would next stand for election much less how he stood on the war . If the peace forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we saw in New Hampshire , Oregon , Wisconsin and California in 1968 , Congress can be turned around on its grassroots . It wo n't be easy . Target states and districts will have to be carefully picked ? although there is hardly a district in the country in which a serious challenge can not be mounted if the war drags on . The national mood seems volatile ; Representative Sam Steiger of Arizona and 14 of his colleagues read it one way when they call on the President to order a " sudden and major escalation " of the war . Furthermore , incumbents have been hard to beat ; they hang onto their seats as if they owned them . In the current House , only 9.2 percent of the members are freshmen , the lowest percentage of new blood in the history of the US . Many are too busy climbing up the little ladders in their committees and subcommittees to grasp the urgencies felt among the people back home . That can change . A locally based movement for a peace Congress will know best the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat from Louisiana . Rarick has termed peace demonstrations " a public manifestation of disloyalty . " Only three of Louisiana 's eight Representatives were opposed in the last election ; Rarick was one . In the midst of his district , the Sixth , stands Louisiana State University , with more than 16,000 students and their teachers . What are the chances for defeating Rarick in a primary next year ? Consider Mr. William E. Minshall , Republican , of Ohio 's Twenty-Third District . Minshall is the second-ranking Republican on the Department of Defensesubcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations . He has not been what you might call an energetic advocate of prompt withdrawal from Vietnam . In November , 1968 , Minshall squeaked through with 5z percent of the vote , defeating a liberal Democrat by a margin of S000 in 200,000 votes . Suppose that among the 40,000 students at Ohio State University , and those from other colleges , a thousand canvassers could be discovered , trained and transported to Minshall 's district for a primary in May . Somewhere along the road Rep. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard of leadership for peace from the House Committee on Armed Services ? Ranking right next to Mendel Rivers on that committee , and chairman of its subcommittee number one is Rep. Phil Philbin , Democrat , of Massachusetts ' Third District . Mr. Philbin was not among the more than So members who spoke up for the Moratorium ; so far he can not be called a leader for peace . Philbin 's district nests among one of the most thickly settled hotbeds of student power in the United States ? the Harvard-MITUniversity of Massachusetts-Brandeis complex . In the last election he faced two challengers and won with a bare 47.8 percent of the vote . Should there be an alternative to Philbin in 1970 ? The House has a Committee on Foreign Affairs , a fact that may be news to those who have noticed the leading role of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . The ranking Republican there is E. Ross Adair , who won in Indiana 's Fourth District with a shaky 51.4 percent of the vote . What could be accomplished by a team from Notre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly 50,000 students ? In districts like these , a double-barreled strategy may make sense : primaries in both parties , to raise the odds that a peace candidate will get on the ballot in 1970 . There are targets elsewhere . Hebert of Louisiana , Meskill of Connecticut  --  even the Rivers and Mahons may be challengeable . In the Senate , four seats are being vacated , their incumbents retiring , so the field is open : Holland of Florida , McCarthy of Minnesota , Young of Ohio , and Williams of Delaware . Dodd of Connecticut deserves to go , as does Murphy of California . Prouty of Vermont is being challenged by an attractive , outspoken Robert Kennedy-Eugene McCarthy supporter , ex-Governor Phil Hoff , in a state increasingly attuned to change . Alaska could replace Republican-appointed Theodore Stevens and return to its Gruening tradition . Hawaii strongly Democratic in Presidential voting ? might replace Republican hawk Hiram Fong . Meanwhile , senators who have taken courageous leadership for peace need strong support : Gore of Tennessee , Hart of Michigan , Yarborough of Texas , Goodell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy , dependent as it is on the Saigon junta , the NLF and Hanoi , may drift into re-escalation or widely spaced mini-withdrawals . The war may be worse by November , or drag on as now . Or it could be over by November . The campaign for a peace Congress must be ready , before it is too late to effect real changes in Washington . Act One is a visit to each incumbent senator or representative by a top delegation of citizens , urging him to join with his colleagues in a common move for a quick end to the war , and describing to him the organized peace forces developing in his constituency . Act Two is the nominating process the registration drive , petitions , conventions , and primaries . Act Three is November . To play out this drama with hope in the results requires a special dedication which may be too much for the older generation . It means hour after hour of work few will notice . It moves beyond the excitement of provocation to the exhaustion of of persuasion . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made speeches , lonely encounters with hostile voters , cold feet and missed recreations , chances taken in a cloud of uncertainty . No one can say how it will turn out . But if the alternative to politics is acquiescence to killing and dying , we have a responsibility to try politics .                     