@@488151

After many months of maintaining a iigid and evert threatening countenance to mark its disapproval of the American role in Vietnam , the Sol , let Union shows signs of V , . timing up to a ienewed dialogue with the United States . Its leaders and its press continue to denounce " American aggression , " but recent concrete moves indicate that Moscow has decided to tread farther the path of peaceful coexistence with Washington This change is no doubt linked , at least in part , to the continuing deterioration of Sino-Soviet relations After the October 1 demonstrations in Peking and the expulsion of students from each other 's country , the break between China and Russia seems beyond repair The natural conflict weight is closer relations with the West , and especially with the United States . There arc many reasons to believe that all along the Soviet leadership would have liked to continue developing its ties with the United States in spite of the Vietnamese conflict but was prevented from doing so by the fear of providing fuel for Peking 's propaganda successes with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America lit a remarkably short time the Chinese regime has lost considerable ground in its ideological struggle , and the excesses of the Red Guards have contributed to its isolation from the rest ot the Communist world Peking 's inroads in the developing count ' ies have been cut short , it not rolled hack ( as in Indonesia ) . Moscow has therefore regained a greater freedom of action The detente started moving again a few weeks ago with the announcement of a long-delayed American-Soviet agreement for a direct air link between the two countries . It developed further in talks between Soviet Minister Grom ? , : ko and Secretary Rusk which have focused on two main topics an international treaty to regulate activities in space and insure the demilitarization of the moon and other celestial bodies , and an agreement designed to halt the spread ot nuclear weapons Aftei a failly auspicious beginning , negotiations on the space tie.ity had stalled when the Russians suddenly insisted on complete and obligatory reciprocity of lights to the use of tracking stations This meant extending automatically to the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters of space observation After Ambassador Goldberg offered technical talks on this subject leading to the usual bilateral agreements , the Soviet delegation produced a revised version of its space treaty with considerably toned-down requests Consultations are now piuceeding smoothly enough , and the prospect of concluding and signing the treaty during the present session of the General Assembly is foreseen by both sides This event would be hailed as .. I very important step in the d ? - 11 e , whereas only recently it seemed doubtful that the USSR would co-sign with the United States any meaningful agreement as long as the Vietnamese conflict continued . The treaty on nonproliferation is much more complex and does not depend solely on the two superpowers However , any progress has been prevented from the outset by basic disagreement between Washington and Moscow over limited nuclear sharing by West Germany . The fading of prospects for NATO 's nucleai integration has eased the situation , and Andrei Gromyko has made unusually optimistic statements , which among other things concede the sincerity of the American desire to reach agreement . He has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Britain , ! and has invited to Moscow Foreign Secretary George Brown , whose predecessor was snubbed when he tried to mediate in the Vietnamese War . True , Mr. Gromyko has again refused Mr. Brown 's appeal for convening the Geneva Conference , but statements from Moscow , which had previously listed a whole series of conditions for initiating peace talks , are now selecting the cessation of bombings as the condition which would open the way for negotiations . The Administration has always been eager to make concrete progress in its relationship with Moscow , but up ' to very recently it was rebuffed in direct proportion to the escalation of the Vietnamese operations . President Johnson 's stepped-up campaign for an accommodation with , Eastern Europe , on the eve of the Manila Conference and the November elections , seems to be well timed from the point of view of Soviet receptivity . The crucial test  --  for Washington as well as , for Moscow ? will be whether the renewed dialogue can break the Vietnamese diplomatic deadlock and whether Moscow is willing and able to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A recent two-day conference at Columbia University was devoted to a discussion of " The National Priorities Problem : Choices and Consequences . " Called by the indefatigable Seymour Melman and a group of faculty associates , it gave rise to nine illuminating papers on such topics as " The Garrison Society , " " The Economic Consequences of Vietnam , " " The Decay of American Cities , " " The World Poverty Gap , " etc . The question of priorities , is obviously crucial . The mystery is why some alert and ambitious politician  --  say Sen. Robert Kennedy  --  has not perceived its enormous political opportunity . Using only minimum figures and relying largely on government reports and official data , Melman inventories $76 billion a year of appropriations needed for a variety of programs : housing , health , education , transportation , natural resources , water and power , elimination of stream and air pollution , waste disposal . The sum is large , but the money exists ; however , today it is not going into constructive projectS . Military spending , space and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' or three-fourths of the federal budget . Patently something has to give . Awesome our gross national product may be , but it is still expressed in twelve digits . Hence the priorities problem . It is clear that the President has quietly abandoned his own contention that the American economy could sustain a steadily widening war , provide all the conveniences and luxuries that the middle and upper classes regard as their due , and simultaneously launch The Great Society . Not so long ago , Mr. Johnson was uplifting Appalachia THE NATIONJ October 24 , 1 ' 66 403 and getting credit for his humanitarianism . In the Charleston Gazette  --  such promises are not quickly forgotten in West Virginia ? Harry Ernst reports from Washington that Governor Hulett C Smith returned from a recent White House conference with orders to defer construction projects " in an effort to restrain the war-heated economy . " The Governor , Ernst pointed out , " really does n't have much of a choice because the President is in the process of trimming the federal aid which feeds most state construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Virginia is a $1 million expenditure to enable county school systems to take advantage of National Defense Education Funds , and $500,000 for vocational education . These cutbacks will hardly cool oft the war-heated economy , but they indicate what is happening in various federal agencies and in those states where the politicians do not vociferously press their demands . Aside from money considerations , priorities involve allocations of skilled manpower , which is always in short supply It is impossible to tie up a major part of the country 's most advanced scientists and engineers in military research and development without starving other fields of national interest On this ground alone priorities should be an issue of national debate The problem should he seen in the large so that people will understand what options exist Our present politics are largely on the make-believe level , politicians vying with one another to make elections as meaningless as possible An honest grappling with priorities would do much to restore reality to the hustings Our Bourbon Allies In the October 9 Neil . Yolk T1177E 'S Magazine , Neil Sheehan , under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Longer a Hawk , " presents the most candid and shocking account of the Vietnamese Wai to date Sheehan is qualitiedhe served as the Time , correspondent in Vietnam for two years , beginning in April , 1962 , then returned for another Year in 1965 This second tour ended last August . Sheehan 's dispatches were not notably expostulatory , another Tunes correspondent , David Hatberstam , raised considerably more hell during his stay But now that it is over for him , Sheehan has unburdened himself with redoubled force . The gist of his revelations is that the United States intervened in a class war , a war in which the mandarin caste and its mercenaries were and are arrayed against the Communists , with the bulk of the rural population in the middle Involuntarily  --  tor he went to Vietnam as a supporter of the U S crusade and still sees no way out ? Sheehan is a witness for the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese He shows how in the first Indo-China war , the native aristocracy cooperated with the colonial French " Now , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cooperate with the United States " Among these coadjutors or , to use a less polite term , quislings , is the current premier , Nguyen Cao Ky , once a pilot for the French Other members of the ruling junta were likewise officers or sergeants in the French forces . " They are the Vietnamese who have inherited the worst of two cultures  --  the pretentiousness of the native mandarins and the rigidity of the French colonial officers and administrators " Plus , he could have added , a massive dose of American hypocrisy . All measures for reform , in land ownership for instance , " have been sabotaged because the regimes were and are composed of men who are members of . or who are allied with , mandarin families that held title to properties they have no intention of renouncing While there are some patriotic and decent individuals among them , most of the men who run Saigon have , like the Bourbons , learned nothing and forgotten nothing . They seek to retain what privileges they have and to reaain those they have lost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permeates both North and South Vietnam , . . . The Communists , despite their brutality and deceit remain the only Vietnamese capable of rally ing millions of their countrymen to sacrifice and hardship in the name of the nation and the only group not dependent on foreign bayonets " A more corrupt regime probably has never battened on the lives and treasure of a great power in modern times . Sheehan says that American otticials with long experience in Vietnam estimate that about 20 per cent of U S. aid supplied for counterinsurgency projects in the countryside finds its way to the Vietcong , while another 30 to 40 per cent is diverted by government otticials " What gets down to the poor son of a bitch in the paddy field , " one U S official told Sheehan , " is a trickle " Complaints fiom the U S Embassy led Ky to warn his fellow generals that " they were embezzling too much and should exercise some restraint . Their reply was that they had to think of their families " Ky then publicly executed a lone Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bars and bordellos , thousands of young Vietnamese women degrading themselves as bar girls and prostitutes , gangs of hoodlums and beggars and children selling their older sisters and picking pockets have become ubiquitous featui es of urban life " In a parallel manifestation of " Cl culture " the countryside is ravaged by American bombs and chemical defoliants More than a million displaced peasants ci owd the refugee camps , where the government leases most of them to shift for themselves Both the urban and rural societies of an ancient civilization are being destroyed Sheehan , now serving as the Times correspondent at the Pentagon , ends his account on a note of near despair As he sees it , we have gone too far to retreat We shall have to put up with our mandarin allies , continue to rely on our magnificent killing machine , and hope that its efficiency will be so high that " someday " it will bring us to a " favorable " settlement One can appreciate his dilemma , one can even feel a twinge of sympathy for him as he hangs suspended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strange position for a man of his discernment and compassion . Confrontation at Latrobe During the first week of October , residents of the greater Pittsburgh area who dialed the local Birchite " Let Freedom Ring " number were told that " the international Communist conspiracy suffered a major defeat " from a right-wing razzle-dazzle aimed at forcing the cancellation of a college forum . This event had caused reporters and television cameras on October 3-4 to converge on Latrobe , a community some 40 miles east of Pittsburgh , where the most unlikely antagonists turned out to be 120-year-old St. Vincent College , conducted by the Benedictine monks , and a noisy crowd of right-wing extremists . The script was familiar : a student organization with the sanction of the administration and encouragement of the faculty , had scheduled a seminar on Marxism , and had further shbcked conservative community opinion by inviting a real live Communist to lecture . The Birchite troops , of course , became his best advance men and focused attention on a seminar that would have otherwise gone unnoticed beyond the campus . Three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his three fellow panelists were scheduled to begin " A Week 's Study on Communism " in the college auditorium , some 200 pickets appeared at the campus entrance . The Benedictines , who along with student association leaders had been receiving numerous telephone threats , reported a call that a bomb was located in the building . State police had been advised by the college months earlier that the seminar and its controversial participant might provoke demonstrations . Instead of undertaking to impose order , however , the cops urged cancellation of the forum " for public safety . " They would even be happy to escort . Dr. Aptheker off the campus . At this point , the Benedictines departed from the script . Instead of knuckling under to the Birchites at the gates , they suspended classes for one day , so that all 800 students and an additional 300 seminarians might attend the seminar . A packed student union  --  with closed-circuit television bringing the proceedings to overflow audiences in two additional buildings  --  heard the Communist , a New Left defector ( Philip Abbot Luce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss Marxism and answer questions . With the exception of the press , youthful state police in collegiate dress and obvious FBI types detailed to cover Aptheker , the program was limited to the academic community . The bomb intimidation moved St. Vincent President Maynard J. Brenan to say that only a " vociferous minority " had opposed the seminar , and to note that some were incensed because a Catholic college was playing host to a Communist . " But why not a Catholic campus ? " Father Brenan asked . " If anything , ' Catholic ' implies open-mindedness , fairness , justice and charity above all . We must be open to dialogue , questioning , constant change ! ' The students agreed . They denounced the pressure and observed that a Birch sound truck had rallied the pickets with emotional charges of " treason on campus while our boys are dying in Vietnam . " Father Brenan and the student leaders held a press conference three days after the truncated " Week 's Study " took place . They told of the well-financed campaign to intimidate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of Billy James Hargis were on campus in cars with Oklahoma plates , radio time was purchased , leaflets distributed . But in the end the Birchers only dramatized the fact that it could be dangerous to conduct a lawful assembly on a college campus , that the police would rather cancel than protect such a meeting and that academic freedom has come of age in places that have not always espoused it . ' Traitors To Their Constituents ' In discussing whether the Constitution contained adequate safeguards against usurpation of power by the military , the 26th " Federalist Paper " found reassurance in the fact that Congress would be obliged , at least once in every two years , " to deliberate upon the propriety of keeping a military force on foot ; to come to new resolution on the point ; and to clear their sense Of the matter , by formal vote in the face of their constituents . " The inference was that a member would become " a traitor to his constituents " if he were to give free rein to the military , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the miscreant who had so abused his power . Much of the thought of the founding fathers , so cogent in the context of the late 18th century , has this same air of quaint irrelevance today . In The Professional Soldier : a Social and Political Portrait ( 1960 ) , Morris Janowitz quotes Lewis Dexter , who interviewed selected members of Congress , as saying that " no one with whom I talked ever maintained that Congress has any significant role in the formulation of military policies . " Such is the effect of imposing , permanently it would seem , a huge military establishment on a country that for the major part of its existence had little use for large standing armies or naval forces . A striking confirmation of the impotence of Congress in ruling the military ' establishment is to be found in the action of the House on an amendment to the military appropriations measure , at the session of October 11 . The House voted 305 to 42 to give the President power to call up any unit of the ready reserve for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national emergency . The Senate passed the same measure by voice vote . Usually Congress has insisted on its right to approve mobilizations ; President Kennedy obtained approval to call up the reserves at the time of the Berlin crisis . Now Congress has relinquished even this remnant of its power and responsibility to declare war , and untd June 30 , 1968 , the President can call up individuals and units of the reserve without further ado . The President has never requested authority to summon reservists to active duty without the normal prerequisite of a declaration ' of national emergency . Congress acted this time of its own volition in a matter where the Executive has traditionally taken the initiative . Apparently some members , Senator Russell , for example , feel so strongly that some reserve units should be called up that they insisted on thrusting this power on the President . Regardless of what considerations may have prompted it , this is an extraordinary delegation of power to the President  --  to any President . Yet it has been done , and with little public notice or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as Congress , a new era has dawned , in which the old safeguards are no longer treasured . The author of the 26th " Federalist Paper , " whose ashes have long since become " siftings on siftings in oblivion , " was , of course , Alexander Hamilton  --  no negligible fighter himself when there was fighting to be done , and for these many decades admired beyond all the other founders by the well heeled and well born . Apparently he too has been cast away , and the ship sails on over uncharted waters .                     