@@478096

At long last it has a chance to become a really first-rate school ? and already is " a considerably finer place " than its state deserves . THE reputation of the University of Texas ? like so much else in the state ? suffers from the egregious Texas myth : money and glitter . In actual fact , however , the school has never enjoyed the steady blessings of influential public support which have made the four or fve great state universities preeminent . It has had to struggle against a special regional inertia and the rustic philistinism of the state 's once-agrarian culture . Through the years , on occasion , it has been maimed by ruddy nabobs and crossroads potentates who , as J , Frank Dobie once wrote in describing one particular Board of Regents , care as much about intellectual enlightenment as a razorback sow about Keats 's - Ode on a Grecian Urn . " For all that ? and despite the recent local uproar over the state senate 's rejection of W. St. john Garwood , one of Governor John Connally 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University is today one leap away froma certain greatness . Charged with intellectual vitality , full of energy and promise , it is a highly self-conscious place ? a curious blend of the narrow and the cosmopolitan , trying , in an almost driven way , to discover its deepest possibilities . Morris Ernst , one of many Easterners who have been impressed with its enthusiasm , calls it " the most underestimated campus in America . " And the late Walter Prescott Webb , the distinguished historian who had taught at the University of Texas for forty-five years , wrote a few months before his death : " The time has come to quit talking about making ' a University of the first class . ' We now have it within our grasp . " In December , Webb told me in his gruff way : " This is potentially one of the great universities of America . Take a map and draw a line from Pennsylvania on the east to Los Angeles on the west . Considering both the humanities and the sciences , right now there is n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . " Nevertheless , in its undistinguished eighty years of life , the University , as one of its leaders says , has done such a " second-rate job " that the great mass of its own alumni have a difficult time recognizing what a great university is even supposed to he . For this lack of popular under-77 standing the University stands partly to blame ; but blame , where public education is concerned , is blurred . One can not avoid the conclusion that the University of Texas is a considerably finer place than the State of Texas deserves . The main campus of the University at Austin , drawing the largest student body in the South ? over 21,000 students and 1,400 faculty ? is no quiet glade for retiring scholars . It is furiously metropolitan , anti to my recollection the only ivy in the vicinity decorates the home economics building . On a ridge dominating the original " Forty Acres " of the campus stands the Tower , a thirty-story skyscraper , topped off with an edifice meant to he a Greek temple . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Great Balcones Divide , the proper geologic ending of the South . The University at Austin , almost literally , lies abreast of the South and West , in temper an eclectic blend of the two . " It is a pleasant city , " novelist William Brammer wrote of Austin in The Gay Place , " clean and quiet , with wide rambling walks and elaborate public gardens and elegant old houses faintly ruined in the shadow of arching poplars . ... On brilliant mornings the white sandstone of the Tower and the Capitol 's granite dome are joined for an instant , all pink anti cream , catching the first light . " Austin is a political and academic town ? the University and the Capitol are only a few blocks apart ? but the two worlds are so separate that it almost seems two towns in one . III the more popular haunts , like Scholz ' Beer Garten on San Jacinto , The Tavern on Twelfth , and Caruso 's on West Sixth , the students and the professors , the politicians and the lobbyists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many legislators are University graduates and the usual handful of law students are members of the lower house , Austin 's two worlds almost never mingle . During legislative sessions the social life of the town is lively , but the politicians and the lobbyists have their parties and the professors have theirs , and one seldom strays into that other terrain except to find a refuge . YEAST IN THE DOUGH T H E Chancellor , Harry H. Ransom , a benign pokerface without much pretense or pomp , is a brilliant and intuitive educator , indisputably the most articulate academic spokesman ever to appear on the Texas scene . When Logan Wilson left the University in 1961 to become president of the American Council on Education , Ransom was promoted from main campus President to head the entire UT system of over 25,000 ( including , besides the undergraduate and graduate colleges at Austin , four medical schools , one dental school , and Texas Western College of El Paso ) . The faculty , who have always regarded him as a kindred soul , relished his swift ascent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already something of a Texas legend . His enigmatic personality provides one key to the spirit of innovation which now characterizes the University of Texas . Ransom graduated from Sewanee , where he worked as a printer 's devil and as a stringer for the Associated Press . He helped report back-country bootlegging trials and the Scopes trial itself , and made fast friends with Tennessee hillbillies . One of his Sewanee friends recalls , " He is what we called ' birchy ' ? easy to peel off and to work with , but tough , " Not rural in his tastes , however , he likes to haunt out-of-the-way bookshops in New York City and Washington . Ransom 's role at the University , as one professor describes it , has been like " throwing a yeast cake into a batch of dough . He 's started ferment everywhere . " One of his younger faculty recruits says , " If this were a state like California , where the political situation is different and the state treasury fuller , the sky would be the limit for this University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an indestructible persuasiveness . Because of a tax complexity , a wealthy Pennsylvanian who had amassed an outstanding library of modern books could not afford to leave it to his heirs , so he put his collection up for sale . The Ivy League schools and the larger state universities of the East immediately began a laborious study of its value . Weeks went by , and not one appraiser had decided what to offer . Then Ransom stepped in , spent two hours browsing , impressed the cob lector with praise and enthusiasm , and came away with the whole library for the University of Texas . It was not a matter of bargaining . Ransom had offered less than the library was worth in dollars , but the Pennsylvanian had wanted this man to have his books . Personal diplomacy of this sort has made the University of Texas the terror of the book and manuscript market . Willie Morris , recently living in Palo Alto , graduated in 1956 from the University of Texas , where he had been editor of the student newspaper . He then read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scholar , and on his return , edited " The Texas Observer " in Austin for two years . 78 THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS As arts and sciences Dean ten years ago , Ran-torn initiated special programs for gifted students , with stress on independent study and individual tutorials . He started an impressive program in literary criticism and a full-scale campaign for rare books and original manuscripts . One of his projects , a S1.5-million undergraduate center with a huge open-shelf library , will be opened this fall . Ransom is not the polished and self-contained administrator his predecessor , Logan Wilson , was . He has little patience with detail , and his critics say he sometimes promises too much without being able to follow through . But the net effect of his leadership has been to create a mood of hope in the top echelons of a vast academic hierarchy . Even Ransom . adept politician though he is , has had deep troubles with a segregationist-dominated Board of Regents . The outgoing chairman wanted his scalp . Several crises have brewed among the faculty , and last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the new Governor to infuse the Board of Regents with some progressive spirits . Garwood 's rejection by the senate this February was a severe blow to these hopes , for Garwood had said : " Any errors I make as a University Regent will be on the side of academic freedom and integration . " Students and faculty picketed the Capitol and circulated petitions ? without success ? seeking reconsideration . Nonetheless , under the administration of Ransom and his associate , main campus President Joseph Smiley , the school has become imbued with a heightened respect for intellectual controversy . I remember reporting as editor of The Daily Texan in 1956 a meeting of the faculty summoned to circumscribe , at the administration 's request , their own rights to participate in statewide politics . A handful of brave souls rose to defend the supposition that professors are citizens , and the faculty ended by voting themeasure down . But the task was performed in a mood of hesitation , unhappiness , and considerable fear . Seven years later , one of the professors who condemned the administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one area we 've won . Academic quality is the area in which we 're moving . " FODDER FOR A NEW BREED F ACU LTV standing has a long way to go , of course , but the University can lay claim to outstanding men like Wilson Stone in genetics , William Arrowsmith in classical languages , Roger Shattuck in Romance Languages , Leonard Broom in sociology , Robert L. Moore in mathematics , Charles Hartshorne in philosophy , Michael J. S. Dewar , a recent acquisition in chemistry from Chicago , and in drama B. hien Payne , the former director of England 's Shakespeare Memorial Theatre . The Law School , located in Austin but detached from the main campus , is among the best in the nation . The present recruitment policy , as Ransom describes it , places " more emphasis on the young scholars and teachers and writers than on the mere collection of established senior professors . " The University 's " bright young men " are a new breed of University professors , usually in their thirties , outspoken and intelligent , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been used to get them at their market value , sometimes , as one older professor complains , at salaries several thousand dollars more than the top men in their department . " What kind of young professor comes to Texas ? Ernest Goldstein , a professor of international law , remarks that the University " attracts a certain kind of person , someone who does n't like routine . One thing you can say about this University ? it 's not predictable . " William B. Todd , an outstanding bibliographer who was at Harvard as assistant librarian of the Houghton Library , is impressed with the growing acquisition of rare books and manuscripts . " Many people , " he says , " find it hard to believe these things are in Texas . " Anders Saustrup , a graduate of Aarhus University in Denmark , says : " I did n't think Texas was supposed to have a university , " but he found the work being done in Germanic languages and linguistics , under the direction of Winfred Lehmann , of " absolutely top quality . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men have become a sort of campus triumvirate , recognized as symbols of the changing order . Roger Shattuck , Harvard fellow and author of The Banquet Years ; William Arrow-smith , the well-known translator of classical literature ; and John Silber , a brilliant philosopher and chairman of his department , are active participants in the University 's efforts for national recognition . Not many universities give you the opportunity to do your best work , " Arrowsmith says . " At Texas it 's really true . " When he proposed a translation symposium to Ransom , Ransom said , " Okay , you 've got a budget .. Hop to it . " At some schools , Arrow-smith remarks , this would take five years because they do n't have that kind of uncommitted money . " Silber says Ransom 's kind of leadership ? getting the faculty , the programs for the gifted students , publications ? would be ' ' absolutely disastrous " at the older Eastern schools , but in a university not yet uniformly excellent in either faculty or student body , such initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most commonly acclaimed as the strongest in the humanities , the entire curriculum has been strengthened , teachers have been brought in from European universities , and new textbooks have been prepared for all levels . Helmut Rehder , who came to Texas from a departmental chairmanship at Illinois , says of the possibility of a Germanic Institute on the campus : " If it is n't here , it can be made , " This optimism for the future comes from almost all quarters . In Latin-American studies , John P. Harrison , the new director , who had been a specialist for the Rockefeller Foundation , speaks of the untapped potential of the University of Texas , " sitting on top of the Latin-American culture . " The dean of engineering , W. W. Hagarty , has toughened standards , stressed interdepartmental disciplines , and chosen promising students as junior fellows . Some of his Eastern colleagues , he says , considered his coming to Texas something of a joke . " 1 said then , ' I 'll tell you what , we 're going to scare you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University 's encouragement of creative scholarship is the work now being done in classical languages , where a new journal , Arlon , is expressing a lively and sophisticated dissatisfaction with the present state of classical studies . Its editors , sometimes to the dismay of more traditional scholars , have experimented with translations using the verbal and visual techniques of Pound , James , Eliot , and Joyce . Another experiment , The Texas Quarterly , has , despite some rather bland first numbers , published first-rate national studies of Italy , Spain , England , Mexico , and Australia . A slightly older publication venture , The Graduate Jourual , edited by the outspoken dean of the Graduate School , Gordon Whaley , has become a locus for some vigorous criticism of Texas culture and the University 's sometimes inflated rhetoric . ( " The University , " Whaley wrote in a special issue on the South , " is accomplishing much that is interesting and important , but little that is not being clone better elsewhere . " ) The University of Texas Press , in operation only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Association of University Presses , is trying to become the outstanding university publisher on Latin-American subjects , and has produced such volumes as Juan Ratmin Jimenez ' Platero and I and Garcilaso de In Vega 's The Florida of the Incas , and Joyce Cary 's The Case for African Freedom . In history , Professor Webb initiated a program which is bringing to Austin over the next two years twenty outstanding historians , mostly Pulitzer Prize winners and former presidents of the American Historical Association . While there , they are taping television films on their own research to be used later at the University and then made available to other schools . " TELL US WHAT TO LEAD " H E mood of change has infected the stu- dents too . This generation at the University , newly concerned with social and political issues , fills auditoriums to capacity for lectures and debates . When Aldous Huxley lectured last year , the letters column in the student daily was filled with angry criticism because several him-tired people , including President Smiley , could not get in . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? typical of a sprawling state university . Student life is unrelaxecl and over-organized . The Greek System , with probably the most palatial fraternity and sorority houses in the country , is the usual hotbed of planned frivolity . One brisk morning last December a visitor would have seen a sign in front of the student union declaring : " Let 's Have a UT Co-ed as Miss America . " Posters tacked on trees recommended that students learn the Twist , the Jitterbug , and the Dallas Push . As part of some campus ritual , fraternity men were hauling young scholars to class in replicas of Greek chariots ; a dusty scholar leaned our of the window of a library and shouted , " Either grease those goddamn wheels or go someplace else . " Sorority girls with 84 THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS frazzled hairdos strolled about in skirts above their kneecaps , as if Texas were spawning a generation of Lolitas : the young cynics at Scholz ' Beer Garten call them " fluffheads . " Although conservative and liberal activist groups ? are more articulate than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally seem lethargic . The student President , Sandy Sanford , says honestly , " There is a reluctance on the part of everyone , including myself , to take positions or make statements that would offend others . " A government professor , describing a recent " student leadership seminar , " says the students seemed to be asking : " Okay , we 're the leaders . Tell us what we should lead . " Most of the student radicalism , to the extent that there is any , comes not from the Left but from the reactionary Right . Last year , a group of campus Birchers formed a plot to spy on their professors by sneaking pocket tape recorders into class . Typically , when a group of University pacifists picketed the state capitol , the young conservatives picketed the pickets . The one area where the student liberals have been most effective , carrying middle-road and some conservative strength with them , has been campus integration . Vivian Franklin , one of their leaders , an attractive government and economics student , remarks , " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campus anymore . " The bitter rift on this issue between students and faculty on the one hand and the Board of Regents on the other has underscored the continuing hostility among the University 's people toward their political patrons . The University , voluntarily and without court order , desegregated its undergraduate levels seven years ago . At times there have been as many as 250 Negroes on the campus by some estimates , but now there are less than 150 . Classrooms are desegregated , as well as intramural athletics , the student union , student activities , and most restaurants near the campus . Segregation remains , however , in dormitory housing and intercollegiate athletics , although the all-white University teams play teams with Negroes , both at home and away. * The mounting crisis over the Regents ' refusal to go further has led to a law suit , now in the courts . * But at Texas Western , part of the University System , four of the five starters on the basketball team are Negroes . In a game in El Paso this winter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ten starters were Negroes . An El Paso legislator commented that the Texas Western coach uses a Caucasian on the starting team to prove that integration can work in reverse . The Regents , arguing that majority opinion in Texas will not support further advances and that efforts toward that end are the work of a " vocal minority , " have stood fast against a steady barrage of student and faculty criticism . When the student President last year , a young East Texan named Maurice Olian , supported by almost unanimous mandates from the student assembly , called the Regents ' policy " narrow-minded , backward , and hypocritical , " the Board chairman , Thornton Hardie , demanded a written apology . He did not get it . After the largest student election in campus history voted to erase the bars on intercollegiate athletics , the present Board chairman , one W. W. Heath , suggested that it would he a good idea to have the students ' parents polled . The faculty , many of whom have signed petitions and participated in demnstrations , erupted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put on disciplinary probation for demonstrating against the prohibitions . The general faculty voted ten to one for swifter integration . THE HOOFPRINT OF OILMAN AND RANCHER T H IS ill-feeling toward the Board of Regents is by no means new . Time and again faculty members complain . " We 've never had a decent Board of Regents , " or " the Regents have been our worst enemies . " Almost invariably the nine Regents , who are appointed to six-year terms by the Governor , have been wealthy oilmen , ranchers , corporation lawyers , or doctors . The vast majority give little thought to the purposes of education , arc too inured to hiring and firing according to the business mystique , and , as appointees in a game of political spoils , all too contemptuous of the delicate give-and-take of educational discourse . A few years ago one of their number , an oilman and rancher , declared that the student paper should not be allowed to criticize Texas oil and gas interests because oil and gas contribute so much tax money to state government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ferguson warned that it was a nesting place for sinners and profligates , the University was having its political tribulations . The state legislature has investigated the campus on several occasions , and once , when the University bought a $20,000 collection of Byron , Shelley , Tennyson , Browning , and Lamb , the lower house protested that all the poets were " obscene or atheistic . " As recently as 1962 , the faculty was threatened with a law which would require all professors and teachers in state-supported schools to " acknowledge the existence of a Supreme Being . " * Know-nothing campaigns ? the latest seeking to purge such literary subversives as Faulkner , Wolfe , Hemingway , and Stein-beck from Texas school textbooks and libraries ? have insisted that the University and its sister institutions are havens of ribaldry and super-sophistication . Such rural entertainments , however , have become rarities as Texas becomes more urban and somewhat more serious in its concern with civilization . The crucial turning point for the University may have come in the 1940s , when it suffered a series of blows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of President Homer P. Rainey has become something of a legend in American higher education . Rainey , who became president in 1939. was confronted by a Board of Regents increasingly dominated by appointees of Governor " Pappy " ( ' Daniel , the former flour salesman and radio entertainer who was himself a tool of uncivilized wealth . Soon after Rainey was fired , the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools placed the University on probation , and after a three-year investigation the American Association of University Professors censured the Regents ' " systematic , persistent , and continuous attempts by a politically dominant group to impose its social and educational views on the University . " Deeply hurt , the University of Texas took its censure seriously . After that the only way to go was up . And that was the direction the University took when Logan Wilson became President in 1952 and later Chancellor . It was a time of quiet rebuilding . He laid to rest much of the lingering bitterness , avoided taking sides between the old warring factions , and traveled the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 per cent over the next ten years . With an unprecedented concentration on academic standards , he broke the custom of spending the income from the permanent endowment on buildings alone . Wilson 's administration and the Regents agreed on a $65-million " excellence " * At a legislative hearing on the bill , a committeeman hostile to it read Jefferson 's Act Establishing Religious Freedom in Virginia . " Well , that 's just fine , " W. T. Oliver , one of the sponsors , responded . " Well . W. T. , it looks like we 'll have to be either for you or for Thomas Jefferson , " a legislator from South Texas said . " Yessir . " W. T. replied , " that seems to be the choice . " " W , T. , you 're making it awful hard for us. " program , to include steady increases in faculty pay to compete with the best universities , supplementary funds for outstanding scholars , graduate fellowships , scientific equipment , books , and manuscripts . In his policy of sidestepping the dissensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Aloof and austere , he did not endear himself to his faculty ; around the campus he was known as the " Great Stone Face . " He did not encourage vigorous faculty or student expression that went too far afield for the Regents . Prompted by student political party groups , a law professor suggested to Wilson that a university should be an open forum for all partisan views . Wilson told him that the people of Texas were not ready for that yet . It was not a bracing intellectual climate , though beneath the surface a foundation was being- laid . In its political context , the University of Texas is still on a precarious balance . " If the Regents insist on the state dominating and repressing the University , " one young professor says , " we 've had it . But if it 's the University guiding the state , the Board of Regents could be our greatest asset . We desperately need an enlightened Board , traveling all over Texas , arguing for what it takes to make a great school . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejection by the Regents appears to be something of a setback . T HE University , in its efforts toward excellence , is beset with problems of a broader nature . The outside view of an institution overflowing with wealth is a myth . Money used from one set of funds to bring in a promising scholar has meant pennies pinched in other areas . One 86 THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS department in the sciences is so poor its chairman would not talk budget matters because he " would get worked up and say something that might make a headline . " Although the University 's permanent endowment , which derives from oil and gas leases on its land holdings , ranks second only to Harvard , only the income from the endowment can be spent , and one-third of that income must be given to the University 's rural and somewhat decadent kinsman , Texas A &; M. The source of about 60 per cent of the school 's income is state appropriations , and in comparison with the funds granted to eminent state universities , those appropriations have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $4.5 million more a year before the graduate school can hope for genuine distinction . In every rank faculty salaries stand at or near the bottom among comparable schools in the American Association of Universities . Further , the entire system of higher education in Texas ? a state which is coming to realize both to its terror and its delight that it is metropolitan , industrial , and populous ? is a hodgepodge of amorphous masses and warring petty principalities . Besides the University of Texas Board of Regents , there are ten other boards supervising other public institutions and systems . Crossroads colleges exert political pressure and get state support without plan or purpose . One politician perceptively observes that " a hunch of one-Iegged dirt farmers could build a two-room schoolhouse at a bend in the Nueces River and call it Oxford University and start crowin ' for state support and in five years they 'd probably get it . WITHIN ITS GRASP T EXAS ranks indisputably first as the state with the broadest gap between its riches on the one hand and its social conscience on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first in cattle , first in the hearts of its state 's righters , Texas supports social services which are only less disgraceful than those of its poorer Southern neighbors . What , against this background , call be said about the future of its state university ? " Texas , " one professor told me , " is an oligarchy . Higher education is always in danger in an oligarchy . The oligarch has a sense of values which does n't permit him to appreciate what a university is all about . " That oligarchy , many Texans have begun to see , may be in the process of change . Its monolithic rule is threatened by the trend toward two-party politics . A few of its leaders are beginning to recognize responsibilities unmet , and younger men are inheriting the first-generation wealth which was so corrosive in their fathers ' hands . With growing urbanization there has been an influx of professional people less provincial in their responses . Perhaps it is symptomatic of this changing oligarchy ? the new masters of oil , gas , banking , construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the sources of Texas financial power as a candidate could have been , has pledged to uphold academic freedom and has espoused vastly greater state spending on higher education : or that Vice President Lyndon Johnson , also with close connections with the Texas financial establishment , has been telling home audiences that their spending on higher education in comparison with California 's ? $147 million to $521 million ? is so low as to be " almost criminal . " " We 're at a breaking point right now , " one of the young men on the faculty told me . " A lot of fine people have come down here in the last four or five years . They believe in the future of this University , but they 've been offered good jobs elsewhere . They 're waiting and seeing . " The University of Texas may today be an exciting and attractive place ; but the decisions taken in the next few years by the state legislature , the Board of Regents , and the Texas citizenry cotikl well determine whether it will make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " greatness that is within its grasp , " the University must be freed of the intellectual and economic restrictions which its region has imposed on it . The hope of the first President of the Republic of Texas ? Mirabeau B. Lamar ? for " the cultivated mind as the guardian genius of democracy " has an even truer ring now than it had in 1838 when , long before the University began , he urged the Texas Congress to " lay the foundation of a great moral and intellectual edifice , " Like Texas , the University is in painful ? and hopeful ? transition . Out of its present efforts and its past failings may come a true distinction , and the eminent Southern university which the South and the nation need . 