@@313275

The U.S. has seldom had occasion to look north to Canada for political excitement . Yet last week Americans could envy Canadians the exuberant dash of their new Prime Minister , Pierre Elliot Trudeau , who , along with intellect and political skill , exhibits a swinger 's panache , a lively style , an imaginative approach to his nation 's problems . A great many U.S. voters yearn for a fresh political experience , but at midpoint in 1968 , the U.S. presidential race has begun to seem grindingly familiar . Hubert Humphrey and Richard Nixon appear destined to seize their parties ' nominations , then meet in an old-style confrontation in the November election . For some voters , at least , the prospect is enough to start a small migration to Canada . In a last-ditch effort to start some domestic excitement , various professional and amateur politicians last week jock eyed to capture for themselves a bit of the vanished magic of the late Robert Kennedy . Despite much personal antipathy , some Kennedy forces have melded with Eugene McCarthy 's . At a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Conductor Leonard Bernstein tried to re-orchestrate the R.F.K. melody for McCarthy : " What would Robert Kennedy be telling us now if he could ? He would be warning us against passivity and irrationality , two evils that feed on each other , that might lead to the ugly triumph of the status quo . " <P> Style Y. Substance . Other R.F.K. supporters have gravitated to Humphrey . Larry O'Brien , once a John Kennedy lieutenant , then Postmaster General under Lyndon Johnson , then a strategist for R.F.K. , began work campaigning for the Vice President . Last weekend scores of former Kennedy hoplites gathered in Chicago with McCarthy supporters and other Democratic dissidents to plot a stop-Humphrey campaign . To some , it is Rocky who now personifies Bobby 's qualities of style and passion for the poor ( if not his youth ) . Mrs. Joan Braden , a Kennedy family friend who was co-chairman of the California People for Kennedy , crossed over to the G.O.P. to become chairman of a national People for Rockefeller group . <P> In Chicago , some 500 members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep delegates uncommitted . Should they fail to block Humphrey , some of the coalitionists may work for establishment of a fourth party or switch to Rockefeller if he wins the G.O.P. nomination . Mc Carthy has hinted that he may participate in a fourth-party drive but insists that he would not lead one . <P> <P> Despite all the striving for freshness , the New Politics of ' 68 is really more a matter of style than substance . Eugene McCarthy , who seems a paragon of the New Politics-challenging his party 's Establishment , rallying the forces of dissent-is paradoxically conservative in many ways . The wry , witty Minnesotan , like Rockefeller and Nixon , would emphasize state and local responsibilities over federal control , and decentralize the office of the presidency , delegating many more duties to the Cabinet . Indeed , even his antiwar stand links aspects of conservatism with liberalism , appealing to residual isolationist sentiment on the right .                     