@@493838

THE NEW REPUBLIC Kazantzakis was no stranger to turmoil . Born on the island of Crete in 1883 , his life followed the political fortunes and exiles characteristic of that period of Greco-Turkish history . His education included four years of law and two of philosophy , the latter spent in Paris . For a particularly informed and perceptive dissertation on the basic themes of his life and work , I recommend Nikos Kazantzakis and His Odyssey by Pandelis Prevelakis . This splendid analysis records that Kazantzakis had as his intellectual mentors Nietzsche , Bergson , William James and Buddha . A stormy home and the chaotic turbulence of Greece during his early middle age clearly are reflected in all his work . Kazantzakis was a constant traveler , in body and spirit . His many journeys to far points of the globe are beautifully recorded in some of the best travel writing available . He was also known to Greece as a translator matched the breadth of his vision and accomplishment . Although Kazantzakis is translated into some thirty languages , Americans are late in recognizing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last Temptation , The Greek Passion ( later filmed as He Who Must Die ) , Todo Raba , Freedom and Death and Saint Francis were brought out here during Anthony Lewis ? surely the only writer in history to write a book in collabora tion with a major corporation ( The New York Times ) ? is more celebrated for another association with another great national institution . During the past decade as the Times 's Supreme Court reporter he has been as much a part of the Court as the clerk and marshal , occupying a table like them up front , and has been there longer than most of the Justices . Indeed , in arguing a recent civil rights case before the Court , Prof. Louis Pollak of Yale Law School , describing the location of Freedom Riders and police , with respect to the bus terminal lunch counter in Montgomery , Alabama , used the court itself as a model , and for points of reference ticked off Justice White , Justice Goldberg , the marshal and Mr. Lewis . Everyone took it as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the most authoritative popular interpreter of its role in American life , and sometimes he has been better , for he has been freer to discuss bases and meanings of decisions which judges must leave unarticulated or which have been developed by a reporter 's skill and are not otherwise available . Portrait of a Decade describes the civil rights revolution ? and the role law hasthe late forties and during the fifties and sixties . Kazantzakis 's great classic The Odyssey : A Modern Sequel translated by Kimon Friar was published in 1958 . An unfinished autobiography , Report to Greco , is scheduled to be published next year . Perhaps the talent of Kazantzakis , who died in 1957 , is best described in the words of the young soldier Leonidas , speaking of Father Yanaros : " He has a strength that is secret and wild ; a deep pain , an unshaken faith , something that is wild and gentle .... " played in it ? that started with the School Segregation Cases in 1954 and reached a major juncture with the Civil Rights Act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights specifically for this book ; others are made up of Times articles by various authors dealing with , for example , the Montgomery bus boycott , the Meredith case , Little Rock , segregation in the North ( a Sunday Magazine piece by James Baldwin ) ? all held together by connective and interpretive discussion . Despite the borrowing , the book is one man 's as much as any history of the decade could possibly be . The stories take on a new life in this context ; the book has unity and solid sweep . Lewis is not under the illusion that everything begins and ends with the law . He recognizes the role of the demonstrations and does n't hesitate to condemn ( while understanding ) excesses ( garbage on the Triborough Bridge ) as well as to write approvingly of the disciplined March on Washington and other mass protests in the tradition of free speech , assembly , and petition for redress of grievances . But he knows that law can be and has been corrupted , as by arrests on specious grounds in Mississippi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal impediments to desegregating schools or the refusal to apply law against those who violently abuse civil rights advocates . He recognizes the great difficulty in overcoming massive legal and social resistance by law alone and places great stress on the affirmative role which the DECEMBER 19 , 1964 executive branch of government accepted , and later embraced , commencing in 1965 . For until then virtually all enforcement of the Brown decision in the courts came from private lawyers supported by the NAACP Legal Defense Fund , with not a word of moral encouragement from the President and actual assistance only in emergencies such as Little Rock . Today , while more than ten times the amount of civil rights legal activity is needed , the Department of Justice , particularly in the voting area , has joined the fray . The President now regularly affirms a national moral commitment . But though " without the law there could have been nothing , " Lewis writes , " the rescuing of the Negro child from the cycle of the deprived family and the slum school is a job not for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described the past decade . Does it teach anything about what form the civil rights movement will take in the future ? I think that we can make some informed guesses . The first part of the answer comes from the way the nation has been responding to race problems over the years . There has been a spectrum in geography running from the deepest , most racist South , typified by Mississippi , to the middle tokenism South , typified by North Carolina , to the border states and to the North , where problems of race blur into circular issues of poverty , family deterioration , urban blight , and so forth , which cut across race lines . But the geographical spectrum resembles one in time . Mississippi is becoming more like North Carolina ; North Carolina is becoming more like New York . In the South , therefore , clear-cut , readily resolved questions of outright resistance will give way to problems of how to deal with pettifoggery , tokenism and the use of law to delay rights and confuse issues ? the most difficult , time-consuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us concerned with race relations will become increasingly occupied with those most difficult economic and social issues which transcend racial status but are also completely bound up with it . Both kinds of questions , however , will stimulate the same kinds of approaches that have been called for in the past . Legal pressure must continue ; demonstrations will be provoked by delay in advancing the Southern-oriented quest for legal status and the Northern-oriented quest for economic and social achievement . New-found political strengths will be brought into active service whenever possible . The triple murder of Chaney , Goodman , and Schwerner in Mississippi this summer , repeated bombings , and harassment of civil rights workers by abuse of law and outright violence have tended to obscure the fact that Mississippi has stepped into the gradualist camp . Cleveland Donald and another Negro student have been admitted to the University of Mississippi , the former by litigation ( simple by what once were Mississippi standards ) , the latter without a lawsuit . We won decrees desegregating four school districts in Jackson , Biloxi , Leake County , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted 39 Negro children , Biloxi 18 , Leake County one , and Clarksdale none . In Clarksdale the question is whether the school district lines were gerrymandered to create the outcome ; in Leake there are claims ( pending before the courts ) that privately uttered threats deterred Negro families from taking advantage of the decree . In the other districts , at issue is whether school districts can continue to assign Negro children to Negro schools , white children to white schools , and impose on Negro children the obligation of seeking transfer while passing muster according to standards ranging from academic ability to the most subjective of criteria . The courts have outlawed pupil-assignment as a means of perpetuating segregation , but implementing the law calls for a lot of lawsuits and hard work . For example , in the remaining districts in Mississippi nothing has happened at all . ( Moreover , throughout the South and border states almost z , 000 districts have no desegregation at all , while about 1,000 have at least some . ) Desegregation of public accommodations is common throughout Mississippi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or feel they can use these accommodations is something else , but some do . ) In September I addressed an NAACP banquet at the largest hotel in Biloxi and neither the management nor the other guests gave the appearance of having batted an eye . I do n't think it would be wild to guess that in the next few years Mississippi also will recede from its hard line on Negro voting , again particularly in the cities . After all , conforming to the Constitution has not upset the applecart for the powers that be in Texas , South Carolina , North Carolina , Florida and elsewhere that voting bias largely has been abandoned . Political power starts with the vote but ends with much more economic strength , education , social relationships . Enough of the South has perceived that Negroes can to some extent be incorporated into the establishment , for Mississippi to do likewise . We will then face the problem there , common nationally , of whether disadvantaged groups are adequately represented , not whether they can vote . The days of stunning victories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has learned the Meredith lesson . Some say that the old kind of struggle was preferable because it was easier . But winning it could only mean working up to the present phase , and THE NEW REPUBLIC we are going to have to go through it . North Carolina rolls with the punch even more readily . Almost all public accommodations are open to both races , though there is some litigation about this in smaller towns . While the NAACP Legal Defense Fund and its cooperating attorneys usually have to file a suit or make a threat to get something started in a school case , the first step now usually brings an agreement to allow a handful of Negro children into white schools . And even in South Carolina some school boards this year desegregated a token number of Negro children without being sued . As the Supreme Court has pressed harder for deliberate speed , compliance has seemed to get better , but the demands for speed have little effect on a district that tells untruths , or that gerrymanders until it is caught . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discrimination . Here it is not only illegal but often socially unacceptable for a landlord or employer to discriminate on racial grounds . But Aesopian formulations come readily : the job that is already filled or the apartment already taken when a Negro applies ( but which become available to the white person who follows him ) are commonplaces of litigation in New York and California . The Civil Rights Act of 1964 adds new weapons to the legal arsenal in the South . ( In the North , state laws often cover the same ground , but the federal law can he applied in the North where state remedies bring no results . ) For example , Justice Department lawyers under certain conditions now can enter segregation cases . But even together , the private civil rights lawyers and the government lawyers face a huge job . Seventeen full time and about a hundred cooperating lawyers of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund are handling 97 Southern school suits , virtually all there are . Assuming that the Civil Rights Division will be doubled or trebled ( local US attorneys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's a long way to go before the 2,000 still-segregated districts are desegregated . And the Justice Department must attend to other matters as well . Another new weapon is Title VI of the Civil Rights Act , which requires non-segregation in federally supported protects . Lawsuits involving federally supported hospitals and urban renewal projects previously have declared the same obligation . The principal virtue of Title VI , therefore , is an easily imposed administrative remedy , with initiative from Washington , and not necessarily from children , doctors , patients , or tenants who must bring lengthy and expensive litigation . President Kennedy 's famous " stroke of the pen " housing order ( a forerunner of Title VI ) has yet to exhibit the slightest breath of life . Following a court decision that hospitals which have received federal funds under the Hill-Burton Act can not discriminate , HEW declined to apply these constitutional requirements to hospitals whose applications had been approved prior to the decision , but which had not yet received funds , recognizing , in effect , a sort of vested interest they had in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not everyone recognizes this , and therein lies a danger . Many who have supported the cause of civil rights may now feel that because legislation has been passed , the work is done and all energies should be directed to the poverty and welfare aspects of race relations . Negroes are unlikely to feel so confined . First , nonsegregated education , equal job opportunity , and freedom from police brutality are essential parts of an attack on poverty . Second , the man in the street often reacts to racial slight more sharply than to long term social and economic wrongs . The advent of new legal doctrines also has led some to hope that the move ment will get out of the streets and into the courts . My guess is that demonstrations will be with us for years to come . Wherever law is abused , its implementation stalled ? and that will happen ? we can count on protest . Demonstrations against discrimination in the Middle South and North will not , in my opinion , be as successful as the sit-ins and freedom rides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day a CORE picket line at the New York Port Authority bus terminal was largely ignored as it tried to persuade the public that a bus line had reneged on an agreement to employ Negro bus drivers , having hired them from the outside instead of upgrading lower level employees . Assume , however , that enforcement of legal rights is firm , and that where courts are slow , civil rights leaders , political spokesmen and demonstrators will otherwise get action . Obviously race-related problems will remain in , what for want of a better word , we can call poverty pockets . If a Negro is n't educated he ca n't get certain jobs no matter how " open " they may be ; his children ca n't be as well educated as many white children . Moreover , every aspect of the economy and society register their condition on the " race " question . Policies of non-discrimination in employment thrive best when employment is booming , not contracting . The same goes for housing : when it is scarce and expensive , ghetto walls are harder to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its mind about this mixture of political , economic , social and ideological questions . It has shown insufficient evidence of wanting to put enough money and energy into the job and to suffer the dislocations that may occur in the process . The birth pangs of Mobilization For Youth and Haryou-Act in New York demonstrate on a small scale the irresolution and the clash of forces that such anti-poverty projects provoke . Even where social and economic welfare programs succeed , we may expect protests in the short run . Community action , including rent strikes and boycotts , have been recognized as means of spurring a community to do something about its own problems . But such protests have proven most controversial . What if these social welfare and economic reforms do n't pick up enough speed , or stall altogether ? There will , surely , be protests directed at the lack of political resolve ? nationally and locally . Demonstrations against something as complex as poverty run the same risk as those directed at subtle forms of discrimination ; this may be unpersuasive or stir up " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is another reason why this will occur . Would-be civil rights leaders with no real following have found that they can gather one , even if only temporarily , by being more strident than the established leadership . There is an escalation of militancy ; thus , the proposed " stall-in , " the dumping of rats on City Hall steps . Such leadership has not been able to stay on top , but will no doubt go on trying . The " stall-in " was averted only because tremendous pressure was brought by the established groups ? NAACP , Urban League , CORE , and Southern Christian Leadership Conference , with SNCC first opposing the stall-in and then favoring it . Only so much pressure , however , can be successful . The way to keep a boat under control downstream is to move faster than the current . To the extent that responsible groups can formulate programs and produce results , breakdowns will be minimized . But will the country listen to the established civil rights leadership ? The President appears to think so ; the recent cutback on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was partly designed to find funds for the anti-poverty program . Still , I 'm not persuaded that we are going to move ahead rapidly and quietly . The adoption by the voters this past month in California of Proposition 14 , which scotched that state 's housing antidiscrimination law forcefully suggests that we may not move quickly enough . In other words , while we are on course and will make progress , the going will occasionally be rough . That is good rather than bad . The tension and dislocation of the decade from 1954 to 1964 ? so ably chronicled by Mr. Lewis and the Times ? contributed to and reflected advance . They were drying himself with a towel , in perfectly normal fashion , in the midst of a rainstorm . That is Bond , as character ; Goldfinger , as film , is neither satire nor release but a pleasant travesty of adolescent daydreams . In contrast , a comedy called John Goldfarb , Please Come Home is dog gedly unfunny . It has assembled some potentially amusing farcical elements and fumbled them . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loses his course for Russia and is forced down in an Arab oil kingdom . Shirley                     