@@478636

How a recipe for America the Beautiful turned out ? in many communities ? to be a license for chaos and corruption . N early everyone ? including Mrs. Lyndon E. Johnson ? is worried these days about the prospect of America the Ugly . But hardly anyone , it seems , is disturbed by the sorry state of the weapon most commonly used to combat the concrete and neon blight spreading over our cities , suburbs , and countryside . The instrument intended to do this is zoning ? the assorted local ordinances which decree what may be built where and thereby attempt to banish the inappropriate and the downright hideous . Professional planners have rightly argued for years that a miscellany of restrictive rules is no substitute for sound , positive regional planning ; what one community does in all good conscience may have disastrous consequences for another a few miles away . And since the basic purpose of most ordinances is to protect established neighborhoods ' property values , they are often in conflict with broader social goals . Despite these flaws , zoning has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligently and honorably applied . Too often , however , it has missed even this modest objective . Indeed , as Dennis O'Harrow , Executive Director of the American Society of Planning Officials , bluntly told his society 's annual convention last year , in all too many instances zoning has failed because it has become a " marketable Harper 's Magazine , October 1966 commodity . " He cited a respected planning official who assured him that " you can buy with money any kind of zoning you want in half the communities of the United States . " Another consultant described gatherings of shopping-center developers who " go upstairs for a drink and start comparing the prices they have to pay for zoning . " Mr. O'Harrow 's colleagues were shocked by his indictment . But a developer of mobile-home parks , upon hearing of the speech . reacted differently . " For God 's sake , why does n't O'Harrow shut up ? " he said . " We know where we stand now ? $25,000 for zoning for a trailer park in this country . Why upset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the extent of corruption among zoning officials , and many ( including O'Harrow ) believe that the vast majority are honest . However , planning consultants , developers , and knowledgeable attorneys generally agree that zoning has been widely perverted into an instrument of special favor . Instead of preserving beauty and furthering orderly community development , it is fostering a billboard-lined , junkyard-infested urban jungle . In some instances even cash payoffs are baldly offered or brazenly solicited . In Omaha , Nebraska , for example , a young Chicago investment banker . John B. Coleman , took an option on six acres of land early in 1964 . He proposed to build there a million-dollar complex of quality town houses . A zoning change was required , but the city 's capable Planning Director assured him that this should present no problems . The land was near a busy street , adjacent to a planned new hospital , and shielded from existing residences by woods . Coleman submitted a rezoning application to Omaha 's appointive Planning Board . Shortly afterward , a professed intermediary for one Board member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in payoffs to local politicians . In addition , he must agree to award the construction contract , with a guaranteed $100.000 profit , to a politically powerful real-estate man . Coleman had the choice of submitting to a shakedown or losing $50,000 already invested in options , architects ' fees , and other expenses . Shocked and appalled , he took his story to the Omaha World-Herald. which helped him gather tape-recorded evidence . As a result , the real-estate man and two city Councilmen were convicted of bribery ( the then Mayor , James J. Dworak , was also indicted but was acquitted this February . The Mayor and two other principals were defeated overwhelmingly in municipal elections last spring and the rezoning request was ultimately granted . But Coleman was so disgusted by the episode that . for the present at least . he will not build in Omaha though he still owns the land . He is determined not to get involved John Fischer , who ordinarily writes this column , has been in Europe on a reporting trip . The guest editorial this month is contributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he gathered the material for it . He recently joined " Saturday Review " as feature editor . in any project involving rezoning from now on . Not all zoning scandals reach the courts . Many dubious practices are simply accepted as local folkways , In one large Eastern city , for instance , a planner reports that it is customary to place unreasonable restrictions on all vacant land . As a result , when the owner wants to develop it in quite appropriate fashion he must apply for a zoning change . " When it is granted , as it logically must be , " a planning consultant told me , " it becomes a political favor which must one day be repaid . " A cruder dodge ? accepted until recently in a smaller community ? was an unwritten rule that any owner desiring a zoning change must first sell his land to the local Mayor . After the variance was granted , the Mayor sold the land back to the original owner , at a slight profit justified by its enhanced earning potential . Interlacing Interests Far more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public and private interests of officials who control zoning . In Honolulu , for example , last spring the City Planning Commission , whose responsibilities include zoning , proposed that seventeen lots be rezoned to allow the construction of four high-rise apartment buildings at the base of Diamond Head , Hawaii 's famous and largely unspoiled scenic THE EASY CHAIR area . High-rise buildings ( including parking garages ) have already begun encroaching on the Waikiki Beach area . Civic and professional groups vigorously opposed the Diamond Head project , pleading that at the very least it should be postponed until a land-use plan for the area was completed and relevant legal opinions handed down . Apparently persuaded , the Commission announced that it was removing the matter from its current agenda , But a surprise meeting was called and the Commission abruptly approved the rezoning . Amid subsequent charges and countercharges it was established that the developers , Oceanside Properties , Inc. , had employed one of the Planning Commissioners , Alfred Yee , on the Diamond Head project . Mr. Yee was also involved in structural engineering for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The public outcry that followed these disclosures was led by the Honolulu Advertiser . " The issue , " its editor wrote , " is not whether there should be apartments in the Diamond Head area . The issue is the manner in which the Commission acted ? and Yee 's conflict of interests . " The apartments , at latest report , are still scheduled for construction . However , Mr. Yee is no longer a member of the Planning Commission and Honolulu has adopted a code of ethics for its public officials . Such codes are badly needed by many other communities , particularly the fast-growing suburban areas , One such is Montgomery County , Maryland , in metropolitan Washington . D. C. There , a recent appointee to the County Planning Board ( named over the objections of his own political party ) is the son of a large and politically potent landowner . Similarly in Rockland County ? a suburb of New York City ? last summer , rezoning was sought for a controversial $75-million housing development in the town of Haverstraw . The principal owner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County Planning Board . ( After a burst of publicity and several noisy hearings , the request for rezoning was withdrawn at least for the time being . ) Likewise in Fairfax County , Virginia , the County Board of Supervisors voted to rezone the former Auchincloss estate , Merrywood , for highrise apartments ? the first in the scenic and historic Potomac Palisades region . Opponents of the project discovered that the County Sheriff had served as real-estate broker for the developers and had bought a share of the property as had an attorney with close ties to the statewide Byrd political organization . It took the personal intervention of Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall to block the project . The device he used was a " scenic easement " that prohibits construction that would mar the beauty of the Palisades . Landowners are compensated on a basis fixed by the courts . For years zoning boards rocked along with few unmanageable problems . Why are many now in disgrace ? Despite the enormous outward movement of city people to the hinterland that has taken place since World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same principle which brought them into being a half-century ago : the supreme goal is to protect property values and the best way to do this is to keep out everything but single-family , detached houses , preferably on large plots of land . The pressures of the marketplace , plus the needs of an expanding population have long since obliterated this dream , except in a few enclaves of the very wealthy . Large residential subdivisions with apartments and town houses are profitable ; whiteTHE EASY CHAIR collar city dwellers clamor to live in them , and they need nearby shopping centers . Others want mobile-home parks , where trailer houses , which used to be " temporarily " plunked down and later moved , now are placed on foundations , landscaped , and tend to stay forever . Industry ? even " noisy " and " dirty " industry , the bugaboo of exclusive suburbia ? is welcomed by local governments and tax-burdened citizens who are worried about soaring costs of schools , sewers , and other public services . Gas stations , billboards , bowling alleys , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn , become the tempters of zoning officials defending an ordinance rather than a rational plan . Thus more and more " desirable " neighborhoods and communities become islands awash in the debris of haphazard development , and everyone suffers from the blight , congestion , and sprawl that result . Indeed , on reflection one can only react with the puzzlement of the old farmer in Peter De Vries ' Reuben , Reuben , as he observed the neglect of once-beautiful shrubbery and watched the owner , a " newcomer , " gouge up beautiful wildflowers . " If there 's anything I do n't understand , if you 'll excuse me , ma'am , " he said , " it 's people moving here to the country and then proceed to not learn or care to learn the first least thing about the No. 1 thing the country is for ? a piece of God 's good earth . I mean why do you come out here at all ? " The Neighbors ' Mistakes Certainly one can understand why Professor John W. Reps , chairman of Cornell University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk titled " Requiem for Zoning , " argued that zoning should be given " legal euthanasia . " He called for " a search for a new legislative substitute sturdy enough to survive in the modern world . " What form might it take ? The prime need is for areawide coordination of zoning and planning . The federal government is trying to push communities in this direction , through subsidies to support planning , by special grants for the acquisition of open space as part of a regional master plan , and by denying Bureau of Public Roads support to urban-area highway projects which are not based on a " continuing , comprehensive transportation planning process carried on cooperatively by the state and locality . " Another desirable step would be a review of local zoning decisions by a metropolitan or state agency . Such a system has been functioning successfully in Marion County , Indiana , adjacent to Indianapolis , and in the Canadian province of Ontario . " Central review is imperative , " says Richard F. Babcock , Chicago attorney and zoning consultant to the Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the developer from the prejudices and whims of each other , but to provide a forum for that third party who has no voice : the neighboring community which must live with the mistakes of its neighbor . " Several broader governmental reforms also would help . Jack Noble , editor of the planners ' publication Zoning Digest , advocates increased state aid to schools or greater reliance THE EASY CHAIR on state income or sales taxes in preference to local real-estate and property taxes . " Today , " he says , " if you as a zoning official are convinced that a development will hurt your school district , other considerations pale and you are forced to keep it out . " Ultimately , too , some planners believe public bodies will have to purchase undeveloped land , plan and zone it . Then parcels would be sold by bidding to developers whose projects fit into a regional master plan . In New York City a variation of this scheme is being tried on Staten Island , where a speculators ' stampede was set off by the opening of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treat 1,000 vacant acres in the Annadale-Huguenot section as an urban-renewed tract and develop it in a way that will both preserve the charm of the area and accommodate a burgeoning population . But pressure to scuttle this idea has been great . Fundamental changes such as these can not be brought about overnight . But much can be done within the present framework . Certainly local gov ernments can make greater use of ? and pay more heed to ? professional planners employed full-time , part-time , or as consultants . Without such a comprehensive blueprint , revised regularly with professional help , zoning is foredoomed to fail . Further , even though politics , venality , and conflict of interest are part of the human condition , strenuous efforts can be made to remove temptation from zoning officials and to require of them a high level of probity . The code of ethics formulated by the American Society of Planning Officials requires ? among other things ? mandatory continuous disclosure of private property interests which have " potential " for conflicts with public responsibilities , and prohibits any direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with public duties . Zoning officials should be required , too , to conduct all their business in full public view at open meetings announced ( along with agendas ) well in advance . It is up to knowledgeable citizens and the press to monitor every meeting . None of these measures will work , however , unless zoning codes are modernized . For one thing , there should be an end to attempts to freeze development around traditional ( and wasteful and expensive ) street grid and lot patterns . More than a hundred municipalities now give developers of high-rise structures height concessions in exchange for setting aside ground-level open space . They permit single-family homes or town houses to be clustered in planned developments that preserve grass , woodland . and recreation areas ( including , in one instance , an eighteen-hole golf course ) in adjacent open " commons . " Such a solution is in the making for the Fairfax County area mentioned earlier . Instead of the high-rise apartments , single-family dwellings are being designed by architect Victor Gruen . Such enlightened solutions are , unfortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is little more than an exclusionary , publicly condoned racket , perpetuated by shortsighted , squabbling communities out of individual greed and indifference . This is no invisible menace . The consequences are in plain view as we ride the freeways of an America no longer very beautiful .                     