@@431686

 | The Biggest Bridge in the World UP . THE outside of the 690-foot-tall bridge tower , a little steel-netting cage swayed and bumped its way to a platform at nearly 70-story height . By a ladder I made the last few feet to the tower 's top ? and , clutching my hard hat lest it sail off in the wind , I watched them spin the cables for the greatest bridge in the world . The new Verrazano-Narrows Bridge leaps the entrance to New York harbor with a main span of 4,260 feet ? 60 feet longer than that of San Francisco 's Golden Gate Bridge , the world-record holder for 27 years . Its $325,000,000 cost makes it the most expensive single structure ever built . When it 's opened November 21 by New York 's Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority it will join Brooklyn and Staten Island for the first time with a motor highway . Soaring 228 feet above the Narrows , it is so high that the biggest liners and warships can pass beneath it . To ocean vessels ' passengers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gateway to the city . It takes the first part of its name from the Italian explorer , Giovanni da Verrazano , credited with discovering New York harbor in 1524 . Designing this engineering wonder was the crowning feat of Othmar H. Ammann , master bridge-builder of modern times . As designer or consultant , Ammann has had a hand in planning most of the nation 's largest suspension spans . Loom in the sky . Biggest single task in erecting this newest span was the spinning of four massive cables , 35h inches thick , to hang its 13,700-foot roadway in midair . Workers of U.S. Steel 's American Bridge Division used a record 142,500 miles of galvanized steel wire ? enough to circle the earth nearly six times . Eight " spinning wheels " of four-foot diameter , each trailing a loop of the wire , shuttled from anchorage to anchorage over the tops of the  | steel towers until all 26,108 wires of each cable had been laid ( side by side for greatest strength , not twisted or braided as " spinning " might suggest ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the catwalk to stand clear as it went by on its 12-minute trip across the bridge . The 0.196-inch-diameter wire , a little slimmer than a pencil , unreeled from giant spools ? the biggest that have ever been used in bridge building , each holding a 90-mile length weighing 24 tons . Wire galluses . From the completed cables , the double deck was hung by " suspender ropes " of 236-inch diameter . Prefabbed deck sections , assembled at American Bridge 's Jersey City yard , made a five-mile voyage aboard barges to the bridge site . There the steel trusses , averaging 400 tons in weight , were hoisted aloft and fastened in place ? starting from the bridge 's center and progressin toward each end . The finished bridge 's upper deck , providing a six-lane roadway for cars and trucks , will be the first to be opened . Later , when future traffic requires it . will come the lower deck 's opening ? giving a total of 12 lanes with a capacity of 48,000,000 vehicles yearly . Can still bigger bridges be built in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers say , a suspension span as long as 7,000 feet is theoretically possible . Already plans are being considered for a proposed suspension bridge with a main span of 4,5S0 feet , 320 feet more than the Narrow ? span , across the Humber River in England . But for at least a number of years to come , the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge will retain its crown as the greatest masterpiece of the bridge-builder 's art . Here comes the deck : Towed by tug , a prefabricated truss section rides barge to its destination , beneath completed cables of bridge . 48 POPULAR SCIENCE SEPTEMBER 1964 Dozens of these sections , averaging about 4O1 tons apiece , form a double deck that will ultimately provide 12 lanes for cars and trucks . PHOTO BY O. NV . LINK                     