@@478177

In more than thirty years in the U.S. Foreign Service , Mr. Villard had assignments on four continents . Most recently he was Ambassador Extraordinary to Senegal and to the Islamic Republic of Mauretania . Now a private citizen , he lives in Washington . Dear Congressman Rooney ; Not long ago one of the striped-pants boys , as you call them , asked the House Subcommittee of which you are chairman for funds to provide a U. S. Consul General with a house instead of the apartment to which his rent allowance entitled him . That sounds like a nicety we can not afford , with the highest debt in history , " you said grandly . " So far as I am concerned it is out the window . " The metaphor you chose reminded me that , when you are representing your country abroad , one man 's nicety is another man 's necessity . I went to Senegal as Ambassador in 1960 . There I discovered that my residence boasted picture windows in the bathroom . I appealed to the State Department for permission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time-worn response : No funds . " Finally I cabled that I had " a magnificent view of Dakar from my bathroom and vice versa . " I got the curtains . But someone else in the Foreign Service undoubtedly went without a household necessity , for your hold on the purse strings is not only tight but incredibly detailed . Quite commonly , when your predictable budget ax falls , travel orders are canceled , home leaves given up , transfers suspended , taxicab faresdisallowed ; to save money , reports have long since been mimeographed on both sides of the paper and erasers eliminated from pencils . It is not unusual for an American Ambassador to make do with a secondhand sedan while the minister of a country chiefly supported by our economic aid rides in an air-conditioned Cadillac . Back in 1953 , when I was our first envoy to Libya , I met Secretary Dulles and Mr. Harold Stassen at the airport and placed at their disposal the venerable official Chrysler limousine . Since I knew the transmission might fall out at any moment , I followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now it does n't seem to me that economies of this sort help our Foreign Service implement the nation 's foreign policies . But before arguing this point further I want to assure you that I am heartily in favor of your avowed purpose of saving the taxpayers ' money . In fact one of my main objectives in writing to you is to suggest just how your committee might go about it . The place to start , I believe , is with that bureaucratic behemoth on the banks of the Potomac known as " our foreign-affairs complex . " Someone must check its uninhibited reproductive processes , and you , Congressman Rooney , are surely the man for the job . Let me illustrate the problem from my own experience . At the start of the last war , American policy toward Africa was ? to invoke Lewis Carroll ? " a perfect and absolute blank . " With the exception of independent Liberia , for whom we served as " next friend and attorney , " we had no particular interest in that colonial region . Unexpectedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs . Thus , the first primitive amoeba in the bureaucratic life cycle was born . As our concern with Africa heightened , the microcosm multiplied ; a Desk became a Unit , a Unit became a Division , a Division soon became a full-fledged Bureau ? with a separate Office for each segment of the continent . At a staff meeting I attended in the Bureau of African Affairs in 1960 , 1 counted forty-seven top-layer officers ranged around the room . Subsidiary personnel now runs into the scores ; and at last accounts the Offices were subdividing themselves into more Offices ? their progeny apparently unlimited . You remember , I am sure , that when Cordell Hull became Secretary of State in 1933 , the entire foreign-affairs machine of the United States was housed on Pennsylvania Avenue next door to the White House ; by the time General Marshall took over the old ornate building it could no longer contain the political divisions and their logistical supporters . So in 1947 the establishment was moved to Foggy Bottom . But , under the pressure of postwar expansion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles , and Herter outgrew its quarters . So New New State was born . Dean Rusk inherited its thriving cousins AID ( Agency for International Development ) and ACDA ( Arms Control and Disarmament Agency ) . Even this modern monstrosity ? rivaling the Pentagon in size ? is quite inadequate . Spilling over into nine buildings , using nearly 2.5 million square feet of space , the premises are already too small . Offices are overcrowded ; tenants must double up : conference rooms must be lopped off , new outlets sought , and high priority assigned to a spacious annex for the not-distant future . do n't suggest that Old State was ever a model of efficiency . Critics said that in 1914 the Department was about ready to cope with the Spanish-American War ; that in 1939 it was prepared for World War I. The code room belonged to another era , correspondence then as now moved like molasses , and security-consciousness was nonexistent . Anyone could walk through the swinging doors and place a baby on somebody 's desk ? as did , quite literally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the departing charg ? d'affaires and chose to present me with this small problem in international relations . Yet , antiquated as the equipment was , the machinery of Old State ? affectionately known as the stepchild of the Administration ? turned over unencumbered by the procedures which now tend to smother an embryo policy before it has a chance to be born . There was no multiple choice as to which pigeonhole a paper belonged in . Solutions to problems came without endless conferences ; no directory filled with cabalistic symbols was needed to find out who handled what . No chart was posted at the end of a corridor to tell you where you were and mark the spot where you wanted to go . In today 's labyrinthine Department , interminable interiors ? fluorescent-lighted and soundproofed like a hospital ? befuddle even the inmates ; those on the inner core of this gargantuan rabbit warren have no windows to tell whether there is rain or shine outside . Organization men by the thousands slip into or out of cells behind a nightmare row of numbered doors ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also , of course , an indication of the distance we have traveled as the main bearer of the Free World 's burden since hostilities ceased . It is foreign affairs become Big Business ? without Big Business 's acumen , streamlining , and expertise . A s everyone knows , the mushroom growth of government is a headache not confined to the State Department . But do we really need such a grotesquely outsize factory for foreign affairs ? Thirty years ago the Department 's entire staff could be assembled on the back steps for a photograph at lunchtime ; career officers serving abroad totaled less than 700 . Today there are nearly 3,700 career Foreign Service Officers . Counting all its employees at home and abroad , the State Department chalks up an overall figure of some 24,000 persons . Of this number , roughly 7,000 are serving within the continental United States while 17,000 are engaged in the conduct of our foreign affairs abroad ( 10,000 of the latter are " locals , " that is , foreign nationals recruited on the scene ) . One can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with adequate facilities in the rear . But I believe the job could be done twice as well with half the present number . Now and then a sobering up takes place , followed by a RIF ? reduction in force ? but when no one is looking the spree is resumed .. To pick a few titles at random , we have the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Politico-Military Affairs , the Chief of the Administrative Management and Personnel Division in the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs , and the Officer-inCharge of Development Policy and Finances in the Office of International Economic and Social Affairs . Picture a committee composed of the Chief of the British Commonwealth , Northern and Central Europe Division of the Office of Research and Analysis for Western Europe in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research , the Chief of Regulations and Procedures Staff in the Office of the Deputy Executive Director for Administration , and the Officer-inCharge of Financial Operations in the Office of International Finance and Economic Analysis in the Bureau of Economic Affairs . Alice in Wonderland was never confronted with such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up a functional unit of her own in this Washington dreamland , with the Mad Hatter and the Red Queen as Special Assistants , and never even have been noticed . Despite efforts to discourage their growth , the Department ? like a Hydra-headed monster ? seems to sprout two committees every time one is knocked off . Committees canrepast when I spied an officer of our Rome Embassy discreetly waving a piece of paper from behind the potted palms . I made my excuses , rose , and went over to receive the message ? a priority cable to Tripoli . repeated to Rome for information . At long last , Washington had moved . There were my orders . Under en circumstances was I to follow the Prime Minister to Rome , for that , the Department feared , might be interpreted as interference in the domestic affairs of a sovereign country . The tyranny of committee clearances probably ca n't be done away with ; but we could curtail it , and rely more on the judgment of the man on the ground . One way to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fewer rather than more Desk men , to prune superfluous twigs and limbs from the spreading Departmental tree and give it a chance to breathe . You might perform a real service to the nation , Mr. Rooney , if you would chop away some of this bureaucratic timber . Perhaps this exercise would induce you to stop nitpicking on the ways and means of running an Embassy along businesslike lines in these fast-moving and demanding times . Let 's leave aside such mundane questions as supplies and maintenance , salary tables ( notoriously low in comparison with industry ) , and housing grants ( none at all for the cooky-pusher while he is assigned to Washington , although the Armed Services get theirs , all right ) . The item on which you gag most frequently is the " representation allowance " ? jocularly referred to in the halls of Congress as the " whiskey fund " or " booze allowance . " This appropriation for official entertaining , your committee finds as hard to swallow as a cup of hemlock . That old American custom of promoting business by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak of other forms of amusement ? is ingrained and well understood , even by the Internal Revenue Service . But for a diplomat to transact government affairs over the lunch or dinner table ? much less offer his opposite number a highball ? is close to original sin in your flinty eyes . Now surely you do n't believe that diplomacy is just fun and games in the giddy atmosphere of Paris , London , or Madrid . You have been around enough to know with what horror the seasoned Foreign Service Officer regards one more indigestible luncheon , boring banquet , or reception in honor of a visiting potentate . What . constitutes " living it up abroad at the taxpayer 's expense , " in the view of many of your colleagues , is deadly serious work for the diplomat . Times have n't changed since 1784 , when Abigail Adams complained of the meager allowances granted to her husband John , then Ambassador to France , and observed that " more can be accomplished at one party than at twenty serious conversations . " If the Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the military and space agencies , or our price supports for agriculture , then the practice of cut-rate diplomacy might be justified . But the fact is that even in the last few years when the total expenditure of the federal government was over $100 billion , less than a million ( $950,000 to be precise ) has been allocated for official entertaining , to be distributed among all our diplomatic missions and many consular offices throughout the world . Attempts to crack the million-dollar barrier have always failed . It seems to be a fixed idea of your committee , Mr. Rooney , that the prestige of the United States is not worth more . ( Of the booze allowance , incidentally , 70 per cent goes for food and only 30 per cent for drink . ) The Foreign Service Officer , as you very well know , must draw upon his so-called whiskey fund whenever Congressmen on junkets descend on his post expecting to be wined and dined . Like a swarm of inquisitive bees , Members of Congress buzz off for foreign parts as soon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that does not , of course , preclude special " surveys " or " studies " at other times of the year . They fly in planes supplied by the Air Force ; they feast on counterpart funds ? local currency that is made available to the U. S. in amounts equivalent to our dollar expenditures ; and their wives , daughters , secretaries , and other free-loaders go along for the ride . The slightest whim of these happy travelers is catered to with obsequious care ; and the whims may include anything from a booze allowance for the men , in the form of a bottle or two from an Officer 's private stock , to such luxuries in out-of-the-way places as Kleenex and soft toilet paper for the ladies . Congress does not appropriate funds for its own entertainment . But woe to the career diplomat who fails to offer entertainment to Congressmen on the loose abroad . Often a Foreign Service Officer must dig into his own pocket to accommodate visiting firemen , to reciprocate official invitations , to foster good will and cement ties at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not infrequently , Officers ' wives , to save expense , make the sandwiches themselves for an Embassy reception . The well-heeled amateur who , in our undemocratic fashion , becomes an Ambassador by virtue of his pocketbook , can pick up the tab and cheerfully pay for the privilege . But that is not so with the professional career man , who rarely has a bankroll of his own . The British Ambassador to Washington gets roughly twice the amount in salary and allowances as the American Ambassador to London . Comparisons , however , have always left Congress cold . You may recall that when career officer G. Frederick Reinhardt was appointed Ambassador to Italy , he was asked by Senator Hickenlooper at a hearing of the Foreign Relations Committee how he proposed to make ends meet at the expensive Rome post . Reinhardt replied that he hoped Congress would be generous enough to grant him extra funds . " Hope , " observed Hickenlooper dryly , " springs eternal . " The question is whether this hope is justified . For five or six million dollars a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carry out the duties of representation in the style to which other diplomats are accustomed . It should be possible to save that amount by calling a halt to the proliferation of personnel in Foggy Bottom and the ever-burgeoning committee system . I have an idea that if the situation were candidly and conscientiously explained to them , the American people would go along .                     