@@213239

Everybody ( well , nearly everybody ) has heard of mad King Ludwig II , the eccentric scion of the Wittelsbachs , who dotted Bavaria 's picturesque hilltops with an insanely extravagant clatch of castles , pavilions , hideaways and other architectural follies in the 1870s and 1880s . Was he totally deranged ? Not according to Dr. Michael Petzet , 35 , the Munich art historian who oversees Bavaria 's state-run castle-museums ( including Ludwig 's ) . Petzet , pointing out that Ludwig was the patron of Richard Wagner , sees the king as " a creator in his own right , someone who aimed to fulfill what Wagner understood as total art on his own terms . " <P> What Ludwig created was a style . Though politically a puppet , he possessed the taste , the ability and the resources to blend Romanesque , Oriental , Moorish and rococo influences into what later became known as the Jugendstil-the German equivalent of art nouveau . Petzet 's point is spectacularly documented in a dramatic display of 907 paintings , drawings , costumes , stage models @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervised in their execution by Ludwig for his many projects . The lot is installed for the summer in a wing of the Wittelsbach family palace , formally known as the Munich Residence . Selected from Ludwig 's three castles , from vaults and state theatrical museums , and sumptuously installed in velvet-hung , stagily lit galleries , their magpie splendors represent the culmination of Ludwig 's eclectic vision . <P> The tour begins in the courtyard with the gilded and tasseled coach that served Ludwig at his coronation in 1864 , when he was , in Bismarck 's words , a " beautiful girl " of 18 . Inside , the displays begin with stage models for Wagner 's operas . From the age of twelve , Ludwig was enthralled by the work of the composer , whose fascination with medieval legend he shared . Upon his accession to the throne , he summoned Wagner from Stuttgart , installed him in a Munich suburban house , bankrolled the first productions of his most famous operas . Atop the Munich Residence he built a huge greenhouse with a lily pond . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slides of the Venusberg cast on the walls by a projector , while a hidden orchestra played Tannhuser . Though World War II bombs shattered the greenhouse , the red-cushioned barge has been reinstalled on a blue-lit lake of mirror . <P> <P> Every Eye . Ludwig 's most famous effort was Neuschwanstein , whose Romanesque-Moorish turrets bedeck Bavarian travel posters . The carvings and furnishings from its marble and mosaic chapel , study and bedroom display a gaunt tension that clearly foreshadows the Jugendstil 30 years before its prime . Sketches for carved colonnades incorporate fantastic root-and-branch configurations that would have delighted Spain 's art nouveau master , Antoni Gaud . Ludwig 's two other palaces both evoke the rococo splendors of Louis XIV of France . From Linderhof come tutti-frutti-colored , specially commissioned Svres porcelain , embroidered screens inspired by Boucher , and Ludwig 's magnificent throne , a Beardsleyan Oriental divan backed by three haughty , blue-and-green-enameled peacocks.                     