@@246411

Fifty years ago on the tenth day of the tenth month in 1911 , the city of Wuchang on the Yangtze River was captured by a band of rebel followers of the late Dr. Sun Yatsen . It took another four months of fighting before the decadent Manchu empire was overthrown by Sun Yat-sen 's republicans , but Chinese everywhere have always celebrated the " Double Ten " date as a national holiday . <P> On the Nationalist island of Formosa last week , there was a march past of 11,000 troops while 160 jet fighters roared overhead . A dozen Nationalist frogmen swam ashore on the uninhabited Red Chinese island of Pinglangyu and planted Nationalist flags on the beach . In Taipei , Nationalist President Chiang Kaishek declared that conditions on the mainland resembled those of 1911 , " when even the officers and men of the Manchu ' new army ' were longing for the great day that was soon to dawn . " With stubborn , visionary optimism , Chiang predicted large-scale uprisings soon in Red China , and promised that he would then launch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> In Peking , the Reds have previously soft-pedaled the Double Ten celebration , possibly because of its accent on a spontaneous explosion of oppressed people . Last week , speaking to an audience of 10,000 , Premier Chou En-lai belittled the overthrow of the Manchus as " an old-fashioned democratic revolution led by the Chinese bourgeoisie . " <P> Both the Nationalists and the Reds sought to enlist the support of the 14 million overseas Chinese scattered throughout the lands and islands of Asia . In Thailand , Chinese celebrated Double Ten with firecrackers and dragon parades . In Hong Kong , Nationalist flags far outnumbered those of Red China . Most overseas Chinese still cautiously avoid total commitment to either side . Explained a Chinese industrialist in Hong Kong : " Just because we are anti-Communist does n't necessarily mean we are pro-Nationalist . ' ' But Formosa is sure that the number of anti-Communists among the overseas Chinese is increasing .                     