@@488074

Mr. Donner is a New Yolk attorney who specializes in constitutional law and civil liberties cases He is the author of The UnAmericans ( Ballantine ) . Title VI of last year 's crime bill  --  a triumph for the law-and-order forces  --  provides that the successor to the present director of the FBI must be approved by the Senate . Its enactment into law was no power grab but an expression of a pervasive Angst in the traditional America for whom J. Edgar Hoover is the most important single culture hero ? Angst about the fate of America without Hoover in high office . This concern , which is perceptibly mounting as Hoover 's long overdue retirement approaches , closely resembles the terror of primitive peoples over the possible loss of a god . For his followers , Hoover 's passage from the scene is the nation 's punishment for its sinful neglect of his teachings and taboos . In his forty-five-year leadership of the FBI , Hoover has contributed heavily to the creation of a system of cultural myths which importantly influence American life and politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divinely ordained political ideology and way of life , the concept of domestic " national security " as an interest which must always prevail over the right to dissent , the conviction that the nation is under permanent threat of internal subversion by sinister , godless Communists who will stop at nothing to gain their ends In recent years Hoover has projected his political outlook onto social issueschild-rearing , education , pornography , church attendance , etc . Hoover is an important sponsor of the cultural backlash now gathering momentum in the country . His pronouncements give his followers proof from a sacerdotal source that social change is really a concealed form of political subversion , a return to the Russian " nationalization of women " theme of the twenties Central to Hoover 's role is his cultivation and exploitation of our anti-Communist mania . Whatever the means by which our history and culture have infected us ( political paranoia , a sense of a unique mission , elitist manipulation , a Biblically inspired vision of an inevitable apocalyptic struggle with the forces of evil ) , we are sick with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sick . This book , conceived as a sort of vade mecum to be treasured and consulted when the director bows out , is in its first part ( " Communism Today " ) and in its second ( quotations arranged by topic from the author 's earlier writings and speeches ) , the same dull , illiterate , sloganizing , repetitious mixture as before . But it does raise questions Hoover 's collected works now consist of four books on communism . Only this subject has the power to awaken the director 's muse ; other problems within the area of his official responsibility  --  for example , the rise in the crime rate , the role of violence ( except political violence ) in modern crime , the professionalization of crime  --  somehow fail to stir him . Why are Communists so much more appealing subjects than Mafiosi ? The fact is that Hoover not only finds his political role far more congenial than his responsibilities as a crime fighter but uses his prestige as the nation 's anti-subversive pooh bah to immunize himself from criticism for his failures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover 's anti-Communist tracts  --  for that is what they are  --  have sold extremely well Though barbarously written , emotional and propagandistic , each has been hailed with reverence not only by his uncritical worshipers but by reviewers who should know better . The worshipful reception accorded all of Hoover 's pronouncements , however fugitive , is partly the result of the public relations promotion of Hoover 's image as the noblest Roman  --  patriotic , self-abnegating , incorruptible , super-vigilant and ordinary . While a handful  --  but only a handful  --  of other government officials also serve as champions or symbols of national values , none combines Hoover 's varied roles : defender of the nation 's security , wide-ranging social prophet , elder statesman . And the fact that Hoover 's formal and official bureaucratic responsibilities are , though important , relatively limited , gives his views a special dimension of disinterestedness  --  the old warrior , forced by patriotism to speak out and warn against threats to his beloved country 's welfare . Hoover 's personal following spans the American hinterland whose prejudices and resentments he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond this core audience . Scholars and newsmen may boast book learning or general information about this subject , but Hoover is widely respected because he is considered an expert ( and holds himself out as such ) . What makes Hoover an expert is the fact that he has clothed the FBI with extraordinary domestic intelligence functions . He has acquired this jurisdiction without authorization either by statute or Executive order . Hoover has assumed the power , to use his language , " to identify individuals working against the United States , determine their objectives and nullify their effectiveness " These functions  --  surveillance , electronic eavesdropping , infiltration , dossier keeping  --  are not a means to the end of law enforcement but political ends in themselves . Usurped power is exercised by Hoover wholly autonomously without THE NATION/ October 27 , 1969 responsibility to or supervision by anyone on a governmental policy-making level , elected or appointed . In no major country in the West is domestic intelligence ( Hoover likes to call it " counter-intelligence " ) conducted on a comparable scale and with such freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find in any democratic country in the world an agency which combines conventional police functions and political investigative responsibilities unrelated to law enforcement . Hoover 's unchecked control over the mechanisms of political intelligence has led to the institutional transformation of the FBI into an autonomous and self-perpetuating political police force which makes a mockery of our democratic professions . But Hoover 's self-created role as an authoritative interpreter of the political intelligence gathered by the agency is even more disturbing This purely political function authenticates his role among the anti-Communist true believers as a guardian of the nation 's security and gilds him with an almost magical prestige It also explains the expansion of his influence as an expert on communism . His intellectual limitations and political bias count for little in the face of his claims to inside information ? gathered at enormous expense by an army of agents , infiltrators , plants , defectors and informers . In his own fashion , Hoover is devoted to the Socratic principle that the unexamined life is not worth living , and it is precisely his undercover invasion of the rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political mentor of the rest . The connection between intelligence and political reaction has , of course , deep historical roots , but Hoover has given it a uniquely American expression . Today , the process by which he has ideologized his functions is becoming a model for a mushrooming urban intelligence network ( " Red squads " ) . Hoover has developed a time-tested process for converting the fruits of his intelligence activities into the instruments of ideological warfare . Basic to the entire process is a formula by which he alternately agitates his audience about newly discovered dangers to the national security and then calms them with assurances that , temporarily anyway , he has the situation in hand  --  but unremitting vigilance remains a necessity . He uses three official forms of communication to a national audience his testimony before the House Appropriations subcommittee ( usually given in the winter but timed for release much later when it will deliver a maximum impact ) , the FBI annual report for the fiscal year , and the year-end report to the Department of Justice . THE NATIorz/October 27 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far the most important because it is Hoover 's direct contact with an important power center and the official means of communication with his devoted Congressional constituency . Hoover 's testimony before the subcommittee is prepared and presented as a piece of theatre with ritualistic concern for effect . Questions are planted in advance to produce answers to meet the political needs of committee members  --  like the response this year to a question by a racist Congressman that HEW aide James Farmer was hired without a security clearance . Juicy tidbits of inside information are periodically thrown out to the slavering committee members and intermittently the whole performance goes " off the record " as the Congressmen are initiated by their revered hierophant into the sacred mystery of anti-subversion When the show ends , the " Director , " as he is invariably called , is fulsomely thanked . Not only is the testimony released by the committee but Hoover reproduces it  --  in blown-up format  --  for mass distribution . ( Hoover tries to preserve the House subcommittee as his sole Congressional forum . This year he refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) These official pronouncements are supplemented by editorials and messages in the FBI house organ ( FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin ) , speeches , articles in conservative journals , pamphlets  --  and books . All of Hoover 's more transient pronouncements ( as well as the anti-subversive sections of his reports , approving articles and book reviews by others ) are introduced into the Congressional Record  --  frequently the same item four or five times  --  by his House admirers who also make timely speeches in his praise on his birthday and on dates marking the anniversary of his assumption of office . The need to investigate the political activities of the Bureau , to evaluate its performance as a law-enforcement agency , and to prevent a continuation of the abuses of Hoovensm obviously commands a high political priority . The real question is whether the director has so poisoned our political environment that such a re-examination is beyond political possibility The effects of the phobic anticommunism to which Hoover has dedicated his professional life are elaborated in a moving book by Melvin Rader . Rader , a professor of philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist in an anti-subversive investigation in 1948 , conducted by the Canwell Committee , Washington 's Un-American Activities Committee . Rader undertook to establish that his accuser , George Hewitt , a professional informer of extraordinary ductility , was a liar . By time-consuming , expensive detective work , Rader proved irrefutably that the charges were false . A perjury prosecution against Hewitt initiated by the Washington authorities was frustrated by the illegal refusal of the New York courts to order Hewitt 's extradition  --  primarily on the ground that the ferocious Reds in the state of Washington might do Hewitt physical harm Hewitt died in 1950 of a nervous disorder which had already manifested itself in the 1948 hearings . What is extraordinary about the Rader-Hewitt affair was the role of the Immigration Service for which Hewitt had served as an informer in a score of deportation cases . Deputy Director Boyd not only tried to pressure the local prosecutor to drop the perjury case against Hewitt but made available two other perjurious informers to testify at the extradition hearings in support of Hewitt 's claim that he had met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clutch of ex-FBI informers also appeared at the tenure hearings conducted by the university in the wake of the 449 Cantwell probe . These proceedings led to the summary discharge of three professors in January 1949 , and the disciplining of three others in gross violation of academic freedom . Professor Rader himself was exonerated by the university in the fall of 1949 . A few months later it was revealed that Canwell 's investigators had seized and Suppressed pages of a hotel register which independently established the falsity of Hewitt 's charge against Rader . Some fifteen years after the Canwell committee affair the author was again involved in a clash with Canwell who , after repeated political defeats , had established a rightist bookshop and expose operation ( " American Intelligence Service " ) in eastern Washington . When John Goldmark , a Washington legislator , lost his seat in 1964 as a result of redbaiting , he and his wife sued Canwell and three others for libel . In the course of the trial , Professor Rader 's politics again became an issue as another professional informer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member . The testimony of this witness was discredited by cross-examination which established that in the course of Congressional testimony she had named some 500 alleged party members  --  but not Rader . Ed Guthman , then press relations director of the Department of Justice and now national news editor of the Los Angeles Timer , who had won a Pulitzer Prize in 1949 for his reporting on the Rader-Hewitt case , testified that Mrs Hartle had informed him in 1954 that Rader , although solicited , had never joined the party . The libel suit vindicated the Gold-marks and Rader  --  although the $40,000 libel verdict was set aside because of the impact of the Supreme Court decision in the New York Times case . The author triumphed over his ordeals because he was able and willing to fight back , he was supported by the powerful tradition of Northwestern liberalism and his own strong faith in the democratic process . What motivated him to take on Canwell and Hewitt was the realization that discrediting the committee and its star witness would be more than a means of personal vindication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunt One can only admire this resolute and tenacious professor of philosophy . Though his story has been told before ( by Vern Countryman , I F. Stone , Carey McWilliams , and in the pages of The Nation , November 12 , 1949 ) , Rader recounts it in a distinctive and powerful fashion which combines a low-keyed serenity about himself with an intellectual passion about the issues . A few more Raders around could reverse the tide of Hooverism. .                     