@@431771

 | Years ago , there was no such thing as a frigid woman . There were ladies ? who were n't expected to enjoy sex , or to admit it if they did ? and there were " the other kind . " Women who failed to achieve a satisfying sexual relationship with their husbands may have been disappointed , but they did n't worry about it . That was the way it was supposed to be . Most men thought it was too ? for women , that is . Today we know all that is nonsense . Women have the capacity to enjoy sex just as much as men do ? maybe more . Sexual fulfillment , in fact , has become not only a female right but a duty a woman feels she owes herself . If she senses she is n't scoring as high as she should , she does worry about it . Her husband ? if he is n't completely alienated ? worries too , not only because his wife 's lack of responsiveness cuts down his own enjoyment but because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passes for it , has come to be a major source of marital tension . Unfortunately , the word is often used with little understanding of what it really means . The general sense is clear enough : it 's the lack of ability to enjoy sexual encounters ( which include , but are not limited to , sexual intercourse ) . But the reasons for this inability can differ as much as chalk and cheese . And that 's where the confusion lies . Some women , though very , very few , are frigid because of physical abnormalities . These include extra-tough hymens , benign tumors , fissures in the vaginal wall and other conditions that make intercourse painful . Fortunately most of these are minor ( though their effects are n't ! ) and can be corrected by simple surgery . Another group ( also small ) of frigid women got that way because their hormonal systems are out of balance . The sex hormones are n't always the guilty ones . Overactivity of the thyroid gland can cause trouble too . Again a doctor can usually come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of all frigidity is psychological , not physiological , in origin , and no doctor 's prescription is going to cure that . Fortunately , the trouble does n't always go very deep . Some women worry needlessly about their sexual responsiveness because of all the nonsense they 've been sold about " clitoral " vs. " vaginal " orgasm . For years psychoanalytically oriented experts ( most of them men ? and how would they know ? ) have been preaching that the former is an inferior , " infantile " experience . But now we know ? thanks to the Masters-Johnson sex research ( see The Better Way , October , 1966 ? Ed. ) ? that there 's no difference between the physical and emotional response in both cases . Apparently it 's simply a matter of individual variation . Some women react more intensely to one kind of stimulation , some to another . But neither response is " better " or " more feminine " or " more adult " than the other . Newly married women who derive a great deal of pleasure from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too much either . The chances are good that they eventually will respond fully , especially if their husbands are gentle and understanding . The Kinsey studies show that a quarter of all women married one year or less fail to achieve full sexual enjoyment . But after fifteen years of marriage , the figure drops to ten percent . Still , ten percent represents a lot of women , and many of them never feel anything at all , even a mild romantic glow . A woman like this may " permit " her husband to make love to her . That 's  | a poor substitute for true sexual communion , and it usually leaves him almost as dissatisfied as she is . Or she may fight off his advances with fear or disgust . Many psychologically frigid women actually experience physical pain during intercourse , even though there is nothing physically wrong with them . Their tension is so great that their muscles go into spasm . This is real frigidity , and it 's a truly pitiable condition . It 's a symptom of a disturbed personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enjoyment of it is sinful . A terrible childhood experience like molestation or rape can produce such a disturbance . So can a mother who teaches her daughter that men are coarse creatures with evil desires , or who exaggerates the tribulations of childbirth or menstruation . Girls who grow up in this kind of home almost always have trouble when they themselves become wives . Sometimes they can be helped by expert counseling , but it 's usually a long-drawn-out , agonizing process . The sad thing is that women with perfectly normal childhoods sometimes work themselves into almost as bad a fix . It can begin with something as innocent as honest-to-goodness fatigue . A young wife who knocks herself out all day taking care of the house and the children may really be " too tired " to respond enthusiastically to her husband 's advances . So long as that happens only occasionally , a husband may bear it in good grace . But when it goes on night after night , for weeks on end , any healthy man is going to rebel . Sympathy turns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force ( whom is she working herself to the bone for , anyway ? ) ; and presto , sex becomes a battleground where all marital tensions are fought out . Under these conditions , it 's impossible for most women to obtain any kind of physical or emotional fulfillment from intercourse . By the time the husband gets around to hurling the ultimate insult ? " You 're frigid ! " ? at his wife , she may actually deserve it . An even more damaging version of this kind of " environmental frigidity " is what I call the Lysistrata syndrome . Lysistrata ,  | you may remember , persuaded her Greek countrywomen to withhold their favors from their husbands until the men agreed to end a destructive war . As a psychologist , I 'm against using sex as a weapon under any circumstances , however good the cause . A woman whose sex drive , though perfectly normal , is n't as strong as her husband 's will sometimes refuse to have marital relations in order to punish him for doing something she does n't like , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That 's a dangerous game , and one a wife ca n't possibly win . It creates , in almost any man , a deep-seated , destructive hostility , that may take the form of extramarital affairs or , perhaps , behavior designed to hit back at his wife . On one case a man secretly let his life insurance lapse , so that , if he died before she did , she would know how much he hated her ! ) Obviously this kind of calculated holding . back can be as damaging to the marital relationship as frigidity itself . Tragically , the menopause sometimes induces frigidity in women who up till then have had a richly satisfying sex life . There is no physical reason why there should be any falling off of desire and satisfaction when a woman reaches the end of her childbearing years . But there can be a psychological one ? belief in the exploded folklore that says a woman is " used up " sexually after menopause . In point of fact , there is no truth in this legend , but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true . As a result , she deprives herself of what can be an increasingly rewarding experience . Nothing is more important for happiness in marriage than a good sexual adjustment ? for the simple reason that in a real marital relationship , sex ca n't be separated from love . One deepens and strengthens and fulfills the other . That 's why frigidity is so damaging . Sometimes a few visits to a doctor or a skilled marriage counselor can remove the misunderstanding and mistrust that cripple many marriages . Sometimes much more intensive help is needed . But prevention is always better than cure . A healthy attitude toward sex and mutual consideration of husband and wife for each other in sexual matters make it impossible for ice to form ? in any area of marriage .                     