@@488165

satins . When Mrs. Jordan is informed that the lobster aspic is not to be served at dinner ( it was destroyed in the battle be  --  tween the chauffeur and butler ) she cries out in tones of Attic tragedy , " No aspic for dinner ! " And the whole fracas of conflicting thematic chords at the cur  --  tain of the second act is hilarious . The final scene of the play too in which the hosts and all the guests hover in the draw  --  ing room before dinner is conducted like a Pavane , each couple adding another note of dignified dissonance to the grand exit to the feast which of course is a total bust . Why despite these assets does the show work to a limited degree only ? For two reasons : Guthrie shapes the scenes and external characterizations with skill and imagination , but does not cast the parts with a sufficiently sharp sense of type and does not help those he has cast with anything beyond their movements and byplay . Like most English directors he leaves the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the players , whatever their age , seem too young for their parts . This in a way is a social phenomenon . Amencans of 40 in bygone days looked like people with forty years of life experience . Many of the present cast somehow strike one as kids . If the play were done by kids ( at a regional or university theatre , let us say ) , the show might come closer to Guthrie 's conception of it as a perhaps meaningful frolic . If the actors seemed more mature , if there were greater type verisimilitude in the casting , the play 's satiric potential might be realized . Guthrie is a man without malice , so the plan has no sting , and for gay sport the actors are not free or extravagant enough . Most of them , working loyally and intelligently , are suspended between the Iwo possibilities of satire or spoof . Exception should be made for Blanche Yurka as the Jordan cook and for Daniel Keyes in a bit part as a justifiably irascible square . Pamela Tiffin is luscious and comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the 29-year-old toughie of the script ) give the role wist  --  fulness ( she curtsies every time she meets a guest at the dinner party ) , a quality which seems to correspond to Guthrie 's sense of the play . If this is so , 1 con  --  clude that he has not succeeded in find  --  ing a clearly marked style to serve his interpretation or his enthusiasm . Off-Broadway organizations are beginning to get the idea : it is well worth while , it may even prove a pleasure , to see " old " American plays . Of course most of them will be " dated , " but may that not be part of their charm ? Why is a play which smacks of its period necessarily dull ? A person who speaks of himself as " a man of the sixties " makes me think : " In that case in 1970 you will be ten years old . " No wonder we have so much dif  --  ficulty in growing up . Now that the Wilder one-acters have attracted an audience numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Second Avenue , the City Cen  --  ter has initiated an American Playwrights Series with The Country Girl by Clif  --  ford Odets . The weakness of the series ( but no reason for scorning it ) is that the plays may be insufficiently rehearsed ? although Stanislaysky once said . " If you have n't time enough to rehearse a play for as long as it should be rehearsed , two weeks will do " The Country Girl is the thinnest of Odets ' plays ( Is it too cynical to say that that is one cause for its having been more successful than several other of his bet  --  ter plays9 ) It is straightforward , clear and effective on a simple level . It is warmed by the subjective heat of Odets ' desire to explain certain of his own personal flaws and to confess his need for the help of a patient and trusting woman , as well as for the aid of an artistically and humanly loyal companion in the theatre . It is above all a play which demands superb acting . While Uta Hagen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Kelly was not up to the central part . Michael Red-grave , on reliable report , played it mag  --  nificently in London where the play was a solid hit . Franchot Tone was scheduled to play the role at City Center and be  --  gan rehearsing it when he fell ill . My guess is that he would have been very fine . Joseph Anthony stepped in . He plays the failing old actor well but it is not " his " part . He makes sense but not pathos . What the part calls for is an aura of grandeur . As the actor 's wife , Jennifer Jones comports herself nicely rather than impressively Rip Torn as the director who works with fierce devotion to restore the actor 's confidence and powers is most fittingly cast . I was glad to see the play again .                     