@@478179

A soldier in wartime has a better chance for survival than a baby during birth . . . yet much of the danger in these perilous hours of life could be avoided , if doctors , hospitals , and parents really tried . The process of being born is one of the most hazardous of medical episodes in America today . Our peak incidence of death and damage , in fact , is in the four-week periods immediately preceding and following birth . This is true even though the baby within its mother 's uterus four weeks before term is generally a pretty good citizen . If delivered right then it would not have to go into an incubator , it could breathe , live , and function satisfactorily . Yet of every thousand babies to reach that point in development , thirty-five will die in the next eight weeks , thirty-five will be born with a damaged brain or nervous system , and roughly thirty-five will be found to have a hereditary defect . Thetotal loss ? dead , damaged , and defective ? is in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her due date , in other words , an expectant mother can face the cold statistic that during the next eight weeks there is a one-in-ten chance that she will not have a perfect baby . Few illnesses carry a comparable 10 per cent chance of death or damage . Until one reaches the seventies , no other birthday is as dangerous as is the day of birth and no period as dangerous as that crucial eight weeks . The mortality rate is 3.5 per cent , which can be compared , for example , with a death rate among our soldiers of 3.2 per cent during the last great war . Putting it another way , more Americans perished just before and after birth in the single decade from 1950 to 1960 than the total number of soldiers the United States has lost in all the wars it has ever fought , from Bunker Hill to the Yalu River . The citizens involved happened , of course , to be in the five-toeight-pound class . In infant mortality rates , the United States slipped from 10th to 11th place among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toll must he added the group of babies that sustain damage . Each year they add a heartbreaking 200.000 people most of whom will need institutional care and whose existence creates a deep family tragedy . To complete the picture . other thousands will be born with inherited stigmata . This group , to be sure , includes some insignificant genetic defects such as an extra finger , which is often amputated in the delivery room without distress to anyone . But within the range of genetic problems are gravely serious defects such as Mongolism that make normal life impossible . It is difficult to translate health problems into a meaningful statistic . If all cancer were cured tomorrow , the average length of life in America would go up only two years and four months . If lung cancer were to vanish , the average life expectancy would increase by at most nine weeks . But the loss around the time of birth is not a matter of months added at the end of life ; it involves the very beginning when there is a full life expectancy ahead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems surrounding the day of nativity are relatively neglected . Why is this so ? In part it is the result of a curious taboo . We speak in whispers , if at all , of the birth of a Mongoloid baby . We do not stage funerals for the stillborn or pay condolence calls on the parents . Only recently have we begun to consider the existence of defective children as one of the tragic events of life that can be mentioned openly rather than hidden away . The Forgotten Fetus In the area of public discussion , no one speaks for the fetus . When a TV star is stricken with carcinoma of the lung , he has a large audience to whom he can drop occasional , but effective , remarks . After a newspaper editor has cancer of the prostate , cancer is frequently mentioned in his column . But the fetus that quietly suffocates in its mother 's birth canal has no television time , owns no newspaper . Nor ? though this may seem surprising ? do most pregnant women concern themselves much about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the gospel of pregnancy and labor as a time of sweetness and light has been so widely preached that the hazards to the embryo are seldom mentioned . The American woman is likely to be more concerned with whether or not her husband can be in the delivery room thanwith the fate of her baby . The birth of a baby , when all goes well , is a family milestone , to be sure . But we need scientific objectivity rather than sentimentality if we are to gain ground against the appalling rate of death and damage . The prevailing attitude was summed up this way by the editor of a leading women 's magazine : " I can carry an article on ' How I Was Mistreated in the Delivery Room ' and we will receive sympathetic letters from all over the country recounting personal experiences . But if I run an article about death in the uterus nothing will happen . Newborn babies do n't read my magazine ; mothers do . " One might add that discussion of the damaged newborn runs into a major psychological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of all the tribulations that may face him he can be sure , at least , that he will never again have to undergo the hazard of being a fetus . In contrast , when he hears about heart disease , cancer , or hardening of the arteries his subconscious mind says : That might happen to me . " This need to identify with a danger influences Congressmen , medical-school deans , hospital administrators , and physicians as well as the general public . By and large , the medical profession itself is committed to the curious fallacy that to be interesting a patient must be an adult , fully developed , and preferably degenerating . As a consequence obstetrics today occupies a lowly position in the medical status hierarchy and it is hard to persuade a sufficient number of talented medical students to enter this specialty . Within the hospital the same attitude is discernible . For example , the removal of a brain tumor calls for the presence in the operating room of a surgeon with two assistants , a scrub nurse and two circulating nurses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other words , makes a tremendous investment in a patient whose life expectancy is probably eighteen months . On the other hand , the birth of a new baby at 4:00 A.M. is generally attended by one weary physician , no scrub nurse , one circulating nurse , and inadequate or haphazard anesthesia coverage . Yet the combined life expectancy of the two patients involved is over a hundred years . Furthermore , in a crisis situation ? such as a sudden cessation of the fetal heartbeat , an abrupt drop in the mother 's blood pressure , or severe bleeding ? the availability of first-rate operating-room emergency facilities may mean the difference between a live , healthy baby or a dead or irretrievably damaged one . Physiologically , one might say , babies manage to be born just before they die . Reducing the fetal hazard inherent in the process of birth is not a one-person job , but calls for an adequately staffed hospital with appropriate supporting services . In recent years much valuable information about the background of the congenitally defective child has come from the laboratories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correlate events of pregnancy and labor with the ultimate outcome of the child . Armed with this new knowledge , what can we do to prevent the birth of anomalous or defective children ? It is fitting that a **25;1994;TOOLONG ( rather than some other medical specialist ) should attempt to answer this question . He is the chief medical premarital counselor , a role he acquires when couples seek his advice on contraception . He is also the administrator of prenatal care , the pediatrician of the fetus , and the attendant at labor and delivery . Within his province is the responsibility for prevention of these tragedies . Unfortunately , the weapons at his command are meager . There is , sometimes , genetic counseling , which could take two forms : counseling on the choice of a marriage partner , or , for the married , counseling as to having babies . Unhappily , such advice is generally sought by couples only after they have already produced a defective child , and I see little hope that in our society there will soon be widespread acceptance of professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , when the problem of Rh incompatibility became a popular medical subject in the press and women 's magazines , the **26;2021;TOOLONG ' offices were flooded by engaged couples anxious to have their Rh type determined . I have asked hundreds of such patients whether if the test revealed a potential incompatibility ( with the resulting danger of destruction of the baby 's red blood cells ) , the engagement would be dissolved and the marriage canceled . In every case , the answer was a horrified " No . " The information was desired as a basis for worry , not as a basis for action . I have been consulted only once by a young couple concerned about their consanguinity . Their interrelationship was actually quite complex . But before the pattern could be fully worked out , their engagement was publicly announced . In a good many cases it is obvious that a marriage is genetically unwise . But one must also admit that our understanding of heredity is still far from complete . The scientists are not always fully agreed as to what is a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , the individual whose blood contains double genes for sickle hemoglobin ( SS ) is seriously sick . However , an individual with one S gene and one normal gene ( SA ) is healthy and relatively immune to malaria . If an SA individual marries another SA individual , one quarter of their children will be SS and seriously ailing . On the other hand if we encourage the SA individual to find an AA mate , we are simply spreading the S genes , of which he is a carrier , further through the population . In this situation we have more knowledge of genetic background than we have agreement as to what to do about it . This is not the case , however , with counseling about other practical preventive measures whose use is sometimes obstructed by prevailing social attitudes . One of these is contraception . There is an established association between congenital defects and the age of the mother . The risks rise with age ; the prospects of a normal eighth child , for example , are far lower than for a normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family of a reasonable size has been produced , the intelligent use of contraceptives has much to offer in the prevention of defective babies . Yet the subject of contraception was conspicuously omitted from the report of the President 's Panel on Mental Retardation made public last summer . Where the Law Fails Surgical sterilization is another important tool which is by no means used as widely and as sensibly as one might wish . It should certainly be considered in the case of persons with a history of such hereditary afflictions as pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy . The risk is very great that their offspring will live ? often into adulthood ? as cripples . If such a couple has had one or two normal children , the risk remains great and the partner who is the actual genetic carrier should be sterilized . Usually , however , it is the wife ( who may not be the carrier ) who is sent to the doctor to discuss the matter . 34 REDUCING THE HAZARDS OF BIRTH On the surface there are few legal barriers to sterilization . I have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will amputate my left hand . If there is nothing wrong with my hand , he will very likely refuse but , should he agree , both he and I have the legal right to proceed with the surgery . Similarly , anyone may sign away his fertility exactly as he may sign away his left hand ? hut again the surgeon often refuses to operate . The restrictions stem from the doctors themselves , singly or acting as hospital staffs or through their various organizations . However , as I sign the papers to dispense with either my left hand or my fertility , the law would like to be assured that I am competent and in my right mind , In the case of sterilization this necessity often rules out the mentally defective . Thus the very people who genetically deserve it most are the ones least able to achieve surgical sterilization . To correct this situation , some states permit court-order sterilization of the defective . Unfortunately , however . the majority of states lack intelligent laws of this type . There are instances where the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Rh negative woman married to an Rh positive husband may be severely sensitized by one or more pregnancies . Thereafter , if she wishes more children an Rh negative sperm donor should be employed . There are , in general , no restrictive laws concerning artificial insemination , although there are pertinent court decisions . While most of them ? in both the United States and the United Kingdom ? are truly magnificent in their absurdity , the physician and his patient are not seriously restricted by prohibitive laws . We face a very different problem with respect to abortion . In this country there is no hazard to the fetus which makes therapeutic abortion legal . All fifty states have laws which permit therapeutic abortion only for the safety of the mother . Thus , suppose that a woman who is six weeks pregnant acquires a full-blown case of German measles . Whether there is a one-in-five or a onein-a-hundred chance of a defective baby ( opinion differs widely on the odds ) , in my opinion this is a risk few people should take . I am concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this case the possibility of a deficient offspring who must be institutionalized for life , Or let us consider the mother who consumes a large quantity of thalidomide . Since carrying this potentially damaged child to term will not risk her life , abortion is illegal . Or let us say that at five or five and a half months X-ray establishes that the fetus is an acranial monster ? lacking most of the skull and brain ? a frog baby . Again this pregnancy must , according to the various state laws , proceed to term . This monster , incidentally , has significant legal protection . An abortion performed in the first three months for a fetal indication is a felony usually calling for about seventeen years in prison ; after four and a half months , in most states , it would become manslaughter punishable by ninety-nine years . Until the laws of this country recognize the right to he well born , we shall continue to waste reproductive time for the mother and condemn the damaged child to hopeless institutional care . Clearly , contraception , abortion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in preventing the conception and birth of defective children . But it is also apparent that our growing contemporary knowledge about congenital defects will not bear fruit so long as our present laws and irrational social attitudes persist . Can Risks Be Eliminated ? VVhat then can be done to minimize the risk of damage to the babies whose conception and birth we can not or do not prevent ? What can be accomplished , specifically , by prenatal care ? The President 's Committee on Mental Retardation recently cited the finding that women who received prenatal care had children of generally higher IQ than did women who had no such care . The report then attributed this result to some mysterious element in prenatal care . This inference ignores the statistical hazards in such comparisons . The patients who received absolutely no prenatal care in any such comparative study include women so mentally deficient that they do not recognize that they are pregnant and those recognizing their pregnancy but too unintelligent to make the necessary arrangements . Hence comparisons of the ultimate intelligence of the children may have nothing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prenatal care is a social phenomenon in this country , carrying overtones of faddism among the economically privileged . " The higher the income , the earlier in pregnancy prenatal care is obtained " is a reasonably accurate observation . And providing all women with obligatory prenatal care will not , in itself , eliminate mental retardation . To be sure , there are many specific precautions which could be taken during pregnancy to lessen the risk of congenital lesions and infant mortality . Unfortunately , many of these steps must be taken before the average woman consults her obstetrician and often before she is sure that she is pregnant . Best known are the damaging effects of diagnostic radiation . These are most pronounced between the second and sixth postconception weeks , a period when few women have sought obstetric care . On the basis of intensive studies in Denmark , Dr. Hammer-Jacobsen of the University of Copenhagen recommends that " in fertile women X-ray examination of the abdomen should be carried out only during the first ten days after a regular menstrual period of normal intensity and duration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in our hospitals should always ? except in emergencies ? record the date of the patient 's last menstrual period . Unfortunately , they almost never do . A study by Dr. A. M. Thomson and Dr. W. Z. Billewicz of the University of Aberdeen indicated that a weight gain of one pound per week during the last half of pregnancy was associated with the most favorable fetal outcome . Either a higher or a lower weight increment was associated with an increased prematurity and mortality rate in the four weeks after birth . While such correlations can be debated statistically , nevertheless careful attention to weight gain is desirable , although not always successful . A study by Dr. Todd Frazier. a Washington , D.C. statistician , of the relationship between cigarette smoking and lowered fetal weight also deserves consideration . The difference between a cigarette smoker and a non-cigarette smoker is , of course , far greater than simply the cigarette between the lips ; there are dietary differences , differences in personality , differences in the degree of nervous tension . To force a thoroughly addicted cigarette smoker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not work , and , in the second place . might create , from the increased tension and eating problems , increased fetal hazards . Often , ' however , a heavy smoker , motivated in pregnancy by the desire to protect her child , can be persuaded temporarily to reduce her cigarette consumption . A more ominous threat perhaps results from the apparent belief of the American public that life is a reasonably serious illness which can be survived only with the aid of innumerable drugs . There are available today on the American market over a dozen drugs which definitely or presumably cause fetal injury , The list will undoubtedly extend as additional drugs are in by troduced and our studies grow more perceptive . Control of the problem is complicated by the fact that many people do not recognize that they are taking drugs . A woman who has put nose drops in each nostril nightly for two years will deny that she is " taking any pills . " Yet a drug powerful enough to contract the blood vessels of the nose will also contract the blood vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nutrition available to the fetus . The meticulous housewife who sprays her kitchen regularly with an insecticide is likewise not " taking any drugs " as she sees it . Prenatal care obviously can not prevent all such chemical risks . More hope would seem to lie in fostering an abstemious attitude toward drug consumption among physicians and the public . The ideal would seem to be for all females between the ages of fourteen and forty to practice therapeutic nihilism . The Obstetrician 's Role In general , our grandmothers first went to a physician for a complete history and physical examination when they were from three to four months pregnant . They had probably had some superficial contacts with the medical profession during the course of the familiar childhood diseases . But the call on the obstetrician was customarily their first adult relationship with a doctor , and certainly the first examination of their reproductive organs . The school and college physical examinations of today were relatively unknown ; premarital consultation with a gynecologist unheard of . Aware that he was the first serious medical contact for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of his opportunity to explore for possibly unrecognized diseases . He took a complete medical history , conducted a thorough physical examination , and did the appropriate laboratory tests . These procedures soon made it apparent that the recognition of inherent maternal disease states is one of the great benefits which prenatal care affords the fetus . The most traditional example , of course , is syphilis ; its diagnosis and appropriate therapy saved many babies from death or deformity . The most recent example , perhaps , is the identification and care of the prediabetic state in the mother . But between the oldest and newest examples is a considerable list of maternal diseases which , unattended , may harm the fetus . Under this heading one should include the history of the woman 's previous reproductive performance . The simple , time-honored obstetric procedure of obtaining this history carefully has tremendous value . The woman who has borne one cretin , for example , has an increased statistical chance of bearing another , and the administration of thyroid medicinally during pregnancy may well be of assistance . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore contribute to the prevention of congenital difficulties . So one hopes that our granddaughters may accept preconception gynecologic consultation as our grandmothers did predelivery medical assistance . As is well known , infections which strike the mother during pregnancy can affect . the fetus adversely . The danger of German measles in the first eight weeks is perhaps the most familiar . There are , however , some ten other infections which are strongly associated with congenital abnormality , illness in the newborn child , or prematurity . When we can keep ail people from contracting German measles , we can keep all pregnant women from contracting it , but no sooner . For those diseases which produce a lifelong immunity , there might be some merit in deliberately infecting all little girls prior to the reproductive years . For the remainder , we can control these environmental hazards for the fetus only to the same extent that we can control them in the population in general . Diseases such as diabetes , measles , or mumps occur in pregnancy simply by coincidence . There are , however . other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convulsions of pregnancy ? is the historic example , and the eclampsia-related toxemic states have been shown to have some correlation with damaged children . This statistical correlation is , however , beclouded by the fact that these babies are often premature , and the fact that these toxemic states occur more frequently in the poorer economic classes , with less promising opportunities for the child 's mental development . Nevertheless , the frequency and severity of toxemias can be very significantly reduced by appropriate prenatal care . Contrary to popular belief , prematurity is net always a misfortune . Delivery before term is sometimes a safety valve for the fetus being starved by an inadequate placenta . The human uterus has been sentimentally referred to as " the best incubator in the world " ; on many occasions there is a far better incubator in the nursery , and all babies should not be condemned to continuing to calendrical term before delivery . It has long been recognized that the transition from intrauterine to extrauterine existence is hazardous because of the difficulties of traversing the birth canal , the forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous alteration in the fetal condition which takes place in the process . There is also the risk of strangulation from compression of the umbilical cord or suffocation from premature detachment of the placenta , combined with the mechanical problem of fitting the maternal bony pelvis . These risks have long been the subject of concerted obstetric attack . As a result , fetal damage now should be rare in any adequately staffed hospital . As I have pointed out earlier , however , the appropriate supporting services are not always available . Indeed , the necessary financial arrangements for them are often lacking . This is apparent if one examines carefully one 's health-insurance policy . Usually it provides for payment of $250 to $300 for the removal of a gall bladder , whereas for the delivery of a new baby $75 may be allowed . If this ratio is carried over to payment of hospital bills , there is no doubt as to which of these medical episodes gets more protection . Providing protection for an erratic , unscheduled delivery is far more difficult than for regularly scheduled surgery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though this necessity is not always recognized . Not by Money Alone Dr. Richard L. Masland , Director of the National Institute of Neurologic Diseases and Blindness , has said : We have the means to prevent many , if not most , of the cases of mental deficiency already at hand . The fundamental problem revolves around the fact that America does not take pregnancy , labor , and delivery seriously enough . " There is a great deal of heartbreaking truth in this statement . The problem is not merely one of making effective use of the weapons at hand . Until we take this particular medical threat seriously there is little hope of its ultimate conquest . For it is a fact of history that no disease has ever been cured until the public thought it was important . Poliomyelitis , for example , killed no more people per year than are struck by lightning ( and incidentally yielded the benefit of an immune adult population ) , But the American public was alarmed by polio with a concern out of proportion to such cold statistics , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any , topflight scientific workers will happily go to the laboratory daily to work hard on a problem which they and all others in their society consider unimportant . An Institute of Child Health and Human Development has recently been added to the National Institutes of Health . In signing the bill establishing it , President Kennedy said somewhat optimistically : " This legislation will encourage imaginative research into the complex processes of human development from conception to old age . " Certainly this new institute will help . However , we must remind ourselves that money does not solve biological enigmas ; men do . Pouring huge sums into laboratory support is bootless if the man at the laboratory bench is unimaginative or inadequately trained . The speed of light was measured ( and a Nobel Prize won ) with mirrors and equipment which are said to have cost less than $750 . Multiplying this sum a thousandfold would not have brought the answer any sooner nor changed the measurements one iota . The new Institute faces the long-range responsibility of making this area of research attractive to able workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field , and of underwriting their research programs when trained . This will be possible only if Americans generally believe the program is important . In building such public awareness the large private foundations have an important role to play . The United Cerebral Palsy Fund and the National Foundation ( March of Dimes ) are but two of the many private organizations which are not only supporting medical research in this field , but are also preaching the importance of the topic . Such public education is no small task in a country which regards the concomitant changes of senility ( arthritis , hardening of the arteries , cancer ) as " diseases , " but looks on human reproduction with its 10 per cent rate of dead , damaged , or defective babies as " physiology . " The nature of future research in this area can not be foreseen in detail . There are encouraging , although remarkably diverse , portents on the horizon . The recent rapid advances in genetics , cell typing , and chromosome counting have opened new vistas . The genetic " code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established . Once this is done , the workers in this area may turn from the individual letters to an interest in the message being sent from one cell to another . Contemporary medical scientists hold in common one faith . No matter how hard-headed he may be , the medical researcher is guided by one tenet which has no shred of evidence to support it . That is the faith that for every disease there is somewhere a cure or a prevention . As we turn to look into the future , the light of this faith must illumine our crystal ball . The hazards of birth have already been reduced somewhat in the past thirty years ; one could hope that the medical research of the next thirty years will lead to a still greater safety in the process of being born ,                     