@@478029

IT IS surprising what human beings can get used to ! For instance , most people today seem to have got used to the fact that the two Giant Powers , the U. S. A. and the Soviet Union , between them appear to have stockpiled nuclear weapons with a total explosive power of some fifty thousand million tons of an ordinary explosive such as TNT . This amounts to over ten tons of TNT for every inhabitant of this globe . So far , all attempts to halt this fantastic arms race have failed , in spite of months or years of disarmament negotiations . President . Kennedy warned the world of the acute danger in which it finds itself in the memorable words spoken to the United Nations : Today , every inhabitant of this planet must contemplate the day when it may no longer be habitable . Every man , woman , and child livesunder a nuclear sword of Damocles , hanging by the slenderest of threads , capable of being cut at any moment by accident , miscalculation , or madness . The weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . For fourteen years this organization has sought the reduction arid destruction of arms . Now that goal is no longer a dream ? it is a practical matter of life or death . The risks inherent in disarmament pale in comparison to the risks inherent in an unlimited arms race . Both the U. S. A. and the U. S. S. R. , and indeed all the hundred or so members of the United Nations have committed themselves to working toward general and complete disarmament , leaving only lightly armed security forces and some kind of UN force to keep order . This goal has been the basis of all disarmament proposals since 1959 . Though both Giants accept 26 CHANCE FOR DISARMAMENT overtly the same goal , they differ widely as to the method of reaching it . On the whole , the Western proposals have been for small steps spread over a long period up to , say , ten or more years , and with inspection and control playing a major part at the early stages . On the other hand , the Soviet proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that complete disarmament should be achieved in under five years , with general inspection coming later in the process . To make progress to this great goal , the disarmament proposals of the two Giant Powers must satisfy two obvious conditions : The first is that the military policy of a power must be consistent with its disarmament plans , in the sense that the military policy of the country must not frustrate its disarmament policy . For instance . if a country 's disarmament plans are accepted by the other side , it must not then be found that the military consequences of the plan are not acceptable to the military . This has happened in the past , and must be avoided in the future . The second is that a disarmament proposal must be such that it is to the self-interest of the opposite party to accept it . Many of the proposals from both sides in the last ten years have not satisfied these conditions , and so partook more of propaganda than of negotiation . An important step toward meeting these conditions was the signing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U. S. A. and by Mr. Zorin on behalf of the U. S. S. R. , of an agreed set of principles which should govern future disarmament negotiations . The all-important clause of this statement reads : All measures of general and complete disarmament should be balanced so thin at no stage of the implementation of the treaty could any state or group of states gain military advantage , and so that security is ensured equally for all . In the spring of 1962 , both the U. S. A. and the U. S. S. R. submitted draft disarmament treaties to the United Nations Disarmament Conference at Geneva . I want to start by sayingfrankly that I think both the Soviet and the American draft treaties conflict with the essential requirement of balance in certain important respects . For instance , the Soviet requires the elimination of all foreign troops and bases in the first stage of disarmament . But this would weaken the present Western defense position in Europe more than that of the Soviet bloc . Europe consists of many independent nations with the Atlantic between them and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , the Soviet bloc is much more a unity , both geographically and politically . If the Soviet proposals were carried out , the American forces would have to withdraw across the Atlantic , whereas the Russian forces would only have to withdraw a few hundred miles eastward . We must not . forget . the terrible losses ? some twenty million dead and untold destruction of wealth ? suffered by the Russian people in the invasion of their country by Germany in 194 , losses far greater than those of all Russia 's Western allies taken together . Little imagination is needed to gauge the depth of the traumatic experience induced in the Russian people by finding themselves , soon after this devastating war , ringed round by nuclear bases . Their cities were thus exposed to nuclear attack , to which for many years they had no power to reply . Given all this , still do not think that the demand by the Soviet Union to liquidate all troops and bases on foreign soil in the first stage of disarmament is a plausible first step . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this matter might arise by distinguishing between the two extreme forms of bases : On the one hand , there are bases for conventionally armed troops . These might be phased out along with the reduction of conventional forces in general . On the other hand , there are bases for strategic nuclear weapons , and these could be phased out along with all other strategic nuclear weapons . THE . BALANCE OF TERROR T H E Russian position on foreign bases does not seem reasonable , the Giant Powers are closer to agreement on limiting the size of their armed forces . One very satisfactory aspect of all recent disarmament negotiations is that both America and the Soviet Union accept the principle of reducing the total armed manpower to an equal fixed number for both countries . Since the present Soviet armed manpower appears to be about 3.8 million compared with the present American figure of 2.4 million , the Soviet proposal to reduce to 1.7 million implies that America would reduce her armed strength by 30 per cent and the Soviet Union by 55 per cent . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolish her present superiority in total strength over America . It is to be noted that a recent estimate shows that the total armed strength of the Western bloc is bigger than that of the Soviet bloc ? the figures are 8.1 and 7.3 million respectively . In contrast to the case of total manpower , the American draft treaty lays down that the nuclear delivery systems of both major powers should be reduced by a given percentage ? in fact 30 per cent in the first stage , which would last three years . The proposal to make a percentage reduction would be quite sensible if the present nuclear hitting power of the two powers were nearly equal . However , official statements from Washington last autumn estimated that Overall American nuclear strength was several times that of the Soviet Union . At present the best available estimates suggest that America has 226 ICBMs and the Soviet Union 75 , giving a ratio of three to one . In long-range bombers , the ratio is nearly the same , 630 American to 190 Soviet . Furthermore , the large numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can reach the Soviet Union , whereas the Soviet Union has no bases near enough to the U. S. A. to allow similar types to reach America . Neglecting one-way " suicide " flights ? militarily a very unreliable type of operation ? the ratio of the number of Western nuclear vehicles which can reach Russia as compared with the number of Soviet vehicles which can reach America thus becomes still larger . We see , then , that a great disparity exists between the nuclear strengths of the two powers . For this reason , a reduction by the same percentage of the nuclear strength would clearly not he acceptable to the weaker power . For instance , the Soviet Union , if it accepted America 's proposals , would remain much weaker than the U. S. in nuclear weapons throughout the nine or more years that the complete American disarmament plan would last . An even more serious objection to the American proposal to reduce nuclear missiles and bombers by a fixed percentage a year ( actually 10 per cent ) is that it could increase the danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of terror . " This stability at present depends on two facts : ( 1 ) the capability of each power to destroy the other 's cities and ( 2 ) the incapability of each to destroy all the nuclear missiles and bombers of the other side . So , if either side attacked the other , it would inevitably lose its principal cities . To maintain this type of stability , it is necessary that neither side falls much below the minimum deterrent level ? i.e. , a level capable of destroying enemy cities ? while , at the same time , the other side is well above it . This quite obviously might make it possible for the stronger side to make a successful attack on the enemy 's nuclear bases , disarming them before they could retaliate. if the American disarmament plan were followed , this possibility might occur because , at some time during the disarmament process , the Soviet nuclear strength would fall below a minimum deterrent level while that of the U. S. remained well above it . If this occurred , then the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement of her peaceful intentions . Now the whole basis of the attitude of both sides , but particularly the Western , to the disarmament problems is that reliance on good intentions alone is not enough . One must conclude from this analysis that the first stages of both the Russian and the American draft treaties seriously conflict with the requirement of the McCloy-Zorin agreement to maintain the balance during the process of disarmament . IS PARITY ACCEPTABLE ? F R 0 M a purely military point of view , the most rational first step would seem to be for both sides to reduce their strategic nuclear forces rapidly to the same equal and low level , as a plausible temporary goal on the way to complete nuclear disarmament , One or two dwell ICBMs in invulnerable sites or a suitable number in submarines for both sides should be quite adequate for each side to deter the other . If some such goal were set , then America , because of her much bigger nuclear force , would have to destroy more nuclear delivery vehicles than the Soviet Union . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to reduce her total manpower more than America because of her greater present strength . I have heard this situation neatly expressed by stating that Russia would have to pay a disarmament surtax on her greater manpower and America on her greater nuclear strength . It may well be argued that such reasoning may be quite valid in theory , but that it may not be very relevant in practice at the present time because of the possibility that the American peo28 CHANCE FOR DISARMAMENT pie would not accept now such a drastic step of disarmament as the loss of their nuclear superiority over the Soviet Union . For eighteen years this nuclear superiority has been built up in the public mind as the main guarantee of the survival of the American way of life . Only a year or so ago , the American people were being told that the Soviet Union was about to acquire a nuclear superiority over the United States and that it would then be expected to launch an all-out nuclear attack on America . After so many years of the prevalence of such views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy quickly to get Congress to approve at the present time such a drastic step of disarmament as the acceptance of approximate nuclear parity with the Soviet Union . For this , I feel convinced , is what any major disarmament agreement must mean . Another reason why it may be difficult for the American government to adopt at the present time a policy of nuclear parity with the Soviet Union , as they have for total manpower , is the uncertainty as to the social and economic effects of such a policy ? a question which is especially worrying at a time when there is talk of the possibility of a world recession . This is not because of a lack of economic knowledge sufficient to avoid serious harm to a country 's economy during a rapid process of disarmament . On the contrary , all those who have studied the subject agree that , in broad terms , our economic understanding is equal to the task . The real problem of a big disarmament step in a Western country is largely political rather than economic : Will in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken ? and taken in time ? This doubt could lead . to the climate of opinion becoming antagonistic to disarmament as such . For example , some Western experts and officials have been attracted to various proposals for " arms control " which would assume a high level of armaments by the giant powers . They see such " control " as an alternative to drastic disarmament . Perhaps this attraction may sometimes have had less to do with military arguments than with a concealed fear of the economic and social consequences of disarmament . Of particular importance are the effects of such fears on senior military personnel and on the employees of the armament industries . The same motivations may encourage the elaboration of control systems into vast organizations equipped with every possible technological device . I have heard it said in America that " it seems necessary to convince the electorate that we can spend as much on disarmament as we do now on armaments . " We may conclude that , to reduce the opposition to disarmament , it is necessary to bring out into the open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and political measures to deal with them . It seems to me vital that all Western governments formulate detailed economic and social plans to be put into effect when the first steps of disarmament are taken , and that they make these plans public . This is not something to be left till after a disarmament treaty has been signed ; it must be done now . WHAT SPURS THE RACE W E HAVE now touched on some reasons why the American Administration may be reluctant to agree to so drastic a goal as accepting nuclear parity with the Soviet Union at an early stage of disarmament , even though purely military considerations make this of great importance . I do not think it fanciful to suppose that the much longer time-scale of the American disarmament program compared with the Soviet plan ( up to about ten years compared with four years ) may be related not so mudi to military or technical considerations , as perhaps to realistic estimates of the time it might take to make drastic disarmament politically palatable to the American electorate . The time this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such points of conflict as Berlin and Cuba . There is still another factor in the relationship between disarmament and economics which must be borne in mind . Since America is wealthier than the Soviet Union , an arms race between them imposes a greater economic burden on the Soviet Union than on America ; at the present time a big arms budget spent within the country itself is probably , on balance , an economic advantage to the U. S. So an arms race between these two countries , by the harm it can do to the growth of the Soviet economy , may appear to some in the West as an important weapon in the Cold ' War . This factor again may stiengthen opposition to disarmament itself . For the disarmament policy advocated by Mr. Kennedy would , if adopted , ease the economic burden on the Soviet Union and so allow her living standards to be raised more rapidly . This would increase her influence in the world , especially among the unaligned and underdeveloped countries . Russia 's reaction to a Feeling that some part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gaining successes in the Cold War than by normal military considerations is likely to spur her to maintain her military security at the lowest economic cost . As regards strategic nuclear weapons , her most suitable policy would seem to be to rely on a minimum deterrent ? that is , on a relatively few very efficient ICBMs with large warheads in geographically secret sites , supplemented by some medium-range missiles carried by submarines , with both kinds of missiles aimed at American cities . But if geographical secrecy of her sites were lost , she would be faced with a very expensive program . She would have to increase production of her missiles , and both disperse their sites and " harden " them ? i.e. , plant them in underground launching stations that were highly invulnerable . Probably such a rearmament program is already under way and is , in fact , imposing a severe strain on the Soviet economy . 1 have gone into these various social and economic points in some detail in order to emphasize my view that serious discussions of the progress of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the overt level of purely military considerations , but that attention must also be paid to the complex nonmilitary motivations lying sometimes even below the surface of individual consciousness . A danger arises here . Just in so far as the strategic balance of nuclear terror becomes recognized as rather stable against rational acts of sane nations , so there may arise a tendency in the West to discount the danger of nuclear war and so to feel more free to indulge in an arms race , not se much to deter a fighting war as to wage an economic one . Such a policy would inevitably lead to the proliferation and spread of nuclear weapons , increase the danger of nuclear war by accident or irresponsibility , and snake very difficult any type of arms agreement . HOW IT MIGHT WORK I E. T us now suppose that such difficulties 41 can be overcome and that it be agreed at Geneva that a state of near nuclear parity at an agreed low level be reached at an early stage of disarmament . Then comes the problem of devising a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of armaments and for the growth of the necessary inspection system . In the simplest terms a possible scheme might be as follows . On conclusion of the treaty , all states would publish a complete inventory of all their armaments . Here we will only consider the case of nuclear delivery systems . The destruction of an agreed number of missiles and aircraft would begin under strict supervision by the United Nations . As soon as the calculated remaining stocks ( that is the original number in the inventory , less the number witnessed as destroyed ) reached the agreed target figure , then inspection would start with the object of verifying the actual number of remaining stocks , so as to compare with the calculated number . The inspection and verification system would clearly have to have initially a sampling character ; i.e. , the inspectors would select specific areas of the military establishment for surveillance , rather than attempt to cover the whole . But the inspection system would he gradually built up so as to be30 CHANCE FOR DISARMAMENT come essentially complete by the time that complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first stage of such a disarmament plan , both the U. S. and the U. S. S. R. would reach parity in total armed manpower at somewhere round the two million level , and approximate parity of strategic nuclear striking force at a low minimum deterrent level of one or two dozen invulnerable missiles . Until recently the Soviet Union has insisted that all nuclear delivery vehicles should be destroyed at the end of the first stage , which in their plan was to last only a year and a half . They had rejected the plea from the West that this would be dangerous in view of the possibility of one side concealing some illicit weapons . Quite recently , Gromyko , in a speech to the General Assembly of the United Nations , made an important concession . Though not holding the Western arguments as weighty , the U. S. S. R. , he said , in order to make progress in the negotiations , has agreed that at the end of the first stage there shall be retained by the U. S. and U. S. S. R. only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missiles , and antiaircraft ground-to-air missiles . And he said that the Soviet Union is amending its draft treaty accordingly . This move by Russia could he of major importance , provided the West takes full cognizance of it and follows it up . It may fairly be claimed that the numerous and frank discussions at recent Pugwash conferences between Soviet and Western scientists , economists , historians , and military experts may have played a part in leading to this welcome gesture from the Soviet Union . I want to make it clear that I think any negotiable multilateral disarmament agreement must be comprehensive , must involve very big steps of disarmament , and must include approximate parity in both nuclear and conventional forces . With the exception of the Test Ban , I doubt if the toil and frustrations of attempting to formulate in legal phraseology the details of sonic minor measure of multilateral disarmament are worthwhile . On the other hand , every measure of unilateral disarmament and conciliation carried out independently by any nation is of great value , so long as it is consistent with national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions to reduce tension must be tackled mainly by the nationals of the different countries , though of course mutual discussions between the different countries may be necessary to elucidate the international implications of possible unilateral actions . 1 would like to see more effort by individuals to persuade their countries to adopt national policies on armaments , which would produce a more favorable atmosphere for these all-important Multilateral negotiations . A basic assumption of all such efforts is that both East and West must share the blame for the present impasse . ' In order to study possible ways in which each country might alter its military posture so as to facilitate a multilateral agreement , it is necessary for individuals to subject their own government 's defense and disarmament policies to a critical examination . I now want to mention one possible step which I would like to see Britain carrying out . In his recent speech , Secretary McNamara said that " , . limited nuclear capabilities , operating independently , are dangerous , expensive , prone to obsolescence , and lacking in credibility . " I believe this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British nuclear forces must be included in this criticism . I therefore consider that Britain should take the necessary actions to remove any degree of independence which our nuclear forces now have . Expert knowledge would be needed to specify these steps in detail , but they would presumably include the placing of all British nuclear- forces immediately under a joint British-American safety control . I would go further and hope that the British government would plan a gradual phase-out of the British strategic nuclear forces , and not seek to prolong their operational effectiveness For a few years by the adoption of the Skybolt missile or other analogous devices . Such a change in British policy would tenth toward a bipolar world with the Soviet Union and the United States of America being the only strong nuclear powers ? personally I would like to see them the only nuclear powers . This , I believe , is the most realistic step on the way to a disarmed world ( although the problem of France would remain ) . There has always been much force in the argument that perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a period of Pax Russo-Americana and that any diffusion of unclear weapons might make its attainment more difficult . QUESTIONS FOR KENNEDY ONE aspect of American defense policy which raises difficult problems for the disarmament negotiations is the following statement of Secretary McNamara : The U. S. has come to the conclusion that . to the extent feasible , basic military strategy in a possible general nuclear war should be approached in much the same way that more conventional military operations have been regarded in the past . That is to say , principal military objectives , in the event of a nuclear war stemming from a major attack cm the Alliance , should be the destruction of the enemy 's military forces , not of his civilian population . All will applaud the humane intention in this new policy . Moreover , the political intention is important ; it can perhaps be put in the following way : the American Administration is rightly alarmed by the dangers arising from the growth of independent national nuclear forces . It knows that a major motivation for the growth of such independent forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic nuclear weapons against Russian cities in a European conflict because of the destruction of American cities which could result from a Soviet retaliatory blow . In order , therefore , to reassure her European allies that America would launch her strategic nuclear forces , it was necessary to have a plan to use them in such a way as not to provoke a counterattack on American cities . This was achieved by the statement that the Strategic Air Command would not attack Soviet cities but only military objectives . However , this military policy poses a profound dilemma for disarmament . We have seen that only a purely retaliatory nuclear capacity ? one capable of destroying some of the opponent 's cities , but clearly incapable of destroying his nuclear forces ? is consistent with serious disarmament negotiations . Such a purely retaliatory capacity needs to be quite small and can be equal on both sides . If bud ' sides could accept it , they would have to limit the size of their nuclear forces ; but they could nevertheless effectively deter an attack on their countries , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. McNamara 's statement seems to exclude such a minimum deterrent force as a possible and acceptable temporary stage on the way to the full disarmament to which both Giants are pledged . For any nuclear force designed to destroy effectively the enemy 's nuclear system ? and not his cities ? must be overwhelmingly superior : it must be able to demolish the enemy 's dispersed and protected bases . Such a strategy ? it is called a " counterforce strategy " ? would therefore be clearly incompatible with moving toward approximate nuclear parity and can only stand in the way of real progress toward disarmament . It seems to me that an urgent task , and one that can only be fully carried out by Americans themselves , is the clarification of the reasons for the present defense policy of the United States . What are the military and political reasons for the rapid increase of U. S. nuclear striking power indicated by the following figures ? By 1965 , the U. S. intends to have SOO Minutemen , 200 Atlas and Titan missiles , 950 intercontinental bombers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be 1,300 planes able to deliver nuclear bombs from overseas bases and carriers . There seem to me four plausible causes for this vast nuclear rearmament : The first possible cause is the obvious military one ? that it is an attempt to gain such a nuclear superiority that a successful surprise attack on the U. S. S. R. would be possible . A successful attack would be one that would reduce the Soviet retaliatory blow to negligible proportions . Since I do not believe that such a blow is possible , and since 1 believe that President Kennedy does not believe it , I do not think that the present rearmament program is a deliberate attempt to achieve a decisive counterforce capability . The second possibility is that the rearmament program is not designed for any defined military role , but is based on the view that a great number of nuclear weapons and their delivery systems are good things to have about , partly for their general deterrent effect and partly just " in case " some military use could be found for them . I am reluctant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific staff as Mr. Kennedy certainly has would justify such a big increase of the already great nuclear overhitting capacity by such vague arguments . The third possibility is that the aim of the rearmament is not essentially a military one , but is intended to force the U. S. S. R. to spend more on armaments and so damage her economically and also politically . To some extent this result may already have been achieved . This policy may avoid serious military danger but will certainly exacerbate the Cold War , and make disarmament unlikely . The fourth possibility is that the nuclear rearmament program represents simply the result of all the political , military , and economic pressures which are exerted on the decision-makers in Washington . Paradoxically , this last possibility provides the greatest hope . We know that Mr. McNamara has been taking necessary and successful action to bring the U. S. military more firmly under civilian control . May it not be that , in doing this , he has found it tactically necessary to concede 32 CHANCE FOR DISARMAMENT a high level of armaments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the possibility that the Administration will in the future be strong enough at some stage ? one hopes soon ? to stop the present rapid rearmament and begin the reduction toward a low enough level to give the maximum chance of successful disarmament negotiations . Whether the Administration will soon acquire the power to make this change will ultimately depend on the support for such a policy that it gets from the American Congress and electorate . Most probably , similar discussions of policy are in progress in the U. S. S. R. , and no doubt the pressures of groups are not absent . However , it is nearly certain that Soviet armament and disarmament policies are more closely integrated than they are in the West . So fewer difficulties in disarmament negotiations are likely to arise from contradictions within Soviet policy than from contradictions within Western policy . Anyway , we individuals in the West can not do much to help directly to solve such contradictions as do exist in the U. S. S. R. , but we can do a lot to help solve our own Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for disarmament will be won or lost in the mind and heart of the American people . 