@@493629

Oh No , Lord Snow by Malcolm Muggeridge I first met C. P. Snow ( later , Sir Charles Snow , and now Lord Snow of Leicester ) some thirty-five years ago in Manchester when I was working on the Guardian . As I recall him in those days , he was a large , red-haired , rather wistful looking but still resolute man of about my own age . I was then 27 . It emerged in the course of our conversation over tea that he was poised between being a writer and a scientist ; had already written a thriller or so , but , I had the impression , leaned then in the direction of science . How good a scientist he was , I had , of course , no means of knowing . Nor , for that matter , have I now . An impression that stayed with me was a worldly man . Worldliness is , by its nature , a highly romantic attitude ; only mystics know how to be skeptical . Snow , I felt , was romantically worldly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at that time , I should suppose , the fairly extreme Left ) , things like money and social eminence and success held great allure for him . My own romanticism ( a late-Victorian throwback ) was the converse of his . Success , I had convinced myself , was the hallmark of failure ; the rich could only be contemptible , and , what was worse , bores . Thus , the idea of an ostensible intellectual like Snow wanting to be rich and successful struck me as bizarre , if not reprehensible . Actually , as I see now , romantic worldliness like his is a great promoter of success in the field of action , through completely inimical to any other than the most mediocre achievement in the field of the imagination . The mists of desire obscure life 's landscape , whether to portray , describe or understand it ; they facilitate its conquest . Thus , Napoleon had so romantic a notion of the glories and delights of power that he was able to grab it , in the same way that a greedy child getsthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thrones of Europe that he was able to overturn them , and then stand them up again to accommodate his repulsive Corsican relatives . Similarly with a certain type of literature . For instance , Stendhal 's novels derive much of their driving-force from his abject and ridiculous romanticism about being distinguished and important . One can trace the same thing in Evelyn Waugh , and , in a rather different way , in Proust . Snow is no Stendhal , certainly . Nor is he a Proust , or even a Waugh . One has , in fact , to agree with Dr. Leavis 's preposterous and portentous tirade against him to the extent of agreeing that Snow is a negligible writer . All the same , his great popularity in England and America , and still more in Western Europe and the USSR derives from his already-mentioned romantic worldliness . He is the man rubbing his nose against the plate glass window of Vanity Fair , and telling the others who ca n't even get near the window what it is like inside . Pascal , a non-worldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attired in elaborate regalia because otherwise the threadbare nature of their authority would be exposed . Snow , contrariwise , finds the regalia marvelous in itself , and deduces from it the reality of the authority beneath . His only authentic grouse was that he had no regalia to wear himself . Well , now , as a peer and member of Harold Wilson 's Labour Government , he has . Whatever may have been his inclination all those years ago when we met in Manchester , as things have turned out he has pursued neither science nor literature , but grazed in the limbo of no-man's-land between them . It is as an academic functionaire that he has made his mark , his novels being a byproduct . They are narrated by Lewis Eliot , who is obviously himself ; a fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge ; an occasional civil servant and knighted ; a scholar of sorts , and a lawyer - but he might just as well be a novelist . The latest offering , Corridors of Power , is about a Tory politician , Roger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards extricating the government from its nuclear commitments . Considered as an exercise in political strategy the whole thing is quite exceptionally silly and difficult to follow . There is no particular need to try . After a series of ups and downs , Quaife is worsted , and has to resign . His downfall is assisted by an affair he has with the wife of a fellow-Conservative MP ; described by Snow with all the sensitivity and subtlety of an elephant pounding through a cornfield . The dynamic of the novel , as of the series of which it is a part ( there are , I gather , four more to come ) , lies in the lush descriptions of the alleged workings of power in England through the House of Commons and the Government , through high-born families and the civil service , with money , patronage and influence as lubricants . There are the country house week-end gatherings at Basset , Diana Skidmore 's house in Hampshire ; the dinner parties at the Quaifes ' house in Lord North Street , Westminster , presided over by Quaife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she is known to her friends , and , of course , to Lewis Eliot ; encounters with Lord Lufkin , an industrialist , and Lord Houghton , or Sammikins , who " had published a short book on Anglo-Indian relations .. it seemed anti-Churchill , pro-Nehru and passionately pro-Gandhi . " Poor old Sammikins ! He never should have come out in the open as an admirer of the Mahatma . It got him into trouble with his family and political associates . Words can not convey the imbecility of this vision of power as conceived in Snow 's ponderous , totally humorless and endearingly innocent , or at any rate naive , mind . To transubstantiate , as the dear old fellow has done , those moustached Westminster hostesses into divinities ; to take Basset back to Trollope and Lord North Street back to Disraeli ; to fabricate out of universal suffrage democracy in its , and England 's , decrepitude a high drama of derring-do , a Church Lads Brigade Agincourt - this is something that only Snow could , or would , have attempted . Let me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caught my fancy . Snow mentions that " during the winter the gossip began to swirl out from the clubs and the Whitehall corridors . " One imagines that so substantial figure ; that huge moon face , unsmiling , portentous , looking across St James 's Park . Then , wetting a finger , holding it up to the wind , with an expression of great gravity : Yes ( head on one side ) , yes , sure enough he can detect a decided current of gossip swirling past him from the clubs and Whitehall corridors . But wait a minute - what clubs ? What corridors ? The Athenaeum , perhaps , where seedy clerics and atrocious dons desperately wash down bad food with bad wine . Or the Carlton , home of outmoded Conservative politicians in black coats hoping against hope for a telephone call that never comes to summon them to be under-under parliamentary secretary at the Ministry of Nothing . Or Whites whose red-faced members suck down their tenth Bloody Mary , still keeping a weather-eye open for Lord Boothby , or even Randolph Churchill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , frequented by noisy lawyers , moronic actors , and American newspaper and television correspondents who manage to persuade themselves that they are consorting with the mighty in their seats . Oh , Joe , oh Drew , come out from behind that decanter of port ! I know you . As for Pratts - dear , gallant old Snow is on record as having reflected , while taking a drink in its dismal premises , how remarkable it was that he , a poor boy from a poor home , should ever have found himself in this haunt of the smart and the great . Perhaps it is Pratts whence the rumors swirled . As it happens , it 's the only club mentioned by name in Corridors of Power , and ( the point has no particular relevance ) the only London club I still belong to . As for the corridors , we journalists who have paced them often and long enough in search of a story ; who have visited those sad , sad knights in their ministries , looked at them across their desks ; grey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arms ( ministerial equivalent of the airline bag ) which they take with them , to and fro , between Whitehall and their homes in Putney or Wimbledon - we just ca n't accept the swirling rumors . What would n't we have given for just one tiny swirl to take back to the office and knock out on a typewriter . The truth is that journalism unfits one for reading Snow . One 'S state of mind is all wrong . I give up . Sir Lewis Eliot , Lord Eliot , away ! I want no more of you . Those last four volumes of yours , as far as I 'm concerned , shall remain unread . The rather amusing situation now is that Snow has been teamed up with Frank Cousins ( about the nicest man , quite seriously , there is in England today ; and hitherto head of the Transport and General Workers Union ) to look after our technological development . Snow steps out of his novels into politics , and we shall all be watching closely to see how he fares . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collectivity what sex is to the individual . On this basis , writers like Snow obsessed with power may be compared , within their own terms of reference , with writers like D. H. Lawrence obsessed with sex ; they display the same sort of seriousness ; no more laughs in the corridors than in the woods when Lady Chatterley and Mellors were on the job there . They are , as it were , power-pornographers . For Snow to join a government is rather as though Lawrence had taken a job as a game-keeper . I am personally extremely grateful to Mr. Harold Wilson for having created this diverting situation , and only wish that he would cap it by taking Dr. Leavis into his government . What could Leavis be ? The promised Ombudsman , perhaps . Or our first Minister of Culture . 