@@491570

The Ordeal of the OHIO Here is the remarkable true story of a brave ship that Hitler 's Luftwaffe could n't sink . By Terence Robertson Capt . Dudley Mason mustered his crew in the petty-officers ' mess . Each was a hand-irked volunteer for the mission ahead . A lithe , dark and taut-faced officer with the shadows of war in his eyes , he waited for the murmur of voices to die . " We sail this afternoon , " he said quietly . " Our destination is Malta  --  you all know what that means . " He recognized the confirmation in their sudden , grim tension . " There will be fourteen ships in the convoy and we will have the largest concentration of warships available as an escort . This in itself should explain how important it is for us to get through . " Ohio is the only tanker . We shall have to fight with 1.3,0(X) tons of high-octane aviation fuel aboard . Now is the time for anyone who wants to back out to say so . I must warn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be kept in custody of the Naval Provost Marshal until the operation is over . Secrecy is essential . " He paused . There was no movement . " Right . Here is a letter from the First Lord of the Admiralty . It says ; ' Before you start on this operation the First Sea Lord and I arc anxious that you should know how grateful the Board of Admiralty are to you for undertaking this difficult task , Malta has for some time been in great danger , It is imperative that she be kept supplied . These arc her critical months and we can not fail her . Shc has stood up to the most violent attacks from the air that have ever been made . Her courage is worthy of you . We wish you Godspeed and good luck . ' " Dudley Mason left the mess to prepare for leaving harbor . With her in the Clyde were thirteen other large , fast merchant ships assembled for this determined attempt to lift the German siege of Malta , Britain 's tiny but gallant island outpost in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyers , they would make a high-speed dash from Gibraltar , at the western end of the Mediterranean , while eight more ships with an equally large escort would sail for Malta from Alexandria , in the East . It was hoped that by splitting the enemy 's forces , at least a few ships from either convoy , vital to Malta 's survival , would get through . The entire attempt was code-named Operation Pedestal . The convoy formed up outside the Clyde and set course south for Gibraltar . For the next two weeks these ships would hold the key to Allied operations in Europe . Fourth in line in the starboard column steamed the American tanker Ohio , with her British commander , Dudley Mason , on the bridge . He was acutely aware that by the law of averages twelve of the fourteen ships would not reach Malta . He paced the bridge , carefully avoiding the camp bed rigged for his personal use  --  it would be used but seldom in the days ahead . The Ohio was a 14,000-ton tanker owned by the Texas Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed under the management of the Eagle Oil and Shipping Company of London . Four weeks previously the Government had requested that she be made ready for a special convoy , and Eagle Oil had been warned that her crew , from captain downward , would have to be volunteers . Dudley Mason was , at the age of forty , one of the company 's youngest captains . Yet he was old in battle experience . Shy but firm , forceful without being arrogant , of quick and instinctive decisiveness , Air raid on beleaguered Malta : The island stubbornly refused to give in during a siege that lasted from 1910-1943 . The Ordeal of the Ohio he could be relied upon to light until his ship sank beneath him . There was every likelihood of this happening as they ran the gantlet of LI-boats and Focke-Wulf bombers prowling the Bay of Biscay , Yet apart from occasional skirmishes quickly dealt with by the Royal Navy there was no serious threat to the convoy 's passage . On August 9 , 1942 , Pedestal wheeled from the Atlantic through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on either beam and up ahead on this warm Mediterranean dawn were nine destroyers ; close astern three more destroyers worried anxiously about the aircraft carriers illustrious and Eagle . Well ahead on the horizon steamed four rakish cruisers with attendant destroyers ; far out on the port beam lurked the carriers indomitable and trictorious , screened by five cruisers and six destroyers . Commanding this impressive display of naval might was Rear Admiral Sir Harold Burrough . In preparation for the impending action , he signaled from his flagship , the cruiser Nigrrio All ships to action stations until further notice . " On board the Ohio twenty-three trained gunners of the Army 's Maritime Regiment raced to their antiaircraft weapons , A naval liaison officer joined Mason on the bridge . Ohio 's high-octane fuel was of special importance ; his task was to see that in any emerzency it was Ohio that received major naval support . For the last six months only one merchant ship in seven had crashed through the Axis blockade of Malta For more than a year the German-halo air forces had vainly endeavored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garrison had never exceeded 25,000 men , thirty-eight Spitfires and Hurricanes and two flotillas of submarines Failing to tame this meager force , the enemy had clutched the island in a tight blockade . Malta was the hinge upon which all Allied operations in the Middle East turned . Her torpedo bombers and submarines maintained the only effective striking force against Axis supply convoys to North Africa . In the summer of 1942 only 40 per cent of Rommel 's ships were reaching Tunisia . The tremendous Axis air bombardment devoted to the destruction of Malta made impossible the transfer of air reinforcements to Rommel . This alone was ( Continued from Page 15 ) to enable the Allies to achieve local air superiority first at el Alamein and later over the Anglo-American landings . Malta had to be kept in the war , The enemy regarded it equally important to knock her out . Between March and June no ships had reached the island ; each convoy attempting the relief trip had been massacred . In July , Lord Gort , the Governor of Malta , had signaled Sir Winston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhausted by August 21 in spite of severe rationing . Hesitate to request further naval sacrifices , but can not guarantee Malta 's safety after this date without further supplies . " This signal was an understatement of Malta 's plight . Nearly every building on the island had been destroyed or damaged ; the civilian population lived in caves and existed on sixteen ounces of food a day . Military personnel rarely left foxholes , trenches or air-raid shelters , always ready for the long-awaited arrival of parachute and glider-borne troops . Fighters were forbidden to taxi to and from runways in order to conserve gasoline . They were towed by jeeps . Antiaircraft batteries were limited to twenty shells or four ammunition hells a day , according to caliber . Pedestal was a desperate attempt to beat the August-twentyfirst deadline set by Lord Gm . Throughout the convoy 's first day in the Mediterranean the enemy remained invisible . There were false alarms , sudden panics and squirts of gunfire from over-tensed gunners The second day and night passed in much the same way  --  testing guns , eating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dawn on the third day  --  August eleventh  --  came calm , sun-swept and deceptively serene Like hundreds of other men throughout the convoy , Dudley Mason stiffened slightly as the faint undulating rhythm of aircraft engines reached down from above . It happened with bewildering swiftness . He had just brought into focus the tiny , silver specks 20,000 feet above through his binocular when the air was rent by the stomach-sickening scream of falling bombs . Astern of Ohio a merchant ship vanished behind a curtain of cordite , flame and spurning water ; the roar of exploding bombs was joined by the urgent , crackling barrage of her guns . Mason swiveled round in time to see the carrier cut through the smoke and spray , rear her bows skyward and list heavily to starboard . With a curious , almost indolent , writhing motion , she sank . Mason kept Ohio 's bows pointing at the stern of the ship ahead . A stick of bombs fell diagonally across the gap between them as the area plaster-bombing intensified . The litho- carriers swung into the wind to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet drummed out a staccato reply to the enemy . Two near misses to port drenched Ohio 's bridge , and Mason had to fight buck an overwhelming urge to take avoiding action . He was under orders to maintain course and speed unless the safety of his ship was directly threatened . Shortly after one P.m . U-73 , which had been trailing the convoy , fired four torpedoes at the carrier Eagle . All torpedoes hit and the gallant ship , that had dispatched 183 Spitfires to Malta during the past year , sank in six minutes . A majority of the 260 men who lost their lives were pilots and flight-deck crews . The squadrons of lighters ready for to ke-offcascaded overboard as she toppled on her side . Seventy-one bombers delivered the first blow . As the carrier Eagle went down , fighters from another carrier , Illustrious , broke through the enemy formation to knock out three enemy planes . Below them Italian torpedo bombers , flying at little more than 100 feet above the water , swept in to attack . Three torpedoes were aimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dudley Mason watched appalled as it disintegrated under the impact of two hits . Fascinated by the sheer horror of destruction , he barely heard the screamed warning from a lookout on the port side of the bridge : " Torpedo bombers coming in on starboard beam , sir . " He leaped across thc bridge to see six aircraft racing in at him , while his own gunners sent a stream of tracer bullets whipping viciously across the water . Two aircraft hesitated before breaking off , but the four others flew on steadily to drop their torpedoes at little more than 2000 yards . Mason knew instinctively that he had thirty seconds in which to take avoiding action . Gunners and crew tensed as the bubble tracks rushed at them . " Hard a'starboard , " shouted Mason . The quartermaster spun the wheel , and with painful slowness the cumbersome tanker began to turn . Mason gripped the bridge rail tightly as if he could hurry the turn through wilt power . " Midships  --  steady as you go . " Ohio 's bows pointed between the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep her steady , all four torpedoes passed down her sides , the nearest no more than ten feet away . The enemy 's first assault had been beaten off , but not without losses . The convoy waited grimly for the next attack to develop . It came in the late afternoon . Eighty torpedo bombers , more than 200 Stukas and a covering force of 100-odd fighters came in from different directions at the same time . Victorious , Indomitable and Illustrious flew off every available fighter to meet this new threat . Dudley Mason felt thc quick impact of fear . Yet if any of the crew had looked up to the bridge then to seek comfort they would have seen their grim-looking cap-lain in outwardly calm control of his ship . None could see the faint flicker of desperation that welled up inside to haunt his dark . shadowed eyes . He watched the Stukas break formation above Ohio and scream down in their almost vertical dives , devastating the eardrums . The tanker was the principal target . 76 Ohio moved sluggishly , first to port @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They fell all about her  --  ahead and astern and on either side . When the mass of the enemy made further alterations of the course futile , Mason began using his engines to stop , go astern and spurt ahead . Of the total dise-bomber force , more than slats selected Ohio for attacks . Miraculously she emerged front the turmoil unscathed . It was then that Mason remembered with sudden sickness the torpedo bombers . It was the chief officer who told him they had attacked , tired their torpedoes , a hich had been as Laded during one of the anti-Stuka maneuvers , and then headed for home For thirty x sal minutes the convoy was left in peace . Then the third attack 01 the day developed without warning . One hundred Stukas , flsme very high and without escort , plummeted suddenly down on the convoy . The ship ahead of Ohio erupted roaring flame as she folded slowly and neatly in hall Blinded by smoke , Mason conned Ohio around the stricken ship instinctively . then turned about to watch impotently as sun ivors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombers descended with des astating accuracy on the freighter opposite Ohio in the port column . For a brief moment she was lost to sight behind a wall of spray . Then she exploded with a huge flash , the heat of which seared Mason 's face 300 yards away . She had been carrying ammunition ; there would be no surviv ors . Evening closed in . Against the glow of the setting sun the sky was black with bursting shells interlaced with streaming tracers from hundreds of light weapons . Mason writhed . The destruction of the ammunition ship had been too swift to credit . Ohio would go the same way . The day 's score card was not encouraging . The enemy had lost eight bombers . twelve torpedo bombers and twenty-six Stukas . On our side one aircraft carrier . two destroyers and three merchant ships had gone down : six Nasal lighters had failed to return , The next attack came from below the surface . I.1-41 lay at periscope depth four miles on the port bow of the convoy at dusk on August eleventh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce silhouette and cut across the line of advance to estimate strength of escort . Her commander made an unusual , fatal mistake . lg , nonng an elementary rule for survisal in the U-boat arm , he broke wireless silence to signal the convoy 's position , course and speed to the wolf pack he knew to be in the vicinity . Had he been astern of the convoy and able to elude pursuit his action might base been valid . But he was ahead of the convoy and about to attack  --  his target , the low-slung darkened shape of an oil tanker in the starboard column . Mason was resting in his camp bed on Ohio 's bridge when the signal from Ashanti was relayed through the convoy by a series of dimmed , blue lights . " U-boat sighting report intercepted . Expect wolf-pack attack during night . " Two destroyers came racing alongside Ohio , fanned outward and began searching off her starboard beam . Otherwise the night was ominously quiet . The crackled shout of the lookout jangled on Mason 's taut nerves . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's reaction was automatic . " Hard a ' starboard . " Ohio was still on the turn when a fluorescent line of bubbles ran under her stern . Mason steadied the ship and brought her back into the starboard column again . The maneuver had just finished when another torpedo crossed her bows , sped on toward Ihe next column and hit the fourth ship in line . There was a dull explosion ; another battle had begun . lucky hit On a target her commander could hardly see was the last of her career , The two destroyers patrolling off Ohio'v starboard beam raced toward the U-boat , which was attempting to dive . The lirst destroyer blew the enemy to the surface again with a well-aimed pattern of depth charges just in time for the second destroyer to rain her sharp bows through the conning tower . The cruisers Nrkerio and Cairo were struck by torpedoes in quick succession , and Admiral Burrough transferred his hag to the destroyer .1 ) hothri . By now night had become day as every warship maintained a constant barrage of star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The wolf pack closed for the kill . Records do not show bow many torpedoes were lired that night , but there were ten U-boats , and it is likely that among them they tired more than forty . At midnight the enemy 's air forces returned to the battlefield . First came the marker planes to drop thousands of colored flares over the ships ; they were followed by low-flying bombers which aimed at the flares with sticks of bombs crisscrossing the dropping area . The aircraft carriers flew off fighters without pretence at blackouts . Above the beset of the hovering hares a vast moonlit air battle deseloped across the deep blue of the heavens . Shortly before dawn it was ? ler , and the score card showed some improvement . Four bombers had been shot down and two U-boats claimed as sunk . We had lost one merchantman , In the Ohio , the chief engineer reported to Mason : " Leak in port side of engine room , sir . Near miss bless in some rivet . We are shoring up rum . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dawned serene and calm . Eight freighters were left . Strain etched itself lividly on Mason 's face , from which the bones jutted hard against aray , tightly stretched skin . Little more than an hour later the battle resumed with the arrival of 300 bombers , Stukas and torpedo bombers from the north . The merchant ships dodged bombs and torpedoes while destroyers hunted U-boats and the carriers provided a canopy of gunfire . Throughout it all , Ohio moved slowly yet majestically forward against a backdrop of near misses . At dusk there came an unexpected pause . Sweating , blackened gunners , stripped to their underpants , collapsed at ( heir stations , Nausea overcame the trenthling men . and the stench of vomit stole wickedly through the ship . In this moment of unbearable fatigue a patient U-boat snatched her chance , As darkness closed in , two torpedoes struck Ohio near the bows on the starboard side . She staggered under the double explosion while flame and water shot up above masthead height . Then she shook herself violently as she emerged from the shock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and engine room severed . A large hole gaped on the water line and part of the main deck collapsed as bulkheads caved in under the inrush of the sea . Tank lids came apart and a fire started in the main pump room . Still , Mason sighed with relief , While the engines turned there was hope . But even this was denied . A deathlike silence reached up from the engine room , and the wrecked generators threw the ship into darkness . The convoy steamed on ; there was no time to waste on the crippled . Night fell , and the enemy pursued the convoy relentlessly while Ohio , drifting helplessly farther astern , was left alone . At dawn patrolling enemy aircraft sighted her , and throughout that fifth morning she was subjected to continuous dive-bombing attacks . The army gunners maintained accurate lire that brought down twelve enemy aircraft that morning . Shortly after noon two destroyers raced toward them from the direction of the convoy up ahead . One of them was . A.sholoi , Admiral Burrough 's Ilagship . He ranged alongside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put up from Ohio . Above the din his voice came thickly over the loudspeaker : " What are your chances of rejoining the convoy ' ! " Mason had no loud-speaker . He turned his thumbs down in an expressise , laconic reply , Burrough shouted : " Sorry about this . We wanted you to get through most of all . Now I must gel back to the convoy and report your position to the rescue ships . Good luck ! " Mason watched the destroyers race away at full speed , leaving Ohio alone to face whatever lay ahead . Several hundred miles away in the Eastern Mediterranean the second half of the Pedestal attempt to relieve Malta had been destroyed . Rear Adm . Sir Philip Vian 's convoy of eight merchant ships from Alexandria had been forced to take E SATURDAY EVENINO POST violent evasive action to avoid the full might of the ' Italian Fleet sailing to meet them . Five freighters had been sunk by air attack , a sixth had been torpedoed and two more were so damaged they had been sent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Malta lay now with Ad-miral Burrough in the West ; and he had seemingly lost the only ship that could keep the island 's fighters in the air  --  Ohio . Throughout that afternoon , her crew struggled to bring life back to her engines . It was about four P.M. when she began to vibrate with a familiar throb , and a broken , ragged cheer greeted the first turns of the propellers . By nightfall the hasty repairs were holding so well that Mason ordered full speed , and the listing tanker chased after the convoy at seventeen knots . At daylight on the sixth morning of the operation , Ohio rejoined the convoy and resumed her station in the starboard column , welcomed by a chorus from the sirens and hooters of her fellow merchant . men and the escorts . But Mason 's relief was tempered by the havoc the enemy had created with the convoy . There were only two ships in the starboard column where once there had been seven ; only one survivor in the port column . An hour later the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , singling out for special attack the sole tanker in the tiny fleet . Parachute blockbusters fell about her , blowing in plates and springing innumerable leaks . Then the first Stuka dropped out of the sky unannounced and aimed at Ohio . Her gunners sent their barrage across the line of flight . and curses turned to hysterical cheers as the flaming bullets were seen to cut through the Stuka 's body . It never recovered from that dive . With the pilot dead or dying at the controls , the disc bomber plunged into Ohio and exploded on her foredeck . More fires were started , and men rushed to heave the burning aircraft over the side . A bomb fell on the afterdeck killing ten gunners , and one of the fuel-tank bulkheads began to leak high-octane fuel . The crew began playing streams of water on the overheating metal . Two more bombs fell on either side of the tanker , lifting her completely out of the water . She dropped back on one side and for a moment threatened to capsize . By the time she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decks , the engines had gone silent again . Once more she wallowed astern of the convoy . But through some miracle of engineering ingenuity , the engines were started again two hours later , driving her forward at four knots . It was noon when the port boiler blew up . wrecking the main deck aft of the bridge . Ohio stopped and Mason sagged visibly . The final blow came a little later when the starboard boiler also exploded , killing twelve engineers and six deck hands fighting fires . Overwhelmed by the hopelessness of it all , Mason picked up a hand signal lamp and laboriously spelled out a message to the nearest ship for relaying to Ashaito . " Unable to proceed further , " he said . " Can remain afloat for only a few hours . Can you help ? " Admiral Burrough dispatched two destroyers to take Ohio in tow , and for the next six hours the three ships fought off air attacks while trying to pass towlines to each other . Enemy motor-torpedo boats arrived with dusk and synchronized their attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raced at Ohio for the kill , and both destroyers broke off towing operations to intercept . One ran into a torpedo intended for Ohio , blew up and lamiary 9 , 19611 sank in seconds . The other drove off the torpedo boats with her guns , returned to pick up the survivors of her sister ship and drew alongside Ohio again . Her captain shouted , " I 'll stay with you and radio for more help . " Half an hour later anitrh. ? 1 destroyer steamed into sight and bee . a-cling the tanker as protection in ! , i torpedo-boat attack . By now Mason had got himself under control and determined that with the help of destroyers there was a faint chance of reaching Malta . It was all he needed to throw oft strain and weariness . He could foresee no greater disasters than those already experienced . Half his crew were dead , ten more were seriously wounded . Of the twenty-three Army gunners , twelve were dead and even the wounded were helping to keep the few remaining batteries firing . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was preoccupied with this when there came suddenly the high-pitched whine of a falling bomb . He went rigid with surprise and shock , knowing instinctively it would hit . A second later it fell behind the bridge , crashed through the superstructure and exploded m the engine room . The port side blew out , leaving a hole fifteen feet across , mercifully above the water line . Throughout that long . lonely night the tanker , with her two attendant destroyers , fought off one attack after another with the darkness constantly illuminated by aircraft flares and torpedo-boat star shell . Yet they sustained no further damage , but at dawn the sorely wounded Ohio was limping lower in the water . Then help arrived unexpectedly . Once the remnant of the convoy arrived safely at Malta , Admiral Burrough sent off his naval fighters to cover Ohio . The two destroyers shouldered alongside the tanker , one to port and the other to starboard , and passed wire hawsers to each other under her keel . By noon on the seventh day Ohio no longer floated ; she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strange threesome , bound together as surely as Siamese triplets , lurched slowly toward safety . In the early afternoon Admiral Bur-rough 's cruiser squadron steamed intosight en route buck to Gibraltar and paused to watch this curious procession . Burrough signaled . " Only three ships got through with provisions and ammunition . They need you to survive , are making final sorties with exhausted fuel today and tomorrow . All Malta awaits your arrival . God bless you . I am proud to have sailed with you . " The enemy had not given up despite the tanker 's nearness to Malta . 1 , aff$1athe lighters swarmed overhead engaging the Fleet Air Arm umbrella , while bombers roared down on the tanker . A near miss carried away Ohio 's rudder and blew a hole in her stern . Water poured in and she settled lower , dragging down the destroyers under her weight . At eight P , M. Malta came in sight , and tugs sailed out to their assistance . They were making only two knots , and another night would pass before they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperately needed respite for which Mason had been praying . The enemy , confident that the tanker was sinking fast , called off the battle . During that night the crews of the Ohio and the destroyers , helped by the tugs , worked to keep the tanker afloat , passing more wires beneath her when the strain proved too great for the existing supports to hold . At dawn , August fifteenth , Ohio was but a mile outside the harbor . Thousands of civilians mingled with troops , sailors and airmen on the quaysides ; they crowded the roofs of buildings and huddled on the rocky shore line on either side of the harbor entrance . They were there to witness this miracle of survival  --  for to them Ohio ' . v survival was their man , Over all those thousands lay a heavy silence . Not a voice was raised as the gap that separated Malta from German domination narrowed to less than a mile . It was obvious that Ohio was dying . The little fleet , still lashed tightly together , was worried over that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , the destroyers hauled the tanker through the water . It took one hour to cover that last mile . Then the tanker 's battered bows passed between the outer moles of the harbor , and the silence was broken by a faint cheer  --  a cheer that was taken up by the people thronging the quays . The cheering of the thousands drowned the guns fired in salute of a gallant ship ; flags and handkerchiefs appeared magically to turn the crowds into a mass of heaving color . A military hand played Tipperary , Beer-Barrel Polka , and other songs which somehow became that moment hymns of hope . Mason , down on deck helping to keep the tires under control , shipped work to smile weakly and then wept unashamedly . And while the stricken tanker was being nudged alongside the oil wharves , signals poured in to Mason . From Sir Winston Churchill : " Splendid work . Well done . " From the British Admiralty : " Well done , Ohio . " And from the islanders themselves , expressed by their governor . Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you and your fine ship safely in harbor after such an anxious and hazardous passage . You have saved Malta . " Thai same day , despite leaks , fires and damage . Ohio discharged 12,000 tons of aviation gasoline , and by evening the officer commanding R. A. F. lighters on the island reported to the governor that he could fly unlimited sorties for two months . ( Inc more ship , believed lost , arrived miraculously . It was so badly damaged it sank in the harbor  --  but not before its cargo was unloaded , bringing the total in food and ammunition , including that of the three ships referred to by Burrough , to 32,1100 tons . In those two months , Field Marshal Kesselring , German Air Force commander in Italy , unleashed the full fury of the Loft walk against the island in a last effort to subdue it . And while the handful of R.A.F. fighters fought back with equal ferocity . the Royal Navy submarines set about destroying the sea blockade . By the time the enemy 's attack had been blunted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only then did Dudley Mason learn to what extent Allied operations in the Middle East had depended on his tanker . On the outcome of his six days and seven nights of personal struggle through the Mediterranean , two high American officers had waited tensely in London . They were Gen. Dwight Eisenhower , Supreme Allied commander-designate of the North African ink asion , and Gen. Mark Clark . If Malta had fallen , their plans would have been nullified . In 1946 the rusting hulk that had once saved Malta was towed out of harbor to the cheering of crowds and the playing of bands . Then , while a service of remembrance for those who had died during Operation Pedestal teas held , she was stink in the waters she had once struggled bravely to defeat . Dudley Mason received Britain 's highest award for a noncombatant officer , the George Cross ; twenty-three other decorations for gallantry were awarded to her crew and gunners .                     