@@491982

THE NEW LYNDON JOHINSON ' most every noon for the first few months of 1961 a tall , rubbery- lipped unhappy man climbed the rostrum of the United States Senate and dutifully sat in a ceremonial chair reserved for an office in American politics that one of its earlier sufferers called ? " nothing . " Vice President Lyndon Bathes Johnson had reason to feel like " nothing . " Each day he had to look down at a chair he had occupied until a few months before , when , as the Senate majority leader , he had been called the most powerful politician " in the country . He had dreamed of rising from this chair to become President of the United States . Instead he became Vice President . In American history , that has been like leaping after a departing boat and missing . In early 1961 he thrashed about in the obscure waters of the Vice Presidency , lost in the wake of a glamorous President . The classic frustrations of his new job bore down on him . To preserve his old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in the new Kennedy hierarchy , but ran into polite indifference from the tough new staffmen in the White House whose political Geiger counters told them that a Vice President radiates only feeble power . Back in his former chamber of glory , the Senate , he was suddenly considered an outsider  --  merely the Vice President . To remind him that he sat between trouble and oblivion  --  and in those early months he needed no reminders  --  to his left on the Senate wall was a bust of an earlier Vice President named Johnson , Andrew , who was the nation 's most spectacular tragedy in the job . He succeeded Lincoln as President and for his troubles was impeached . To the right was a bust of another Vice President named Johnson , Richard , who served under Van Buren and was so hated by his own party that after his term they refused to nominate anyone for Vice President . Today Lyndon Johnson feels less spiritual kinship with the two other Johnsons of the Vice Presidency . He is a happier man . Once again he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of as conversation . He loves to show people through his office . He gives them mimeographed translations of Asian papers praising the American Vice President . As visitors leave , he presses into each departing palm a ballpoint pen inscribed : COMPLIMENTS OF THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES , LYNDON B. JOHNSON . All this is done in the corny , flamboyant , country-boy tradition of Southwestern politics . The causes of his new satisfaction are simple . For one thing , the office of Vice President is steadily gaining power . For another , Lyndon Johnson has found an acceptable way to continue his campaign to become President . Johnson himself discourages talk about the future . But he is only fifty-three and still hungers to be President . I talked with more than a dozen of the Vice President 's closest advisers and associates , and all are certain that Johnson intends to become President . Some are mapping strategy for 1968 , after President Kennedy would he barred by the legal limit of two terms , assuming he is reelected in 1964 . Yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of the most delicate operations in American politics . The Vice President shares the blame for all mistakes of the Administration , but he must never take credit away from the chief for successes . Moreover , no deputy to the President may seek the highest office publicly until the last moment . Until 1968 Lyndon Johnson is condemned to suffer in silence from a seven-year itch . In the past , invisibility seemed to be the most common quality of Vice Presidents . John Adams . the first Vice President , said , " I am Vice President . In this I am nothing . " About 150 years later John Nance Garner , the thirty-second Vice President , told Johnson the job is n't worth " a pitcher of warm spit . " Johnson once was asked what he thought of taking the office , and he answered in one short , unprintable word . Four days later he let himself be nominated to become the thirty-seventh Vice President . As such , he presides over the Senate and breaks tie votes ; he can name five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Girls . Such is the way Vice Presidents usually go sleepwalking through history . It took an atom bomb to change our indifference toward the Vice Presidency . When Franklin Roosevelt died near the end of a world war , Harry Truman , suddenly and with little preparation , found himself leader of the Allies . Until that moment he had not even known of the developing atom bomb  --  whose use he was soon to decide . Truman decided that thereafter Vice Presidents would at least attend National Security Council and Cabinet meetings to learn what was going on . But that has not been enough . Every moment of the day and night American bombers with nuclear bombs are circling our skies . Polaris submarines lie under the seas , and missiles set for enemy targets rest in their launchers  --  all ready to go into action the instant the President of the United States presses the red button on his personal telephone panel . When a President dies or becomes incapacitated , the Vice President becomes steward of the red button . At that instant he may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization , and at that instant it is too late to begin training for the job . Richard Nixon was the first Vice President in the **25;2087;TOOLONG era , and as such seas permitted to watch the President operate the machinery , of national leadership . Lyndon Johnson is the first to he granted tentative copilot rights to touch the controls . The upgrading of the Vice Presidency under Eisenhower has been accelerated under Kennedy . Where Nixon made good-will tours abroad , Johnson has been granted personal discretion to bargain on foreign missions . Where the Eisenhower-Nixon private relationship was merely correct , Kennedy and Johnson are both politicians and understand each other . In the beginning nothing seemed less promising than a team composed of J.F.K. , Harvard ( cum luude ) , ' 40 , and L.B.J. , Southwest Texas State Teachers College , ' 30 . When the New Frontier assembled in January , Johnson , the only honest-to-goodness frontiersman in the crowd , stuck out like a cactus in a petunia patch . To most of the Kennedy team and to much of the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is of a cold , leather-hided manipulator of hack-room power . Yet he is one of the most easily hurt , sentimental seekers of approval in American politics . He often sounds like brash new-Texas money . " Lady Bird did n't make S10 , - 000,000 by being a dumbbell , " he likes to say of his wife . Yet , despite the heated swimming pools , London suits and the private airplane , Johnson is close to the pioneer tradition . His grandmother hid in a flour barrel to escape Indians , and Johnson still has much of old Texas in him . Apparently the cool sophisticate from Boston and the impetuous candidate from Blanco County work well together . At a White House coffee hour recently . Democrats heard the President say that " Lyndon " was the most active Vice President in history . " Lyndon Johnson has been in on all major decisions. - he said , adding with deliberate charity , " except for Cuba. - Johnson on his side has taken care not to infringe on Presidential rights . He praises the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration hard knocks . After Kennedy absolved him of responsibility in the Cuban fiasco , Johnson took pains to tell a White House figure that the remarks were appreciated , adding nobly , Of course , Cuba was one of the few decisions I really was in on : - Such Alphonse-and-Gaston public behavior might lead a cynical observer to suspect trouble in private , and indeed there has been some . During his first six months in office Johnson was a persistent caller on the White House staff , making as many as six telephone calls or three personal visits a day to establish contacts and seek appointments for Johnson men . White House staffers , loyal to their own men , were not always receptive . Johnson 's only major success was the appointment of hisfriend John Connally , of Texas , as Secretary of the Navy . Connally recently resigned to run for governor of Texas and was replaced by Fred Korth , another friend of Johnson . The polite resistance Johnson sometimes meets in the White House often comes from staffmen loyal to the President 's brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the nomination struggle Johnson W as the enemy . But those arc minor irritations . Staffs often arc more nervous than their bosses , and they tend to hold grudges longer . Johnson has made extraordinary efforts to chart his progress through the political jungles . Seven years ago , when he was made majority leader , one of his first acts was to order a detailed study of all the majority leaders in Senate history , with emphasis on their powers and their mistakes . Soon alter he became Vice President he had someone compile a history of his thirty-six predecessors , examining their relations with their Presidents and the modern trends of change . Throughout his career Lyndon Johnson has used his own technique to gain influence . He does so by locating the source of power , then quietly making himself so indispensable to it that he becomes its heir . When he entered Congress in 1937 , he became an undeviating supporter of all Franklin Roosevelt 's programs , except for the Texas taboos of civil rights and Federal restrictions on oil and gas producers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained a reputation as the chairman 's tireless factotum . When he went to the Senate in 1949 , he did the same steady duty on the Armed Services Committee for the powerful Sen. Richard Russell . Eventually such behavior brought Johnson his vast powers in the Senate , largely through the influence of Senator Russell . But in early 1961 , abandoning his Senate status , he faced a vexing problem : How to evoke from Senatorial Man to Executive Man without an intervening period of political weightlessness . At first he tried retaining some of his old privileges , but failed , Soon after the election he appeared with all the trappings of Senatorial l'vian . He kept his old majority leader 's office ( the new leader , Sen. Mike Mansfield , had to take the modest rooms of the sergeant at arms ) . Johnson became head of the Senate Democratic caucus , a role reserved in the past for a senator . Unexpectedly many senators rebelled , seventeen of them openly , others in private . For legislators up on Capitol Hill , the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " downtown . " And though he spends almost all of his Washington time around the Senate chamber , as far as his colleagues arc concerned , Lyndon Johnson spiritually has moved " downtown . " Consequently the old Lyndon  --  stalker of the cloakroom , brilliant manager oflegislation and votes  --  was seldom seen . The new Lyndon  --  executive consultant , policy administrator , foreign emissary  --  gradually materialized . The new Lyndon required time to evolve . Old Lyndon was the Texas politician generally acceptable to the South . The new Lyndon had to be a representative of all fifty states , sometimes acting publicly against the habits of the South . Johnson 's first foreign mission as Vice President was a ceremonial visit to the African state of Senegal on its first anniversary of independence . The visit called for fraternal rubbing of elbows with the natives and full-blown gestures of respect for the African leaders . Johnson knew what effect the news photographs would have in the American South , but he and Mrs. Johnson mingled with the colored masses so vigorously that the Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Citizens Council . Next Johnson was asked to tour Asia . Among his companions was Carl T. Rowan , deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs , a Negro . Johnson 's mission was to help pick up the pieces of American prestige after the Cuban fiasco and the reversal of policy in Laos . He had doubts about the wisdom of his trip . Picking up pieces is not a glorious exercise , and besides , there is always danger that a piece will explode . The hostility Richard Nixon met in Latin America came back to haunt him when he ran for President . But Johnson went anyway . The American public saw pictures of him campaigning through Asia as though he were barnstorming in Texas . He patted babies , hugged ragged natives and shook hands with thousands . But when he conferred with national leaders , Lyndon Johnson talked business . Unlike any past Vice President , he had bargaining power . In South Vietnam , for instance , he urged President Diem to extend social reforms and rebuild his armed forces . When , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary higher taxes , Johnson was empowered to offer more American aid . For his next mission abroad , he was not consulted until the last minute . One night a White House call traced him to the home of the late Speaker of the House , Sam Rayburn . The Vice President was advised to retire to a secluded phone . " Lyndon , " the President asked , " are you , available to go to Berlin ? " The Communists had just built a wall through Berlin without American opposition . West Berlin morale was sagging dangerously . Mayor Willy Brandt was making remarks about the United States , bitter enough to start a wave of recriminations through Berlin , West Germany and even NATO . Twenty-six hours after the Presidential call , Johnson was in the air on the way to Berlin . This time he had nothing concrete to offer . He was supposed to boost West German spirits , calm the nerves of Mayor Brandt , avoid entanglement in the German election campaign ? and steer clear of border incidents . Johnson 's entry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience , typically , was gained not from hooks or memoranda , but from hard knocks . As one of the most uxorious men in public life , he could not resist kissing Lady Bird as they stood , the center of attraction , at the Taj Mahal , una%% are that public kissing is scandalous to the Indians and specifically forbidden at the Taj . Returning from Pakistan , he said he ? vould mite camel driver to his LBJ Ranch " and show him how %Ne slaughter hogs , " apparently unaware that the sight of pork is even more offensive to Moslem Pakistanis than public kissing is to Indians . However , Johnson , as always , got on well with the crowds , and the popular reaction to his foreign trips did much to allay the early miseries of the Vice President . He saw his name in headlines in French , Urdu , German , Hindi and Chinese . The Pakistani newspaper Jung said in Urdu , " Lyndon Johnson has come and gone , but in his too-short 24 hours in Karachi he has left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Journal du Dirnanche quoted Johnson in a headline : WE WILL NEVER , NEVER ABANDON You ! In Berlin 300,000 Germans chanted outside his windo until he appeared . He was denounced by name over Radio Moscow and Radio Peking and in Pravda . This v% as heady stuff for a man who had been stung by remarks made during the last campaign that he was just a country boy from Texas with no knowledge of foreign affairs . But , as ever , he was flamboyant in public and shrewd in private . He knows that emissaries throughout history have later been blamed for acts that to everyone seemed wise when done . Before his trips he conferred with top officials from the President down . For the Asian mission he asked the President to write a letter to each head of state , setting forth for them  --  and for history  --  what the Vice President would be discussing , and making clear that the visit was at the request of the President . For the Berlin trip , Johnson asked for and recen.ed a letter from the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and making it plain that he was acting on request of the President . Furthermore , he prepared for his trips by holding discussions with Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress . And he did not leave to memory the advice he received Letters and notes telling what was said and who agreed remain locked in his files . Johnson 's new rule at home is per-formed with similar prudence . He is chairman of the National Aeronautics and Space Council , which advises the President on the space program , the biggest single project in human history . In his space work Johnson carefully avoidsdetail and administrative decisions . He may spend all morning listening to a pair of scientists with an idea to revolutionize the trip to the moon , but he passes them on to someone else who will decide . His study of past Vice Presidencies convinced him of the dangers of involvement in bureaucratic wars . He wants to remain at the level of high policy . Otherwise eight years as Vice President could reduce him to a bureaucrat with a million enemies and a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the President 's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity , to preser  --  e minority-group rights in jobs  --  Johnson plays a more direct role and thus exposes himself to greater risk . But he realizes that through the job he could osercome the toughest barrier to his earlier attempts to become President : The unwritten rule that because of racial discrimination in the South no Southerner may be nominated for President on the Democratic ticket . In 1959 Johnson planned a surprise assault on that barrier , a last-minute civil-rights law hearing his name , to be passed at the close of the congressional session . Then , he thought , he could approach the 1960 convention without the Southern stigma . But at the crucial moment , Nikita Khrushchev announced his " friendly " visit , and Congress , faced with the custom of inviting important heads of state to address it , adjourned quickly before completing its business . Scarcely anyone knew of Johnson 's plan , and he was forced to fall back on the less-convincing tactic of presenting himself to the convention not as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , like some in the past , aims to end discrimination against minority groups  --  most noticeably Negroes  --  in Government and in industries and labor unions doing business with the Government . Both the President and Vice President have been tough with Federal agencies that keep Negroes in low-level jobs . Johnson requires periodic reports from official agencies on the job status of minority-group members . In industry he has lunches with board chairmen and union officials and makes rambling discourses on how much better it is to act rea.sonably and in good will , instead of being subjected to force . He speaks softly ( if long ) and carries big Government contracts . Nearly fifty major companies are signing , or have signed , agreements to reject racial barriers in hiring , promotions , and use of plant facilities , whether doing business in the North or South . Such agreements could have a profound effect on the position of the Negro in the economy  --  and on the position of Lyndon Johnson in the eyes of the Democratic Party outside the South . To be sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social structureare not the stuff of Lyndon Johnson 's average day . He has more than his share of ritual  --  the endless rounds of breakfasts , coffee hours , cocktail parties , receptions , dedications , birthday parties , funerals , dreary rides to the airport and the greeting of visiting dignitaries . And then there is the constant fence mending in his home state of Texas . Johnson is acutely aware of what happens to national politicians , such as Adlai Stevenson . who lose their home base of operations . More than half the Vice Presidential mail is from Texas , and he answers it all . Thus Johnson maintains his paradoxical appeal to contrary segments of American politics . He continues to he the favorite of important Southern Democrats , yet his identification with foreign affairs , space and civil rights could make him acceptable to the Northern wing of the party . Many conservatives , excluding the Birchist brand in Texas , like him , and at the same time he evokes emotion from aging New Dealers , and says F.D.R. was like a daddy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his sixtieth birthday in August , a most political month , in his home town of Johnson City , a most political setting . If all goes according to present Democratic plan , retiring President Kennedy will have announced his chosen successor . Will it be Johnson ? It would be wrong to say that at this moment Johnson is a major figure in the White House power structure . Inside men such as Theodore Sorensen , David Bell and McGeorge Bundy are closer to the President . Outside men like Robert McNamara , Douglas Dillon and Robert Kennedy ( who is also the inside man ) have deeper official responsibilities . But Johnson has patience and durability . His strategists operate on the theory that every Administration has a first wave that attacks the beaches of public policy , is shattered and has its position occupied by a second wave . They remember the giants of the early New Deal  --  Raymond Moley , Rexford Tugwell , Adolph Berle and Hugh Johnson . And they remember that a few years later those men had dropped from view , their places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men like Leon Henderson , Benjamin Cohen , Thomas Corcoran , David Lilienthal and Felix Frankfurter . While Johnson waits , he has the confidence of a man who has created new dimensions for his job while protecting himself from its traditional traps . He can see , where a year ago he could not , that Lyndon Johnson may not , after all , disappear in the oblivion of the Vice Presidency . He knows that John Adams said , " I am Vice President . In this I am nothing . " But he also knows that Adams added shrewdly , " But 1 may be everything . "                     