@@488178

" You must know , " said the speaker , " . . . that among educated Americans , and particularly among today 's college students , advertising is highly suspect ; its excesses have made it so , and there is no indication that there is the slightest effort being made currently on the part of the guilty advertisers to curb these . " It was not some black-hearted enemy of the advertising industry who made this charge but one of its brightest luminaries ? Fairfax M. Cone , chairman of the executive committee of Foote , Cone &; Belding  --  and he was speaking not to some assemblage of eggheads , but to the Chicago chapter of the Public Relations Society of America . Mr. Cone is one of those admen who , without conspicuous success , have tried to prevent their colleagues from killing the goose that lays the golden eggs . The goose is killed in two ways . One is by preposterous claims that leave ' a trail of disillusionment , the other , which . perturbs Mr. Cone and other sages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disparage the competition . It has been a rule of decorum in modern advertising that , though you may puff up your product to - the bursting ' point , you must not openly attack a rival product . If once the ad profession started on that path , what scandalous revelations might not be laid before a still partially trusting public ? And besides , how impolitic to run down the product of another agency 's client when , with all his frailties , he may be your . client next month . This prudent policy has in fact been incorporated in the codes which guide the ethical adman ' . Since the client who foots the bills has something to say about such matters , and the adman 's ethics are perforce Subject to some modification by the practical demands of business , these commandments are a little vague in their wording . Section 10 ( 6 ) of the National Association of Broadcasters TV code , for instance , saysthat advertising copy " should contain no claims ' dealing unfairly with competitors , competitive products or other industries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For years the gas and oil interests , and lately the electric utilities as well , have been disparaging one another 's products in the home heating markets . By claiming that gas is clean , for instance , the advertiser implies that oil is dirty ; by urging the customer to " move up to electric heat " the advertiser implies that if the customer selects either of the other fuels he is buying a backward technology and degrading his family 's social , status . However , the oil , gas and electric interests have not , for the most part , named the allegedly inferior fuel . This gentlemanly restraint . is now vanishing . A Western distributor of Renault cars has been picturing Renault running circles around Volkswagen . American Motors intends to employ a " friendly giant killer " theme in an upcoming campaign and to name General Motors , Ford and Chrysler . A Gillette TV commercial displays Personna , Schick and Wilkinson blades  --  not , one may be sure , to the disadvantage of Gillette . Procter &; Gamble claims that its Safegard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deodorant soap , " which everybody in the anti-bodyodor industry knows is Armour 's Dial , incidentally handled by Foote , Cone &; Belding . All these campaigns Mr. Cone deplores in a tone of moral indignation , but he rests his case on th.6 argument that overt disparagement in advertising will be had for business . Perhaps so , but what about the public ? When advertisers fall out , is n't it possible that honest men will gee valuable information ? Mr. Cone concedes that some advertising is outrageous , an insult to the intelligent buyer . One would expect that in ttis sector the bloodiest battles will be fought . The good guys will be separated from the bad guys , and the gullible section of the public may ' begin to see that a lot of advertising is plain imposture . The Nuclear Club WHY THE OUTS WANT IN Milton Viorst Washington There was surely oversimplification , if not a touch of hyprocrisy , in President Johnson 's statement last August that the proliferation of nuclear weapons is the " gravest of all unresolved human issues . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nuclear weapons that can wipe out the world ; and while the United States Milton Viorst is the author of Hostile Allies FDR and De Gaulle ( Mama/-Ian ) He is currently working on The Decline and Fall of the Republican Party . , October 18 , 1965 has been pious in the cause of limiting nuclear spread , it has been strangely silent on the subject of limiting nuclear use By ignoring the problem of nuclear Use , the treaty on proliferation proposed by the American representatives at the disarmament conference in Geneva would affect only the nonnuclear powers It contains no suggestion that halting nuclear proliferation might somehow be linked to restraining nuclear use . The American proposal , said the President , " demonstrates that a treaty can be drawn which meets the legitimate interests ' of nuclear and nonnuclear powers alike , " but to an outsider the draft treaty looks like an offer by one state to give away the prerogatives of others . It could have no conceivable impact on American policies and practices . There is little reason for surprise , then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , was received around the world with stony silence . By proposing limitations on proliferation before reaching agree-235 ment on use , the United States puts the cart before the horse . If the nuclear powers could agree upon terms governing the use of their weapons , the nonnuclear powers would be relieved of much of the incentive for joining the nuclear club . The United States , however , has shown no inclination to make any agreement that would replace total anarchy with a set of rules , even very limited rules . As long as Washington persists in this position , it seems delusive to believe that other nations of the world will voluntarily forswear all opportunity for nuclear weaponry . The American differences with France illustrate most vividly the national confusion of cause and effect on the subject of nuclear proliferation . Sen. John Pastore of Rhode Island , commenting on Sen. Robert Kennedy 's June speech on proliferation , declared that " much of our trouble , with de Gaulle today is due to the fact that he is trying to become a prominent member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precisely reversed . De Gaulle is trying to become a prominent member of the nuclear club because we have had trouble with him . He wants his own nuclear force because French and American interests in certain vital areas are so different that he feels unable to depend on American weapons when he thinks France may need them . As Pastore 's statement indicates , America attributes de Gaulle 's position to an excess of French nationalist ardor , to a quest for national prestige . It finds no merit in France 's reluctance to put its fate in American hands . It regards as unreasonable the French Government 's demands to make  --  or , at least , to share fully in making= its own life-and-death decisions . It recognizes no legitimacy to the argument that a nation can not surrender to another nation the power ) to determine its own interests . Americans largely believe that a country need only rely on the United States to be assured of security . De Gaulle does not so much doubt America 's integrity as its willingness to violate its own national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft treaty submitted at Geneva says nothing about American guarantees to the nonnuclear powers . Senator Kennedy proposed 236 that the United States put all countries which agree to withdraw from the nuclear race under an American nuclear umbrella . " Kennedy would have the United States say to the nonnuclear states : " You give up your right to acquire your own nuclear weapons and we will take care of you with ours . " But Ambassador Goldberg , in a speech to the UN on September 23 , did not go nearly that far He promised simply that the United States would support the General Assembly in devising means to prevent nuclear blackmail . Gold-berg 's statement seemed to make quite clear that the United States is not willing to mortgage its own security in return for another government 's consent to forswear nuclear arms . But assuming American adoption , at some future date , of the Kennedy concept of a " nuclear umbrella , " there is no certainty that it would attract the nonnuclear powers . Kennedy stipulated American guarantees would apply only to cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ umbrella . . . must be divorced from and superior to the other policy aims of the nations in- volved . " , But how can a sovereign , self-respecting nation accept a control over its fate that is " divorced from and superior to " its policy aims ? One of its policy aims might be to save itself from nuclear blackmail , such " as Hitler , for example , practiced with leSs sophisticated instruments on the Czechs in 1938 . Another of its policy aims might be to save itself from a force that is not armed with nuclear weapons but otherwise vastly superior . Under such circumstances , would the American " nuclear umbrella " be of any service ? Presumably , it would be up to the United States to decide . The very premise of the American proposal is that the United States is morally and intellectually , as well as militarily , competent to look after the well-being of the rest of the world . The rest of the world is not persuaded that the premise is valid . India is a classifC example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , has philosophical objections to nuclear weapons , does not want to go to the expense of building or buying them , but might , nonetheless , be forced by considerations of national security to seek membership in ' the nuclear club . Under an American " nuclear urn brella , " India would be reasonably certain that the United States would retaliate in kind if Communist China exploded a nuclear bomb over New Delhi . But if Chinese hordes  --  to say nothing of Pakistanis ? begin pouring over the frontier , the United States will not start a nuclear war in India 's defense . Since the recent border fighting , domestic pressure on the Shastri government to initiate a nuclear- 1 weapons nrogram has been almost irresistible . India 's dilemma illustrates the problem of the nuclear bomb as deterrent against " conventional " war . India would feel far more secure against Chinese attack , nuclear or , nonnuclear , if it had its own nuclear weapons to rattle . They would have far greater general - utility than any conceivable American guarantee . The situation governing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple and more complicated It is more simple because the United States has already pledged itself under the NATO treaty to defend Western Europe , with nuclear weapons if necessary . But it is complicated , by American statements on strategic planning ' which suggest that the response to a nonnuclear Soviet attack would be a nonnuclear defense . After twenty years of peace and prosperity , Western Europe appears less than satisfied with this arrangement . France and Germany , the countries best able to influence strategy , see little generosity in America 's willingness to save the world ? and the United States ? from nuclear destruction by submitting Europe to " conventional " destruction . They indicate that they would rather gamble on a lightning nuclear war than acquiesce in an extended bloodletting such as they suffered in the two most recent conflicts . De Gaulle 's force de frappe strategy is founded on this gamble . To many Europeans , a nuclear arsenal is more important as a deterrent to conventional than to nuclear , war . The Western European situation is further complicated by Bonn 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most important of its " policy aims . " In the ' past , Germany has indicated that it would not seek nuclear weapons in order to achieve it ; more recently , government officials have said The NATION that Germany would agree to remain a nonnuclear power only if tangible progress was made ' toward reunification . Since de Gaulle undertook his nuclear-weapons program , the United States has accepted the view that Gerniany could not be kept indefinitely in a state of nuclear inferiority . To forestall a national nuclear force , Washington invented the Multilateral Nuclear Force ( MLF ) . It was designed to give Germany some theoretical access to nuclear decision.S but would , in reality , retain American Control . NevertheleSs , MLF has become the Russians ' bete noire ; they See in it a German finger on the NATO nuclear trigger . The Germans are willing to accept the MLF compromise but other major powers in NATO are not . Meanwhile , Bonn recognizes the anxiety it Can create and has quietly beglin a ' game of ' nuclear blackmail with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are - two of the twelve countries named in a 1960 study as being capable of Manufacturing nuclear weapons . Two of the remaining ten countries ? France and China  --  haVe already become members of the club . All that they needed was an incentive to make the effort . The Israelis , whose incentive is defenSe against the Arabs , may have the capacity and may be using it . The Swiss , in a 1962 referehiliim , instructed their Oven-nent not to make , an anti-nuclear pledge . Iiadonesia 's Sukarno insists , in the face of much skepticism , that his country Will ' explode a nuclear deviCe by the end of the year . The United States may invoke the virtue of abstinence in perfect sincerity , but as matters stand it hag little chance of talking countries such as , these out of manufacturingtheir own bombs . The United States is awkwardly ' placed to Mount an anti-proliferation campaign because of its own use of the nuclear threat . A Coiiiitry that will hot accept temperance for itself can scarcely Urge prOhibiton on others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as China or Russia in swearing never to be the first to use nuclear Weap- , ons . Washington ' has never consented to any of the nuclear inhibitionsthat it now asks others to ac-. cept . ' Oh its own , the United States brought the world to the threshOld October 18 , 1965 of nuclear war during the Cuban crisis of 1962 . It was , to be sure , severely provoked by the Soviet ' Union . Perhaps RiisSia was even guilty , by some definition , Of that " nuclear aggreSsion " which Senator Kennedy regards as justifying a nuclear response . Still , it was President Kenne'dy 's deCision , made unilater-ally , that the Soviet missiles Upset the international balance Of power . Many who were friends of the United States thoUght , even while backing Kennedy , that the missiles merely subjected this Country to the same dangers that its allies had long exPerienCed. , Kennedy 's deCi-sion , while it may have been correct for the entire West , was made in the national interest of the United States . As SOrensen wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regardless Of how the allies reacted . " Millions who live within range of hbstile missiles had a , right to , wonder if the circumstances justified the risks to them . The tacit Anierican threat to employ nuclear ' weapons in Vietnain raises even more serious questions . There , the United States does not rattle its bombs openly . InStead , it declares a policy of escalatien , then declines to ' renounce the nuclear Ultiinate in escalatiOn . The Airier-lean role in the Vietnainese war , unlike the Cuban crisis , has not won widespread sympathy . Wash ihgton 's allies are , at . best , cool to it , and the government can not claim that it ads for the non-Coin. inunist world . " Nuclear aggression " is not involved . But . the United States nonetheless ' employs the threat of nuclear war as an instrument of its own diplomacy . It can scarcely ask other countries to abjure such weapons while it makes use of their power , real or potential , for its own " policy aims . " The Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although Moscow opposes proliferation at least as strongly as doeS Washington . Since their first be/rib was exploded shortly after World War II , the Rtissians have pursued a poliby of sharing their knowledge of nuclear weapOiary with no one . If they are angry about the American draft , ft is not because they object to its goals but because they mistrust its prOponent , whO has left in-its provisions a conspicuous loophole to permit Germany and other NATO Countries to participate in a Multilateral Force . The remaining nuclear powers appear to bring somewhat different approaches to Washington 's draft treaty . , Great Britain is as Committed , as the United States and the , Soyiet Union to restricting Membership in the nuclear , club , bUt it is not convinced that it 237 should replace its own nuclear force with that of MLF . The French and the Chinese claim no aversion to proliferation as acute as that of the other nuclear powers . Neither , of course , signed the , test-ban treaty . However , there is no evidence that either France or China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers . It is conceivable , though not considered likely , that Peking is somehow behind Sukarno 's nuclear boasts . It is far more probable that all five nuclear powers want to halt nuclear spread , even if they can not , for various political reasons , agree on a treaty that would ban the dissemination of weapons technology . More than any other , it is the nonnuclear powers  --  friendly , neutral and enemy  --  that stand in the way of an anti-proliferation treaty . What the United States has asked them to accept at Geneva is not a bargain , in which some quid pro quo would be involved , but a self-denying ordinance . It is true that these same nonnuclear powers voluntarily limited their capacity to develop weapons by signing the test-ban treaty in 1962 . But under that treaty , it was not they alone who accepted limitations . All the signatories , nuclear and nonnuclear , agreed to refrain from further tests in the atmosphere . The treaty not only retarded weapons development among the signers but saved the atmosphere from further fallout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of signers , without any demonstrable benefit to all . Goldberg sketched areas in the September 23 speech on which the United States might be willing to compromise . In terms hedged with limitations , he avowed that the United States was interested ' in freezing the manufacture of delivery vehicles , halting the production of fissionable materials for weapons use and dismantling , on a one-forone " basis with the ' Soviet Union , a reasonable number of nuclear'weapoils ' . Goldberg sounded pious enough but it is no secret that the United States is already far ahead of the rest of the world  --  the Soviet Union possibly excepted  --  in its stockpile of delivery vehicles and fissionable materials . As for the weapons , themselves , even the Pentagon acknowledges the possession of a substantial " overkill " capacity . Once again , 238 the nonnuclear powers might legitimately ask of the American overtures , what 's in it for them ? It is not impossible to think of concessions that the nuclear powers might offer , to make an anti-proliferation treaty more palatable to the nonnuclear powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form either of increasing the access of nonnuclear powers or decreasing the access of nuclear powers to existing nuclear arsenals . Certainly no agreement can be completely satisfactory to all nations and probably none can be devised that might not , under certain circumstances , actually increase the chances of war . Nuclear weapons are credited by some with having thus far prevented World War III . They may , at this point , be more a mixed blessing than an ' unmitigated curse . Nevertheless , it is hard to imagine a riskier way to preserve civilization than to place bets on its obliteration . Few sane citizens of the earth would not feel safer if agreement could be reached for reducing the possibilities of nuclear war . Few believe that the present anarchic system is the best that can be devised . The nuclear powers could , of course , go all the way and agree to scrap their bombs . Nuclear disarmament , quite apart from general disarmament , would certainly make a persilasive argument against proliferation . It may ultimately prove to be the only argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outnumbered by the Eastern hordes , ever agree to surrender their most potent defense ? A strong argument could be made that the nuclear weapon is the West 's last line of defense . Even if the argument is refuted , the mutual distru4 of the nuclear powers appears to preclude any meaningful disarmament agreement in the predictable future . As an alternative concession , the United . States could- make some provision to extend the concept of the " nuclear umbrella " to the very " policy aims " that Senator Kennedy would divorce from it . The institutional technique would , at best , be complicated . It would require that a mechanism be established by which potential nuclear powers could influence decisions that affec ? their ' fate . There must , of course , be safeguards against the ' deployment of nuclear weapons for " policy aims " that are in any way aggressive , but countries such as India or Israel must be permitted to share in decisions on ' which their defense depends . Such countries might agree to step under an American " nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States would not walk off to leave them standing in the rain . The institutional mechanism could take a variety of forms . The nonnuclear power might make a bilateral arrangement with the United ' States , the Soviet Union or , conceivably , both . A multilateral system might be devised , within or apart from existing diplomatic instrumentalities . Careful organization and established rules could avoid the paralysis that consultation , normally generates . Above all , the ' mechanism must provide the means whereby a nonnuclear power need not throw itself upon the mercy of a nuclear power if it believes that a threat to its integrity requires some sort of nuclear response . The way must be open for a government to plead its national interest prior to any nuclear decision . Perhaps Moscow 's deep hostility to MLF signifies that any arrangement to " democratize " nuclear decisions will be regarded as a form of proliferation . The Soviet fear is not , groundless , but a carefully constructed ' mechanism need not mean more fingers to pull the trigger ; it could mean more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best , such an , arrangement could produce a greater spread of the nuclear veto . The system would , necessarily , deprive the United , States of complete nuclear independence . On its own , the United States would no longer be free to drop a bomb , whether in the defense of Europe or South Vietnam . In more practical terms , Washington would be required to give up the threat of nuclear war as an instrument of national diplomacy . But this would probably be the most convincing demonstration it could make . Still another alternative available to the nuclear powers to retard proliferation would be to limit the use of their weapons to certain very specific circumstances . The least that the nuclear powers could give , in return for an anti-proliferation - agreement from a nonnuclear power , would be a pledge never to The NATION " use nuclear weapons on that power Each of the nuclear powers could go a step further in the cause of non-proliferation by pledging to refrain from being first to use their bombs . These pledges would have the overwhelming advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not impose disarmament on suspicious nuclear powers . To be sure , they would not satisfy a nonnuclear power that looked to nuclear weapons as deterrents to conventional attack , but they would reduce the nuclear have-not 's fear of nuclear neighbors and thereby eliminate ' a strong incentive to proliferation . Such pledges would have the additional advantage of applying to weapons that already exist and not simply to those which might exist at some uncertain time in - the future . It is clear , above all , that the current system possesses the very lively dangers of both nuclear proliferation and nuclear use . " The threat to peace  --  and to human life itself " ? said President Johnson , in submitting his treaty , " is universal . If the response is universal , the threat can be met . " But the draft treaty that he proposed represents no sig- nificant step to meet that threat . Surely the United States can come up with a plan that is not so singularly self-serving , that contains some suggestion of understanding , that will genuinely reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation demands further reflection .                     