@@477910

How the new breed of extremists are using the same tactics once tried by the Radical Left ? and why the business community should be especially wary of such infiltration . LAST spring , most Americans , including most of the nation 's political leaders , had never heard of the John Birch Society , or its kissing kin such as We The People , the Liberty Lobby , The Christian Crusade of the Reverend Billy Hargis , the Circuit Riders , or Freedomin-Action . Today there are some twenty-five major national organizations and over one hundred local or regional groups in this camp of the Radical Right . Its terrain lies between the right wing of American conservatism ? which the Radical Right considers " soft " ? and the frank " hate groups " in the Gerald L. K. Smith pattern ? which the Radical Right avoids as " bigotry . " Radical Right organizations have by now attracted over 300,000 members ; their annual budgets run to more than $20 million ; and they have won priceless national publicity by featuring extremist charges in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now agrees that the Radical Right exists , there is far from universal agreement as to its origin , its prospects , or its meaning for American politics . At least three main analyses of the Radical Right have been suggested by leading commentators . The first and most unruffled view , typified by the columnist William S. White , is that the Radical Right is a temporary boil on the body politic , like earlier fringe groups in American history . War fevers of 1960-61 brought the infection to a head and it is clearly an irritation . However , the healthy , conserving processes of American life will push the sore off if only the sensation-seeking press and what White calls " ultra-Liberals " will cease spreading the infection by overexcited rubbing . A second , more anxious reaction , typified by comments in The Nation and in some leading foreign newspapers , views the Radical Right as a classic proto-fascist threat Supported by reactionary big business , Southern racists , funda26 RADICAL RIGHT AND RADICAL LEFT mentalist religious leaders , and angry military men , the Radical Right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacking the capacity of democracy to cope with the Cold War . It is thus a kind of French " ultra " movement , lobbing ideological plastic bombs into the national marketplace . A third analysis , and probably the most widely held one , sees the Radical Right as a regrouping of the old NicCarthyite forces . Between 1950 and 1954 , these forces used the charge of " internal Communist conspiracy " not to expose real Communists in government but to harass liberals within the Democratic and Republican parties , to discredit social reform , and to advance a neoisolationist position in world affairs . Today , the same forces are seeking to regain influence by capitalizing on national unrest over Cold War setbacks . While each of these analyses can be forcibly argued , none of them seems to me to capture the basic significance of the Radical Right 's appearance in the 1960s . Nor do they provide the most compelling analogy with which to expose the dangers of the Far Rightists to the general public and to those conservative political figures inclined to flirt with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ really represent . I submit , is the second great surge of opposition to this nation 's bipartisan policies for resisting Soviet imperialism abroad and Communist ideological penetration within our own nation . The first challenge to this post-1945 anti-Communist consensus came in 1946 to 1948 from the Radical Left when the Communists and the " Progressives " ? as the Radical Left liked to call itself , to distinguish its cause from that of American liberals ? raised the cry of " fascist conspiracy " to attack our emerging containment position . How strikingly similar the present campaign of the Radical Right is to the Radical Left 's drive in the late 1940s can be seen by comparing the ideology , program , strategy , and tactics of these two movements . I The Radical Left of 1946-48 and the Radical Right today both derive , of course , from the stream of American fundamentalism which goes hack to the Know-Nothings of the 1850s , the Populists of the I/390s , and the Coughlinites of the 1930s . All these movements share a common belief in betrayal of , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the aroused masses of the nation . The two contemporary groups , however , must be seen in the unique setting of our contemporary situation . Since 1945 , for the first time , the United States has consciously accepted leadership in international affairs . For the first time , the United States must live with the undeniable possibility of physical destruction by a self-declared enemy nation . For the first time , the American public has developed a high concern for foreign policy in " peacetime , " though most Americans are still unskilled in the realities of international relations . It is against this backdrop of public instability that the two great challenges to the national anti-Communist consensus of our era should be examined . PARALLEL IDEOLOGIES I N 1946 , the Radical Left saw its wartime hopes for a perfect world ? for total disarmament , an economy of abundance , a harmonious United Nations , and fraternal U.S.-Soviet relations ? shattered by the rise of severe tensions between the United States and Russia . The cause of these tensions , the Radical Left concluded , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation-states but a " fascist conspiracy " within the United States , The danger was basically internal . " Nazis are running the American government , " Henry Wallace declared at one passionate moment in 1948 . Our two major parties had " rotted " and Wall Street , the military clique , labor " misleaders , " " red-baiting " intellectuals , and even the churches had become part of a program to " betray " peace and progress . Unless " the people " rose and shook off this conspiracy , the Radical Left warned , the country faced an imminent fascist take-over and American foreign policy would serve only dictator regimes and the former-fascist nations . Compare this ideological image with that of the new Radical Right . Its dream of perfection was that a Republican Administration in 1952 ( preferably led by MacArthur or Taft rather than Eisenhower ) and a green light for Senators McCarthy and McCarran would bring an end to the " appeasement " and " defeats " of the " Yalta-Acheson " decades . ( This attitude was of course shared by many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party 's New Deal and Fair Deal leadership . ) American prestige would soar upward , the Soviet empire would be pushed back to the borders of Russia , and the Soviet regime itself would probably collapse . All this would he accomplished while we were " restoring free enterprise " at home , erasing the " Socialist " measures of the New and Fair Deals , and balancing the budget . However , when Soviet power rose rather than fell in the middle 1950s , when the forces of nationalism and neutralism increased , and when " Socialist " measures like TVA and Social Security remained and were even extended , the Radical Right exploded . Beginning about 1958 , when the Birch Society was organized and other Radical Right groups began to expand . the cause of our troubles was perceived : a vast " Communist conspiracy " at home , even under the Eisenhower Administration . Our major parties . with their " Left-wing tendencies " and reliance on " minority groups , " the " Socialist " unions , Communist-infiltrated churches , even leaders of American business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hands of Communist conspirators . PARALLEL PROGRAMS T H E Radical Left attacked the basic inter- national programs of the United States in the late 1940s as too " anti-Communist . " It opposed American policy toward the UN : , s based upon Cold War power politics , and demanded that we abandon the regional ' ' war pacts " in which we were supposedly engaging as coni ? ary to the UN charter . The Radical Left opposed what it called the " Martial Plan " for Europe ? as well as military aid to Greece , Turkey , and Iran ? warning that we were shoring up decadent regimes and that " the people " in these countries would not be bought for our " Cold War mercenaries . " Defense spending and rearmament were violently denounced as warlike , costly , and the death knell for domestic reform . To meet the might of Soviet power , the Radical Left urged us to rely on our overpowering mural example as a peace-loving nation and to trust the prospects of Soviet reasonableness at the conference table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mounting an identical attack on the nation 's international position today . Now our policies are not " anti-Communist " enough . Our participation in the UN is rejected because we can not use the world body as a Cold War spear . The Radical Right rejects American alliances and friendly relations with all governments which are not " firmly anti-Communist , " a list which includes Mexico , India , Ghana , Burma , and others which are " playing along with the Communists . " Foreign aid is bitterly assailed as " pouring money down Communist ratholes , " wasting hard-earnedand heavily taxed American dollars which should be given back to private enterprise at home . Balanced defense programs and overseas military establishments are regarded as " useless " measures which could be replaced by far smaller expenditures for " massive retaliation " : if the Soviets only were taught that we meant business , that would solve the problems of the arms race . That , after all , is the Radical Right 's basic key to American foreign policy : Mean business ! Really mean business ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? all would be unnecessary , and a resolute America would turn back the SinoSoviet tides by the stern announcement of our will to be Dead Rather Than Red . When Radical Left and Radical Right are compared in their attacks on basic domestic programs , the parallels continue to mount , Both Radical Left and Radical Right put a hostile investigation of the State Department high on their agenda as the way to correct our foreign policy " mistakes " ? the Radical Left because it saw the Department as honeycombed with " reactionarieN " and " British Empire types , " and the Radical Right because it sees our present Department as under the dominance of " Communists , " " Nehru-lovers , " and " pro-Soviets . " Both would destroy the centrist economic programs which the nation has followed since the rise of the Cold War . The Radical Left saw our policies as a Wall Street plot to make us an " arms economy " and save a decadent capitalism ; they demanded " butter , not guns " ? which meant no military spending and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Right tells us that the Soviets are tricking us into national bankruptcy : their prescription is to abolish federal and state welfare programs ; and their demand for abolition of the income tax would obviously mean the end of our defense expenditures as well . Both groups opposed the internal-security measures of 1946-18 and 1960-62 : the Radical Left because it found the pre-McCarthy measures of the Truman Administration against Communist subversion to be wholly unnecessary police-state tactics : the Radical Right because it thinks that Communist agents are still nestled everywhere in our national government and at Alan F. Westin , associate profes , ; or of public law and government at Columbia , is a mernb .. 7 of the District of Columbia Bar and on the nat'npoi board of directors of the Civil Liberties Union . His most recent book is " The Uses of Power , " jr , q published by Harcourt , Brace &; Toad. 28 RADICAL RIGHT AND RADICAL LEFT the switches of industry , and that the Supreme Court itself has become " part of the Communist apparatus . " Both Radical Left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their positions . clear enough to draw the money and support of some of the bigoted but not loud enough to open the groups to charges of being full-dress " hate movements . " The Radical Left in 1946-48 attacked the " Vatican conspiracy " which was pushing us toward a " holy war " against Russia . A Radical Left magazine , The Protestant , said that Catholicism wanted " a fascist world hegemony . " Later , when the Soviets began to denounce " Zionism " and " cosmopolitanism , " The Protestant denounced " American Zionism " for selling itself to the imperialists . On the Radical Right some well-known anti-Semitic spokesmen have already appeared , such as Allen Zoll , a staff member of the Christian Crusade , and Merwin K. Hart , a chapter leader of the Birchers . The presence of powerful anti-Semitic currents in the audiences of the Radical Right 's public meetings has been noted by careful observers from the Anti-Defamation League . Openly segregationist and anti-Negro positions are evident in the Christian Crusade , and the White Citizens Councils in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leading anti-Semitic publications such as Gerald Smith 's The Cross and the Flag and Conde McGinley 's Common Sense are recommended in Radical Right literature . PLUS SIMILAR STRATEGIES I ? N terms of basic strategy , the Radical Left 's top leadership in 1946-48 aimed at winning influence within two key sectors of American civic life which were considered to be ripe for penetration ? the labor movement and organized liberalism. ? Communists and Progressives had secured important positions in the union movement between 1935 and 1945 ; they hoped to operate outward from unions controlled by the Radical Left such as the United Electrical Workers , the International Longshoremen 's Union , and the Mine , Mill , and Smelter Workers to bring the " left-leaning " unions such as the United Auto Workers and then the CIO itself into the " Progressive camp . " The Radical Left had control of Communist-front groups such as the Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee . Within organized liberal groups such as the American Veterans Committee , the Radical Left was already attempting to secure positions of influence , and a conscious drive was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and university organizations . Radical Left strategists reasoned that control of the CIO and organized liberalism would give them access to power in the Democratic party . At the least , the Radical Left would exercise a veto power in the formulation of foreign and domestic policy by the Democrats ; with luck , the Radical Left could replace the " Truman Cold War " leadership of the Democrats with old New Deal figures who shared some of the Radical Left 's perspectives . Such a figure was soon found in a first-term New Deal Cabinet member , a former Vice President under Roosevelt , and a man who left the Truman Cabinet because of disagreement over the national anti-Communist consensus ? Henry A. Wallace . It was Wallace who gave the Radical Left its respectability in 1946-47 and it was Wallace who led the Radical Left to found the Progressive party in 1948 and break openly with the " two old parties . " While the Radical Right is still in its " 1946 " rather than its " 1948 " phase strategically , its basic objectives are clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas of the business community and organized conservatism . The newer groups of the Radical Right , such as the Birch Society and We The People and older organizations such as the National Economic Council and Constitutional Educational League , already have influential business figures in their ranks and as their financial patrons . And as we shall see , the support of the business community has been increasing in recent months . As for the established conservative groups , the themes of the Radical Right have been echoing in such conservative strongholds as the National Association of Manufacturers , the National As-. sociation of Real Estate Boards , the American Legion , and the Daughters of the American Revolution . Other conservative groups , such as the American Medical Association , American Bar Association , and American Farm Bureau Federation , arc now facing ideological penetration . If it can rally enough business and conservative group support , the Radical Right can look forward to influence in the Republican party . At the least , it could push Republicans in a Far Right direction , and it might lead the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this is not possible , there is the distinct possibility of a third-party campaign by the Radical Right , as some of its leaders have already demanded . Obviously Senator J. Strom Thurmond , a nominal Democrat , would be delighted to lead this movement , just as he led the Dixiecrats in 1948 . ... AND THE SAME OLD TACTICS U NLIKE Senator McCarthy and the loose apparatus of " McCarthyism , " the Radical Right is fervently organizational today . Once people attending Radical Right rallies have been alarmed by tales of Communist betrayal in Washington and imminent collapse of the nation ? as those of the Radical Left were alarmed by tales of impending fascism ? the organizers carefully follow up by leading the new recruits into a total " life-way " apparatus . Followers are put to work in " Americanist " cadres . In the Birch Society , there are home " study groups " where tape recordings and films are played ; Radical Right books and pamphlets are assigned and discussed under the careful direction of a chapter leader ; members report on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against their community 's " Communists " ? e.g. , local ministers , schoolboard members , library committees , and newspaper editors . In a Lovely parallel with the American Communist party , there are now bookstores throughout the nation which serve as nerve centers for local Radical Right activity : the Betsy Ross Bookshop in Los Angeles ; the Pro-Blue Patriotic Book Store in Torrance . California ; and the Anti-Communist Bookstore in Fort Lauderdale , Florida , are only : 1 few of the dozens now in existence . The functions of such places were recently described by a New York Times report on Radical Right bookstores in California : Radical Right hooks and pamphlets are sold , speakers ' names listed , rallies advertised , petitions left for signing , and membership and mailing lists traded among various local groups . Like the Radical Left , the Radical Right knows how to manipulate the appeals of martyrdom . The Radical Right begins with Senator McCarthy , the patron saint driven to his death by the Communists , and moves on to " Americanists " such as General Edwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military , the colleges , the communications media , and government because they dare to tell " the Truth . " Thus a leading article in American Opinion , the Birch organ , could have cribbed a paragraph from a Radical Left organ of 1946 in its lament that today America sees " witch-hunting of pa-triots . . . , character assassination , and wild accusations against anybody who dares ask questions and insist upon answers . " It is also an article of faith for both movements that all of these powerful persecuting forces can he wiped out in a flash by revealing " the Truth " to an " angry people . " The Birchers will triumph , and soon , American Opinion states , because it is the movement of " the revolted , misinformed , deceived , abused , angry American .. . . " These are some of the deadly parallels of ideology , program , strategy , and tactics between the Radical Left in 19-16 to 1945 and the present Radical Right . One further clement is a common one . Boils are movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radical Left had its base in middle-class elements in the urban centers of the East and West coasts , especially professionals , drawing heavily on segments of the Jewish and Liberal-Protestant communities . It had little Negro support , only isolated pockets of working-class adherents , and virtually no farm or business response . The Radical Right draws on another part of the middle class . Its followers are predominantly business and professional people who live in rural and suburban areas and in the " inner cities " of the Midwest and South ? such as Wichita , Nashville , Houston , or Columbus , Ohio . They arc also strong in coastal cities like Miami and Los Angeles which have had heavy migrations from the Midwest and South in recent decades . There is no working-class groundswell in the Radical Right , virtually no Jewish and Negro support , and its farmers are well-to-do entrepreneurs . II Two things should be said immediately about this comparison of the Radical Left and Radical Right . First , I am not suggesting that the two movements are identical . History provides complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and obviously , there are great differences . Most important of these is the fact that no hostile nation and its puppet party within the United States is guiding the Radical Right , as the Soviet Union and the American Communist party came to dominate the Radical Left . There is no secret espionage and infiltration apparatus linked to the Radical Right , despite Robert Welch 's airy pledges to set up Birch " front groups " such as the Committee Against Summit Entanglements or College Grad30 RADICAL RIGHT AND RADICAL LEFT uates Against Educating Traitors at Government Expense . And there is less unity and single-mindedness on the Radical Right than there was on the Radical Left , for all the efforts of Billy Hargis and Kent Courtney to establish a national Anti-Communist Federation . Yet , in its own way the Radical Right does present a unified and pointed danger to the national consensus . Second , I hope it is clear that I do not regard departures from the " national anti-Communist consensus " as automatically putting all critics in the Radical Left or Radical Right . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from " moderate " and " unvisionary " ideas . Obviously there can be legitimate , far-reaching criticisms of our internal-security measures , welfare programs , alliance policies , military strategy , disarmament position , UN policies , and the like . Thus Norman Thomas and the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy are legitimate participants in our national debates , as are Russell Kirk and the American Enterprise Association . The an-important distinction is that their criticisms are made within the framework of rational discourse and civic responsibility . They do not rest on cries of grand hidden conspiracies , allegations of traitorous leadership , and dangerously millennial proposals . Nor do they include bullying tactics in the civic marketplace , whether Communist or Birchite . With this as a guide , it should be clear that talk of Americans for Democratic Action or the NAACP as the " Radical Left " today is absurd , THE PURGE THAT WORKED H A V I N G made these distinctions , what insights can we draw in 1962 from a comparison of Radical Left and Radical Right in the post-World-War-II era @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these movements ? despite their grandiose plans ? has had any practical prospects of winning the Presidency , capturing a national party , or having its panacea policies enacted into law . Each has viewed the other extreme as already " running the nation , " but the fact is that the American political system is too vital to allow these anti-democratic movements to become dominating national political forces in their own right : the traditions of the center are too powerful in our society , and the influences of reformist civic and religious groups too pervasive . However , someone who stops with this comforting realization and dismisses the Radicals aspolitical mosquitoes makes a serious error . The Radical Right poses the same kind of threat to the democratic process today that the Radical Left did in the ' forties : It threatens the freedom of action of the national Administration in its efforts to formulate realistic anti-Communist programs and to demonstrate the maturity of American democracy to the world . It threatens to muddy the terms of debate nn sensitive but central issues ? from Katanga to school reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has marked for penetration . In addition , the Radical Right presents a special threat ? the destruction of civic freedom in local communities by broadside charges of " communism . " Each of these threats from Radical Left and Right deserves to he examined carefully . Between 1946 and 1948 , after a pitched battle marked by a few misadventures for liberalism ( such as the Alger Hiss case ) , American labor and the American liberal community thoroughly repulsed the Radical Left . The CIO expelled the Radical Left unions , eliminated powerful Radical Left staff members such as the CIO 's General Counsel , Lee Pressman , and pressed " left-leaning " union chiefs such as Mike Quill and Joseph Curran to break loose from the Radical Left . Liberal organizational leaders such as Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt , Reinhold Niebuhr , Walter Reuther , and Arthur Schlesinger , Jr . formed Americans for Democratic Action to focus the opposition of American liberals to the Radical Left . And , by a painful process , the American Veterans Committee showed that liberals could save their organizations from Radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were a number of vocal , if small , anti-Stalinist groups which fought the Progressives ? The New Leader magazine , for example , and Norman Thomas ' Socialist party , and many of the writers and intellectuals who had been supporters of Trotsky in the ' thirties . By 1918 , after some earlier flirtation with the Radical Left by influential Democrats such as Senator Claude Pepper and Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes , the New Deal Democrats and the Democratic party both unequivocally repudiated the Radical Left . The result of these various actions was that the Radical Left was isolated from either political or civic respectability in the nation . The Truman Administration was able to execute the Marshall Plan , create NATO , and meet the explosion of the Korean War without hindrance from the Radical Left . And American liberalism emerged from the 1945 to 1948 period purged of the misunderstandings of Soviet communism which marked the ' thirties . WHERE THE MONEY COMES FROM H 0 W is the response to the Radical Right progressing ? When publicity about the John Birch Society first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dulles , et a ! . , were revealed , there was widespread condemnation from conservatives as well as liberals . That was in the spring of 1961 . Then the Birchers began to recover from the first wave of criticism and began to organize effectively throughout the country , proclaiming themselves the " toughest " anti-Communist group around . The Christian Crusade , Project Alert , the National Indignation Rallies , Freedom in Action , the Cardinal Mindszenty Foundation , the Circuit Riders , the Conservative Society of America . and other Radical Right groups caught the crest of public alarms about Berlin , bomb shelters , the Soviet fifty-megaton explosion , the Congo , and Laos . Suddenly they found themselves packing in thousands of Americans at rallies in Garden City , Long Island ; Miami , Florida ; Houston , Texas ; or Los Angeles , California . The Radical Right swiftly became " hot news ' ' and press , radio , and television were filled with accounts of Radical Right charges and activities . Money began to flow in heavily . At that time , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican party ? the target groups ? was not altogether reassuring . In the business community there were a disturbingly large number of corporations and corporate leaders who embraced the Radical Right . For example : The Birch Society has sixteen corporate executives on its twenty-five-member council , including the presidents of H. Masland and Sons , Cherokee Mills , the A. B. Chance Company , and the Rock Island Oil and Refining Company . Coast Federal Savings and Loan Company in California , one of the five largest savings-andloan institutions in the nation , distributes Birch literature and a steady stream of Radical Right materials . Project Alert has had its extremist rallies sponsored on television by the Carnation Milk Company and Southern California Edison . " Communism on the Map " is a film produced by the National Education Program in Searcy , Arkansas . Written by a Birch Society co-ordinator , it incorporates large chunks from the Birch Society 's Blue Book . According to the National Education Program , this film has been . . purchased by companies such as Goodyear Tire and Rubber , Boeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brass , and Aluminum Company of America . The National Education Program itself lists officials from such corporations as Swift and Company and Monsanto Chemical on its Freedom Forum Advisory Committee , and it has claimed support from high executives of General Electric , The American Iron and Steel Institute , Olin Mathieson , Lone Star Cement Company , and dozens of other blue-chip corporations. * This is only a sampling . A cautious estimate ? based on recent surveys of annual corporate donations and the published gifts of companies to the Radical Right ? would show that the business community contributed about $10 million to the Radical Right last year . Within organized conservatism , there has been a sharp rise in Radical Right speakers at Chamber of Commerce , Junior Chamber , Lions Club , American Legion , medical associations , bar associa dons , and women 's club meetings . A Lions Club in New Jersey was told recently that leaders of the community could fight communism and serve America best by founding a Birch Society chapter . In Flint , Michigan , the junior Chamber of Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radical Right speaker who said Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg was a Communist and is still sympathetic to the Communists , and that the major jewish groups in this country arc heavily penetrated by Communists . The Miami Board of Realtors recently conducted a course in anticommunism at the national realty convention which heard Senator McCarthy extolled and played the National . Education Program 's latest slanted films . Such speakers are not presented as one side of a disputed issue ? they are offered as responsible purveyors of the Truth About Communism in America . As for the Republican party , there seemed to be a period when the party 's leaders hoped that the following of the Radical Rightists could be channeled into Republican ranks . Much of the money and energy which the Radical Right was expending could normally have been " Republican resources . " In addition , some Republican This claim of support was stated in a letter dated March 25 , 1961 , signed by Howard W. Bennett , vice president of the National Education Program , and made available by Mr. Irwin Suall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AND RADICAL LEFT officeholders , such as Congressmen Hiestand and Rousselot of California , were open members of the Birch Society , and some candidates for Republican nomination leaned to the Radical Right . Loyd Wright , former president of the American Bar Association and a candidate for the Republican Senate nomination from California , announced , " I wish we had ten thousand or ten million more members like those I know in the John Birch Society . " In some localities , the Republican party seemed to become almost identical with the Radical Right ; in Texas , for example , Republicans such as Congressman Bruce Alger and Senator John Tower remind one of Congressman Leo Isacson and Senator Glen Taylor of the Radical Left in 1918 . Though Senator Barry Goldwater had condemned Robert Welch 's authoritarian control of the Birch Society and Richard Nixon had condemned extremists of the right and left , effective quarantine was not in sight . Events this spring , however , suggest that some Radical Right groups ? or at least a few of their leaders ? may be facing political quarantine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which attempts to pass for genuine anti-Communism . The American Bar Association and the National Association of Manufacturers have held responsible and sophisticated anti-Communist seminars at their meetings . Spokesmen such as Russell Kirk , Senators Goldwater and Tower , and National Review have attacked Robert Welch personally as an unbalanced and irresponsible figure . Richard Nixon has grown increasingly specific in his attacks on the Right-wing Radicals . The point was also made well this spring that some of the statements by liberals and Democrats about Radical Right-wing strength in the country ? and its influence over the Republican party ? were careless partisanship , reminiscent of the charges of " pro-communism " leveled against liberals , labor , and the Democrats during the Radical Left challenge in the 1940s . THE recent criticisms of Robert Welch and the Birch Society are welcome actions . But cutting Welch adrift and issuing general denunciations of " extremism " will not solve the problem of the Radical Right . A stronger cure is required and has not been forthcoming . The top leadership of the business community has not yet launched the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advocacy from the nihilistic propositions of the Radical Right , and also educate careless corporate executives against financial support ? and verbal endorsement ? of Radical Right activities . Nor has there been sufficient awareness within Conservative organizations of the dangers created by many of the alarmist anti-Communist speeches on the Radical Right . These speeches may start by denouncing Moscow or Peiping , but they usually wind up as campaigns to fire a town librarian who has " pro-Communist " books on the shelf , or to prevent the Foreign Policy Association from conducting local " Great Decisions " courses . When the business community , conservative groups , and the press do not oppose such activities , the Radical Right is free to poison the prevailing climate of debate . The result has been the erosion of the democratic process in dozens of communities by a variety of bullying tactics . For example : * Anonymous and threatening phone calls are being made to liberal teachers , ministers , and school principals ; to dentists who support fluoridation ; or to Quakers supporting disarmament . * Private meetings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ packed by Radical Rightists who harass the speakers and provoke violence . * On the eve of liberal gatherings , anonymous telephone calls are warning that a bomb is planted in the hall . thus causing the police to cancel the meeting . *Vicious falsehoods are being circulated from the platform and in print about such responsible groups as the National Council of Churches of Christ , the Foreign Policy Association , and the Anti-Defamation League . To restore these communities to the climate of free debate , to turn the concern of Americans over the dynamics of communism into constructive channels , businessmen , conservatives , and the Republican party must rise to defend the basic ideals of American democracy , as labor , liberal groups , and the Democratic party did in the late ' forties . The real test of Radical Right strength and political strategy is likely to come with the 1962 Congressional elections , when the absence of a Presidential contest will accentuate local issues and maximize pressure-group organization . If that election is to prove the maturity of the democratic center in our political and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , by isolating the Radical Right .                     