@@478016

An appraisal , at mid-term , of the men closest to the President . the way their jobs interlock ... their personal relationships .. and their main strengths and weaknesses . NO ONE MAN can fill the Presidency , " Harry Truman once said . And in modern times at least , no one man has had to . For the past quarter-century the term " Presidency " has engrossed , besides the Chief Executive , a score of aides grouped in the White House Office . Their sole business is to help the President do his business . They arc the President 's Men . Because they work behind the scenes , the functions and even the persons of the President 's Men tend to be obscure . Not their importance . A survey of the federal bureaucracy made by a private management firm in MO found 75 dominant positions in the government ? eight of them in the ' White House Office . Only two or three Cabinet members rival some members of the White House staff in influence and authority . Collectively , the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government , not excepting the Cabinet and the National Security Council . Besides being important , the White House staff is peculiarly symbolic . Every President faces the problem of putting the imprint of his policy upon highly complicated problems that necessarily work their way up through a cumbersome bureaucracy which has its own momentum and direction . The chief means for bending the bureaucracy to the President 's will is the White House staff . Its function is to move from the bureaucracy to the Presidency , reliably enough and soon enough to be effective , the elements of decision . More perhaps than any other aspect of government , the White House staff reflects the characteristic ways , means , and purposes of the President . It is his " lengthened shadow . " Thus under Eisenhower , the White House staff answered exactly the needs of a military man and national hero , with little appetite for detail , who deemed it his mission to harmonize discordant elements in the nation . In structure the staff was hierarchical , heading up in The Assistant to the President : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Co-ordination was a main feature , and there were thrice-weekly staff meetings and an elaborate machinery , including a staff secretary and a Cabinet secretary , to make sure that all bases were touched . Great stress was laid on agreed position papers ( one for nearly every foreign country was prepared , and kept up to date , by the staff of the National Security Council ) which . like field manuals , would pass the word from the President down through the 30 KENNEDY 'S WORKING STAFF ranks . Whether in the interests of protecting General Eisenhower or not , an unmistakable effort was made to resolve disputes below the Presidential level . " I count the day lost when I have not found some way of lightening the President 's load , " Sherman Adams once remarked . General Persons used to say : " We 're not looking for business . " Under Kennedy , the staff has been shaped to meet the needs of a President with abundant stores of restless energy , with a great capacity for assimilating detail , and with a taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in co-ordination : " When things are very quiet , and beautifully organized , " he once said , " I think it 's time to be concerned . " Extraordinary as it may seem , and despite many recommendations to the contrary , there has riot been a single meeting of Kennedy 's White House staff ; nor is there likely to be . Neither is any single staff man the majordomo , though some members are senior to others . In structure , the staff is not a pyramid , but a wheel figuring a network of bilateral relations between the President and his aides . Staff members get together frequently on an ad hoc basis ; but their characteristic relationship ( despite talk of the Irish Mafia and the Harvard Clique ) is neither partnership nor feud , but a kind of disengagement , reinforced by separateness of function and personality . Formal papers are at a minimum , but all staff members are encouraged to bring to the President all official problems . " We work for a President , " one staff member says , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work ? And what are the strengths and weaknesses of the system ? TWO MEN FOR ALL SEASONS T WENT Y-TWO persons currently make up the White House staff ? as against twenty-eight for Eisenhower through most of 1960 . But the numbers mean almost nothing . While some persons who figure actively in White House activities are carried on the staffs of other agencies , others are in the White House for want of another suitable post , and still others attend more to personal , social , and secretarial than to governmental tasks . For operational purposes , the Kennedy White House Office breaks down into two all-purpose aides and five functional offices . The two all-purpose men are Ralph Dungan , a veteran of the President 's Senate staff , and Arthur Schlesinger , Jr. , the Harvard historian and Pulitzer Prize winner . Dungan is chieflyresponsible for personnel , or as he puts it , " headhunting . " He maintains a permanent list of talent available for posts in the government ; checks the job recommendations that come up from the Congress , the Democratic National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tabs on the expiration dates of term appointments . Though that function is heavily political , Dungan is personally a reflective and genial person , the very opposite of the hard-nosed operator supposed to thrive in the politics of the New Frontier . " He 's the nicest guy I ever met in politics , " a Connecticut job-seeker who did n't get the job once said of him . Though the personnel job is normally a full-time occupation , Dungan , because of his substantive interests , has taken on a wide variety of other tasks ? for example , he is the Presidential overseer of the foreign-aid program and works on policy toward Latin America and Africa . Schlesinger 's assignment is more diverse . He has maintained liaison between the President and UN Ambassador Adlai Stevenson , has sat in on Latin American policy meetings at the State Department and White House , has taken an occasional hand at speeches , and functioned as a point of contact between the White House and the intellectual community . " Arthur , " one other White House aide says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gadfly . " In his own view , Schlesinger has a special responsibility for innovation . He had a hand in the speech made by the President at the 1962 Yale Commencement which aimed at setting in motion an economic re-education of the nation . It was his idea to establish a White House cultural office , and to place in it August Heckscher . FIVE SLOTTED BY FUNCTION 0 F THE live functional slots , one may best be described as staff assistant to the President . It is filled by Kenneth O'Donnell , thirty-eight , a former Harvard football star and member of Robert Kennedy 's staff when he was counsel to the Senate rackets committee . O'Donnell handles most of the White House administrative chores : appointments for the President , arrangements for Presidential trips , and such matters as FBI clearance for the ' White House staff . Insofar as anyone keeps the rest of the staff systematically informed about the President 's thoughts and actions , it is O'Donnell . He is also , in the words of one of his colleagues , " the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in constant liaison with the Democratic National Committee and local party groups across the country . Probably O'Donnell sees the President more than any other staff member ? some ten or twenty timed a day . In an offhand way , his judgment is likely to be asked on any matter ranging from a tax cut to a candidate for Governor of New York . Personally , he does correspond to the image of a Kennedy type : highly intelligent , physically powerful , and with tight features . " Kenny makes a hundred decisions a day , " one other White House aide says , " and without any flap . " Better perhaps than any other of the President 's Men , he can take and hold a negative position . When I want a No decision , " says an assistant secretary , " I take my problem to O'Donnell . " THE second functional slot is the office of the Special Counsel , which might be called the office of Presidential programs . Invented initially for Samuel Rosenman in the Roosevelt Administration , then passed on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the post is now held by a thirty-four-yearold Nebraska lawyer , Theodore C. Sorensen , who has been with Mr. Kennedy since he came to the Senate in 1953 . Sharing the office with Sorensen are a Deputy Special Counsel and an Assistant Special Counsel , respectively : Myer Feldman , a former Pennsylvania law professor with extensive experience in private business and the government ; and Lee White , a classmate of Sorensen at the Nebraska law school who worked with him , as did Feldman , in the President 's Senate office . Sorensen 's responsibility runs virtually across the board . He drafts most Presidential messages and speeches ; sits in with Cabinet members and Agency heads in formulating the legislative program and the Budget ; attends the President 's weekly meeting with the legislative leaders , and the pre-press conference briefing of the President ; and participates actively in handling virtually every major domestic issue and some major foreign issues . Feldman and White work ? largely independently ? in the same area , but generally on more detailed matters : Feldman on agriculture , transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agency business , as well as some Israeli affairs ; White on civil rights , public works , and conservation . All three men Joseph Kraft , " Harper 's " Washington correspondent , is the author of two books : " The Struggle for Algeria " and " The Grand Design " ? o study of Kennedy policy , " From Common Market to Atlantic Partnership . " have direct access to the President , though Sorensen undoubtedly sees him most often ? and on the more full-blown issues . While much has been said about Sorensen 's liberal past ? his father was campaign manager for Senator George Norris in Nebraska , and he himself has always been a liberal Democrat ? what most characterizes his shop are the businesslike virtues : lucid grasp of complicated issues , good judgment , and staggering production . " Sorensen , " says one of the permanent officials in the Bureau of the Budget , " can understand anything from sugar subsidies to bomb shelters . And he 's the fastest good writer this place has ever seen . His office does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " T H E third functional slot is the Special Assistant for National Security Affairs , a post created for ? and to a large extent , by ? the former Harvard Dean , McGeorge Bundy . Bundy ? or in his absence his deputy , the Harvard economist Carl Kaysen ? receives copies of virtually all the incoming cables to the Secretaries of State anti Defense and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency . These he sorts out , taking the most important , or those bearing on immediate business , direct to the President . Bundy has also made his office a workshop for putting together policies that can not easily be constructed in any other single place ? the American stand on bomb testing , for instance . And , of course , his shop is the clearinghouse for a wide variety of questions and proposals coming to the President from the national security Agencies . To handle this business , Bundy has built a small staff organized along geographic lines . It meets daily and includes a staff secretary ; specialists in Far Eastern , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they are wearing their Latin American or African hats , Decisions made by the President are registered , not in elaborate position papers , but in short memoranda ? the NSAM or National Security Action Memoranda ? which merely state the fact that the President has considered an issue and decided such and such . Perhaps alone among the White House staff , Bundy is heir to a tradition ? the tradition of leadership in American foreign policy that stretches from Theodore Roosevelt through Elihu Root to Henry Stimson , who worked with Bundy 's father , Harvey , in the Hoover Administration and World War II . and who entrusted to McGeorge Bundy the writing of his official biography . Bundy 's style is fully in keeping with that tradition . He has spoken and 32 KENNEDY 'S WORKING STAFF written extensively and dealt man-to-man with the likes of Harold Macmillan , Konrad Adenauer , and Andre Malraux . Confident mastery ? not without disdain for those who do n't have it ? colors his expressions . A reference to " pompous nonsense " in a recent article in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inn some parts of the Pentagon and some quarters at Harvard . T HE fourth functional slot is the assistant for Congressional relations . Used only sporadically in the Eisenhower Administration and hardly at all by Truman and Roosevelt , this post has been given special weight under Kennedy . It is headed by one of the President 's oldest associates , the forty-five.year-old Massachusetts public-relations man , Lawrence O'Brien , who has under him five aides ? one Senate man , three House men , and a general assistant . O'Brien receives every Monday night written reports from the various Departments and Agencies on pending legislation : these form the basis of the breakfast meetings , usually held Tuesday morning , with the legislative leaders . O'Brien or one of his aides usually sits in on the meetings that precede formulation of the President 's legislative program . As measures enter the critical stages in Congress , O'Brien and his men usually take over the lobbying task from the Departmental representatives . While there has been much complaint of arm-twisting , the fact is that a great deal of O'Brien @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it , for example . that the Departments and Agencies give advance notice to Congressmen of decisions affecting their districts . In one typical ten-minute interval , not long ago , he took three telephone calls from the Hill ? one dealing with a pending bill , a second concerning money for a Senatorial campaign , a third involving a White House tour for a constituent of a Republican Senator . Supplying such services comes naturally to O'Brien , an engaging redhead , notably fair-minded , with an instinctive grasp of the other man 's point of view . Of one Congressman who complained publicly of arm-twisting by O'Brien 's office , O'Brien says : " I do n't mind . He 's a Democrat in a Republican district . It helps him if the voters think he 's fighting the Democratic organization . " THE fifth functional slot is the well-known office of Press Secretary , filled , with the help of two assistants , by Pierre S linger , a thirty-sevenyear-old California writer and editor who formerly worked on the staff of Robert Kennedy . Salinger presides over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also acts as informal chairman over a weekly group of government information officers . But his chief job is getting out information to newsmen . He briefs the White House regulars twice a day ? at noon and again at four in the afternoon . While no match for President Eisenhower 's Press Secretary , James Hagerty , in keeping newsmen out of trouble by dispensing innocuous information in encyclopedic detail , Salinger has a special brand of comedy that works toward the same result . At a briefing on September 24 , for example , after refusing comment on a question concerning Cuba , and another concerning the convicted Soviet spy Robert Soblen , Salinger plunged into this exchange : Q. Is there anything to the story that the Green Room is going to he chartreuse and the Blue Room is going to be white on white ? Mr. S. I am glad that you brought that up . Q. What was the question ? Mr. S. The question was whether the Green Room is going to he chartreuse and the Blue Room was going to be white on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ file what we already have ? Mr. S. I would like to deal with this matter within the limits of the knowledge I have , but I can state equivocally that . . Q. You mean unequivocally . Mr. S. Unequivocally that the Blue Room will continue to be the Blue Room . Q. You did n't answer someone 's question . What is chartreuse ? Mr. S. I could n't tell you that . The Green Room will remain the Green Room , and the Blue Room will remain the Blue Room . Q. You are talking about the name or the motif ? Mr. S. I am talking about the two rooms . Several moments later a reporter asked : " Do you mind if we leave ? " With perfect aplomb , Mr. S. replied : " Not in the slightest . " AS FLUID AS IT CAN BE " V IRTUALLY no piece of Presidential business , of course , fits cleanly into any single compartment , The slightest alteration in the Communications Satellite Bill , for example , involved O'Donnell , who was watching the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a finger on the Congressional pulse ; White , who did much of the drafting in co-operation with the Justice Department and Space Counsel ; and Bundy 's office which was concerned with international implications . The course of events , moreover , dictates a continuous shifting of priorities and assignments , The recent Drug Bill , for instance , was initially Sorensen 's ball , but when he had to do a major speech , it was passed on to Feldman who , when he had to go to Israel , passed it on to White . Civil rights , normally White 's bailiwick , became the province of Sorensen , O'Donnell , Robert Kennedy , and the President when the admission of James Meredith to the University of Mississippi became an all-out test of strength between the federal government and Governor Ross Barnett . Thus , in action , what look like clear lines of well-defined jurisdiction blur into a kaleidoscope . " The White House operation , " one aide says , " is as fluid as it can be . " Even amidst this organic process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominant orientations ? for the ' White House staff . Of these , the most important is the President himself . His day ? in the office with the papers read at 9:15 ; back to the White House living quarters ( or mansion ) for a swim , lunch , and reading at around 1:00 ; back in the office at around 2:30 ; back to the mansion with a sheaf of papers at around 7:30 ? sets the pattern for the staff 's day . Generally they are in the office before the President , and generally they quit after he goes home . While staff access to the President is very easy , the custom is not to interrupt his formal appointments . Staff members usually catch him , singly or in groups , as he enters his office in the morning or after Iunrh , or just before he quits it for lunch or dinner . Written material for his attention is usually placed in a folder he takes home at night . Sometimes , just before dinner , the President will himself wander into one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the exchanges between the staff and the President . " What have you got ? " . or " What 's up ? " is Mr. Kennedy 's usual opening phrase . Then , as one aide says , " You 're supposed to tell him ? bang , bang , bang . " " Take care of that " or " Check that with so and so " is the normal Presidential response . Assignments are handed out in an equally informal manner . Often all the President says is : " I 'd like you to think about such and such . " The ability to interpret laconic questions correctly is absolutely crucial in the Kennedy While House . General Maxwell Taylor was taken on as the President 's Special Military Adviser last June in large part because , as one White House staffer says , " he was a military man who spoke the President 's language . " Now that General Taylor has become Chairman of the Joint Chiefs , there will he no need of a translator between the Chiefs and the President , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this job . Both the President 's Scientific Adviser , Jerome Wiesner , and his Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , Walter Heller , have had troubles because they tended to be long-winded . It is generally acknowledged in the White House that much of the early confusion regarding the Administration derived from poor staff reading of the President 's signs . " There were some new boys around , " one of Mr. Kennedy 's long-time assistants says . " They thought when he said , Take care of that , ' he meant for them to do it personally . They were running around all over the place . Now they know he wants them to take care of it through the appropriate channels . " Some part of the White House staff enters into virtually all White House action . Three staff men ( Bundy , Sorensen , and O'Donnell ) were in on the Cuba quarantine plan from the very beginning . Sorensen and O'Donnell shared with the President and Robert Kennedy the tightly held secret that Anthony J. Celebrezze , who was originally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare . But the President keeps open a wide variety of other channels to the outside world . He reads extensively and is likely to take initiatives based on articles and editorials as well as staff memoranda . He has very close personal relations not only with the Attorney General , but also the Secretary of the Treasury , Douglas Dillon . He is apt to call personally any one of a dozen men in the State and Defense Departments , and he has hosts of close connections in the Congress and the press corps . In these relationships , the White House staff enters hardly at all ; nor do they figure much in the President 's social life . On the contrary , he generally takes his ease with what one White House aide calls ? somewhat ruefully ? " the swells " of the society world . LINKS WITH THE OUTSIDE F OR its part , the staff also has an important orientation toward the outside world of government and politics . Indeed , every member has a distinct focal point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political leaders ; Salinger with the press ; O'Brien with the Congress ; Bundy with Defense , State , and the CIA ; Sorensen with the Bureau of the Budget , Treasury , and the Council of Economic Advisers ; Feldman with Agriculture , Commerce , and the regulatory Agencies ; White with Justice , Interior , and the housing Agencies . In those 34 KENNEDY 'S WORKING STAFF areas where the President himself has only a limited interest , the White House staff is likely to have wide latitude . Though Department and Agency heads can communicate directly with the President , those outside the range of his keenest interest are generally pleased to have a ' White House staff member present their case . " We usually try to go in to the President with Sorensen on our side , " one Department head says . In the negotiations on the Trade Bill , Feldman tended to carry the ball for the Commerce Department , even negotiating certain agreements directly with various producer interests . But in those areas where the President 's interest is keenest , the staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before giving his views on an important matter of economic policy , will see to it that the President has first the views of the Treasury and the Council of Economic Advisers . Bundy , just because he has so often been talked of as a Deputy President for Foreign Affairs , hews particularly close to the reporting line . Before the President meets with the Secretaries of State and Defense , say , Bundy will analyze for him the views of each , giving an estimate of the underlying reasons , and perhaps supplying a list of questions the President should have answered before reaching his decision . " Mac does n't usually advise the President , " one of his colleagues says . " He gives the President the means for assessing the advice that comes from others . " In that spirit , a key function of all White House staff members is to spot the weak points in the proposals generated by the other parts of the Executive Branch . White House staff members played a key part in heading off a tax increase at the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting at least some public-ownership features into the Communications Satellite program ; in knocking down a State Department proposal that the action on the Trade Bill be delayed until 1963 ; in blocking proposals made after the Bay of Pigs that there be established a Cold War Strategy Board , and a special office of Psychological Warfare in the State Department . It is generally agreed that the special forte of the Special Counsel 's office is penetrating analysis . " When Sorensen gets into something , " one of the permanent civil servants at the Bureau of the Budget says , " it gets a thorough scrubbing . " It is also generally agreed that the biggest single failure of the White House staff lay in timidity in questioning the proposals for the Cuban invasion of April 1961 . " At that point , " a former White House aide says , " we just did n't have theconfidence to tell the veterans of the bureaucracy , ' Look , you 're crazy . ' " A similar and equally important role of the White House staff is pulling information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When the issue of control over West New Guinea was bogged down in an internal State Department dispute between the European bureau with its Dutch clients , and the Far Eastern bureau with its Indonesian clients , Bundy 's office pulled it out for Presidential disposition . A great many of the issues between Commerce and State over the Trade Bill were forced to a head by Feldman , Such tactics inevitably grate hard on some people in some Departments , The more so as the White House staff people are not particularly gentle . Two officials who refused to yield up a document to Bundy , on the grounds it was n't yet ready , were told : " Well , I see it 's still the same , old , Germanic , wrongheaded State Department . " Still the hurt feelings do not seem to get in the way of effective operational co-operation . The response to the Soviet protest over the U-2 plane which flew over Sakhalin Island last summer , for instance , was put out in a matter of hours , though it involved a temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and close co-operation among Salinger , Bundy , and the State and Defense Departments . A CERTAIN STIFFNESS I N THE course of such operations , the Kennedy staff members develop still a third critical orientation : toward each other . There has been some written gossip , and much more talk , about a split among the Irish Mafia , the Senate group , and the Harvard Clique . It is true that the White House men dealing with patronage and politics are Irish ; it is also true that the Special Counsel 's office is filled by former members of the President 's Senate staff ; it is equally true that those most heavily engaged in foreign affairs are Harvard intellectuals . Inside each group , moreover , there are friendships that do not spill over : Sorensen , for example , often sees Feldman after hours , but not Bundy , who sees a good deal of Schlesinger ; and not O'Donnell , who is often with O'Brien . But that is about as far as cliquism goes in the Kennedy White House . For one thing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or feuds . " I 've done hundreds of pieces of business with everyone in this office , " one member says , " at lunch in the mess , over the telephones , in their office or in mine . But I have yet to have a long conversation with anybody . " For another thing , Kennedy , unlike Roosevelt , does not cultivate opposing staff positions or play off one member against the other . Generally , the President will deal with one man at a time on one issue at a time . When he consults more than one , he tends to keep his own counsel as to what they say . Party lines , in consequence do not have a chance to build up . There is probably no one on the staff who knew ? or knows now ? how the others stood on the matter of a tax cut when that issue was hot last summer . Insofar as policy positions are established , moreover , they tend to reflect operational responsibilities more than personal philosophy and background . O'Brien , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year rather than next because he was convinced that to wait a year was to lose the initiative with the Congress . O'Donnell is known as the White House liberal ? not because of an ideological bent that way , but because of his regular contacts with the urban Democratic leaders . Sorensen , though strongly averse to the " hard line , " was called on to write the Berlin speech of July 25 , 1961 , and in producing what the situation demanded turned out an exceedingly tough expression on foreign policy . He also played a part in shaping the policy and in writing the Presidential speech when the Cuba quarantine was declared . Probably the most convincing demonstration of the absence of friction is the story of what has happened to the staff since Inauguration . Or rather what has not happened . The basic nucleus of Kennedy 's White House staff comprises men who have worked with him for years before he became President . Only one outsider has really penetrated the circle ? McGeorge Bundy , who started with stature of his own and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members had competence to fill . Four new boys never did get into the inner workings of the system and have left the White House : Harris Wofford , who went to the Peace Corps , and Fred Dutton , Richard Goodwin , and Walt Rostow , who were dispatched , in the " Thanksgiving Massacre " of 1961 , to State Department jobs that badly needed filling . " Whatever else you want to say about the White House staff , " one former member of the Truman staff says , " they stick together . They respect each other 's competence and they do n't get in each other 's way . It 's like a tacit treaty arrangement , marking spheres of influence . " Which , of course , is not to say that the White House staff ? as some have claimed ? is like a great big Irish family . A truer measure is perhaps provided by a personal feature common to the three most important figures on the White House staff . O'Donnell , Sorensen , and Bundy differ in outlook and background about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there is one thing they share ? a certain stiffness . Bundy has a distinct New England reserve ; O'Donnell is so given to silence that he has been called The Arab ; Sorensen is so loath to talk about himself that one White house associate declares , " No one knows what Ted thinks . " All three are at home with pragmatic day-to-day dealings that do not sink into friction or rise into friendship . They are at home , that is to say , in the Kennedy White House . N IN E months before he entered the White House , John F. Kennedy said that as President he would want to be " in the thick of 1 ' Mtgs . " It is the supreme achievement of the White House staff that it has helped keep the President ? perhaps more than any of his recent predecessors ? right there . From the Cuban invasion to the Cuba quarantine , from the steel case to the refusal to go for a tax cut last July , every major decision has been made by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Meredith and the University of Mississippi , the White House has been transformed into a command post , issuing detailed orders direct to the field . When the Medicare proposal was up before the Senate , the President personally ? and unsuccessfully , as it turned our ? was in touch with the key Senator , Jennings Randolph of West Virginia . When the Tax Bill was before the House , the President personally ? and as it turned out , successfully ? was in touch with Representative Wilbur Mills . When newspaper stories satisfy or displease the 36 KENNEDY 'S WORKING STAFF Administration , it is often the President himself who lets reporters know his views . Wide as the range of criticism may be , moreover , it does not include the charge that the President does not know what goes on in his Administration . If nothing else , the press conferences testify abundantly to the contrary . On April 21. 1961 , for example , a reporter , pointing out that the Republicans in Congress had set up groups to study the effect of automation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would follow suit . The President replied : " The subcommittee on labor , a subcommittee headed by Congressman Holland of Pennsylvania , has been conducting studies on the effect of automation for some months . " When a reporter asked the President about a surplus Air Force metal extrusion plant in Adrian , Michigan , Mr. Kennedy not only knew the case , hill had personally talked to the man in charge ? an official probably not one person in a million could name , that is , the man in charge of Emergency Operations in the Business and Defense Services Administration of the Department of Commerce . Most serious complaints about the White House system spring precisely from the condition which makes it possible for the President to he so much in the thick of things ? namely , the lack of insulation between Mr. Kennedy and the operating personnel of the government . In particular , it is argued that because he deals so directly , not enough collateral " input " goes into his decisions . One case in point concerns the announcement last spring that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tribune ; it is hardly believable that the announcement would have been made had the matter been talked over with even two or three members of the White House staff . Neither does the bang , bang style always lend itself to a full consideration of alternatives . It may be that Wiesner and Heller arc long-winded . But it may also be that the positions they take ? that there should be a lid on the arms race , for instance ; or that the tax system should be radically altered ? do not lend themselves to concise expression . " The system now , " one close student of White House affairs says , " favors people who know exactly what they want to do . It is tough on people who have dim misgivings ? even if those misgivings happen to be very important . " A related complaint argues that because the President deals bilaterally with his aides , there is insufficient co-ordination between White House offices . In particular , it is asserted that O'Brien 's men lack substantive knowledge of the legislation they are backing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its merits , they fall back very rapidly on coaxing by favors and patronage . " In Roosevelt 's day , " says a ' White House assistant of that era , " Cohen and Corcoran used to draft the legislation and then take it up on The Hill and see it through . Now the functions arc split . " There is no indication that O'Brien 's men , through lack of knowledge , have ever traded away vital clauses of proposed measures . Neither does the statistical record support the contention that O'Brien 's office has been a bust . On the contrary , of some 99 Southern Democrats in the House , the number voting against the Administration has been cut from an average of over sixty during the Roosevelt and Truman years to an average of 45 in 1961 , and 35 in 1962 . And the Administration claims that 73 per cent of its program went through the last Congress ? not a bad batting average , considering the strength of the conservative coalition . Still , it does seem to be true that O'Brien has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some very respectable Congressmen have no doubt been offended when they were offered a postmastership in return for the right vote on a matter about which they happened to feel very deeply . More importantly , the widespread use of services and favors has tended to debase the currency , making it difficult to win support on high-priority measures . At least one Congressman who might have cast a decisive committee vote in favor of the aid program refused ? not on principle , but because the Administration could not get the ante high enough to meet his demands . TAKEN singly , these complaints may not amount to a great deal . But together they say something important . The staff operation , like many other aspects of the Administration , works to put all matters on a pragmatic , case-by-case basis . It does not contribute to the systematic elaboration of coherent programs expressing broad and easily identified public policies . A sense of inner purpose may ? no doubt does ? exist in the White House . But in part because the operation is so casual , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration , its intrinsic character , so to speak , have not made themselves felt outside the White House . To that extent at least , the work of the White House staff , excellent as it may be on an ad ! Inc basis , does not yet serve the President 's desire that his Administration achieve historic sta ture. 