@@274023

Having alienated themselves from most of society 's cherished institutions , radical students dedicated to their cause are now abandoning another : the summer vacation . In cities across the country they are working overtime during the hot summer months , while campuses are cool , to revolutionize society and plan future assaults on the established order . One of the top national leaders of the Students for a Democratic Society says : " For S.D.S. people , there is no summer vacation . We see ourselves working 18 hours a day forever . We 're in this for a lifetime . " <P> One of the highest-priority aims of the radicals , to win over the " working class " to their beliefs , may well take that long - if it is ever achieved . Months ago , before the S.D.S. split into two fac tions over ideological disagreements at its June convention in Chicago , the S.D.S. determined that it would renew and intensify its efforts to infiltrate labor and create a revolutionary worker-student alliance . Similar " work-in " programs had been attempted before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was planned in detail . A lengthy Work-in Organizers Manual was circulated among S.D.S. chapters . At the convention , both factions endorsed the alliance concept , although in somewhat differing forms . <P> Class Perspective . The manual told students how to get jobs : " You 're not afraid to work is the idea to get across " ; " Do n't dress like a slob . " It also explained how to act : " Do n't talk to workers like you know everything and they know nothing . " It summed up the program 's purpose : To get across " the identity of interests of students and workers " and spell out " the relationship of the Viet Nam and the other imperialist wars to their immediate demands , to the fact that they and their sons die in the war , that it is a war for the rich-the class perspective . " During the workin , students were to challenge racism among white workers , to explain their campus goals , and to " break down bourgeois , elitist ideas in ourselves " about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from business associations and Chambers of Commerce . They held briefings and sent out thousands of letters informing executives about the program and recommending screening procedures to keep activists off payrolls . J. Edgar Hoover warned that union members would face " fanatic , anarchist revolutionaries " who have left behind them " a bitter wake of arson , vandalism , bombings and destruction across the nation " and who believe that " unions should be destroyed , along with the Government , the military , private industry and law enforcement . " New York 's Commerce and Industry Association held a meeting , closed to outsiders , at which 250 executives were given lengthy , detailed counsel on methods of blocking the infiltrators.                     