@@477948

After years of feuding under the old one-party umbrella , a lot of Democrats are discovering they are really Republicans ... to the joy of the COP and the dismay of Lyndon Johnson . PERAMBULATING journalists from the big Eastern dailies stop off in Texas more and more often . They seem to enjoy our retired generals , our quaintly endemic buffoonery , our appreciation for graftsmanship in its more aspiring dimensions . But they are also drawn here because Texas is now , irrevocably , a pivotal spot in national politics . They have learned to approach our politics with a bemused trepidation , for it is a collection of unresolvable ironies , on the verge of something new . Rapid industrialization and urbanization give Texas a much closer affinity with New York or Michigan than with Mississippi or Arkansas . There are few traces of the traditional South , in which most Texans would wish to be counted , industrial axis of Houston and or in the Latin culture of South Rio Grande Valley . It is most to Billie Sol Estes ' rigorously capitalistic West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Republicanism . Only East Texas , with its oil and plantation economy , is genuine Southern country , and its power within the broader commonwealth is slipping . Texas has been steadily moving away from its comfortable Confederate orientation , from the easygoing melodrama of Southern politics with its stress on personalities rather than ideology . Racism is dead in statewide campaigning . The state legislature , whose biennial gyrations give it an eminent place in American show business , is less a traditional parliamentary institution thana forum for the **29;1843;TOOLONG of oil and gas , of manufacturing and ranching , of organized labor . El Paso and Texarkana , nearly a thousand miles apart , have no more in common politically than have San Francisco and Savannah , Georgia . The Iong-dominant Democratic party is now a jungle of diverse groupings and weird coalitions , rent by a growing liberal-conservative cleavage . A mounting political sophistication is evident among the two great minority groups , Negro and Latin . Most interesting of all , there is a tentative groping on the state level toward the two-party system which already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a three-party state ? liberal Democrats , conservative Democrats , and Republicans ; or as a no-party state ; or as a state with incoherent factional warfare more befitting France or Italy . The central figure in this politics of transition is Vice President Lyndon Johnson . His shrewd understanding of the shifting power structures in his home state has given him a base for a national prominence unmatched since the Civil War ( if Woodrow Wilson may be relegated to New Jersey ) by any Southern politician . Johnson , whose mastery of personal politics and backroom diplomacy made him one of the U. S. Senate 's greatest parliamentary geniuses , has ? at home ? successfully played one group against another as the times demanded . But he is not " king " of Texas , as the national myth might have it . With the late Speaker Rayburn , he has been a kind of balance of power , a unique force standing between and slightly apart from the conservative financial establishment on the one hand and the gathering forces of postwar reform liberalism on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in President Kennedy 's New Frontier liberalism , his ideological position on the state scene has been almost impossible to define . Unlike Sam Rayburn , Johnson has not inspired love and affection at home . His friends and allies honor and fear him . Many conservatives and many liberals in Texas bitterly dislike and distrust him , not merely because he is Lyndon Johnson , but because they have grown to fear his power . Addressing a recent University of Texas seminar on The Issues Which Divide Us , " the Vice President said he wondered if he had been asked to speak " as an expert or as an example . " For him , this was a most uncharacteristic statement . His principal themes in Texas , against the threat of growing and more well-defined and even more partisan political warfare , have been unity and harmony . The consequences of this clash between the old unity and the new divergence are far more than merely provincial . Lyndon Johnson wants to be , and could be , our next President . INTRA-PARTY RIOT A S elsewhere in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a loose and rather purposeless brotherhood , broad enough to include the corporation lawyer and the Negro tenant farmer , the oilman and the labor organizer , the young executive on the make and the restless liberal egghead . This political monolith has subdued significant issues , encouraged complacency and corruption . It has helped perpetuate state social and educational services which are among the rock-bottom lowest in the Union . Texas does not have an industrial safety law ; there are only six state juvenile parole officers ; there is no home for neglected and dependent Negro children ; mental hospitals are notoriously understaffed and ill-equipped . Texas has the heaviest caseload per state social worker in the nation , ranks forty-second in old-age pensions , fiftieth in vocational rehabilitation , fortysecond in aid to dependent children , fortieth in public-assistance programs . Its anti-labor laws are the most rigorous of all industrial states ' laws ; its thousands of migrant laborers are among the most unfortunate citizens in America . Industrialization , unionization , all the complexities of a burgeoning economy , do not fit conveniently into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some say , the last outpost of unfettered commercialism in America , then a financial community undergirded by tremendous natural wealth was bound to clash with the workers , the small farmers , the small businessmen , and thedispossessed minorities , with direct repercussions on the one existing political institution ? the Democratic party . In the New Deal Years the entire party hierarchy was almost wholly pro-Roosevelt . Texas in the mid-'thirties was still an agrarian society , giving frequent vent to the old Populist-type gasconading against Wall Street and the Yankee profiteers . But by the end of World War II the state had undergone a major transition . OiI was booming , the utilities and the banks and the insurance giants were becoming the locus of power , cities like Dallas and Houston were growing steadily , the new-rich began looking to politics . Labor and the federal government became living issues . The Democrats splintered into interest groupings , with differing goals and colliding philosophies . Since the war these divisions have grown progressively bitter , intense , and meaningful . The liberal wing , largely oriented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home , grew stronger and tougher , despite the usual propensity for fratricide within its own ranks . In 1958 , after three unsuccessful bids for Governor , Ralph Yarborough , nominal leader of Texas liberalism , was elected to a full term in the U. S. Senate . The conservative wing of the party became , if anything , more states-rightist , wary of all reform , increasingly critical of a national Northern leadership which it assailed for deserting the pristine traditions of Jefferson and the Founders . In the middle of the party were the amorphous and often unpredictable moderates , ill-defined in either numbers or political convictions , swinging slightly leftward or rightward under top-level guidance . Either these moderates in combination with the conservatives , or the conservatives alone have ruled the Texas Democratic party in the postwar years . There has never been an effective Liberal-moderate coalition and the liberals alone have been far from wielding real power . And for all its internal concatenations , the Texas Democratic party has never been far removed from the state 's immense financial and industrial nexus : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the utilities . In a catchall political party , anomalies are un- Willie Morris , editor of " The Texas Observer " published in Austin , is twenty-seven , a graduate of the University of Texas , and a former Rhodes Scholar at Oxford . His first article in this magazine was " Houston 's Superpatriots , " 82 TEXAS POLITICS IN TURMOIL avoidable . The nominal head in 1952 and 1956 , Governor Allan Shivers , actively campaigned for Eisenhower . In 1960 he barnstormed for Nixon . But Shivers is still a formidable participant in Democratic party conventions . His loyal forces , in fact , played an important role in choosing the Democratic nominee for Governor in the spring of 1962 . Many local Democratic leaders have not supported a national Democratic ticket since the New Deal . The outgoing party chairman in Houston recently vetoed a resolution inviting President Kennedy to the city because , he said , " his presence might hurt the Democratic party here . " Many delegates to the forthcoming state convention have been active workers for GOP tickets ; one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party ticket . When General Edwin A. Walker sought the gubernatorial nomination this year , lie chose to do so as a Democrat . In Dallas , Texas ' lone Republican Congressman , Bruce Alger , is opposed by a Democrat who has supported him in the past and agrees with him on practically all of the issues . A political party which runs the gamut from income-tax abolition to unexpurgated New Frontier liberalism is less a party than a continuing riot . These internecine battles are more than mere factionalism . They are a fight to the finish for outright control . Johnson , as Senator , and Speaker Rayburn were usually the arbiters , playing conservatives against liberals in the party infighting . In 1960 , under their leadership , the state went Democratic in a Presidential election for the first time since 1948 . ( Typically , however , the state Democratic convention repudiated the national party platform and wrote one of its own . A young Texas GOP leader said afterward , " The Texas Democratic party is the only party I know of that comes back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then wins in November on the national platform under a Governor Price Daniel who once voted for Eisenhower . " ) The 1960 election was a fair sample of twoparty politics in Texas . Kennedy and Johnson won by only 46,000 out of over two million votes ? even though a native son was on the ticket and every statewide officeholder and Congressman except two endorsed the Democratic ticket . After Eisenhower 's two Texas victories , the 1960 results proved that Texas , like Virginia and Florida among Southern states , can go either way in choosing its Presidents . For decades the Republican party in Texas was a small elite group which ran only token candidates and existed almost exclusively to enjoy and dispense federal patronage under Republican Presidents . Conservative Democrats voted for their own kind in state and local races , and followed leaders like Shivers into the GOP camp in Presidential years . The stancher Democratic conservatives , however , have not been content with the liberal drift of their national party nor wii h . Lyndon Johnson 's leadership . Throughout the ' fifties a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's expanding metropolitan suburhias . At the same time in dozens of middle-sized cities and hamlets the pr6fessional and business classes were becoming more politically conscious . Traditionally distrustful of big government and big spending , these groups were more uncompromisingly conservative and dissatisfied with the splintering of their political strength within a divided Democratic party , with the chasm between local and national policies . " We saw the Democrats beating their breasts about how conservative they were , " the director of the Texas Republican party said , " and then we watched them put Kennedy stickers on their cars . A conservative Democrat could throw up his hands over all this and forget about politics . Alternatively , he could be a Republican . " NO BUDDHISTS FOR CHRIST I N the Eisenhower years a number of talented and aggressive young Texans chose the second alternative ; the Republican party seriously began to exploit that " Texas nationalism " which has always viewed the federal government as a somewhat misty and alien outpost . As the 1960 election approached , with Johnson running for two offices at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state GOP leaders was slowly emerging : ambitious , politically knowledgeable , beholden to the hard-hitting conservatism espoused by the Junior Senator from Arizona . The first test of these new leaders was to build a functioning state organization . To learn how , they studied the masterly handbook of the AFLCIO Committee on Political Education . In El Paso , they compiled a file catalogue on every registered voter in the county . In other areas they experimented with " Welcome Wagons " to greet newcomers to the state . Although they worked with the older conservative groups , they privately complained that such hybrid organizations as " Democrats for Nixon " were " a little like Buddhists for Christ . " To bedevil Johnson in his 1960 Senate race they chose an obscure college professor from an obscure northwest Texas campus , thirty-five-yearold John Tower . Bland , courteous , but a lion on the stump , he had been a hard-working Texas Republican for a decade . Outside the tight party circle , however , he was an absolute unknown . Only five feet six inches tall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tiptoes he could just about reach his opponent 's belt buckle . Johnson wisely ignored him and the whole Senate race , and concentrated on the Presidential fight . Hence with no visible opponent for the Senate , Tower ( who later was to describe the Republican party as " the last hope of Western civilization " ) was free to wage uninhibited aggression . Toward Johnson he directed thundering condemnations . For the state Democratic leaders whom he charged with self-interested desertion , he had only contempt . He exhibited all the rage of an armed warrior who finds the enemy has withdrawn to pillage another country . Though Johnson won both contests , Tower got almost a million votes , established a name , and gave impetus to the emerging GOP . He at once made plans to run for Johnson 's Senate seat in the spring of 1961 , Temporarily Johnson 's place was filled , through appointment by Governor Daniel , by William Blakley , variously nicknamed " Cowboy Bill " and " Dollar Bill . " A conservative multimillionaire from Dallas who occasionally campaigned in cowboy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before to a Senate vacancy by Shivers . Blakley , a former Eisenhower supporter , had contributed handsomely to the Kennedy- Johnson campaign coffers in ' 60 . As temporary Senator in 1961 , Blakley usually voted with the Republicans . He earned a rash of publicity with his belligerent questioning of Robert . Weaver during the committee hearings on his appointment as Administrator of the Federal IIousing and Home Finance Agency . A small excerpt from the transcript illustrates the kind of candidate Blakley was : Blakley : I understand the August 1948 issue of Masces and Mainstream , the successor to New Masses , i Communist magazine , appears to review your book , The Negro Ghetto . Weaver : . . . Do you know who wrote it ? I might be able to identify it better . Blakley : Yes . This seems to be by J. Crow , realtor . Weaver : Who ? Blakley : J. Crow , realtor . Do you know J. Crow ? Weaver : I did not know he wrote book reviews . Blakley was one of seventy-one assorted candidates who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The liberal Democrats , fighting among themselves , fielded two candidates , the moderates two . Tower ( the only Republican ) and Blakley together polled just over 50 per cent of the vote . LOUIS XIV VS . RASPUTIN T H E contest between these Iwo in the gen- eral election was a Tweedledum-Tweedledee proposition . Republican Tower categorically opposed the Kennedy program , advocated return to the states of tax sources pre-empted by the federal government , and favored a tougher stance toward the Soviets . Democrat Blakley went one better by suggesting American withdrawal from the United Nations . Both laid claim to the title of " true conservative . " One exasperated paper responded by publishing mock political ads for Louis the Fourteenth and Rasputin as true-conservative write-in candidates . Organized labor adopted a hands-off policy . Why , asked the state president of the AFL-CIO , should a working man " get excited about expressing his preference when forced to choose between arsenic and blowing his brains out ? " Negroes remembered the Weaver incident , and held it against Blakley . At a press conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " what I think is useful " for Blakley if asked , " hut Blakley has not asked for my assistance as yet . " Nor did he . When reporters asked the candidate if he intended to seek the aid of John Bailey , chairman of the national Democratic party , Blakley replied : " Who 's he ? " Thousands of moderate Democrats boycotted Blakley by way of individual protest . But the liberal and labor groups organized a campaign to persuade their adherents either to " go fishing " on election day or to support the Republican . This deliberate policy was the decisive factor in Tower 's becoming the first Republican Senator from Texas since Reconstruction . It was Johnson 's task as Vice President to swear in Tower as his successor in the Senate . Arthur Krock observed : " Traditions of behavior require that no Senator shall indicate , except by compassionate symbols , that another is passing through a painful experience . " Afterward , one liberal leader said he felt " like 84 TEXAS POLITICS IN TURMOIL an undertaker who has just conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I ca n't afford to show it because of the friends of the deceased . " Why , in fact , did the liberals help Tower win ? Why was the old party loyalty theme , a clarion of the Eisenhower ' fifties , so unceremoniously junked to help elect a Republican ? The answer lies in ihe hard geometry of political control and certainly goes somewhat deeper than the accusations of duplicity , treachery , and dishonesty ? words which have always been popular in the Texas political dialogue ? would have one believe . The liberals ' reasoning goes like this : Democratic conservatives will never leave their state party as long as they control it , no matter how they feel about Truman , Stevenson , or Kennedy . While the conservatives remain , the liberals can not win control . " We wanted to free the Democratic party from the dead weight of the Dixiecrats , and Blakley was their symbol , " one liberal said . Tower 's victory , they predicted , would attract substantial numbers of conservative Democrats into " the party where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should emerge , then the dominant voice in the Texas Democratic party would become that of the classic Democratic coalition ? East Texas farmers and city Negroes , Latin Americans , organized labor , the more general breed of " brass-collar " Democrats and liberal intellectuals . Today , ihe liberals argue , these groups are outsiders in their party despite their growing strength in statewide elec-tions , THE GOLDWATER CUT T H I S kind of political calculation may seem risky . For one thing , if the Republicans ever become a genuine second party , the Democrats will lose occasionally in the general elections , which have not been seriously contested in the past . " But we are defeated now in the primaries or in party caucuses , " one leader said , " by pseudoDemocrats . They would be Republicans anywhere outside the South . " Increased unionization and repeal of the state 13011 tax ( Texas ranked 44th in voter participation in 1960 ) may add to the liberals ' overall strength . In any event , the Tower victory showed that the Democratic label , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ win statewide office in Texas . This is one reason why the complicated and highly controversial strategy of the liberal Democrats is strenuously opposed by Lyndon Johnson and other traditional Democratic leaders , who are determined to preserve the loose confederation which has always been the Texas Democratic party . In a very real sense , Lyndon Johnson 's political future is linked to the strange coalition of forces within his party in his home state . Senator Tower 's victory gave Texas Republicans the dramatic surge they needed . But a genuine two-party state is still remote . " We made our first breakthrough at the top , " a party spokesman told a recent rally . " Now our problem is to go from the top down . " Republicans are tackling this awesome task with considerable zest . Conservative Democrats at all levels are being proselytized . The Republicans have been staging " resignation rallies , " curious rituals employing every kind of esoteric mumbo-jumbo except the blood oath , where Democratic conservatives become Republicans . Tower has attracted recruits on his frequent speaking tours in Texas ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the movie-magazine mentality , yachting off Hyannis Port , running in the foxes in Virginia , lolling on beaches in Florida " ) . The giddy prestige of having a If . S. Senator of their own has made it respectable to be a Republican in Texas ; society matrons now list their GOP affiliation along with Junior League membership . On a different level , another Republican , an East Texas lumberjack , was photographed in dirty overalls , explaining that the GOP is " the party of the people . " In special elections two Republicans were sent to the Texas House ? " the largest GOP bloc in the Texas legislature since Reconstruction , " the press blurbs said . Being roommates , they held a sort of continuing party caucus . The Republican membership drive is a little like a fraternity pledge week , or a Chartist Crusade with a Madison Avenue twist . The main recruit so far has been Jack Cox , a West Texas oilman who ran for Governor as a Democrat two years ago and polled over 40 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful campaigner 's voice , Cox once served as executive secretary of the ultraconservative Freedom-InAction movement which opposes the income tax , the UN , and social-welfare programs , and equates American liberalism with unadulterated Bolshevism . His campaign literature describes him as a lecturer on " Americanism " and as winner of awards from the ' Freedom Foundation of Valley Forge , Pennsylvania . In making his switch to the GOP , Cox explained that he was enlisting as a " buck private in the ranks . " It has apparently been one of the swiftest promotions on record , since he is the Republican candidate for Governor this year . The idiom of Texas Republicanism is laced with heady invectives . In at least one instance , Democratic methods were called " low , cheap , un-Texan , totalitarian , and un-American . " Hardcore GOP membership ranges from the John Birchers on the right to Republican middleroaders , but essentially the Texas GOP is tailored meticulously in the Goldwater cut . Their philosophy was summed up by one of their Congressional candidates , a Church of Christ minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Over the years of my ministry , I became increasingly concerned by the inroads being made in America by materialistic and socialistic programs .. . under the guise of liberalism , " he said . " I decided I could best serve my God , my fellow man , and my country by serving in an educational program designed to renew our faith in the basic , spiritual values of freedom , conservatism , and free enterprise . " Not all Texas Republicans are so spirimed . One , for instance , said that he and his kind are rebelling against " the national fail of making a sad , ridiculous figure of the man who chooses to live as comfortably as his talents will allow and who insists that it is his job to provide for the future comfort and security of his Lundy . " " This country , " says another , " was built and made wealthy by men who worked hard and long for one purpose ? to make things better for their families . It was built on the principle that man will extend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of his loved ones and himself . If this is selfish , then this country was made great by selfishness . " " If you are a conservative , " full-page advertisements announce , " then you belong in the dynamic new Republican Party of Texas . . . . Throw off the shackles of the past , and move forward ! " The test of a developing two-party trend is , among other factors , the extent to which the minority party seriously bids for elective office . This year the Texas GOP has entered candidates in 18 of the 23 Congressional contests ( compared to only five in 1960 ) , and for 86 of the 150 places in the Texas House ( compared to only 19 in 1960 ) . This spring saw the first meaningful Republican primary in Texas history , with candidates for every major state office . Some 120,000 votes were cast in the GOP primary , which may appear slim beside the million-phis turnout of Democrats ; but it is a deceptive figure . Fouryears ago , only 113,000 votes were cast in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walker and another highly conservative candidate on the Democratic ballot seriously blunted the Republican appeal , and the GOP vote in November is sure to be their highest by far in a Texas general election . As it is. 120,000 Texans have openly forsaken such front organizations as Democrats for Nixon and thereby lost the privilege of voting in Democratic primaries . Only the most resisting Democrat could deny that a trend is under way . DRIFTING TOWARD STATEHOOD T HERE are some engaging twists to the unfolding GOP threat . Conservative Democratic leaders warn fellow conservatives that if they leave the party of their grandfathers they will open the door to liberal Democratic candidates . " There 's not enough of us conservatives to dominate two parties in Texas , " one old-guard Democrat said . " We 'd better stick to the one we have orwe 'll lose both . " " The Republican party is the party of Rockefeller , Javits , and Keating , " said the Democratic county chairman in Houston . " Remember the liberals in the Republican party , " said a Democratic state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the gravity of this situation . " Business leaders arc working hard to keep the Democratic party as incomprehensible as is humanly possible . In circular letters they have warned of the ominous consequences of an operative two-party system . The leading business lobbyist in Texas , a veteran of many Democratic wars , put it bluntly . " If conservative Democrats are to continue supporting the Republicans on great national issues , " he said , " then it is but fair that Republican leadership reciprocate through withholding support of activities inimical to election of conservative Democrats in the state Democratic primaries . " A prominent industrialist , supporter of GOP Presidents and Democratic Governors , explained that conservative Democrats must remain loyal to the party in order to get their men nominated and " thus gain the opportunity of voting in the general election for one of two conservatives , either the Democrat or the Republican . " It has become increasingly apparent , then , that the conservatives who stand to gain most from a continuing one-party climate ? those politicians , businessmen , and lobbyists who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creaking Democratic machinery ? are keenly per86 TEXAS POLITICS IN TURMOIL ceptive of the long-range issues evoked by the state GOP. in the face of this kind of logic , the guileless and unsullied arguments for two-party politics by students of Southern history seem somewhat abstract . They are , in any event , not too relevant to this year 's contest for Governor between the Republican and ex-Democrat Jack Cox and Democrat John Connally , who is Lyndon Johnson 's most prominent protege . Connally is tall , suave , and handsome , with the kind of imposing dignity which appealed to housewives on morning TV . At forty-five , he is well schooled in the practicalities of politics . A South Texas country boy , he rose to become lawyer or the vast Richardson estate , and ultimately U. S. Secretary of the Navy ; his story sits well in a state which still produces its Horatio Algers . Connally 's political idiom , though less folksy , sounds very much like Johnson 's ; the central theme of his primary cam-paign was " to unify our people ... @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution of our problems . " Like Johnson , he is closely associated with the great hierarchies of financial power in Texas . For years he was Johnson 's friend and assistant , handling much of Johnson 's fund-raising and spearheading many of his convention battles . IMPLICATIONS FOR 1968 T H E Vice President says he did not persuade Connally to resign from the Cabinet and run for Governor . Very likely Connally decided quite on his own to make his first bid for elective office . But during the primary , such disclaimers became irrelevant . The chief issue was the past association of the two men and the effects of Connally 's candidacy on Johnson 's own political ambitions . Connally 's opponents claimed that Johnson was out to make Texas a one-man state , that he was trying to scotch the Republican threat by running a candidate who would mean all things to all people , and was paving his own way to the Presidency in 1968 . Connally was called " the Washington candidate . " His primary campaign , the best-financed in the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectrum . He criticized such New Frontier proposals as Medicare and federal aid to education , and advocated a 10 per cent cut in state spending . Largely , however , he avoided direct stands on most state and national issues , and in the runoff for the nomination he refused to participate in a series of television debates . Disturbed by the rising liberal tidewithin the Democratic party and the swagger of the Republicans since Tower 's victory , a coalition of Johnson and Shivers forces supplied the bulk of his support . His connection with the Kennedy Administration was also effectively exploited in Negro and Latin constituencies . Connally 's challenger in the primary runoff was a thirty-six-year-old , politically unseasoned Houston lawyer , Don Yarborough ( no relation to the senior Texas Senator , Ralph Yarborough ) . Don Yarborough ran on an unequivocal New Frontier platform with strong liberal and labor backing . In an evangelical style , he stressed youth , experimentation , and wide-ranging reforms . He frankly urged conservative Democrats to become Republicans , advocated increased state taxes on oil anti gas and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The key issue , he said , was between the small farmer , the small businessman , the working man of Texas against the huge out-of-state monopolies . " His most enthusiastic supporters were a new generation of Texas liberals , young people in their twenties and thirties . His close advisers were highly pragmatic intellectuals , whose contempt for the ruling powers in the state Democratic party earned them the sobriquet. " the Texas liberal Mafia . " It was a bitter runoff . Connally called Yarborough " anti-business " and " extremist " and said he was backed by " Eastern labor organizers and Americans for Democratic Action . " Yarborough in turn labeled Connally the " lobbyists ' candidate ' ' and a " traitor to the New Frontier , " and made much of his refusal to debate . Although only one daily newspaper in the state endorsed Yarborough , his frequent television appearances toward the end of the campaign served to close the gap . Connally won by only 25,000 votes out of over 1,100,000 . The primary left the Democratic party more sullenly divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tepid support to Connally in the general election . " We want people all over the South , " he said later , " to know that the Texas Democratic party is moving toward the aims and traditions of the national party . " In Washington , Senator Yarborough declined to join the rest of the Texas delegation in pledging support of Connally , and suggested that Texas liberals deserve a " fair share " of seats in the next national convention . More crucially , a substantial number of liberal Democrats started a movement to boycott Connally and actively support Republican Cox , just as they backed Tower against Blakley in 1961 . An organization called " Texans for a Two Party Texas " was launched by one of Don Yarborough 's top aides . Connally and the so-called Democratic party in Texas , " he said , are bound to " special-interest , multi-million dollar corporations " and arc opposed to many of Kennedy 's programs . " Lyndon Johnson 's determination to put Connally in the Governor 's mansion , " he said , " is part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American state . " Cox and the Republicans are campaigning against Johnson as much as against candidate Connally . Automobile stickers declare : " Scratch Lyndon 's Boy John . " Texans , Cox reiterates , must " refuse to be Johnsonized . " Connally 's task meanwhile is twofold . He must hold the conservative Democrats who voted for him in the party primary ; many will he tempted to support the more conservative Cox in the general election . At the same time he must keep a substantial portion of the liberal wing reasonably satisfied . Stated simply , his problem is this : How far can he drift to the left without alienating his conservative strength ? ( Significantly , this summer he got the recommendation of the state AFL-CIO . ) One thing should be made clear : John Connally is no Bill Blakley . He is more attractive , more politically adept , more perceptive of the seething discontent on the party 's left . Appealing to party unity he has called Cox " a renegade turncoat opportunist whose own record as an agent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock the people of Texas- " Johnson supporters who are backing Connally know that the Democratic party must be firmed up along its right wing to carry the state in future national elections . They argue that Johnson is doing an excellent job as Vice President , deserves close party ties back home , and that Connally will keep state government on a safe and moderately progressive course . THE TWO-PARTY PROMISE W HATEVER the outcome of the November election , there is no question that the trend toward a two-party system has been firmly established in Texas , even though the actuality is still distant . At its grass roots , the Texas GOP is most robust in the cities and their expanding suburbias ( Tower , for instance , carried seven of the state 's eleven counties with populations over 100,000 ) . Over the next several years , the party may evolve into a more vigorous minority role , with as many as six or seven Congressmen , perhaps even a Governor or a Lieutenant Governor , strong at the top but not at the bottom . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in England , " one GOP leader believes . " We 're number three ... but moving fast into number two replacing the conservative organization Democrats . " The Texas Republican chairman believes the criterion is " to elect Republicans regularly to the state legislature . " Under a straightforward two-party system . 40 to 50 per cent of the state legislature would be Republican today . But this possibility does not solve the most formidable Republican problem , the need for a functioning and viable organization at the lowest levels . And there are other serious hurdles . " The lingering antipathy for the name ' Republican ' is still fairly strong , " University of Texas political scientist O. Douglas Weeks wrote in a recent study , " but there is no doubt that tradition is waning , because most of the original reasons for a Democratic Texas and a Solid South are no longer valid . Habit is perhaps a stronger reason , since customary ways of doing things may long outlive the reasons for their coming into being . " For decades Texans have fought their most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good many practical reasons for remaining within a party which still controls almost all of the state 's power and patronage on the local courthouse level . The GOP must keep its appeal dramatic and meaningful if it is to persuade conservative Democrats to change their allegiance . " It 's Like preaching the gospel on the sixth day of a week-long revival , " one of their leaders says . " Lost souls still come forward , but the sermon has to he more persuasive than on the first day . " The election of a moderately conservative Governor like John Connally might postpone the two-party promise here , but certainly not forever . Far more than other Southern states , Texas is drifting steadily away from the old sectionalism and toward a more well-defined class and group-interest politics . A sprawling state dominated by growing urban areas and an industrialized economy can not forever give adequate expression to its churning frictions in a Democratic party which means everything to everyone . In the larger perspective the convolutions in Texas ' present-day politics , so incoherent to outsiders and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute to the confusion , are only symptomatic of a complex and richly talented society in transition .                     