@@312195

South Viet Nam 's most formidable fighting men are the aboriginal tribesmen whom the French called montagnards - hill people . Deadly hunters with crossbows and poisoned arrows , the more than 500,000 montagnards live in the vast " high plateau " that extends across one-third of the country . They are darker and tougher than the lowland Vietnamese , who consider the montagnards racially inferior , and scornfully refer to them as moi , or baboons . To protect them from land-grabbing lowlanders , French colonial administrators in effect made the central highlands a tribal reservation . When the French pulled out in 1954 , lowlanders once again drove the montagnards ever deeper into the jungle-and into the arms of the Communist Viet Cong . <P> Tribal State . In an ambitious attempt to win over the montagnards , U.S. military advisers in 1962 started a program to train and arm them so that they could defend their villages from guerrilla attack . More than 9,000 were schooled by U.S. Special Forces instructors , who found them to be fierce , loyal fighters , extremely useful in cutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came from the relatively civilized Rhade ( pronounced Rah-day ) tribe . However , when the hated lowlanders from the Vietnamese government gradually took over the program , racial tension mounted in the training camps , and montagnards started defecting in ever-larger numbers . Rueful U.S. officers shrugged : " Hope we do n't find ourselves fighting these montagnards . " They may have to do just that . Last week some 500 rebellious Rhade warriors from five training camps swooped on strategic Banmethuot , a provincial capital 160 miles northeast of Saigon . <P> They killed some 50 Vietnamese officers and men and seized a radio station , broadcasting demands for an autonomous tribal state . Finally , at the urging of U.S. Colonel John F. Freund , a French-speaking Special Forces adviser whom they trusted , the rebels withdrew and agreed to present their grievances to Premier Nguyen Khanh , who had immediately flown to the area . <P> Flatly refusing to discuss autonomy for the montagnards , Khanh said to an American : " That would be like your Sioux Indians seceding from America . " But Khanh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - for better schools and medical facilities , tribal representation at the top government level , replacement by Americans of all Vietnamese officers in their training camps - would be met . Even so , the restive montagnards still remained a major threat . <P> Endless Circle . No sooner had Khanh returned to Saigon than he was faced with another threatened coup against his increasingly ineffectual regime . The latest challenge came from the disaffected band of younger officers , including Air Force Commander Nguyen Cao Ky , who only two weeks earlier had saved Khanh from the third military rebellion since President Ngo Dinh Diem 's assassination last November . They gave Khanh until Oct. 25 to purge six generals - including one member of Khanh 's ruling triumvirate - whom they accused of seeking compromise with the Communists and neutralism for South Viet Nam .                     