@@477847

The clergymen who are trying to break down our traditional wall between church and state may without knowing it prove to be religion 's worst enemies . SEPARATION of church and state in recent months has become an uncomfortably timely issue . There arc controversies about Bible-reading , prayers , and Christmas observances in public schools ; about Sunday closing ordinances and state laws that penalize atheism in one manner or another . The latest storm has raged around the question of federal loans or grants to schools under ecclesiastical control . Whenever public discussion turns to such subjects , it is fashionable to stress the moral defects of the state , the politicians , and the voters and unfashionable to tell home truths about the church , the clergy , and their congregations . Democracy has rightly taught us to be tolerant and mindful of the sensibilities of our neighbors of other faiths . We have learned the lesson so well that many of us , including our movie-makers , no longer feel free to say " ) " Amer Gantry " when we meet an ecclesiastical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democratic government you will command respect . But mention a few obvious facts about the behavior of the church or the synagogue , which I mean always to include ) and in certain circles you will be branded an enemy of religion , a bigot , and perhaps a crypto-Communist . By these means , the state is made to appear irredeemably corrupt , while an uncritical silence cloaks the church in righteousness , sagacity , and idealism , Thus it would seem to follow that the church , which abounds in virtue , should utilize if not direct the state , which is amoral . With the logic of the matter so badly askew , no wonder that separation of church and state is misunderstood and in jeopardy . Those of us who believe in organized religion have a duty to restore the equilibrium of truth . We are the ones who comprehend the church from within . In stating the truth , we can confine our comments to the all-too-human attributes of all churches . Then no one need feel that his denomination has been singled out for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creeds , dogmas , and theological beliefs , which , however bizarre or irrational , are matters of private conscience , but about the extent of righteousness , wisdom , and altruism inside the churches . What shall we say of them ? Now , perhaps the specific congregation or parish to which you belong is very close to perfect ; 34 HOW TO DESTROY THE CHURCHES all gifts for its support are made anonymously , and the donors , in order to enjoy the full beauty of religious sacrifice , do not deduct their contributions for tax purposes . Your own clergyman may be a saintly man who spurns rich people and prefers the poor ; he is so pure in fact that the most vicious malefactors , coming within his aura , tearfully assign a reasonable percentage of their net gains , both past and future , to holy causes . The ladies of your congregation are ascetically indifferent to clothes , material possessions , and social status ; they steadfastly decline to gossip . The children in your religious school are all dainty little pre-Freudian disseminators of sweetness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what of the other congregations and parishes in your denomination , and what of all the other denominations ? Looking back at the role of the churches in relation to the great ethical issues in our time , one must confess that , with a few commendable and even heroic exceptions , the clergy have failed to furnish the nation with moral leadership . Most churches have lagged behind the moral progress of secular law and many of them have not yet begun to close the gap . On the question of racial equality , for example , the Supreme Court has moved far ahead of organized religion . On that of free speech and association , we find that the ugly disease of McCarthyism , which still infects our democracy , has met more principled and courageous opposition among the jurists than among the clergy . It is true that in resisting McCarthyism the Supreme Court has been firm in some respects , weak in others . The judges needed ? and generally lacked ? the support of libertarian voices in the major pulpits of the country . Nor can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weekly sermons in American life . The new media could provide unprecedented new opportunities . But the pulpit itself has diminished in virile courage , spiritual profundity , and prophetic vision . Almost every day clergymen appear and testify before state commissions , local school hoards , Edmond Cahn , professor of law at New York University , adapted his article from the North Lecture which he gave recently at Franklin and Marshall College . Born in New Orleans , he practiced law in New York City from 1927 to 1950 . His latest book is " The Predicament of Democratic Man , " published by Macmillan this fall . He has been guest lecturer at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and has won the Phillips Prize in Jurisprudence of the American Philosophic Society . Congressional committees , and other official bodies . Their views as presumably informed and responsible civic leaders are entitled to respectful and serious consideration . But this is not true of the pretense that some of them make of controlling the votes of the laymen of their denomination ; indeed this pretension and the promises or threats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undemocratic , and factually false . There once was a time when ecclesiastical politicians could direct large blocs of votes , dispensing plums to their political friends and punishments to their opponents . Even today there are a few areas of the country where ignorance and political illiteracy still permit this sort of abuse . But it is a rarity , and a fading one . Presidents , governors , and legislators have in fact discovered that they need not tremble when political clergymen scowl menacingly . Experience has taught most public officials what we may call the Law of Inverse Pretension . According to this principle , the less a clergyman happens to know about his communicants ' or congregants ' views on any given subject , the safer he will feel in pretending to declare them . Many of us recall the lurid years of National Prohibition when Bishop James Cannon , a Methodist , was able to terrorize Congressmen by threatening disaster at the polls if they did not vote as he demanded . Eventually they discovered that the Bishop 's threat was thunder without lightning . Similarly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their faithful to defeat Governor Muiioz-Marin . Despite Puerto Rico 's high ratio of Catholic voters , MunozMarin prevailed by a wide margin . ( Bishop Cannon had one advantage over the Puerto Rican prelates . Being a Methodist bishop , he could at least deliver his wife 's vote . ) JEFFERSON 'S LAW A GGRESSIVE clerics present their case in terms of a choice between " God and Caesar , " implying that a decision against their claims would be tantamount to a decision against God . This is completely fallacious . Our American principle of separation gives the true picture . It designates the separated entities not as " God and Caesar " but as " church and state . " A free government is never so bad as Caesar and a church administered by mortal men is never so good as God . The Founding Fathers , particularly Thomas Jefferson and James Madison , defined two distinct aspects of the American doctrine of separation : one negative and legal , the other positive and religious . They formalized the legal aspect through the First Amendment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion but also prescribed that government " shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion . " What does the latter provision mean today ? Speaking for the United States Supreme Court , justice Hugo L. Black answered in the following celebrated passage : It " means at least this : Neither a state nor the federal government can set up a church . Neither can pass laws which aid one religion , aid all religions , or prefer one religion over another . Neither can force nor influence a person to go to or to remain away from church against his will or force him to profess a belief or disbelief in any religion . No person can be punished for entertaining or professing religious beliefs or disbeliefs , for church attendance or nonattendance . No tax in any amount , large or small , can be levied to support any religious activities or institutions , whatever they may be called , or whatever form they may adopt to teach or practice religion . Neither a state nor the federal government can , openly or secretly , participate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ versa . In the words of Jefferson , the clause against establishment of religion by law was intended to erect ' a wall of separation between church and state . ' " This much , at least , is what separation means in terms of constitutional law . However , the law of the subject utters only prohibitions . In effect , it directs the government to attend to its own affairs and avoid intruding into the realm of religion . Outside the margin of the law , however , one finds a wholly different aspect of the matter , that is , the positive or religious side . According to the American tradition , churches separated from the state are a religious necessity . We hold it self-evident that as long as a church speaks God 's message and exemplifies God 's way , it can require no assistance from the political power . If , then , the church seeks political help , it demonstrates to that extent that it deserves none . To the believing church member , the separation of church and state is more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a solemn affirmation of confidence and pride in the independence of his church . The firm trust which our ancestors declared in the self-sustaining efficacy of the church was the proudest philosophy religion had ever evoked in a politicalsociety . It was a radically new idea not borrowed from England , which maintained an established church . The new American nation embraced this new concept not only because its founders desired freedom of worship , not only because they detested the meannesses and dreaded the hostilities of sectarian conflict but ? above all else ? because they believed with complete fervor that religion , as Madison said , " flourishes in greater purity without than with the aid of government . " EXPERT IN DEMOLITION C ( ) MING now to the current scene , I must ask you to help me by imagining ? for only a few pages ? a condition of affairs that is entirely fictitious , namely : lf , for whatever reason , you and I were determined to destroy organized religion in the United States of America , how would we go about it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respective churches we are so bitterly hostile to them that we are resolved to extirpate them from American life . Precisely how would we proceed ? In seeking an answer let us invite Mephistopheles to join us , and see what advice he would give . He would , I believe , begin by reminding us that Americans have a curious emotional attitude toward their churches . No matter how irregularly they attend them , no matter how inadequately they support them , no matter how rarely they heed them , nevertheless at the very first sign of a frontal attack , they rally stanchly to the churches ' defense . Mephistopheles insists therefore that the demolition be planned along devious and oblique lines . He recommends starting modestly : by persuading the Congress and the people that , to preserve the separation of church and state , they need only refer all controversies on the subject to the United States Supreme Court . The notion sounds respectable ; it has the added attraction of relieving everyone except the judges of the unpleasant duty of thinking . Send it to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-versed in the decisions of the Supreme Court , knows that , under certain old precedents , the judges may flatly decline to rule on some of the most important church-and-state issues . This is because the Court ? to avoid interfering with functions that the Constitution confides to other branches of government ? will not consider an issue of constitutionality unless the party appearing before it has sustained or is in immediate danger of direct injury from the law he seeks to 36 HOW TO DESTROY THE CHURCHES challenge . No matter how dubious the measure may be , he will not be permitted to attack it if he merely suffers from it in some indefinite way in common with everyone else . Back in 1923 , the Court went further and held that the mere fact that a person could show he paid federal taxes made no difference in this respect and gave him no standing to challenge an act of Congress appropriating public funds . The Court recognized that an unconstitutional spending of public money might conceivably necessitate a rise in subsequent tax levies . Nevertheless it held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax rates would be too remote and uncertain to constitute an immediate personal injury to a taxpayer . Hence he would have no more to complain about than others . NOBODY VS . EVERYBODY R ULINGS of this kind , designed to keep peace among the departments of government . are eminently sensible as over-all policies . Yet they also provide a way to immunize a bad law from attack in the courts : one need only frame the law in such a way as to violate the basic rights of nobody in particular but everybody in general , that is , of the entire American people . Then , since no one can point to an injury that is distinguishable from his neighbors ' , no one can come into court and challenge the legislation ! For example , if the Congress were to appropriate a billion dollars for direct grants to schools under ecclesiastical direction , some of the judges would decline to entertain the question of constitutionality ; they would hold that no citizen or taxpayer could challenge the appropriation in court . Some of them would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the money required the Attorney General to obtain a ruling from the Supreme Court before the money was distributed . Nevertheless . Mephistopheles has had too rich an experience with lawyers to depend entirely on any technicality of law , even one that appeals to his taste as much as this one . He knows that what one lawyer may knit , another lawyer may find a way to unravel . Though Mephistopheles relishes the fictions and refinements of the law , he has found that too often truth and common sense have a way of breaking through . And they may do it again . In the case of direct federal grants to church schools , he suspects that a procedure will be developed that would induce the Court to decide the question of constitutionality . He hopes of course that in that event , the majority of the judges would uphold the validity of the grant to church schools . But he does not care very much how any particular case comes out . For his purpose in this initial stage does not relate to the courts . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships as strictly legal and political issues , fit for judges and lawyers to wrangle about , too esoteric and technical for other citizens to comprehend . If he can only get the people used to considering separation of church and state in terms of qualifications , conditions , reasonable adjustments , and practical exceptions , Mephistopheles can rejoice . Aware that Thomas Jefferson solemnly clubbed it a " wall of separation , " he hopes that the people will become accustomed to seeing a few exceptions here and there , a few doors or gaps in the wall . How can one hope to erode an obviously beneficial rule if one is not permitted to introduce exceptions ? Heretofore , when called on to maintain the wall of separation , the Court has made a rather mediocre record , failing more often than it succeeded . If Mephistopheles can convince the judges that the American people care so little about the solidity of the wall that they are willing to leave its fate to any five justices who happen to compose the Court majority of the day , the wall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to teach the people that separation of church and state is not their affair but the Court 's . The second stage follows . It consists in persuading church members that the cost of maintaining their own sectarian institutions has become too onerous for them . Here Mephistopheles has a powerful ally in human selfishness and cupidity , not to mention the joy we all take in feeling sorry for ourselves . Self-pity is the occupational disease of modern man . Anyone who appeals to it is certain of a receptive hearing . In the past , when most church members were much less prosperous than they are today , they discovered a special pride and religious exaltation in contributing to the construction and maintenance of churches , missions , funds for the sick and poor , and other religious causes . Granted that some of the donors were actuated by an unworthy expectation that they could , as it were , bribe their way into heaven ; there were plenty of others who gave for the sake of social conscience . In fact , according to our view of things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any rate , every section of the United States is studded with imposing cathedrals , churches , synagogues , seminaries , monasteries , nunneries , institutes , and clerically directed universities . which would have been impossible if millions of Americans in every generation had not attested their faith by donating billions of dollars . In the face of such conspicuous proof that every church can take care of its own and that its own can take care of every church , it would seem hard to picture the church schools and universities nowadays as victims of abject poverty . Yet Mephistopheles finds it rather easy . True , the communicants may be more prosperous than ever before in history , secure and sleek and obese ; but think of the cost of keeping two cars these days . Consider the income taxes one must pay , even at the popular capital-gains rates . Mephistopheles fairly weeps as he recounts how inflation has increased the cost of scientific equipment for the church schools . Of course , he finds no need to mention how inflation has increased the gifts and contributions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ securities , and bingo games , and the schools ' fees . It is easy to convince men that they can not afford to pay what they do not desire to pay ; tell them how heavy their burdens are and they will greet your every word as a sagacious understatement . ONE PAINLESS CONDITION OW for the third stage , the decisive one . Here Mephistopheles can use his favorite instruments of destruction , those most ancient and efficacious temptations ? power and money . Power and money can work like salt water on a shipwrecked mariner ? the more he takes , the more he requires , t ill death alone can slake his thirst . If you want to kill him , you need only persuade him to swallow the first draught . That is why Mephistopheles would he elated to see us bloat the churches with political power and gorge them with public grants . He understands that ? unlike the church in the Middle Ages ? the modern church can no longer use the state as it chooses ; on the contrary today when the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state that ultimately calls the tune and makes use of the church . Grant the churches all the political influence they desire , he urges ? only make sure to attach a single , entirely plausible condition to its exercise . Give them their way ; enact into law any regulation , no matter how censorious or repressive , which the loudest clerical voices in the community may demand ? only require themfirst to lay their hands on their hearts and solemnly aver that the regulation has nothing to do with religion but is merely an ordinance for social welfare , community comfort , or administrative convenience . You will be amazed to see how readily some of the clergy will succumb to this stratagem . In order to impose their own sectarian ways on the remainder of the population , certain clergymen ? speaking either for themselves or through state officials who share their views ? seem willing to erase all lines between sacred and profane . and to demote the most precious inheritances of faith to the plane of mere secular arrangements . Some of these clergymen are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secularism ; yet when they see a chance to wield political power , they enter the front ranks of the seculari7ers . One example will suffice . Thirty-four of our fifty states have general laws prohibiting business , gainful work , and commerce on Sunday . Twenty-one of these states are considerate enough to provide exemptions for persons like Seventh Day Adventists and Orthodox Jews who in good faith observe a different day as the Sabbath , The Pennsylvania law which makes Sunday work a criminal offense allows no exemptions for such persons , no matter how devout they may be . A few months ago , the United States Supreme Court held that it was constitutional for Pennsylvania to prosecute some Orthodox Jewish merchants who opened their shops on Sunday . They claimed they could not remain in business if they were permitted to work only five days a week . No one questioned their religious sincerity . ( The factor of sincerity is important because in other debates about Sunday closing laws nothing more sacred has been at stake than commercial rivalry between urban merchants and highway merchants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told them that tinder Pennsylvania law they must either suffer the inevitable losses or find " some other commercial activity which does not call for either Saturday or Sunday labor . " Justices Douglas , Brennan , and Stewart dissented indignantly . Why did the majority uphold the Pennsylvania statute ( and similar ones in Massachusetts and Maryland ) in the face of the First Amendment ? Because the Attorney General of the state insisted that Sunday laws were not connected with the Christian Sabbath but were mere secular provisions for rest , relaxation , and recreation . True , be had to concede , the laws were originally enacted for religious purposes : true , as they stood on the statute books , they were still couched in 38 HOW TO DESTROY THE CHURCHES religious phrases , referring to Sunday as " the Lord 's day " and to commerce as " worldly employment " ; true , the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania had recently declared that " Sunday is the holy day among Christians " ; nevertheless , the Attorney General submitted , the mores have changed in recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church , use Sunday for visiting and entertainment . In this curious fashion , some Christians , by merely staying away from their churches , have ? it would seem ? changed the meaning of Sunday not only for other Christians , but even for Orthodox Jews ; such was the contention and such was the decision . Rather than allow a few devout Seventh Day Adventists and Orthodox Jews the same exemption that twenty-one other states have granted without ill effect , good Christians in Pennsylvania , Massachusetts , and Maryland appear prepared to politicalize , secularize , and downgrade their own sacred day . No wonder Mephistopheles takes courage ! If they are prepared to deny their Sabbath , who knows what they may deny next ? On the other hand , the best bait to ensnare the churches may not be political power , but loans or grants of public money . On this score , Mephistopheles points out that , for the purpose of destroying churches and church institutions , certain types of public assistance are much more efficacious than others because they create a condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , are assistance in expanding personnel and capacity , or in purchasing equipment that will soon become obsolete , or in paying teachers ' salaries or the cost of school-bus transportation ? any assistance , in fact , that can trap an institution into a commitment of long-term outlay . If a church can solve its financial problems by merely explaining that every observance that appears to be religious ? and has always been considered so ? is really secular in essence , well then , secular all of them must be ! This much accomplished , we hasten to the stage of open demolition . The church being no longer in a position to question that so-called " religious " education , " religious " observance , and " religious " creed are essentially secular , it is manifestly incumbent on the state to organize and regulate these activities in the public in terest . Perhaps it would be well , Mephistopheles suggests , to begin with matters of external observance and adapt them to modern engineering standards . In order to reduce congestion on the highways and increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest heretofore observed on Sunday will be distributed throughout the week , the population being divided for the purpose into seven categories assigned to the respective days , with leave to apply for transfer in the event of marriage or divorce . Moreover , the dates of Christmas and Easter will be fixed annually by a majority vote of the retail merchants subject to veto by a majority vote of milliners . A BAN ON KOSHER SHOPS N E X T , at the instance of the pork-packing industry and its many loyal friends in the right places , all kosher shops and restaurants will be ruled against public policy and summarily banned . Something must also be done for the real-estate interests . As it is uneconomic and wasteful for the various religious denominations to conduct worship services in different edifices ( some of them located on very choice corners ) , they will be required by law to share a specified list of church buildings at hours to be arranged . The remaining parcels will be condemned to provide municipal parking lots . In addition , since the so-called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to several different professions and industries , a commission will be appointed to investigate the practice and recommend appropriate remedial legislation . Furthermore , Mephistopheles calls attention to certain doctrines and modes of behavior , formerly considered to have " religious " import but now discovered to be strictly secular in nature . These require no preliminary investigation ; they are so obviously deleterious . It will be made a serious crime to advocate or knowingly join , assist , or conspire with any group or organization that advocates poverty , abstinence , or self-denial ? all of which the Congress finds inimical to and subversive of American business . Similarly , since competent authorities have reported that the preaching of peace and universal brotherhood is injurious to military discipline and national security , institutions which permit this activity and all related and associated schools will become ineligible to receive public grants and will be required to repay any grants received during the preceding twenty years . It may be that this legislative program will require a certain period of adjustment . IIotheads may criticize and a few may even oppose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ready with a strikingly simple device to eliminate all friction or conflict . This is the final phase of his program , a plan of beautiful simplicity . He recommends that the power of appointing ? or , as it used to be called , " ordaining " ? the clergymen of any and all denominations and religions be vested in the President of the United States subject to confirmation by the United States Senate . For all its brilliance , the idea may involve a few difficulties . For a while , there may be a few strains between the major political parties and even between Senators and local district leaders in filling the more desirable posts . But since Francisco Franco solved the problem in Spain by obtaining personal control over the selection and appointment of bishops , why doubt that American know-how will do at least as well ? To consummate the entire program , Congress need only confer on the President the ex-officio title of Supreme Head of All Churches and Defender of All Faiths . WHAT WE CAN NOT AFFORD 1 T I S time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The churches which so many of us cherish are in grave jeopardy . Since their beginnings when our ancestors suffered and sacrificed to build them , they have faced no deadlier threat . The outlook is not a bit less ominous because those who propose to intermingle the church with the political state happen to be well-intentioned . Regardless of denominations , creeds , and intentions , they are dangerously misguided . All church members ? Catholics and Protestants , Jews and Christians ? have the same interest in resisting them . As Elihu Root said , " It is not a question of religion , or of creed , or of party ; it is a question of declaring and maintaining the great American principle of eternal separation between church and state . " True , maintaining the principle may cost us inconvenience , misunderstanding , and even hostility . But did fear of embarrassment silence Jefferson or Madison ? Like them , we consider the wall of separation indispensable to both church and state , and to our country 's freedom . Indispensable we know it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally indispensable to the political state ? Because today , more than ever before , the government of the most powerful democracy on earth needs the critical scrutiny of independent churches , their visions , exhortations , and unsparing rebukes . Organized religion knows no higher duty than to maintain the enduring ideals and universal values that exceed the jurisdiction of any earthly power , transcend the widest political boundaries , and defy the currents of popular opinion . The louder the voice of the people in a society , the more it requires the inner monitions of religious conscience . In recent years , the inroads and encroachments have grown serious . If we do not speak out for principle today , we or our children may later have to fight for it . A little retreat , a little delay , a little appeasement ? these will only encourage the misguided to attempt further aggressions . Silence has become too costly ; we can no longer afford it . A little candor , a little courage , a little intransigence exhibited openly here and now ? these will surely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have summoned us.                     