@@493426

Once More in the Congo Events in the Congo again have assumed that state of giddy animation diplomats call " fluid " and others mistake for chaos : Deputies in Leopoldville running around Parliament pretending they are chickens ; Tshombe , collapsing into the arms of aides in high Shakespearian anguish following a visit with a representative of the State Department ; rioting by Belgians in the streets of Elisabethville ; reports of renewed fighting between the Central Government forces and Tshombe troops in North Katanga . Two years ago these occurrences would have been fraught with sinister meaning , needing to be worked into some complicated tapestry of Congolese politics . This matters now very little . For it has become abundantly clear that if anything is to be done to end Katanga 's secession , it must be done in Washington , London and Brussels before being acted out in the Congo itself . All three governments have backed the UN plan for reunification of the Congo along constitutional lines . This plan calls for Katanga to merge its arriny with that of the Central Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but retain various administrative functions for governing internal affairs . Tshombe himself agreed to all this in principle last summer , but in practice has shied away from anything but the loosest type of federation . At one point , he had agreed to merging of the two armies , but had rejected draft constitutions which would increase the number of provinces , thereby breaking Katanga in two ; and he would promise to pay only $z million in mining revenues to the Central Government , not the $2o million specified under the United Nations proposals . Now there is fresh evidence that Washington has rounded up sup-. port in London and Brussels and that the UN plan can once more be picked up and pushed to its conclusion . Paul-Henri Spaak , the Belgian foreign minister joined with President Kennedy recently in Washington in threatening Katanga with severe economic sanctions should it fail to end its secession within a very short period of time . The British have said they will not oppose the use of sanctions . If true , this means that U Thant can now apply steadily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutting off the flow of copper and cobalt from the mines which finance the Tshombe regime . The object is to apply pressure on Tshombe in such a manner that he finally realizes the jig is up , but yet not so ineptly that he decides to loose his substantial arsenal on the surrounding countryside . This THE NEW REPUBLIC is a delicate maneuver for Tshombe has played a waiting game with some success . Deadlines for UN reunification plans have come and gone ; the Indians are anxious to withdraw their 5,500 men ? the backbone of the Congo operation ? for duty on the Chinese border ; the UN itself can not go on spending $10 million a month financing its 18,000-man force . The Premier of the Central Government , Mr. Adoula , burdened with increasing problems caused by unemployment , banditry , discontent over Katanga and a general sense of futility , has grown weaker , and two weeks ago barely managed to survive a vote of confidence . His weakness is in part due to Tshombe , who has been bribing the delegates , making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time until the Central Government disintegrates . A few days after the stern Kennedy-Spaak communique , there was news of a new US plan which suggested giving Katanga more revenues , and the federal government less authority . Its announcement in the press , at once denied , may well have encouraged Tshombe to look forward to another bout of talking . Events tend to contradict this and suggest that Tshombe should take the UN seriously . For the first time since the fighting last September , American cargo planes are in the air over Elisabethville ferrying UN equipment in an airlift . The UN itself is working hard to forestall removal of Indian troops while building up its other forces . Militarily , the UN is in good shape . Its soldiers are strung out along the northern-most Katanga boundary and Elisabethville has lost control over most of this area because of rebellion of the Baluba tribe . In order to fight , Tshombe must take to the air since the Balubas have barred his land routes . But the UN has given a clear skies order , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly are known to be impressed by the fact that Tshombe 's area of control is shrinking , for this brings the center of any future conflict closer to the mines . Robert Gardiner , the UN representative in the Congo , is now expected to lay down very specific grounds along which a constitutional union can be achieved . If Tshombe is not convinced , economic pressures can be applied . Mining revenue held in Belgium for the Katanga government may be diverted to the Central Government , or the UN may block two railways ( one through Angola , the other through Mozambique ) used in hauling ore to the coast , thus forcing Katanga either to fight or to use the longer northern route through Leopoldville . This would provide Adoula with revenues and employment . Tshombe is being squeezed from other directions as well . He has been rapidly building up his army , so much so that Katanga with a population of 1.5 million people is now spending nearly $6o million a year to finance an army of at least 40,000 men , including 5001,500 mercenaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombers and reconnaissance craft as well as some cast-off jet fighters from South Africa . While these forces place Tshombe in a position to bargain from strength , they also put him in financial straits . Katanga 's budget is thought to be $75 million , about oo percent of which comes from the Belgian mining complex , Union Miniere du 1 laut Katanga . Indications that Tshombe was feeling the heat were apparent in early November when he suddenly announced heavy taxes to pay for the cost of national security . Intensive business lobbying followed , including threats that the mines would be closed down if the levies were not withdrawn . They were . And the Elisabethville press began to talk about reconciliation with Leopoldville . The Union Miniere stands nominally for the reunification of the Congo . In fact , its executive officer accompanied Spaak to Washington . But the Union has always maintained that should it threaten to close down the mines or divert revenues to the Central Government , it would suffer the most terrible reprisals . The weekend before last , Tshombe began to cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London that Katanga was about to join an African Common Market ; even discussion of its merging in some manner with Northern Rhodesia where there is a certain tribal affinity . But this seems little more than talk . Tshombe 's Katanga is the northernmost redoubt of white supremacy in Africa , supported by the Prime Minister of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland . Sir Roy Welensky , by the Portuguese in Angola and by Dr. Verwoerd in South Africa . This is a dangerous position for Tshombe , for the Rhodesian Federation is breaking up ; Nyasaland is almost sure to secede , and it is likely to be followed shortly by Northern Rhodesia . Kenneth Kaunda , the African who is likely to gain control of Northern Rhodesia from Sir Roy within a year or two , has repeatedly urged Tshombe to take Katanga back into the Congo . Once Kaunda 's Northern Rhodesia stands between Tshombe and the friendly whites to the South , his position is likely to become untenable . It is therefore improbable that the British and Belgian stockholders in Union Miniere will want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Again Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield returned to Washington from Vietnam last week , after another of the three-day visits to which American officials incessantly subject Vietnam . Mansfield was , like so many others , " the President 's personal representative , " and on his return he reported to the White House . The contents of this report have been closely guarded , but certaro indications suggest at least the possibility of a reappraisal in our Vietnam strategy . In the first place , Mansfield went out of his way to talk to non-official sources while he was in Vietnam . Perhaps this accounts for his refusal , when leaving , to read the usual Embassy-prepared statement about how " encouraging " he found recent developments in the guerrilla war . Instead , he confined his remarks to personal praise for South Vietnam 's President Ngo Dinh Diem , a long-time friend whom he described ( accurately ) as " a man of great integrity , complete honesty and devotion to duty , " and ( inaccurately ) as " one of Asia 's great leaders . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President to abandon Diem . But it is just possible that he urged reexamination of our approach to the guerrilla war . Peace and stability in South Vietnam depend today , as always , on North Vietnamese willingness to stop helping the anti-Diem guerrillas . Such willingness might conceivably come from a realization that the guerrilla movement could not succeed militarily , but nothing that has happened in the past year indicates that such a realization is imminent in Hanoi ? or that it would be justified . The only other way to change North Vietnamese policy would be to seize the diplomatic as well as the military initiative . This the US has not yet done . The urgency of some change in policy has been underlined by the success of the recent Chinese adventure in India . For all their economic troubles , the Chinese are quite capable of turning Indochina into " another Korea , " at vast diplomatic and human expense to the US . The fact that they have not yet done so offers no assurances for the future . As Chinese strength grows , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think this improbable it is useful to try to see the Vietnamese situation through Chinese eyes . The Chinese regard the US presence in Vietnam as a threat , and make all the same arguments to support their case that the US makes against the Russian ( and Chinese ) presence in Cuba . China has a " well-known historic relationship " to Indochina ( which like the US relation to Cuba has been one of economic " exploitation " supported by occasional military and political intervention ) . The Chinese claim that US military and technical advisers in Vietnam constitute " foreign domination , " and that Diem is no more than a US puppet . ( Those who doubt that the Chinese can believe such an absurdity should remember how often the US acts as though Castro were a Moscow puppet . ) The Chinese also claim that the US presence in South Vietnam is in violation of international law , since the 1954 Geneva agreements prohibit the introduction of foreign troops into Vietnam . ( The US answers that neither we nor Diem signed the Geneva agreements ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fidel Castro signed the Monroe Doctrine or the various OAS treaties which the US invokes to justify its activities in the Caribbean . ) Finally , the Chinese argue that the US presence maintains an unpopular dictatorship , whereas the Chinese objective is merely to implement the 1954 Geneva Agreements which call for free elections in a unified Vietnam . ( These elections were not held because both Diem and his American advisers expected that in a free election Ho Chi Minh , the North Vietnamese premier and hero of the war against the French , would emerge victorious . Even if South Vietnam held separate elections , Diem would probably not win an election in which all parties , including the Viet Cong , were free to put up candidates . ) None of these considerations assure a massive Chinese intervention in Vietnam , any more than they assured US intervention in Cuba . So long as the Chinese depend upon Soviet oil to fight a war beyond their own borders , and so long as they have no nuclear weapons to offset America 's , they are likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected to continue indefinitely . The danger of continuing on our present course does not , obviously , justify turning South Vietnam over to Ho Chi Minh . But is this the only alternative to the present war in which the US is so deeply engaged ? For more than a year Hanoi has been making sporadic noises about the possibility of a neutral South Vietnam . ( Perhaps on the Cambodian model ? ) Nobody knows whether Hanoi would stop training and supplying the Viet Cong if South Vietnam were neutralized . But it is hard to see what would be lost by diplomatic exploration of such possibilities . The negotiations might prove only that the North Vietnamese are still intent on annexing the South . They might also prove that the younger generation is tired of war , and that Hanoi would prefer resumption of trade with the rice-rich South , rather than continuing warfare . Peace could be made even more attractive if the US proferred direct aid to Hanoi in the form of farm surpluses ? comparable to current programs in Poland and Yugoslavia . Heraldic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was suggested to replace the anemic Republican elephant . On reflection , we wonder if the moth-eaten Democratic donkey ought not also to be consigned to Rock Creek Park . In his place we would suggest the unicorn . As the symbol , totem , trademark , or what you will , of the Democratic Party , the unicorn 's qualifications , as the French say , " leap to the eye . " First , he is a fabulous beast yet related to an extant zoological species ( Rhinoceros unicornis ) by the same sort of vague similarities that relate contemporary democracy to the party of Thomas Jefferson . Second , he is unsubdued , completely intractible . It has been stated that the unicorn can be tamed by an immaculate virgin , but as regards the party , that is conjectural since no such character has been associated with it . Third and this should be conclusive ? the unicorn owes his fame mainly to the enormous development of the bony structure of his head . Second Childhood In the fourth quarter of the igth Century , North Carolina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greasy Watts , to whom were attributed many dicta unknown to Littleton or Coke but which laymen regarded as sensible . For instance , to Greasy is ascribed the ruling : " Disrespectful conduct in my courtroom I punish as contempt ; but I hold it the indefeasible right of every defeated litigant to stand in the middle of the big road and cuss the court . " One may logically infer that it was in the exercise of this right that Sen. Clifford Case ( R , N.J. ) recently announced ? in a statement to the press , not in the Senate chamber ? his opinion that the public is losing confidence in the ability of Congress to cope with 20th Century problems . As a minority member following an election in which his party lost Senate seats , Senator Case is in a position analogous to that of a defeated litigant ; and in addressing his remarks to reporters , rather than to the Vice President in his official chair , surely the Senator may be regarded , figuratively , as standing in the middle of the big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but perhaps a semantic objection may be in order , for it is doubtful that the Senator should have said , " is losing . " It is about 8o years since Mark Twain first began a lecture with , " Suppose you were an idiot . And suppose you were a member of Congress . But I repeat myself . " And longer since R. E. Lee observed that the ability of Congress ( Confederate , in that case ) seemed to be restricted to eating peanuts and chewing tobacco while his army starved . Public confidence in the ability of Congress to cope with the problems of any century seems never to have been high , so it is misleading to say that we are losing what we have rarely if ever had . Generally speaking , the fruitfulness of an inquiry depends upon asking the right question . Perhaps Senator Case 's speculation should be turned around , making it a guess not as to how Congress is going to deal with the problems of the 20th Century , but how those problems are likely to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , parliamentary government , is in a bad way everywhere . In France it has been reduced to an absurdity and replaced by one-man rule ; in Germany a revolt against one-man rule has been only partially successful ; in Great Britain the government has been reduced to at least temporary impotence , Britain being unable either to enter heartily the Common Market , or heartily to turn elsewhere . At home the situation is not much better . The late elections certainly did not indicate strong public confidence in either party . if the Democrats enjoy a tactical advantage , it is because the Democratic President has evinced a liking for Farragut 's policy : " Damn the torpedoes ; full steam ahead ! , " which more than hints at the popularity of one-man rule , even in this democracy . Any intelligent effort to find an answer to public disrespect for Congress must begin with an examination of what has already happened . Such an examination , conducted with candor , reveals a common factor of senility , although it is not necessarily chronological . In Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 3o years ago , would have fallen into the trap of blundering press censorship that has all but wrecked him . In France , on the other hand , de Gaulle , although he is 72 , is invincible because his ideas , old as he is , are more modern than those of French politicians decades younger ? men who are still rethinking the thoughts of Thiers and Sadi Carnot. in Britain , government seems paralyzed by inability to cope with its economic problems , and this inability , in turn , reflects a set of prejudices deriving from the days of the gold standard , the general strike , and the British Raj . And at home ? Well , the late Congress was stalled for weeks by a dispute over precedence between two ancient gaffers who happened to head important committees ; and other chairmanships are held by Southerners some of whom may be , chronologically , in early middle age but whose political philosophy is so ancient that they are inclined to suspect that John C. Calhoun was a dangerous radical . Institutions entering second childhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a White " The Washington Post has for a number of years sponsored the Thanksgiving Day City Schoolboy Football Championship game . The game is played between the public school and parochial school champions , which usually has meant that it was played between a predominantly white and a predominantly Negro team . i062 was no exception . At the end of this year 's game , however , two or three thousand Negroes showed an unprecedented exuberDECEMBER 15 , 1962 ance . Brandishing sticks and other assorted implements they raced across the field to have a go at the whites sitting together on the other side . ( About three quarters of the 50,000 people attending the game were Negroes . ) " Get the whites . Get the whites , " they cried . Some of the spectators panicked . Others stood around with their mouths open and got clobbered . One man was attending to his four-year-old daughter when a Negro tapped him over the head until he fell down . Other Negroes broke his daughter 's ribs . A Negro woman picked up another child by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitch . " In small groups the Negroes made their way through the departing spectators looking for whites . " There 's a white , " they 'd yell and run over and beat him up . One white boy did make it into the Anacostia River before a gang caught up . These " scuffles " continued for two hours , during which time the police rather lost track of what was going on , partly because there was so much going on . They finally arrested 14 people . Thirty-two officially suffered injuries , two of them severe enough to require hospitalization . Many others were attended by private physicians . Few if any of the Negroes doing the beating up were students . They consisted of what is commonly known as the " unruly element , " many of them in their teens or early twenties , high school drop-outs , unemployed . They sat to one side of the cheering section and spent a good part of the game drinking and yelling " kill him " at good Negro tackles . The Post 's sports columnist , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " It must be remembered that some of the college rallies often are more violent . For all of their tradition of dignity and learning Harvard students , for example , have been involved in dozens of battles with the police . You have n't lived until you 've been in Harvard Square in Cambridge , Massachusetts , on the eve of a Yale game . " On the news page , too , the Post played down the riots . Reporters who had been at the scene ( one of whom provided the above description ) did not write what they had seen . The Post even quoted a deputy police chief as saying that he would not call the postgame flare-up a racial incident , though it added that " other officials felt the racial element was involved . " There is no reason to be sanctimonious about the Post 's reluctance to dramatize the story in all its sordid aspects . Had the story been covered exhaustively , it might have precipitated further racial incidents in the city . Yet until the public sees the full ugliness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities ) have drifted , little is likely to be done to remove the causes of such tension . 