@@215417

Finding the enemy is often half the battle in the Viet Nam war . To keep from being found , every Communist soldier is under orders not to give away his unit 's position by firing needlessly at an Allied reconnaissance plane . Last week more than 1,000 Viet Cong and North Vietnamese lay dead in the rice fields rimming Sweet Water Bay north of Qui Nhon , and another 950 captured - all because a Communist took an ir resistible potshot at a helicopter of the U.S. 1st Cavalry ( Airmobile ) . <P> Closing the Vise . The H13 chopper was routinely inspecting the lacework of dikes and mangrove swamps controlled by the Viet Cong since the early 1960s , when red tracers lanced up and dropped the two-seater into a paddy like a stunned moth . Two larger Hueys , bristling with rockets and M-60 machine guns , came to the rescue almost at once . If the Viet Cong had lain low while the Hueys picked up the downed H13 crew , they might still have escaped the bother that was soon to follow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the gauntlet was thrown . <P> Aircav Commander Major General John Norton quickly picked it up . Pulling his heli-borne cavalrymen out of three-week-old Operation Thayer five miles away , he dropped a 29-man Blue Team near the downed choppers . Within hours , in fierce fighting , often in chest-deep water , the Blues had killed 91 of the enemy . Some 70 of them turned out to be from the Aircav 's old foe in previous Binh Dinh battles : the North Vietnamese 610th Sao Vang ( Yellow Star ) Division . With the Sao Vang as quarry , Operation Washington Irving rapidly mounted in scale . A large force from South Korea 's Capitol Division wheeled in from the south . A contingent of South Vietnamese troops rushed in from the west . Closing the vise , the 1st Cavalry bored in from the north . With their back to the sea , where the rockets and guns of U.S. Navy vessels made escape impossible , the Reds could either fight and die , or surrender . A record number chose the lesser part of valor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . As Operation Irving progressed , some 320 surrendering Viet Cong stumbled into the grasp of the Aircav alone . <P> To the north , along the increasingly militarized Demilitarized Zone separating the two Viet Nams , 15,000 U.S. Marines and South Vietnamese troops continued Operation Prairie , aimed at denying transit to Hanoi 's legions headed south . In Prairie 's nine weeks of hillto-hill combat , the Allies had poured 1,000,000 artillery shells and 2,200 air strikes into the fray , killing 992 Red infantrymen . South of Danang the Marines were searching out Viet Cong in Operation Macon , and in the rice-rich Delta , two search-and-destroy missions - Sioux City and Sunset Beach-were aimed at denying the enemy his breadbasket . South of Tuy Hoa on the coast , the 101st Airborne 's Operation Seward has robbed enemy granaries of 2,500 tons of rice-enough to feed 32,500 men for a year-as well as accounting for nearly 200 enemy dead .                     