@@477607

A brilliant political invention , the PA has worked splendidly for thirty years . The only trouble is that it 's now doing the wrong job and stubbornly refuses to take on the urgent task that it ought to be handling . to be heading for troubles . These are nowhere discernible in its annual reports , however . Last year it took in a record $105 million from its Facilities and its net revenues were $60 million . Ninety-five million cars , trucks , and buses paid record tolls on its bridges and tunnels , a new high of 15 million passengers used its air terminals , over a million buses took off from its bus terminal . About $12.5 million of its income came from non-vehicular sources like its $5-million hotel at Idlewild International Airport . It relocated 1,800 families in upper Manhattan to make way for the cars that will converge on George Washington Bridge when its new $183- million lower level is finished in 1962 . It even handled 50,000 animals at its Idlewild Animal-port , which it proudly calls " the first shelter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ animal air travelers . " Despite these awesome tidings the PA is uneasy . In recent months there have been demandsthat Congress investigate its powers . performance , and tax-free status ; and mass protest meetings against its proposed jet airport . Important groups and planning organizations have called for a full-scale review of its responsibilities , and its wisdom has been questioned by the press . In sharp contrast to New York 's prevailing aura of official dishonesty , there is no talk of corruption or incompetence . On the contrary , the PA 's integrity and accomplishments are undisputed . Why all the fuss , then , and is it important ? A long-time transportation buff and a native New Yorker , I recently set myself the task of answering these questions . What I have learned may shed light on the mess in most big cities . First off , I found that on its own terms the PA is doing a grand job . But those terms , today , are cockeyed . The world has changed but the PA stubbornly refuses to cope with the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet at the same time , mass transportation serving New York is faltering and the city is foundering under the weight and pollution of traffic . The situation is a matter of deep concern to nearly every adult New Yorker . There are a few exceptions , of course . They include Austin Tobin , the PA 's executive director , and his public relations chief , Mrs. Lee Jaffe . Talking with them and a PA engineer not long ago I was offered a rather different picture . Tobin is a well-groomed executive in his fifties , whose impressive head of gray hair and forthright manner more than compensate for his rather diminutive stature . He feels we should be grateful for heavy traffic . " If Thirty-fourth Street were n't congested , we 'd be in trouble , " he told me . Mrs. Jaffe , a lady now in her sixteenth year with the PA , reminded me that 68 NEW YORK 'S PORT AUTHORITY America 's economic destiny , and indeed the strength of the free world , depends on moving cars . " Slow down Detroit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she observed . Similar views arc held by the PA engineer charged with comprehensive planning , Frank Herring . A studious and charming man , his all-absorbing concern with traffic flow resembles a plumber 's concern for the pipes in a house . But I searched in vain for the PA architect-planner concerned with the many other factors besides traffic flow that go into making a city fit to live in . THE FIRST AMERICAN " AUTHORITY " T H E history of the PA casts some light on its current dilemma . A quasi-public , tax-free organization , it was created in 1921 during the terms of two far-sighted Governors , Al Smith of New York and Walter Edge of New Jersey , to end the trouble caused by the artificial New York ? New Jersey boundary line which runs smack down the Hudson River 's center , splitting the natural unity of the port . An interstate Compact approved by Congress gives the PA power to build , buy , lease , and operate any and all kinds of transportation facilities within a " Port District " running in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can function beyond these limits if both Governors and their legislatures approve . The legislatures can also order the PA to take over any transportation operation they deem necessary . Although this has never happened , it is not because the necessity has not arisen . No one has been inclined to order the PA around because over the years it has acquired a kind of power which was not conferred by the Compact , namely , political power . In the past its influence over the state legislatures has been used chiefly to stifle demands for lower tolls on its bridges and tunnels . These are , of course , the agency 's life blood , for it ca n't levy taxes . It can , however , borrow money secured by tax-exempt bonds . Attracted by its spectacularly profitable toll operations , the public , as of last year , had invested $920 million in PA facilities . The press calls this Tobin 's billion-dollar empire . The PA is guided by twelve Commissioners , half from each state . They are appointed by the Governors with Senate approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , finance , and the law have been chosen for these posts . The operating head is the executive director . Since 1942 the executive director has been Mr. Tobin . A forceful , successful leader with a big say in policy , he is handsomely recompensed , his $60,000-a-year salary topping the New York Governor 's by $10,000 . And his is a very well paid staff . A half-dozen get $40,000 annually , a dozen others get between $27,000 and $33,000 , including public relations director Mrs. Jaffe , who makes $30,000 . Her departmental budget , incidentally , is a sizable $226,000 which , to some critics , seems excessive for a public-service organization with no need to drum up trade . The PA , however , conceives of itself as in a highly competitive situation vis- ? - vis other revenue-raising institutions . Mrs. Jaffe 's is thus a formidably high-pressure publicity operation , unceasingly aggressive in defending the PA and in bolstering its prestige . This market-place concept of its role may have a lot to do with the PA 's shortcomings as a public institution serving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far beyond the 1,500-square-mile Port District . New York 's economic and social well-being are vital to the nation and its institutional arrangements are prototypes for other urban regions . Modeled after the granddaddy of all public authorities , the Port of London Authority , the PA has been a persuasive example . It has made the precedents and written most of the law for thousands of American regional authorities which have proliferated since World War II . Political scientists have called them the fastest-growing unit of local government in the United States . They have , on the one hand , been deplored as undemocratic repositories of public power unresponsive to the people , and on the other hand praised as an ingenious way to combine the best aspects of government and business . Rather than debate this point in the abstract , it is useful to consider closely what the PA is supposed to do and what in fact it is doing . The founding Compact enjoins the PA to see to the improvement of transportation and terminal facilities " in the District without limitation . It may operate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has written extensively on urban planning and transportation . In 1958 he organized a national conference on these subjects at Hartford , Connecticut , in which the country 's foremost specialists participated . Like the Port Authority , he is a hi-state creature : he was educated in New Jersey at Lawrenceville and Princeton but now lives ? and tries to park his car ? in New York . even equipment unknown in the ' twenties . Its duty is to maintain the overall transportation efficiency of metropolitan New York . How has the PA chosen to interpret this mandate ? With his staff of 4,400 people , Tobin runs six bridges and tunnels for motor vehicles : five air terminals ; six marine terminals : two terminals for over-the-road trucks , one for less-titan-carload rail freight ; and one for buses . Conspicuously absent from the list are bus lines , subways. commuter railroads , major highways , or , with minor exceptions , parking facilities . In short , the PA has made an arbitrary selection of transportation facilities . This fractional approach is the basis of the PA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Obviously the transportation systems the PA disclaims are Ito less important to the region 's mobility than the enterprises it has Favored . Indeed , a balance of diversified transportation systems is essential to the survival of a modern metropolis . ( Two years back , for example , my fellow transportation buff , John Snyder , warned in a Harper 's article that we 'd better stop treating transportation as a " disconnected patchwork " or else . ) THE SACRED BONDHOLDERS F .4V EN Mr. Tobin on occasion has conceded that New York needs mass transportation . Perhaps he has been moved by the vision of his bridges and tunnels swamped by the traffic that would descend on them should the commuter railroads and transit lines actually quit , as has been often threatened . At times he has even stressed the " interdependence of the port 's transportation facilities . " This was not , however , the official position a year or so ago when a bill before the New Jersey legislature proposed forcing the PA to run a suburban transit system . The lengthy PA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integration " seems to be based on the principle that by bringing about a complete integration of responsibilities of intra-metropolitan transportation in the New York ? New Jersey metropolitan area , most of the serious transport problems can magically be solved . . . . Its devotees are imbued with something of the excitement of those who years ago became enamored with the mystic sic of " technocracy . " And like " technocracy " the concept of " integration " of transit is based on a number of important assumptions that are wholly implicit and has sic not been objectively analyzed . The illiteracies and irrelevances aside , the statement conflicts with every responsible analysis of the urban transportation plight . like most PA literature , it is neither unbiased nor scholarly . Instead it is an ex parte argument by " realistic " business minds bent on upholding their anachronistic status quo . They arc against an integrated system only because their toll revenues would be used to help support other necessary transport Facilities , not because integration is n't desirable . Obviously it is . Commenting on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except its own , the respected Regional Plan Association observed the other day : " The PA is like . work horse that wo n't take its blinders off . Only the state can change this . " Despite survey after survey and impassioned recommendations , transportation in the metropolitan area is left to a melange of conflicting authorities , state , city , county , and town departments , railroads , and transit companies . Longtime consultant to the PA , Wilfred Owen of Brookings Institution , is perhaps the nation 's outstanding urban transportation expert . " Building a transportation system under these conditions , " he says , " is like trying to build a house with the carpenters , bricklayers , electricians , and plumbers all working by separate plans . " What lies behind the PA 's animus against a comprehensive approach to the transport problem ? Tobin often refers to the PA 's " very full powers " to take on any kind of transportation it chooses to . At the same time , he confides to his audiences , in a display of self-assurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while matching the high level of private business management talent , must also be informed with a superior sense of responsibility to the public it serves , presumably beyond the reach of average politicians . However , it turns out that this lofty ideal is secondary to something else , namely , an almost transcendental sense of obligation to the PA 's bondholders . Accordingly , only such enterprises can be undertaken as will enrich it or , at the very least , not disturb its credit standing . Beyond all else , this is the number one guiding principle of every PA action . Tobin and his Commissioners are in full agreement with Robert Moses , chief of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority , which has no connection with the PA but shares its philosophy . " Financial folly , " said Moses when questioned about using toll revenues to help New York 's desperately74 NEW YORK 'S PORT AUTHORITY pressed rail systems . The funds of I these authorities are not the treasure of the Count of Monte Cristo. " tie failed to add that they are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The practical effects of ranking bondholders first , public second , are these : The PA is indestructible so long as it can arrogate virtually all the area 's money-making transportation facilities . Self-perpetuation of the organization is assured . As a result , unless the PA is forced to change its ways , or is superseded by a differently oriented body , New York is indefinitely committed to an un-unified transportation system . The whole metropolitan area thus remains in jeopardy of worse congestion and pollution and of mass-transportation bankruptcy . There is , in other words , a basic conflict of interests between the Port Authority 's narrow specialists and the people who live in the vast New York metropolitan region which today extends into three states ? Connecticut as well as New York and New jersey . Yet the PA is neither inept nor venal . It consists of skilled and honest if stubborn and unimaginative men . One villain has been identified by Mr. Tobin himself , Discussing Manhattan 's traffic problem , he blamed " Detroit and the whole automobile economy . " What he failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been forced to adapt its role to ease the hardship wrought by this ' automobile economy . " The dereliction is n't the PA 's alone . The Governors and legislatures of New York and New Jersey and even the national Congress have also shirked responsibility . They have awakened to it only as the commuter rail crisis has reached truly alarming proportions . THE BROCHURE APPROACH NTIL the present crisis few politicians have dared tangle with the PA . Its suc-cesses have been massive and public esteem has been assiduously cultivated through self-con-gratulatory brochures , slick reports , a high-pow-ered community relations program , press conferences , news releases , and speeches . After witnessing the public relations director , Mrs. Jaffe , in action I rather sympathize with the timid politicos . When I visited her to ask a few questions she was in a state of high tension over an allegation by a New Jersey paper that the PA was living pretty high on the hog for a tax-free public agency . Such was her agitation that she could not concern herself with my pedestrian inquiries until she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and had led me to the pantry next to the board room to demonstrate that no booLe or other goodies were stored there . I am not untutored in the aggressive ways of public relations . But her concentrated hard sell , unrelieved by the faintest hint of objectivity , has the effect , as one news reporter said to me , of making one distrust the whole PA operation . One discerns a similarly shrill defensiveness in the speeches in which Mr. Tobin seeks tirelessly to justify the PA 's indifference to rail transit without , however , at any time , proposing remedies . Over the years the state legislatures and the Governors have rubber-stamped practically all the PA 's plans . The current outcry , paradoxically , has not been caused by the debacle in mass transportation but by the PA proposal to build a huge jet airport in New Jersey , about twenty-five miles west of New York City . It would eliminate a village and a number of large estates , and , spurred by popular protest , the New jersey legislature overwhelmingly voted it down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience that the project was far from dead . Denouncing the Authority for arrogance , the Assembly then went on to order a full-scale investigation of it and Senate approval is awaited . Findings of the inquiry would go to the Governor by next January . On top of this there have been demands for Congressional investigations of the PA . The most recent came from Senator Clifford P. Case , a New Jersey Republican . Earlier , the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee , Representative Emanuel Geller , Democrat of Brooklyn , introduced a bill calling for Congressional approval of future changes in the Port Compact and requiring the Authority to report regularly to Congress . On the day he took this action , Mr. Celler and other Congressmen had been guests of the Authority in a public relations-inspired " exchange of views " breakfast . Celler sat through what he described as host Tobin 's presentation of " brochures picturing the glories and grandeur of its operations and little more . " Then he delivered a resounding attack and accused the Authority of " growing almost to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judiciary Committee has begun a study of the Port Compact to discover what revisions , if any , may be in order . It has not been so scrutinized in nearly forty years and clearly the PA 's performance is of more than local concern . In its quite legitimate effort to push the interests of New York to the competitive disadvantage of other American ports , it fought strenuously , for instance , against the St. Lawrence Seaway . It spends a million dollars a year on New York trade-promotion offices in cities here and abroad . It is appropriate that a national body determine whether the national interest is being best served by these assorted activities . For , unlike most regional authorities , the PA has grown so large and powerful that its program affects the whole nation . In the past , its autonomy and freedom from politics have been virtues . But such privilege carries great responsibility . A dogmatic indifference to problems of commuter railroads and rapid transit pervades the pronouncements of Tobin and of Robert Moses ( who is never loath to speak ex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own ) . There is good reason to wonder whether the Port Authority can , any longer , take the long , comprehensive view of its role . The quarrel over the New jersey jet airport , which has caused perhaps unwarranted irritation , is a case in point . Many aviation men question the validity of the PA 's case but concede it is a difficult question calling for expert judgment . Yet , to the consternation of the industry , the PA presented its proposal before even consulting the airlines . This came about , to be sure , because the PA was forced to issue its report prematurely after reporters got wind of the proposal . But the PA now refuses to admit this and declines to budge . In view of this self-righteous rigidity , it is perhaps foolish to hope that the PA redefine its own role . It is , for one thing , a creature of the " automobile economy , " which lifted it from obscurity to renown in the 1940s , as a torrent of cars poured through its toll booths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is what pays the interest on bonds , builds up hefty reserve funds to ease the banker-commissioners ' worries and pay handsome staff salaries . To other planners , however , the experience of recent years has been sobering . ' Watching every new arterial highway become immediately overloaded , they now accept as axiomatic the fact that new roads , bridges , and tunnels stimulate new traffic . ' Without land-use planning the facilities rapidly become obsolete , precipitating an apparent need for more new highways-ad infinitum . The fact that facilities beget the need for more facilities does not disturb the engineering mind . Lacking the planner 's vision , it can conceive of nothing more important than traffic flow . Congestion is indeed a virtue to the traffic engineer or to a lawyer like Tobin who relies on engineering counsel . New York City 's Traffic Commissioner , T. T. Wiley , is another fine example . He hopes to build fifteen parking garages costing $52.5 million strategically located to attract 10,000 more cars daily into the heart of Manhattan , already the most congested area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blight that dismay residents and planners are reinterpreted in the engineering mind as " desirable concentration . " Most businessmen have yet to learn that traffic jams threaten their own economic interests . The engineers and financiers who dominate Port Authority thinking are technicians , absorbed with their bridges , tunnels , terminals . Perpetuation of the Port Authority is their prime goal . But this was not the intent of the Port Compact . It envisaged a very different kind of body dedicated to the Port District 's overall economic well-being , using transportation as a means not as an end . wretched is New York 's traffic and mass-transportation plight that many citizens consider it hopeless . Apathy and confusion prevail . As an example , the New York Times , which generally laments traffic congestion , endorsed the Wiley midtown garage scheme . Lewis Mumford. the sage of upstate Amenia , New York , is practically alone in warning that new rights-of-ways for cars do n't necessarily increase urban mobility . Demonstrably they spoil what recreational and rural amenities still remain in the metropolitan hinterland . This situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better . And in the Port Authority we have a huge going transportation organization that should logically set about doing it . But to continue in its present pattern can only spell disaster . It would be catastrophic for New York to place all reliance on automotive transport as , for example , Los Angeles has done . Conversely , rail transport is adapted only to mass movement of travelers in a short period of time . A metropolitan area requires a rational balance of all means of travel , including walking . ( Forty million square feet of new office space built in midtown New York since 1947 , incidentally , is creating pedestrian congestion that rivals the vehicular jam . ) Just what this balance should be depends on many criteria , not simply traffic flow . The preservation of residential areas is important , including space for schools and parks . These factors must be weighed along with the transportation needs of the commercial and industrial interests that dominate PA thinking . As Mum-ford and Owen have shown , transport facilities interact with every aspect of urban life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinvigorate its decrepit commuter railroads and mass transit to achieve a rational balance ? The rail services are not likely to become substantialmoney makers . ( For example . Philadelphia is experimenting with reduced rail fares and improved equipment in a nervy attempt to attract new riders and discourage driving to work . With commendable realism , the city has guaranteed to make up the operating losses which continue despite an encouraging increase in passengers . ) The passenger-carrying railroads have never recovered from the shift to the five-day work week . which eliminated one-sixth of their load . At the same time , the ICC , to protect the traveling public , has held rates too low to support improvements in equipment or to keep pace with inflated operating costs . Finally , the private motor vehicle , which enjoys free rights-of-way and other subsidies , has delivered all but the coup de grace . The commuter lines , in fact , have lost all except their commuters , who are " discount " passengers ( a quarter of a million of them in the New York area ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travelers are now motorists . The PA by sticking stubbornly to its self-chosen assignment has accelerated this trend to a point where petitions for the termination of rail service have become commonplace . On an average business day , 3.3 million people enter central and downtown Manhattan. ? This is 10 per cent fewer than in 1948 , reversing a long upward trend . But a new high of 519,000 rubber-wheeled vehicles was reported , 137,000 more than in 1948 . In the same year less than a third the number of passengers carried in 1927 used the Hudson Tubes ( rail service between New York City and New Jersey under the Hudson River ) . Quite evidently the PA 's deference to automotive transport has had a tremendous effect . We have paid dearly fur our preference for automobiles , not only in highway costs but also in blighted and even decimated residential and park areas . And , in the end , mass rail transportation remains of crucial importance . An express highway can handle only one-tenth the hourly passenger load of a comparable mass transit system . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under an impossible burden without New York 's subways and suburban trains . So ? like it or not ? the PA 's own destiny is now engaged in the mass-transport crisis . Interestingly , Tobin seemed to be shifting his position on this matter when I recently saw him . The PA , he hinted , might be willing to run the railways so long as the states would underwrite deficits and " Hub-Bound Travel in the Tri-State Metropolitan Region , " Regional Plan Association report , 1959. guarantee the bonds that must be issued to resuscitate the railroads financially . This was a surprise after long years of very different PA propaganda . But he persisted , saying , " ' We 'd do a better job than most people in the railroad business . " The idea was put a bit differently years ago by the gifted lawyer who worked out the original Port Compact , Julius Henry Cohen . Referring to the PA 's career of uninterrupted success , he said , " Handed a lemon , we 'll make lemonade out of it . " Surely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tobin 's apparent change of heart is encouraging ; it may mean that , as they say in sporting circles , the opponents are getting to him . ( He has not suggested , however , that the PA 's general pooled revenues from all its facilities might be tapped to assist the railroads . ) Of course a private comment by the PA 's director accomplishes nothing in itself . Formal action is needed . Specifically , the following steps seem to he in order : ( 1 ) The PA must be reorganized to fulfill its original mission . It must he directed to take responsibility for all systems of transportation within the area , and strive for the unity that was the goal of the Port Compact . Its pooled resources must be used to bolster all essential transport , including rails . ( Reporters who have covered the PA for years find its finances formidably abstruse . I have n't the competence to judge whether its reserves are excessive and its fiscal policies absurdly overcautious , as alleged . ) In the face of a bona fide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It must be goaded into action . in assuming responsibility for all transportation the PA will acquire some non-self-supporting enterprises . if deficits result the states ' public credit and funds must be used to protect the PA 's bondholders . The commuter railroads would contract with the PA and operate under its direction within the New York metropolitan region . The Compact must be amended to include Connecticut in what is now a tri-state region . Thus the New Haven Railroad as well as the New York and New Jersey commuter lines would qualify for financial aid from pooled resources under a fair formula . The " new " PA would logically absorb the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority and the Transit Authority . ( 2 ) With the PA responsible for all transportation in the area , a comprehensive long-range transportation study must be made of the entire tri-state metropolitan , region .. Federal aid is available for it . Chicago has a study under way deleted material as do Philadelphia , Detroit , St. Louis , Washington . and Pittsburgh . From such a study we may learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pricing mechanism in transport . Parking charges . for instance , can be manipulated so as to encourage drivers to leave their cars in new public parking areas on the city 's periphery and use mass transit for the final leg into midtown or downtown . To moderate the peak-hour crush on expressways , bridge and tunnel tolls might be lowered during off-hours . Similarly , graduated fares might be instituted in the subways . It is uneconomic to maintain immensely expensive equipment , unused most of the time , but needed for a three-hour onslaught morning and evening . New York 's flat fifteen-cent subway fare , unrelated to length of ride , is a further aggravation , resulting in inadequate average revenue per passenger mile . As a consequence the New York Transit Authority presents the biggest item in the city 's funded debt ? $1. l billion , costing $100 million annually in debt service . Also to be answered is the question of commuter fares . Probably both subsidy and tax relief will be necessary . for fares alone ca n't cover costs . Information is needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ car pools , to create more traffic jams . Another question , a difficult one , has to do with the equity of subsidizing commuter services out of public tax funds for well-heeled exurbanites . The dilemma is that many low-income Families are also commuters , forced out of the city by the dearth of decent housing and schools . ( 3 ) Hopefully , the new PA would in due course zero in on the toughest problems , with daring and imagination . it would experiment with transportation zoning , whereby areas of supreme congestion and fabulous shops such as midtown Fifth Avenue in New York , would be reserved for pedestrians only . And to moderate the peak-hour crush , the PA might promote staggered working hours for business and industry . It would also thoroughly explore the merits of physical integration of the commuter and subway lines as has been done to some extent in Boston . This might well involve extending New York City 's present rapid transit through a new Hudson River tunnel to connect with New Jersey 's commuter railroads and with its highway terminals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York Metropolitan Rapid Transit Commission and explored by the PA itself many years ago although the resulting plan was consigned to the dust bin because amongother defects it was not " self-liquidating . " ) The new PA must be alert to innovations in transportation technology . It would be a service to every major city in the world , for example , if a definitive judgment were made on the merits of monorail . This kind of railway , in which cars move not on conventional double tracks but on single steel beams supported by pylons , is believed by its champions to he lighter , cheaper , faster , quieter , less obtrusive than conventional transit . Opponents say that monorail systems are too costly overall since they wo n't integrate with existing rail systems , and raise other serious objections . ( 4 ) Obviously the kind of transportation agency needed in the New York region ( as well as elsewhere ) calls for a change in the PA 's Commission . It must include younger men with less vested interest in the past . More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to social change and more sensitive to the public 's , as opposed to the business community 's , needs . Acumen in financial dealings should n't be the prime desideratum in choosing the men whose decisions so powerfully affect the living conditions of the whole metropolitan area . The board should include one or more outstanding planners , a social scientist of stature , and a figure from organized labor . Thus reorganized , the new PA would face the fact that how land is used determines traffic magnitude . Although it would not have jurisdiction over land use or building height and bulk , it would study such matters and weigh them in shaping transportation plans so as to prevent future congestion and preserve or create amenities . The new PA would operate under the general guidance of and in close co-operation with a sorely needed Tri-State Planning Agency which would co-ordinate all the elements that go into regional development . The PA would be required to play ball with this body , forgoing the splendid isolationism of the past . All these questions are among the most pressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the past , action has too often awaited the catalyst of tragedy , such as the frightful train wrecks of a few years back on the moribund Long Island and the Jersey Central railroads . If constructive criticism of the PA sparks action in New York , the whole nation stands to gain . Given the support of an aroused community , a reformed Port of New York Authority could be the chief agent in arresting the present decline of the country 's greatest metropolitan area .                     