@@492240

T he small , uncompl leafed Si orld oi Frank A. ' Hutchins began to crumble shortly after three o'clock on the afternoon of May 14 , 1965 . Nodding glumly to his colleagues , the tall . 66-year-old Republican from the town of Stannard stepped slowly down the aisle and took his seat in Vermont 's House of Representatives . On the rostrum , a clerk began to call the roll : " Adams , Alexander , Anderson , Andrew . Arthur . Baird . . . " The vote was on a bill to abolish a form of government that had existed in the state since 1793 . Frank Hutchins knew the measure would pass . He knew also that it would mean the end of his political career . Frank Hutchins. of course , had never thought of himself as a politician . To him the word was odious . It conjured up images not at all in keeping with his personal credo . He liked to think of himself instead as a gentleman farmer imbued with a high sense of civic duty . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state legislature in 1931 . As the representative from Stannard ( population 1131 , he had crusaded for economy in government . He worried about the state 's mounting debt , and he fought hard against what he considered to be unnecessary expenditures in health , education and welfare . Over the years his efforts seemed to meet with less and less success . The total state budget  --  a paltry $16 million when he first trudged down to Montpelier in 1931 ? had already soared to a dizzying $135 million . Now it seemed likely to climb even higher . For on this sweltering afternoon in May , the legislature was voting I ) reapportion its membership on the basis of population and thereby purge from office the scores of small-town representatives who had stood together for so long as the last bastion of common sense and frugality . " . . . Myers , Nelson , Nolan . O'Brien . . . " The clerk droned on through the list of 245 legislators . Inside the historic , high-ceilinged chamber , the temperature climbed past 90 degrees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in shirtsleeves . Frank Hutchins kept his coat on and stared straight ahead . " . . . Wiquest , Woodward . Yeaw , Zampieri ... " At last the roll call was over . The measure had been approved overwhelmingly . A few lawmakers shouted endorsement ; cheers broke out among the spectators in the balcony . Alone at his desk , Frank Hutchins began to cry . Hutchins is only one of several hundred casualties in a battle that has been raging for almost two years in state capitals across the nation . The name of the battle is reapportionment . It was touched off in June , 1964 , when the United States Supreme Court ruled that both houses of a state legislature must he apportioned on the basis of population . The decision has caused consternation. upheaval and panic and subjected the High Court to fierce attack . Yet by changing the complexion of the legislative branch , reapportionment has also given the states a final opportunity to reassert themselves as meaningful units of government . " It 's a revolution without guns , " says a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S. Rhyne , " If reapportionment had n't come along , the states would be practically going out of existence . They 'd reached the point of inaction anyway . " " Crisis , " perhaps . would be a more appropriate word . Nearly every state faces the specter of further federal encroachment into areas it once considered to be its own responsibility . Nearly every state faces a fiscal emergency . Nearly every state is inefficiently and wastefully governed  --  stymied in its actions by an outmoded constitution . Under many capitol domes , stagnation reigns . For the citizens of the states the result is tragic  --  bad government in all its frustrating , dispiriting aspects . All this is acutely apparent to that canny breed of journalist , the statehouse reporter . but he also sees drama and levity , for he is witness to perhaps the most colorful and outrageous spectacle that American politics provides . Nowhere but in the state capitols are able men quite so earnest or scoundrels quite so base . And nowhere else do native American characters collect in such profusion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nebraska senator Richard Proud , who entered the chamber in Lincoln last year clad in striped bib overalls  --  his way of emphasizing that legislators are the people 's representatives . " I 'm striking a blow for liberty , " he announced . Consider also Joseph Zaretzki , an able New York senator with a Rabelaisian disregard for daintiness . Last session he startled his colleagues by shouting down a Republican suggestion while his mouth was full of banana . Nearby sat his rotund , rosy-faced colleague , Sen. Max Turshen , who is known for his ebullient pronouncements that he is " three-hundred percent " for a bill . Noted Georgia journalist Celestine Sibley recalls that on the linal night of the 1965 session , " Rep. Grover Lee gave an exhibition of train calling . Reps . Howard Rainey and Ben Jessup gave spirited demonstrations of automobile auctioneering . Rep. Dewey Rush rose on a point of personal privilege and ended up by singing a country ballad , lee Been Hanging Around This Old Town Too Long . Rep. James Hull cried , ' Kill the bull , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cry , ' Ole . ole W ith men like these in the paneled chambers , it is no wonder that legislative proceedings frequently veer off into areas of somewhat less than momentous significance . Last year the Maryland legislature found itself unable to agree on a reapportionment plan , nor could it act on bills concerning the distribution of guns , fair housing , equal access to public accommodations or an educational-TV network . During the final hours of the regular session , however , while the clock was running out , the senators found ample time for a spirited debate on the location of a garbage incinerator in the city of Annapolis . For years New Hampshire 's legislators have expressed concern over porcupines . There is always someone who introduces a bill to poison the animals , and someone else who says the state should no longer pay bounties for their skins . During the 1965 session lawmakers decided that the best way to reduce the porcupine population was to raise the bounty from 50 cents to 75 cents per animal . But some representatives still seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is really a native of New Hampshire ? " one asked . " How can you be sure he has n't slipped across the border from Vermont ? " Florida has no porcupine problem , but legislators did pass a bill last session which . in effect , prohibits monkeys from driving automobiles on state highways . Connecticut 's lawmakers deliberated the merits of " an act prohibiting cats from roaming at large . " And in North Carolina last spring a bill aimed at protecting alligators won passage only after senators beat back amendments that would have included elephants and kangaroos . For pure nonsense , however , few legislatures can rival Tennessee 's . Last session it decided that the Volunteer State needed a poet laureate and promptly nominated a gentleman named R. M. ( Pek ) Gunn for the job . Most Tennesseans knew Gunn only as the director of prison services in the Midway in the debate over Gunn 's qualifications . Rep. Joan Strong jumped up to suggest that her colleagues select a poet laureate from within their own esteemed ranks . And she had just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once written a poem beginning " Sam Houston . you bum . . . . " ( Gunn won . ) Toward the end of the Tennessee nessfion , the talk turned to nudism . Rep. A. Gaines Morton was against it . " I 'd like to bring out a few points . " he explained one day  --  to general laughter . Rep. Charles Galbreath then rose to ask . " How many nudists does it take to make a colony ? " Morton was n't sure , but he thought the answer was more than one . His colleagues took his word for it , and promptly banned all nudist colonies in the state . Such tomfoolery is only one symptom of the general decline in state government . Other symptoms are less amusing . In Louisiana , for example , state senator Jack Frug ? was to go on trial last week on charges that he and a woman in the state conservation department conspired to commit forgery to get funds from the Senate payroll . In Minnesota last fall a federal grand jun indicted state insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracy in connection with the collapse of a St. Paul auto-insurance company . In Massachusetts , after conducting a three-year probe , the state 's crime commission reported that " The reality has been worse than we imagined . We have observed with indignation the ways in which some of the most highly placed and powerful figures in the state have betrayed the public trust . We have noted with increasing concern the moral blindness of so many who have appeared before us . . . " Already , 19 corporations and 95 individuals  --  including more than two dozen present and former public officials  --  have been indicted on charges ranging from bribery to the filing of false reports . With similar scandals grabbing headlines elsewhere , it is not surprising that the image of state government is woefully tarnished . " Geographically . the states are obsolete . " insists writer-professor Jerome Ellison . " Their boundaries were drawn on the bases of political realities of 50 to 3i i years ago .... The states have more often than rot proved to be failures as political units . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicated than mailing out license plates . . . In many aspects . state government is dead and ripe ' for burying . " Ellison 's elegy seems premature . For the states today still retain broad powers . They control most courts and pass most laws affecting most citizens . They make the ground rules for local governments , They levy and collect taxes . They regulate voting and control the police . They build and operate public schools , colleges and universities . They build and repair most roads and highways . They maintain most prisons and hospitals . They regulate such industries as banking and insurance . The states , in short . attempt to perform  --  in Thomas Jefferson 's phrase ? " whatever acts they can do as well as the national government . " The difficulty is that in the past 25 years the line of separation between what the states should do and what the Federal Government should do has become increasingly fuzzy . And when in doubt , the Federal Government has moved  --  not always wisely but always on a broad scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Government operated 13 grant-in-aid programs totaling 5229 million . Today , it maintains roughly 120 such programs adding up to $13.6 billion , and these programs encompass many fields previously left to the states . What most disturbs state officials about some of the recent programs ? aid to education . water pollution , the war on poverty  --  is the fact that they funnel federal dollars directly to cities , schools and private organizations . The war on poverty , for example , bypasses the states entirely in five of its six separate titles . Last year , when the state governors fought to retain the right to veto local antipoverty projects , they suffered agalling defeat . Their veto power had to be taken away , said Antipoverty Program Director Sargent Shriver , to insure that " community action is not stultified by state action . " " The Federal Government is moving to usurp state government in Medicare , education , poverty , " warns California Assembly Speaker Jesse M. Unruh . " Pretty soon , there wo n't be anything for the states to do except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T he states are just as wilting to do what should he done as the Federal Government , " says Alabama 's Gov . George C. Wallace . gesturing with the stump of a dead cigar , " but they took our tax sources years ago , and you ca n't assume responsibilities without taxes . " In state after state other harried executives bemoan the loss of income-tax revenues . And while revenues were vanishing , they point out , the states have had to shoulder the brunt of the population explosion . Throughout the country , education costs have skyrocketed . Welfare costs have risen sharply too , and so have the price tags on highways , sanitation systems and hospitals . Often the states have failed to find ways to finance theseservices adequately , and the Federal Government has had to help . But money is just part of the difficulty . Social problems today are not only more costly to tackle but vaster . In the past , most of a state 's concerns fitted neatly inside its own boundaries . But civil rights , unemployment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now scattered willy-nilly across state lines . Because the states can so seldom cooperate on common problems , federal intervention is inevitable . Contrary to the popular myth , this broad expansion of federal power can not be attributed solely to the activities of greedy bureaucrats in Washington . To a surprising degree , the states have psychologically lost the ability to solve complex problems , In 1933 President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed a special commission to determine what responsibilities the states wanted to take back from the Federal Government . Commission members launched a lengthy probe . then reported that the states really did n't want to recapture a single important function . This attitude persists today . " We can be talking about a problem like water pollution . " says Pennsylvania Rep. K. LeRoy Irvis , " and someone will get up and say , ' Let 's not do anything on a state level until OCTOPUS IN THE STATE HOUSE we find nit what the Federal Government 's going to do . ' So we wait. - " The lirst and ( oust natural attacleyead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : respective states , " wrote James Madison nearly 21111 years ago . Today that attachment seems tenuous at best . Over a Martini at the faculty dub on the campus of New Jersey 's Rutgers University . political science professor John Bebout says , " State governments have become relatively less meaningful ever since the New Deal . A whole generation of Americans were brought up with a demonstration that basic issues could be dealt with only by a massive national program . They gave up on the states . " Adds Laszlo Ecker-Raez , a curly-haired , Hungarian-born economist For twenty-five years the United States has been taught by the academic cominunay that the states are on the way out . " Ecker-Racz points out that a major share of federal expansion has come about only because the states were unwilling to act in areas where they had both time and resources . " Urban areas , " he says , " have long tried to get the states to do something about public housing . urban renewal and water pollution . The states were reluctant to act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value of votes is recognized , the cities found a ready ear and an open purse . " In the past four years Detroit has received more than $60 million in federal funds . " There 's an almost total lack of interest , lack of help on the part of the state , " says Mayor Jerome Cavanagh . " Then , along comes the Federal Government and , almost apologetically , it gives a little help . The Federal Government has been much more oriented toward solving the real problems that exist in this country , and those problems exist in , orban areas . " Examples of state default are easy to pinpoint . Most states have laws against water pollution . Yet in their frantic efforts to retain large industries , they enforce these laws lackadaisically . Sometimes , they are even more cooperative . In 1.947. for instance . the Florida legislature passed a bill allowing manufacturers in Taylor County to pour their industrial and chemical wastes into the Fenholloway River . Today the Fenholloway stinks . Yet during the 1965 session , Senator L.P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pollution of the river and its tributaries . The legislature passed the measure and sent it on to the governor . By this time , opposition had developed . Gov . Haydon Burns vetoed the bill . But then , in one of those Byzantine twists that typify Florida politics , he agreed to let another bill pass which states that no river or lake can be polluted unless the rules and regulations of the State Board of Conservation are followed . Since the State Board of Conservation has no rules covering pollution , anything goes . Consider also the field of medical care . In 1960 , Congress passed the Kerr-Mills Act . This program called for financial aid from the Federal Government but insisted on a minimum of federal control . It offered the states , in other words , an opportunity to prove they could solve the problem themselves . Eventually , 28 states took advantage of Kerr-Mills . But 22 others failed to use it in any way . Enter Medicare . " State governments are unequipped to understand urban problems , let alone solve them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can anyone logically expect any state government to develop the expertise to pass on a program like urbanrenewal  --  and what is the sense of putting three hundred people to work in a state capital trying to second-guess what the cities are doing ? Uncle Sam knows what we 're doing . I say , let state government ship out . " THE ONE-MAN , ONE-VOTE MESS Not long ago in Tallahassee , Fla. , the state sen. ate was locked in a bitter debate over urban renewal when up jumped Sen. Dempsey Barron with a remarkable suggestion : " Do n't you think that we could make a good argument that we need some slums in America so people can realize there is somewhere for them to work up to ? " How is it possible for state governments to be so out of touch with the realities of the urban age ? A primary cause of the illness is the malapportionment of state legislatures , a system under which rural representatives ( " The Cornstalk Brigade " in Ohio ; " Appleknockers " in New York ; " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) have been able to strangle their colleagues ' attempts to pass laws smacking even faintly of the 20th century . This malapportionment is a relatively recent phenomenon . The original constitutions of 36 states provided that representation in both houses of a state legislature should be based predominantly on population . In 27 of these states . population was to be the sole basis . Until 1930. most states obeyed their OW11 constitutions and reapportioned every 10 years . But suddenly they stopped . One reason was the mass migration to the cities , a migration that as early as 1920 gave urban America a majority of the population . Understandably , rural legislators did n't want to reapportion themselves out of office . But there was still another factor to be considered . By 1920. control of municipal government in Boston . Chicago . Kansas City and many other American cities had fallen into the clutches of corrupt political machines . The vision of these machines extending control across the state made rural lawmakers shudder . So malapportionment spread . By 1960. 11,9 per-cent of Connecticut 's population could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I lartforcl ( population 162,1781 had two delegates ; I i ( I Union ( population 383i . In California , state 1 ( or Tom Rees of Los Angelis County had .1,000 people in his district . His colleague , Sen-ator William Symons Jr. , was accountable to a mere 15.300 constituents spread over three barren northern counties . And in Vermont , where the vote of Frank A. Hutchins from Stannard population 1131 could cancel out the vote of Richard H. Schmidt from Burlington ( population 35,531 ) , some districts had extremes of 967 to one " To the beleaguered , small-town legislators in an unfriendly world of cities , " write Michigan State University professors Charles Press and Charles R. Adrian in The Antioch Rereew. " it often seems as if they are themselves the last stronghold of sanity and morality . Low taxes and simplicity in state government are their ' goal . " To gain these ends , the rural representatives have seldom needed to devise programs of their own . They needed only the power to impose a veto . Where malapportionment has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have used it mercilessly . For years the rural-dominated Indiana legislature prohibited Indianapolis from accepting federal grants for such programs as urban renewal . thereby denying the city an estimated $40 million Nor would the legislature allow gasoline-tax receipts to he used for improving the city 's streets . It was permissible . however . for these receipts to be used to pay for repairing roads and highways outside Indianapolis . A similar situation exists in Louisiana where  --  despite the decay of downtown Baton Rouge  --  the legislature still refuses to allow federal participation in urban renewal . In Connecticut not long ago , the legislature devised a state-aid formula that gave towns with less than 500 population $27.19 per student ; cities with more than 100.000 people received only $4.95 per pupil . By the same token , in Colorado , suburban Jefferson County received $100,000 more in state school aid than Denver  --  which had to support 72.000 more students . In Alabama . tiny Coosa County with only 10,000 residents , few cars and few roads to maintain receives as much from the state 's gasoline-tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registered automobiles . I n an effort to force their state to obey its own constitution . eradicate malapportionment and thereby snuff out a major cause of anti-urban discrimination , nine prominent Tennesseans tiled suit in 1959 against their secretary of state , Joe C. Carr . Since 1901. there had been no change in Tennessee 's legislative districts . Yet although the state 's major cities  --  Memphis , Nashville . Knoxville and Chattanooga  --  had grown substantially during that period , their voters could elect only 19 of the state 's 99 assemblymen . The urban plaintiffs charged that malapportionment diluted the value of their votes . After a succession of predictable lower-court defeats , the Tennesseans succeeded in bringing their suit to the United States Supreme Court . The High Court had heard such . rases before and always rejected them , claiming it lacked jurisdiction The Court had seemed to agree with the WA : Justice Felix Franklurtei. who m 19.16 Rad warned of the dangers that might ensue if the judiciary were to enLer the " political thicket " of legislative apportionment Yet alway ( ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their argument on Article Four . Section Four of the U.S. Constitution  --  the so-called guaranty clause ? which says The United States shall guarantee to every state . . a republican form of government " But Charles Rhyne , the attorney for the Tennessee plaintiffs , decided on a different attack . He would base his appeal on the " equal-protection clause " the provision written into the 14th Amendment which stipulates that no state " shall deny to any person the equal protection of the laws . " His strategy succeeded . On March 36,196 ' .3 , in deciding Baker vs . Carr . a majority of the Court ruled that legislative apportionment was , after all . a legitimate judicial issue . The Court 's decision opened the tower courts of the nation to a flood of reapportionment cases Thirty-six separate suits were filed within a 13-month period . Yet even as these cases entered litigation , the High Court was moving to expand its own doctrine . On June 15 , 1964 ? in what was un doubtedly the most significant judicial decision since public-school desegregation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state legislature had to be apportioned on the basis of population . No longer could history or social and economic con. siderations be given weight . The Court 's pronouncement applied directly only to cases in Alabama , Virginia , Delaware , Maryland , New York and Colorado , yet it implied that urban dwellers everywhere could attempt to gain fair representation by filing suit in lower courts . Thus it spelled upheaval for all but a handful of states . " Legislators represent people . not trees or acres , " wrote Chief Justice Earl Warren in the majority opinion . " Legislators are elected by voters , not farms or cities or economic interests . . . . To the extent that a citizen 's right to vote is debased , he is that much less a citizen . . . The weight of a citizen 's vote can not be made to depend on where he lives . . . . " Many disputed the right of the Court to make such a sweeping decision . Many more wondered whether such a broad interpretation of the equal-protection clause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthy , for example , to grant populous southern California near-absolute domination over the entire state ? Writing in the Harvard Law Review , attorney Philip Kurland accused the Court of " a lack of workmanlike performance " in reaching its conclusions . And in The Saturday Evening Post , Illinois Sen. Everett M. Dirksen charged that the Court had taken " what may prove to be the longest step toward creating a judicial dictatorship , . , Of the six cases decided by the Court , the one that aroused the most vehement criticism originated in Colorado . In 1961 the state legislature had devised a reapportionment plan which said that House representation should be based solely on population . But taking into account the size and diversity of the state , the plan also granted consideration to area in the shaping of senatorial districts . Placed on the ballot by popular initiative , the plan was approved overwhelmingly by Colorado 's voters who ? at the same time -- rejected another proposal to base both houses strictly on population . Yet now the Supreme Court , with the avow ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colorado 's majority vote . To man of the Court , the legal justification for such a step was flimsy at best . As the champion of these critics , Senator Dirksen began corralling support for a constitutional amendment that would allow the states to base one house of a legislature on " factors other than population . " But even as his drive gained momentum , the states were struggling to meet reapportionment deadlines imposed by lower courts . And the problems the states faced in meeting those mandates seemed almost insurmountable . The High Court had ordered the states to make " an honest and good faith effort to construct districts . . as nearly of equal population as is practicable . " But what , specifically , did " practicable " mean ? How much leeway did it allow from absolute mathematical equality ? The Supreme Court had handed this problem to the lower courts  --  and few of them could agree on a standard . second major obstacle was the fact that many state constitut ions prohibited the crossing of county lines in the creation of legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to conform to the High Court 's " one-man. one-vote " requirement Then . too . there were the knotty problems of personal loyalty and friendship . As one California senator put it . " How do you tell a man you 've worked with . voted with and drank with for 20 years that his services are no longer needed ? " In state after stare chaos ensued . In California the senate voted to split the state in half rather than submit to a plan that would transfer power to Los Angeles County . Connecticut 's legislators stalled until the last possible moment . reapportioned only after a three-judge panel ordered a Yale University computer expert to do the job . In Washington a reapportionment battle deadlocked the legislature for 47 days and st3 , - mied the passage of all but minor housekeeping bills . In Vermont one representative suggested that his colleagues chain themselves to their desks  --  to avoid giving up their seats . And in Florida , during one after-hours argument about the unorthodox tactics of the reapportioners , Rep. Claude Wingate beat up Rep. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Basford wore dark glasses " I 'd rather fight than switch , " he said . Despite occasional outbursts of bellicosity , legislators across the nation grudgingly conformed to lower-court mandates . The " Dirksen Amendment " seemed doomed : further legal appeals seemed futile . By January 1 , 1966. legislatures in 39 states had apportioned themselves  --  with varying degrees of success  --  and most of the rest were beginning to follow suit . From a political standpoint reapportionment should boost the fortunes of Republicans in the South , Southwest and West ; Democrats in New England and the Middle West . Minority groups will have a new voice  --  as witness the election of 10 Negroes to Georgia 's state legislature . And despite the dire predictions of conservatives , big-city political machines will not gain a hammer-lock on state government . Says William J.D. Boyd of the National Municipal League : " The suburbs . and in the long run only the suburbs will gain from reapportionment . " Census figures hack up his analysis . Of the 15 major U.S. cities . only Houston has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major cities have lost population . Somehow it seems ironic that a battle originally waged on h half of the cities ( continued on page , - 29 has been won on behalf of the suburbs . And the size of that suburban victory is already becoming apparent . Under a strict one-man , one-vote reapportionment plan in New York , for example , New York City will gain roughly a six-percent increase in representation . Suburban Nassau and Suffolk counties , however , will get a 100-percent increase . In Colorado the suburbs of Denver have already gained far more than the city itself . And in Michigan , Detroit actually lost six seats to its booming suburbs . As one of the first states to complete a session with a reapportioned legislature , Michigan provides a hint of what urban voters can expect . Like their rural predecessors . Michigan 's bright-eyed newcomers evidenced concern over " moral " issues : They turned down bills which would have given Detroit permission to sell liquor on Sunday and allow dog racing in the Motor City . But they also increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unemployment compensation by substantial amounts and provided homestead exemptions for senior citizens . Reapportionment in Michigan not only produced a legislature more willing to grapple with urban problems . it also focused attention on some of the more obsolescent aspects of the state 's government . As a result , Gov . George Romney succeeded in his effort to reduce the number of executive boards , bureaus and commissions from an unmanageable 140 to a streamlined 19 . What happened in Michigan is likely to happen elsewhere  --  thereby justifying a thesis held by many political scientists that reapportionment 's " fringe benefits " will be just as significant in the long run as the overt advantages gained from an equitable distribution of seats . **28;2613;TOOLONG Obviously , reapportionment is no miracle drug . Massachusetts , for example , has been fairly apportioned for years . yet incompetence and corruption have barnacled its government . And more ails Florida than the underrepresentation of Dade County . Among the most serious of the problems confronting the states  --  a problem that reapportionment alone can not solve  --  is the lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deceptive for  --  on the surface at least  --  the states appear to have plenty of money . Since 1948 state and local government expenditures have skyrocketed from $18 billion to more than $65 billion . In 1966 these governments will spend more for goods and services than the Federal Government . And state and local expenditures are rising eight percent a year  --  double the national growth rate . Some optimists like to say that these rising revenues mirror economic health . Actually , they only parallel the population increase  --  an increase that has already placed incredible burdens on state and local government resources . To cushion these burdens the Federal Government has enormously increased its aid to stateand local governments . Federal law , however , has dictated where most of the money could be spent , and the states have had to raise more than 80 percent of their budget increases by themselves . The states today collect five times as much money as they did 20 years ago , yet the sum is still not enough to meet the demands of citizens for an ever-increasing variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states have been facing fiscal crisis . In Ohio three years ago , the situation was so critical that Gov . James A. Rhodes had to lire 3,000 recently hired state employees , order all state agencies to cut back spending by 10 percent and ask state jobholders to work on Washington 's and Lincoln 's birthdays . Massachusetts today is practically insolvent . The state desperately needs $200 million to balance its budget , improve education and help its hard-pressed cities and towns . Gov . John A. Volpe has submitted six separate sales-tax bills to the legislature , but all have been defeated . In Pennsylvania the outlook is equally gloomy . Today the state has a surplus . But because of future expenses already mandated by the legislature , that surplus will evaporate soon . Pennsylvania 's five-percent sales tax is the nation 's highest . Now lawmakers face a cruel decision : They must extend the sales tax to include additional items , find an entirely new source of revenue or throw up their hands and declare bankruptcy . " We 're right on the edge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This could be the final precipice , " How have the states embroiled themselves in such dilemmas ? There is no single , simple answer . Fratricidal competition for industry , of course , has been a factor . All too often , state officials use tax exemptions to lure new businesses , thereby depriving states of possible revenue . Louisiana , for example . exempted $485 million worth of new plants and equipment last year . A second factor is the natural resistance of both legislators and voters to further tax increases , a resistance that stiffened when the Federal Government began to cut its taxes . Yet probably the most important cause of the crisis is that the states are burdened by unbelievably archaic tax structures . " They 're really not structures at all , " says W. Brooke Graves , a courtly , white-haired specialist on state government at the Library of Congress . " They 're just a crazy patchwork  --  an unearthly jumble of conflicting and overlapping provisions . " Louisiana , for example , levies 47 different state taxes , and 12 separate agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes produce a yield proportionate only to general economic growth , yet state expenditures are fast outpacing this economic growth . Obviously . the states need a tax that keeps pace with expenditures . The logical candidate is the income tax . But in the U.S. last year the personal-income tax accounted for only 14 percent of total state tax collections . Seventeen states have no income tax . Of those that do use an income tax , some apply it half-heartedly. others unfairly . Unless Expenditures stop rising faster than economic growth  --  an unlikely prospect ? or unless the states enact more effective income taxes , the gap between what the states pay out and what they take in will grow . Fiscal crisis will evolve into fiscal disaster . Most Americans find all this talk about fiscal crisis somewhat unreal . Businesses that go bankrupt often cease to exist , but for a state to stop functioning or pass out of existence  --  this would be impossible . So people do n't worry until they discover that all those services they demand from their state governments  --  schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And this is exactly what has been happening in New Jersey . As the nation 's most urban state . New Jersey ranks first in traffic density . Yet only Hawaii spends less per capita on roads and highways . New Jersey ranks 47th in state welfare aid and 48th in per capita education expenditures . The state 's health programs are in dismal shape . And so prevalent is urban blight that the nickname " Garden State " seems a macabre joke . T his rapid decline in state services was not inevitable . ( New Jersey ranks seventh in per capita wealth . ) It came about only because the state 's leaders were unwilling to act responsibly . In 1937 the legislature did muster the courage to pass a sales tax . But later the tax was repealed , and New Jersey lurched along . confident that it could meet its needs by slapping taxes on motor fuels , car registrations , cigarettes , liquor and pari-mutuel betting . The few legislators who called for a broad-based levy on income or retail sales were hooted off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for schools or hospitals or roads . It merely thrust these costs on already over-burdened local governments and told them to raise the money with a property tax . The local governments complied , and the result has been a shambles . In some communities the rate is five percent of value  --  or an annual tax of $500 on a$10.000 home . To retired persons or those with fixed incomes , such a rate is murderous . Today New Jersey 's per capita property taxes are among the nation 's highest . And although it has long been apparent that they have reached a ceiling beyond which they can not reasonably go , legislators have chosen to ignore the problem . In 1 ( 163 the senate majority leader could n't find a single name to add to his own as cosponsor of new tax bills needed to balance the budget . Yet until new revenue sources are tapped . the state will never have the money it requires for education , welfare . highways and public institutions . " We 've had some men in key positions who just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be met. " says Rutgers professor John Bebout . " There 's been a conspiracy of silence as regards state needs . " TVCONSTITUTIONS THAT CRIPPLE States like New Jersey are in fiscal difficulty today primarily because of inadequate effort . In other states . legislators ' attempts to streamline archaic tax structures are often stymied by constitutional restrictions . " We end up in incrediblebilak. " complains Rep. Abner Mikva of I " We ca n't do anything that common sense tells us to do betause I he Revenue Article of 1848 tells us we ca n't . " Some of these fiscal restrictions are quaint . California 's constitution , for example , contains B clause relating to the taxing of nut-bearing trees under four years of age . Other restrictions . however . are tragic obstacles . The constitutions of Illinois , Florida , Michigan . Pennsylvania , Tennessee and Washington flatly prohibit lawmakers from ever enacting a graduated income tax . In Alabama , 87 percent of all state revenues are earmarked by the constitution for specific purposes such as hospitals or schools . In Louisiana , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent . These provisions not only usurp the legislative function ; they also make it difficult for the state to allocate money for pressing needs . Equally serious are the debt limitations imposed by many state constitutions . Wisconsin is not allowed to borrow more than $100,000 ; Washington not more than $400,000 ; Pennsylvania not more than one million dollars . Most states , to be sure , have found a gimmick to circumvent such restrictions . They merely create private " authorities " that issue revenue bonds outside a state 's jurisdiction . Yet this kind of financing has several drawbacks . One is that authority borrowing often encourages waste . " It 's so much easier to get questionable projects okayed under an authority setup , " explains Pennsylvania Budget Director Martin Brackbill . " There 's no real pressure on anyone to stay within the budget . " A second drawback is that authority bonds cost more than revenue bonds floated directly by the state . In theory . at least , state constitutions should contain only fundamental provisions for the organization of government and the rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pettiness . Louisiana 's constitution , for example , is 227,000 words long and has had to be amended 462 times . The U.S. Constitution contains only 6,700 words and 24 amendments . ) It devotes five pages to the financing and management of the Upper Pentalba apartment building in New Orleans ; it also sets up a " Board of Control " for the New Basin Canal and Shell Road ; the New Basin Canal and Shell Road no longer exists . In Maryland the constitution contains 282 separate provisions . One clause bans hereditary titles ; another details the organization of the Baltimore Parking Authority . Kentucky 's celebrated document prohibits officeholders from dueling . And Idaho 's constitution . according to Gov . Robert Smylie , is still " filled with the cobwebs of bigotry , suspicion and restraint . " The vast majority of state constitutions were drafted in the 18th and 19th centuries , when government was implicitly regarded as a necessary evil and not a positive instrument of society , Implicit , too , was an assumption that elected officeholders could never be trusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In providing such checks these constitutional framers merely followed the principles of Andrew Jackson : demand frequent elections with lengthy ballots . stipulate short terms of office , prevent officeholders from succeeding themselves no matter how competent they prove to be . Above all . neuter the governor 's ability to govern by surrounding him with a swarm of elected assistants . Today most Americans no longer think of government as a necessary evil . They demand , instead , that government act to solve their problems . Yet they stymie action by keeping intact the state constitutional restrictions of a century ago . In 11 states the governor still serves a two-year term . In another 19 states he can not succeed himself . North Carolina 's constitution deprives the governor of his veto power . In other states the same result is achieved by different means . " More often than not , " says University of Utah law professor John J. Flynn , " executive power is vested in a troika of elected officials or in a similar unwieldy vehicle of administration which renders the state leaderless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issuing proclamations declaring a state pickle week . " In Maine , for example , Gov . John H. Reed is hamstrung by an elected seven-man executive council which must consent to his appointments and give its approval before funds can be withdrawn from the treasury . Until quite recently a similar situation prevailed in Massachusetts . " When I came into Office . " recalls former Gov . Endicott Peabody , " I could appoint only one department head  --  my commissioner of administration . Everyone else had already been appointed . " ardiag to Pennsylvania 's constitution . cc Gov . William Scranton 's appointments must be approved by a two-thirds ma- jority of the state senate . In theory , this sounds sensible . Yet because the Republicans in Harrisburg can not claim that majority and also because Democrats there would make the time of day a partisan issue ) , many of Scranton 's appointments have not yet been confirmed . State boards , bureaus and commissions must limp along at reduced strength . If archaic constitutions fragment the governor 's ability to govern , they pulverize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and most city councilmen are allowed to meet as long and often as necessary to solve their problems . Yet the constitutions of 15 states prohibit legislators from meeting in regular session any longer than 90 days every two years . These mandatory-adjournment deadlines often generate confusion . During the first two months of Connecticut 's 1963 session only five bills were passed . And then , as writer James N. Miller recalled in the National Civic Review , " they began to come through in increasing numbers-4,000 in all  --  droning through so fast and furiously during the final few days that many members had no idea what they were voting on and the legislature actually adjourned while forgetting to pass an essential 86.4-million education bill . " During a normal session , the average legislature will consider roughly 3.500 bills . The figure is rising rapidly . Some lawmakers do n't worry about the increase ( Maryland Rep. John McInerney smiles as he cites a colleague 's rule of thumb : " If a bill is over two pages , it ca n't be any good " ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurmountable . " You ca n't begin to read , let alone study all the bills . " says Illinois Rep. Adlai E. Stevenson III . " You do n't have any idea u-hat you 're voting on , so you end up voting your faith in or distrust of the sponsor . You make all sorts of mistakes , and you have to spend most of your time correcting the mistakes of previous sessions . " Perhaps more significant than the increase in the volume of legislation is the increase in its complexity . Last March 17 ? a typical day  --  Tennessee 's lawmakers were asked to vote on 26 bills and one resolution relating to : tax assessment of railroads , the soundness of government retirement programs . the payment of health- and accident-insurance proceeds to podiatrists , the I inteistate nuclear compact , the Lime of payment of reciprocity taxes , the registration of leased automobiles , **28;2643;TOOLONG services , abolition of the death penalty for rape or robbery , and detection of lung disease among fire lighters . Even with staff assistance Tennessee 's lawmakers would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one day . But individual legislators in Nashville have no stalT assistants at all . And their predicament is commonplace . Although most states maintain legislative-reference bureaus or research councils , these groups are usually sadly understaffed . In New Hampshire the legislative council is supposed to recommend legislation and prepare research reports . Yet its annual budget ? $2,500 ? is so small that it ca n't pay even for a single staff member . To get around such restrictions as the mandatory-adjournment deadline , more and more legislatures have been holding special sessions . Yet even then , in 24 states , they run into constitutionally prescribed time limits . And , often they are allowed to discuss only those items placed on the governor 's " call sheet . ' ' Also included in most state constitutions are clauses detailing the exact amount of lawmakers ' compensation . Over the years the salaries of members of Congress have increased gradually and now stand at a respectable 831,000 annually . Yet the salaries paid most state lawmakers still are based on a pinchpenny 's estimate of **25;2673;TOOLONG costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $100 a year , often hire out as racetrack ushers to supplement their income . Rhode Island pays its capitol doorkeepers $600 a year  --  twice as much as it doles out to its lawmakers . ( This may explain why a former senator is now a doorkeeper . ) And in Oklahoma legislators earn even less than janitors in state mental institutions . Partly because of the salary scale , the career of the average state legislator is short . Of Michigan 's 110 House members , 56 were new last year . In Colorado 36 of 65 representatives were serving first terms . And in Indiana , because of the swarm of inexperienced newcomers , the press corps referred to the lower chamber as the " Greenhouse . " In state after state a visiting reporter hears stories of outstanding legislators who had to resign simply because they could n't afford to serve any longer . " If a man wants to do a good job for his constituents , " says Pennsylvania Rep. K. LeRoy Irvis , " he must deny his family . I think that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earnest legislators often must feel like giving up . Everything conspires to make their task incredibly difficult . Of every $10 spent by the average state government , less than two cents goes to pay for legislative expenses . Only a handful of states provide offices or secretaries . so most legislators have to operate out of rented motel rooms . " Our lack of facilities is a crime , " says Colorado 's able Rep. Mark Hogan , " Our floor desk is our one and only base . We have no place for study or quiet or personal conferences . " Why , then , do Hogan and scores of other competent men bother to serve ? A crew-cut Kentucky senator named Vernon McGinty put his linger on perhaps the best explanation . " After serving one term there in the capital and seeing what can happen , " he said , " you feel you hare to go hack just to protect the people of the Commonwealth . " BEDLAM IN THE STATE HOUSE Unable or unwilling to do their job , lawmakers often seek bizarre releases for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the 1961 session of the Texas legislature : " One legislator pulled the cord out of the amplifier system ; another hit him from the blind side with a tackle ; there was mass pushing , hitting , clawing and exchanges about one another 's wives . mistresses , and forebears . Sweethearts and wives ... cowered near the desks . In the middle of the brawl a barbershop quartet of legislators quickly formed at the front of the chamber and . sang , I Had a Dream , Dear , " In Maryland in 1965 House Speaker Marvin Mandel adjourned a drunken session by confessing . " We ca n't go on like this . " In Alabama a few years ago . Senator Harlan Alien appeared at a Temperance Committee hearing and made a speech against demon rum . Curiously , after a long lunch . he reversed his field and spoke in praise of demon rum . Then a bottle dropped from his pocket and fell to the floor where it soon became the object of a soccer game , Drinking on the floor of the Florida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when half the members became inebriated and passed a tax on soft drinks sold at dog tracks . That ruling , however , has not entirely dimmed lawmakers ' enjoyment of a ripping good time . During a special reapportionment session last June , a number of legislators engaged in a free-for-all and pool-dumping spree at a posh Tallahassee motel . Sen.ator Welborn Daniel sprayed his colleagues with a portable fire extinguisher . Former State Beverage Director L. Grant Peeples lost his shirt in the melee . The wife of one legislator , in company with a number of female motel guests . tossed a senator into the swimming pool . As if in anticipation of such high jinks. a sign had appeared in to window of the motel a few mornings earlier acrdressed to the Speaker of the House Pro Tern , BALDY STR/Ck . LAND , it said , PLEASE Go How : . For lawmakers who want to work off their frustrations without being quite so physical , there is a second potential release . They can  --  and do  --  spend huge amounts of time deliberating matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to apply in such cases . The more corm plex an issue is , the less time is needed to dispose of it . And vice versa . In Tennessee , for example , lawmakers passed the executive budget in 30 minutes , then spent hours debating the licensing of hairdressers . And in Louisiana , where legislators approved a onebillion-dollar budget bill almost without a whimper , the sex life of catfish in Jefferson Parish : County ) seemed to be a matter of utmost concern . During the 1964 session a measure had passed allowing cans to be used in the capture of catfish . These cans , lawmakers reasoned , would slip away from fishermen and drop to the bottom , thereby providing fine spawning places for catfish . But then someone checked and reported that catfish were n't breeding any more than usual . So last year legislators repealed the law . Some of these inconsequential measures can be traced to legislatures ' refusal to grant home rule to counties , cities and villages under their jurisdiction . In Maryland , for example . it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session decreasing the license fees for ice-cream vendors in Worcester County . For under the present arrangement , Worcester County  --  and 18 of the state 's 22 other counties  --  must run to the legislature whenever it wants to alter minute details of its governmental structure . Yet most of the time such trivia comes as a welcome diversion . It offers exhilarating alternatives to legislators who really do n't want to worry about urban renewal , civil rights or mass transportation . It makes them feel that they have accomplished something . and it often provides a few chuckles , as when , in North Carolina last spring , one legislator introduced a resolution to honor Cimex lectularius  --  the bedbug  --  as the official state insect . The measure was extedmnatal in committee . VICONFLICT OF INTEREST Breaches of decorum and a preoccupation with trivia are relatively harmless outgrowths of legislative impotence . But the absence of adequate salaries . facilities and staffs for men who are by necessity only part-time public servants breeds other , more dangerous outgrowths : rampant conflicts of interest and the domination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business of government . " said former New York Gov . Thomas E. Dewey in 1954. " can not and should not be separated from the dav-today lives of the human beings who conduct it . The problem is to separate the unavoidable conflicts from the venal and the doubtful ; to chart the shadowlands of conduct where men of goodwill may have difficulty in deciding whether a course is proper or improper . " Men of goodwill are still having trouble deciding where to draw the line . " We 're all basically against conflict of interest , " says Anthony C. Beilenson , an outstanding California memblyman , " hut it 's hard for an attorney , You ca n't have a client who does n't have sine dealing with a state agency . l do n't believe I should lose clients just because I 'm a legislator . Yet I do believe it 's morally wrong for me to represent these pta ) ple before state agencies . " Not all lawmakers share Beilenson 's sensibilities . in New York last spring , it was revealed that Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been " retained and employed as counsel " until 1964 by a Manhattan firm called Blauvelt Engineering . Under New York law , nn public official can have an interest in a firm that does more than $25 worth of state business without public bidding . Begley owned a 40 percent interest in each of two Blauvelt affiliates . Over an eight-year period the State Department of Public Works awarded Blauvelt more than eight million dollars in highway contracts . There had been no public bidding . In Colorado last year a bill was introduced to raise the interest rates on loans from industrial banks . Two of its most fervent advocates were House Republican leaders John Vanderhoof and John Mackie . Both men are officers of industrial banks . The House passed the measure  --  but only after tacking on an amendment that would have required bankers to reveal the actual rates of interest that they were charging borrowers . a truth-in-lending provision . The bill then went to the Senate Business Affairs Committee . And who should appear there as a witness in a successful effort to persuade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Vanderhoof . Colorado law says legislators should refrain from voting on matters involving possible conflict of interest , but leaves the decision up to .. he individual 's conscience . Sighs one of Vanderhoof 's colleagues , " It seems there are few tender con , ciences around . " I n Florida , where blatant conflicts of interest spring into view as frequently as palm trees , a kind of easy morality seems to pervade all levels of the state government . Under Florida law , for example , the governor is prohibited from owning stock in a company that sells liquor . The maximum penalty prescribed for violating this statute is removal from office and six months in prison . Yet during his recent term in Tallahassee , Gov . Farris Bryant was a stockholder in a Titusville cafe that sold liquor by the drink  --  without a state license . Nobody seemed to care . Nor did many Floridians howl when it was revealed that the state banking commissioner had helped to transfer state funds to a bank of which he had just become president ; that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year in casualty and property-damage insurance premiums was being steered to the governor 's personal and political friends ; that the state superintendent of schools was purchasing office supplies and equipment from a firm headed by his son-in-law . Both houses of the Florida legislature have rules prohibiting members from voting on measures that might affect their private business interests , In the last decade , however , only two members have cited these rules as an excuse for not voting . When he is not serving in the legislature , William H. Reedy is a public-relations man for the Florida Telephone Corporation . Yet during the 1965 session  --  as Representative Reedy  --  he fought diligently against a bill which would have allowed the Florida Public Service Commission to conIn Rhode Island , sider the telephone company 's quality of service in future rate hearings . On the other side of the aisle , Senator John M. Spottswood  --  a sometime sleeper during debates  --  doubles as the president of a Key West firm called Cable-Vision , Inc . But there he was last session , introducing Senate Bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , . . the right , privilege . license and franchise for a period 0130 years for the operation of a cable-television system throughout Monroe County .... " The measure passed and became law . From time to time in Florida attempts have been made to pass a meaningful code-of-ethics bill . Every effort has failed . VII THE LOBBIES RUN WILD Until 1949 few Americans had ever heard of a genial , roly-poly Californian named Arthur H. Samish . And that was just the way he wanted it . Samish was a lobbyist  --  a great persuader for racetracks , building-and-loan companies , distilleries  --  and in order for him to gain his ends , he had to operate in shadows . Samish was powerful ; no doubt about that . " I 'm the governor of the legislature . " he would say to friends . " To hell with the governor of the state . " And Samish was shrewd . " I can tell if a man wants a baked potato , a girl or money , " he liked to boast . He was usually right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expos ? of his activities . The California legislature launched a probe of its own . Soon Artie Samish  --  like Humpty Dumpty  --  took a tumble , and capital observers breathed a sigh of relief . The era of lobbyist domination . they thought , had come to an end . Their optimism was premature . Over the past 17 years , lobbying has changed only in style . " Lobbyists are more subtle today , " explains California 's Assemblyman Beilenson . " They do n't just give you money and expect a vote . " Leaning back in his soft leather chair , his feet propped up on his desk , his face half hidden from an interviewer by a vase full of pink gladioli , Gov . Edmund G. : Pat ) Brown decries the power of the " third house " in Sacramento . " The lobbyists will go along with you on social legislation , " he says , " education , mental health , things like that . But if you want to get a truth-in-lending bill or improve insurance laws or get rid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the governor . I do n't think the situation has really changed since Samish . Some interests today are stronger than they were in that era , and they have a great deal more money to spend than he ever had . " It should be emphasized , of course , that lobbyists perform a legitimate , even necessary function in bringing their clients ' interests to lawmakers ' attention . ( This is even more true in state capitals than it is in Washington , D.C. , for members of Congress have access to the staffs and research facilities the average state legislator does without . ) It should be emphasized , too , that in many cases these client interests are happily synonymous with the public interest . Lobbyists for the Iowa Slate Education Association , for example . exerted considerable and commendable effort last session in helping legislators reach a desperately needed solution to school-reorganization problems . Other legislative halls are crowded with advocates of safer highways , water-pollution control and conservation . They , too , are lobbyists . The difficulty stems from the inability  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-serving private interests and the public interest . I n Winter Haven . Fla. , a few years ago , the Continental Beverages Corp . began to produce premixed alcoholic drinks using citrus as a base . Rum Swizzles , Salty Dogs , Screw Drivers , Orange Blossoms  --  the beverages rolled off the assembly line in six- and eight-ounce cans . In 1963 the corporation applied for and received from the legislature an 80 percent tax break on the grounds that its product constituted a " new industry " for the state . This tax break , it was stipulated , would last for two years only . Last spring , an amiable , sandy-haired man named Phil Lucey showed up in Tallahassee to lobby for Continental . He was only one in a Panzer division of 637 registered lobbyists , yet he promptly established himself as a generous dispenser of liquid largesse . He maintained a three-room suite at the focal hostelry and gave away an estimated $1,700 worth of booze each week . In time a bill was introduced to extend Continental 's tax break for another two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won from the state . But then no one had ever labored so hard as Lucey . The bill , of course , was passed  --  saving Continental roughly $400,000 per year in taxes . In Florida over the past decade business has controlled the legislature through a coalition of rural lawmakers called the Pork Chop Gang . In Texas , where oil and gas reign supreme , there is no such colorful designation for the minions of industry . Yet they dance to the same tune . Willie Morris , who covered the proceedings in Austin for the Texas Observer , recalled in a magazine article not long ago that " Sometimes , it was too much for one to bear , the more or less constant spectacle of legislators backed by the sanction of powerful business lobbies frustrating the few good and intelligent men who are willing to labor in the maw of small-time politics .... Fifty-thousand-a-year corporation lawyers flocked to committee hearings . especially on taxes and appropriations , to argue their favorite theme : ' You ca n't tax a corporation ; a corporation is all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a legislator who had confided in him late one evening . " You know , " the legislator said , " a politician 's got to sell out to somebody ; it 's just a matter of pickin ' the right people to sell out Lo . I 've sold out to the truckers and to liquor .... The truckers are n't a bad group , and the good thing about the liquor boys is that when you vote for the truckers when you really do n't want to , you can go off and get drunk about it free of charge . " At the close of Tennessee 's 1963 session , reporter Bill Kovach asked a senator if he could cite a single piece of legislation enacted side/i. for the benefit of the public . The senator thought for a moment and then admitted he could n't . In 1965 , Kovach did n't even bother to ask . For the lawmakers in Nashville last session were nothing if not Pavlovian in their responsiveness to business . In rapid succession they approved measures that : eased penalties on corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truckers caught hauling more weight than allowed under the law ; curbed imports of foreign-grown OCTOPUS IN THE STATE HOUSE meats to pacify the cattle industry ; eased daft controls of insurance company operations and reduced the gross-receipts taxes on soft-drink bottles . The legislature did pass a measure regulating billboards , yet the controls were suggested  --  some insist drafted  --  by the industry itself . An effort WAS made to regulate strip-mining of coal , yet it was crippled by amendments . And when Gov . Frank G. Clement asked for a $1.15-an-hour minimum wage , legislators mutilated the measure . " Everybody has a lobby up here but the public , " sighs Rep. Charles Galbreath . F orty-three states have laws on their books that regulate lobbying . In theory these statutes are admirable . In practice they 're often meaningless . Georgia , for example . has a law requiring all lobbyists to register with the secretary of state . In the past 25 years only one man has obeyed that law . The opposition a legislature encounters when it tries to strengthen its lobbying law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the early weeks of the session , the legislature was tied up in heated debate over a measure to ban billboards on interstate highways . One of the measure 's strongest advocates was Roland Mapelli. a Denver senator who is also a partner in a wholesale-meat concern . On March 5 Senator Mapelli announced to his colleagues that his meat firm had lost a $60,000-a-year contract . The reason given was his support of the billboard ban . And further boycotts were being threatened . As a result of his disclosure a bill was introduced in the House to authorize a probe of lobbyists ' activities . It passed with ease , But when the measure reached the Senate , it ran into flak . Lobbyists. explained Sen. Frank Gill , " are just trying to make the wheels of government go around . " Added Senate President A. Woody Hewett : " It 's none of our business what lobbyists are paid or what they spend . We should just try to get along with our good lobbyists and ignore the others . " His reasoning prevailed ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NOTORIOUS EXAMPLE In no state do so many of the body sores afflicting state government fester quite so appallingly as they do in Illinois . In fairness it should be noted that in Otto Kerner , Illinois has an honest and reasonably effective governor . It should be noted , too , that many state legislators are men of exceptional integrity and ability . And finally . it should be stated that in 1965 the legislature succeeded in passing many constructive measures . It increased the state-aid-guarantee formula to public schools from $252 to $330 per pupil ; it passed 14 anti-crime bills ; it adopted a constitutional amendment to modernize the state 's tax laws and it agreed to eliminate billboards on interstate highways . In retrospect , these achievements seem remarkable , for few state governments suffer so from archaic structure and lackadaisical attitude as Illinois . Like their colleagues elsewhere , Illinois ' lawmakers lack adequate facilities and staffs . The House Education Committee , for example , relies on one part-time clerk . Nor do they receive adequate salaries . Their independence is further compromised by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs in the city administration of Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley . And Daley 's minions supply these members with an ' idiot list : . advising them how to vote on complex issues , : qt s hard for a guy to be an independent thinker. " admits Rep. Cecil Partee , " when his second job depends on the man who dispenses patronage . " Additionally , some legislative committees are stacked with members of questionable objectivity . As Rep. Abner Mikva points out , " The insurance industry runs the Insurance Committee , the railroads run the Railroad and Public Utilities Committee , the bankers run the Banking Committee . Even if it is n't outright corruption , is n't it a corruption of the process ? What happens to the public interest ? " During the 1963 session a bill was introduced to decrease consumer-credit interest rates from 13 percent to nine percent . The Senate Banking Committee , which is populated largely by bankers , approved the measure  --  but only after attaching an amendment which increased the interest rate , in effect , to 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study the diseases of racehorses . When the measure was introduced . Senator Paul Simon asked the sponsor how much the legislature was spending on cancer research . The sponsor did n't know . Then another senator rose to announce , " I 've been betting on horses for some years now , and I 'm sure they have some type of disease . I 'm for the bill . " It passed and became law . Concerned citizens in the state hoped reapportionment might improve the legislature , and toward the end of the 1963 session lawmakers did pass a reapportionment plan . But it benefited rural Southern Illinois while cheating Chicago 's expanding suburbs . Governor Kerner vetoed the measure , and in November , 1964. an unprecedented at-large election was held for all the House seats . Both parties nominated 118 candidates and both studded their tickets with " blue-ribbon " namesAdlai E. Stevenson 111 for the Democrats ; Earl Eisenhower for the Republicans . The Johnson landslide carried all 118 Democrats into office . The Illinois Senate , to be sure , remained the fief of rural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in enacting a program of far-reaching reform . " Reform , " it seemed , was a word on everyone 's lips during those early days in January , 1965 , as the legislature convened in Springfield . Already Democrat Theodore Isaacs , a former State Rev-enue Director , had been indicted on 33 counts of conflict of interest , collusion and conspiracy , Nearly a year later the indictment was dismissed , but at the time it caused great public outrage. ) i And then , in an article in Harper 's Magazine , Senator Simon had quoted a colleague 's estimate that one third of all Illinois lawmakers regularly accepted payoffs . Simon - tad gone even further  --  detailing the quaint and venerable practice by which certain lawmakers profited from " fetchers , " In Springfield , where residents usually refer to I heir capitol as the " steal mill , " a " fetcher " ig a hill that seeks to place unrealistic cemtrols sonic industry or occupation . A typical fetcher ' night outlaw coin vending machines . When the affected companies agreed to pay a suitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lust exempting all cigarette vending machines . then all candy and gum vending machines , then all the rest . In other state capitals such measures are known as " jingle bills , " " satchel grabbers " and " Mae Nests " ( " Come on up ' n see me sometime " ) , Yet nowhere is the state of the art more advanced than in Illinois . And this is what Simon had the courage to point out . The outcry was predictable . Legislators screamed " Foul . " In their indignation they authorized the Illinois Crime Commission to launch an investigation , not only of Simon 's charges , but also of other possible breaches of ethics in the state government . And when Governor Kerner mentioned the need for a conflict-of- interest law in his " State of the State " address to the legislature , he was applauded  --  an amazing occurrence in Illihois . Did this mean the legislature really wanied reform ? Some lawmakers were hopeful . Rep. Abner Mikva , for one , introduced a bill aimed at eliminating conflicts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightening controls on lobbyists , And from capable House Speaker John P. Touhy came a stern warning : no more fetchers . F ebruary passed ; then March and April and May . The Senate passed hundreds of " little bills " made necessary by the lack of home rule . It decided that well diggers and tree trimmers and funeral directors had to be U.S. citizens . And it showed concern over birds . At issue , specifically , was a bill to change the official state bird from the cardinal to the purple martin . The purple martin , it seemed , had many backers . Some Springfield bars began serving purple Martinis . In the middle of the debate Chicago Sen. Anthony DeTolve  --  a relative by marriage of crime czar Sam ( Mooney ) Giancanajumped up with an alternate suggestion . The official state bird , he cried , should be the stool pigeon . Despite such moments of hilarity. a mood of uneasiness began to pervade the musty old capitol . The Senate had not yet tackled any of the really important legislative questions before it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission probe ? What had its members found ? A partial answer was forthcoming in June . Ray Coffey , an able , hard-digging reporter for the Chicago Daily News , revealed that the Crime Commission had interrogated Secretary of State Paul Powell about the sources of his outside Income . Of particular interest to the commission was an $8.000 " finder 's fee " listed on Powell 's income-tax return . The donor of that fee was an ex-convict named Irwin S. ( Big Sam , Wiedrick who , since 1946. has been closely associated with harness racing in the state . Many observers recalled that as Speaker of the House in 1961 , Powell had led the tight to quash a bill increasing harness-racing taxes . Was there a connection between the $8,000 and Powell 's stand ? At 64 , Powell is handsome . friendly . i.1 ( . appealingly folksy . His conversation drip- . - j1 colloquialisms from his southern Illinois birthplace of Vienna ( pronounced V . iota i. a land he describes as being " so pool i ca n't raise an um-brella on it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoes and The legislature was stunned . Soon shock evolved into panic . Rep. Abner Mikva 's conflict-of-interest hill was rescued from committee where it had been facing a slow but certain death . So was Rep. Adlai E. Stevenson Ill 's lobby-control measure . With yelps of righteous indignation , the House passed both measures and sent them on to the Senate . " This is the moment of truth , " cried Republican Senate Whip Robert J , Coulson . " You can begin with me the long hard road back to restore the honor and dignity of legislatures everywhere . " Coulson 's colleagues were unimpressed . After listening to Sen. John A. Graham attack Stevenson as a " liberal do-gooder who was trying to convict by innuendo fellows in the Senate who are don* a helluva lot better job than he is in the House or his dad is in the United Nations , " they emasculated both measures . " If there is decay in government , " reasoned Sen. Hudson Sours. " it is because there is also decay in the electorate . " Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislature 's difficulties on the man who had first pointed a finger at corruption . Sen. Paul Simon . During the official Senate dinner late in the session he nominated Simon for the " Benedict Arnold Award . " Lawmakers applauded . then named Sours to the Illinois Crime Commission And there was still further irony . Despite the embarrassment they had caused their legislative friends . lobbists Maslowsky , Gottlieb and Kaplan achieved their goal . The bill to ease state restrictions on mobile check-cashing firms was defeated . ut the legislature was really only warming up to its task , In rapid succession and with obvious relish the Senate proceeded to kill six open-occupancy bills that would have guaranteed Negro housing rights , another bill that would have provided $27 million for the education of slum children . a measure requiring the registration of handguns and another bill which would have prohibited B-girls from soliciting drinks from customers of bars . When it came time to dispose of Representative Scariano 's bill to authorize a probe of inadequate insurance statutes , senators encountered more difficulty . After all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one had to respect the tenacity of young Phil Benefiel. its sponsor in the Senate . Working frantically , Benefiel lined up just enough votes to get his measure passed . Then pressure was applied . When the senate voted , four Democrats found themselves unable to participate . The bill was defeated . Throughout the long session Republican Leader W. Russell Arrington had refused to consider Mayor Richard JDaley 's $50-million tax-package plan for Chicago ! including salary increases for firemen and policemen ! . No action could he taken on this , Arrington anRepublicans . Republicans angrily blamed Democrats . 13u1 the GOT .. Arrington explained , would not he vengeful . It would consider Mayor Daley- 's tax program " on its merits . " math that , the Rep111311C.1 , i , , proceeded to wash the program . L Ihe drain . On I I ? finial night or Iles senators i to a speech In the dog u. , nun 's best friend , I. arf , " they barked when the speaker paused . Over in the louse . lawmakers passed a resolution hailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislators buckled down to business . They did n't do anything about reapportionment ?  - -  or about a fiscal crisis that left the governor $107 million short of requirements to linance the state for the next two years . They did amend an appropriations bill by mistake  --  thereby stripping Chicago Teachers ' College of a desperately needed five million dollars . They did make a second mistake . which caused 50,000 state employees to receive their paychecks late . And then there was Rep. Abner Niikva 's bill to increase the state police rolls from 1.100 to 1,500 men . It passed the House , but disappeared in the Senate . And nobody knew where to find it . Said Senator Arrington , wearily . " We hope that was the only bill we lost . " A few days after the session ended , Arrington graciously consented to review the record in a private interview . Like Paul Powell . he is a self-made man , a millionaire who rose from humble origins to become his party 's leader in the Senate as well as general counsel and vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , brisk , florid-faced . Arrington has had two heart attacks already . But now  --  sitting behind a desk in his Chicago office  --  he seemed relaxed . " It was the most successful session we 've ever had , " he insisted . " the most productive in history . All of the governor 's substantial ' tax increases were denied . It ended up in a quarrel . but that 's what legislatures are for . " " How about ethics ? " he was asked . Did he expect the legislature to pass any meaningful ethics bills in its next session ? For a few seconds . the senator paused . " Well , " he began , " this was the session to do it . We had the Isaacs rase ; we had Simon 's article ; we had the tapes .... " He did n't fully answer the question , but then he did n't have to . The implication was clear . IX CAN THE STATES REFORNI ? 1 .. " : 1til a few decades ago the average American state was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the happy incidents of the Federal system . " wrote Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis in 1932. " that a single courageous state may ... serve as a laboratory and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country . " Many states did innovate . Under Gov . Huey Long . Louisiana pioneered splendid welfare programs . For years A few states still innovate . North Carolina set Op an excellent anti-poverty program using private funds . Connecticut recently required fluoridation ni water in all communities of more than 211 , t ill persons . Wisconsin devised ; I jai/grain 0 acquire outdoor recreational areas : nearly 145,000 acres have been set aside already . Yet the list of pioneering efforts is short . To many critics this suggests that the states are not only unwilling but also unable to solve important problems by themselves . But in several instances  --  where the states mustered the will  --  they 've found a way . California provides an example . In 1944 , the California General Assembly tried to change its name . Too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a factory assembly line . The attempt was unsuccessful , yet it was easy to understand the legislature 's desire to improve its image . At the time . that image was terrible . " On St. Patrick 's Day of 1946. " recalls author Joan Didion , " I was taken to see the legislature in action . a dismal experience . A handful of florid assemblymen wearing green hats were reading Pat and Mike jokes into the record . I still think of the legislature that way  --  wearing green hats and sitting on the veranda of the Senator Hotel and entertaining Ilobbyistj Artie Samish 's emissaries . " Miss Didion 's portrait is outdated . In recent years , that legislature has shown both ability and willingness to innovate . California 's freeway system , for example , was the stepchild of Sen. Randolph ( The Silver FoxJ Collier . The state 's master plan for education was drafted by Sen. George Miller Jr. ; so excellent was this plan that it is now being copied in a dozen states . And from the Assembly came a scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories . " Last spring the state hired four aerospace firms to find solutions to problems of crime and transportation that Cali-fornia will face in the year 2.000 . A visitor to Sacramento is struck by legislators like Jerry Waldie , the trim , dark-haired , 40-year-old Democratic majority leader in the Assembly . An intense man who cares deeply about the problems of mental retardation , he directed a year-long probe of the state 's mental institutions . then pushed through sweeping reforms . Or consider Sen. Tom Rees , a lanky , informal man who is perhaps the only lawmaker in the nation with the intestinal courage needed to pour a jigger of gin into a glass of Scotch whiskey and then swallow the mixture without grimacing . Rees , recently elevated to the U.S Congress in a special election , is concerned about urban sprawl . " One third of all our downtown areas are made up of ugly parking lots , " he says , and he grins as he tells a visitor about an informal group he has organized " to give awards to the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The name of this group is Los Angeles OCTOPUS IN THE STATE ROUSE Gruesome ( LAG ) ; he hopes it skill spread to the Hay AIL San Francisci BAGI and evcntualh lament() itsel f ( SAG ) . Men Likc Waldie and Rees can wrestle with cornOlex problems primarily because they have provided themselves with adequate tools . A legislator 's basic salary is just $6,000 , but the state provides fringe benefits ( among them : an automobile , oil- and telephone-company credit cards ) which , in effect , double that amount . Furthermore , each legislator has a private office and at least one assistant  --  not only in Sacramento but also in his home district . Even more significant is the amount of professional help lawmakers receive . Each of the Assembly 's 23 committees , for example , has a staff director and a secretary ; some committees have a dozen employees . In addition , there is a " floating " central staff of men and women who can be loaned out as the need arises . To answer general questions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills and get legal opinions , they rely on a legislative council of 20 attorneys . And when they want to examine such matters as the governor 's budget requests , they turn to a separate staff of 16 fiscal analysts . " We have had to develop these tools , " says Assembly Speaker Jesse M. Unruh , " so we would n't be conned all the time either by the executive branch or by the special-interest groups . " Unruh himself has played a major role in that development . Once , asked why California had such a progressive legislature , he replied , " Me . " It was hardly an overstatement . asically Unruh is a pragmatist . Over and over again , in a somber , bullfrog voice , he reiterates his favorite theme : A legisla- ture can not be the expressive arm of government until it is independent . And it can not be independent until it is adequately paid , housed and staffed . He suggests further that " state government could profit greatly by emulating the ' result ' orientation of private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a new politics that is not restricted by conventional wisdom or ideological rigidity . If we can not generate thinking in state government , " he adds , " then we can not survive . " California is not the sole repository of political virtue in the United States , nor is its virtue uniform . Like other state governments , California 's is ever threatened by human fallibility and often thwarted as it gropes toward a future of awesome complexity . Yet in its demonstrated willingness to grapple with gut issues , the state can serve as a qualified example to its 49 sisters . There are signs that the states  --  frightened by the specter of further federal encroachment and mounting fiscal crisis and shaken by the rigors of reapportionment  --  are gaining vitality . Some states , for example , are experimenting with regional solutions to the urban problems that often spill across arbitrary boundary lines . Indiana and Illinois signed a compact on air pollution last year . and New York has joined with Pennsylvania , Ohio , Indiana and Michigan to reverse the tide of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted an interstate compact on education and set up a commission to make recommendations to the states . " We are coming to realize , " says former North Carolina governor Terry Sanford , " that education is too large and too important a subject to be left to the haphazard chance of unconnected state and local efforts . It is also too complex to be left to a single guiding national hand . " To solve their pressing fiscal problems , the states have lately been exerting tremendous efforts . Indiana , for example , faced a money crisis two years ago . The state desperately needed $200 million . Its level of services was abysmal . Its citizens were screaming about inadequate schools , high prop-erty taxes and the inability of the legislature to rise above petty partisanship . Then the legislature bravely enacted a compromise tax plan . Republicans accepted a two-percent income tax ; Democrats a two-percent sales tax . It was stipulated that poor families who paid sales taxes on such essentials as food could apply for refunds on the state 's income tax . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plates blossomed with the unofficial legend , " Land of Taxes , " and several legislators who voted for the plan were defeated in the 1964 elections . But the plan has worked . Over the past 24 months the state of Indiana has not only veered away from bankruptcy ; it has also improved its services substantially . In 31 states last year legislators mustered sufficient courage to increase existing taxes . Additional increases are expected this spring . There is , however , a practical and political ceiling on the amount of money the states can collect by themselves . Realizing this , most governors and legislators have been pinning their hopes on federal acceptance of a modified " Heller plan . " Before Dr. Walter Heller resigned as chairman of the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , he proposed a plan whereby the Federal Government would return a fixed portion of income-tax funds to the states . The states could use this money in almost any way they saw fit . As Heller envisioned it . the plan would not only reduce a worrisome federal surplus ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partners in the federal system . Organized labor howled , So did the liberal wing of the Democratic Party . If the states are handed gift packages from Washington , their argument ran , the states would simply lower taxes and forget about improving services . In addition , they claimed . the Heller plan would deflate the current pressure on the states to modernize their own archaic tax structures . President Johnson seemed impressed with such reasoning . And he seemed piqued , too , by what he considered to be a premature disclosure of the plan in The New York Times . So nothing was done about it . Last October , New York 's Sen. Jacob Javits introduced a modified version of the plan in Congress . Javits 's proposal would evstablish a trust fund of about $2.5 billion . Eighty percent of this money would be distributed on the basis of population ; the remaining 20 percent would be divided among the states with the lowest per capita incomes . The money could he used only for health , education and welfare projects . Javits , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority . It is unlikely that the plan will win congressional approval this year . " But sooner orlater the Federal Government is bound to adopt it , " insists one Washington economist . " Similar schemes have already been tried successfully in Australia and Canada . " The economist pauses . then grins . " If you like this idea , " he says , " you better start calling it the Johnson plan . " In an effort to disentangle themselves from a web of outmoded restrictions , at least 25 state , have established constitutional-revision commissions . Almost all these commissions are reccan. mending that many previously elective positions he made appointive ; that governors be given longer terms and greater powers ; that archaic borrowing and taxing provisions be thrown on the junk pile . " Not since the Southern states reentered the Union after the Civil War , " says Alfred Willoughby , executive director of the National Municipal League , " has there been such a widespread examination of state constitutions , And this is only the beginning . " As a further outgrowth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The number of states holding annual sessions , for example . has risen sharply in the last decade . In Pennsylvania , Maryland . Montana and other states , lawmakers ' salaries are being increased . ( " You wo n't get better legislators merely by paying more money , " says one lifelong student of state government , " but you wo n't get better legislators unless you do . " ) Gradually most legislatures are beginning to realize the importance of sound research . Some are taking advantage of a legislative-intern program cosponsored by the Fofd Foundation ; others are strengthening existing staffs . And many legislatures are even paying attention to those old bugaboos  --  conflict of interest and control of lobbying . New York , for example , strengthened its code of ethics last session . And in Nebraska , where lobbying activities were likened recently to " a semaphore operation on the railroad , " lawmakers approved a measure providing that lobbyists can be fined and thrown into jail for six months if convicted of contempt of the legislature . S uch improvements , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they 're not too few in number and too late in coming . The trend of the times seems to be running against the states . As the nation becomes increasingly mobile , state boundaries will become even less significant . As federal programs proliferate , state programs will shrivel . As they expect less and less from state government . Americans will show even less interest in it . Citizen loyalties will focus instead on Washington , D.C. And if the states are deprived of these loyalties , they will cease to function as meaningful units of government . " The states today , " says Pennsylvania Rep. K. LeRoy frvis. " are under the same sort of evolutionary pressure that animals are under . If they do n't shape up , they 'll get eaten up . " Can the states , somehow , shape up ? Can they recapture the loyalty of their constituents . retain their role as active partners in the federal system and stem the tide of sweeping centralization ? The only way in which the states can erect a barrier against the extension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states to strengthen their governments .... " As this can not be done by any change in the Federal Constitution . . . it must be done by the states themselves ... " The author was Thomas Jefferson . D                     