@@477899

THE federal Narcotics Bureau is in trouble . For decades this agency lived high in the bureaucratic fastnesses where FBI men and other Jovian characters dwell . It sighed and Presidents groveled ; it uttered and critics gaped ; it asked and Congress gave . But all that is ending now . Slowly , laboriously , the Bureau 's multiplying critics have been building up their case . A New York City Chief Magistrate recently condemned the Bureau 's policies as " sadistic . " Hard-driving liberals speak of Harry J. Anslinger , the Bureau 's leader , as The Untouchable " and hint that his retention by the Kennedy Administration owed much to the turn of marked political cards . Objections to the Bureau 's methods have lately appeared in periodicals ranging in temper ( and audience ) from the elite monthly , Commentary , to the Sunday supplement , This Week . Respected Congressmen on both sides of the aisle are co-sponsoring legislation that ignores the Bureau 's recommendations . And within the past year the White House itself has had occasion to cock a hostile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guessed from the experience of other federal agencies , not every complaint aimed at the Narcotics Bureau has been sound or well-informed . At least one , however , has extraordinary weight behind it . This is a report produced under the auspices of two of the nation 's most influential ( and conservative ) professional organizations ? the American Medical Association and the American Bar Association . Published in1961 by the University of Indiana Press ( under the title , Drug Addiction : Crime or Disease ? ) , the document was years in the making . The research on which it was based was financed by the Russell Sage Foundation and carried out under the direction of Judge Morris Ploscowe of New York . The joint AMA-ABA committee which issued the report was composed of distinguished men from both professions , among them : Edward S. Dimock ( a U. S. District Court Judge ) ; Abe Fortas ( former Undersecretary of the Interior ) ; Dr. Robert Felix ( Director of the National Institute of Mental Health and President of the American Psychiatric Association ) ; and Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Pennsylvania ) . What did these men find ? For one thing , they argued strongly against the Narcotics Bureau 's position that drug addiction must be regarded as a crime rather than as a disease . For another , they recommended further examination , by appropriate medical and legal authorities , of the " possibilities " of experiments in the legal distribution of drugs to addicts . The Houses of Delegates of both professional associations approved the document as submitted in 1959 . Since that time it has not been easy to dismiss proponents of change in U. S. policies concerning addicts as mere ignorant agitators . Nevertheless , the response of the Narcotics Bureau both to the report and to the voices that have echoed it has been violent . Bureau spokesmen accuse their AMA-ABA opponents of stooping to the technique of the " Hitler ' Big-lie . ' " They dismiss the criticism of the New York Chief Magistrate with the inelegant observation that the man is a " gasbag . " And they are now circulating an official document , bearing the imprint of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " hysterical " ? because the Court dared to take a line contrary to that which they themselves regard as correct . As I have indicated , these ventures have not silenced the enemy . Indeed , in recent clays both sides have grown steadily more vocal . And now , with new , controversial legislation in the field scheduled for discussion in both Houses in the present Congressional session , it seems likely that the original skirmish at high altitudes may shortly emerge as a noisy public brawl . ' GET CLEANED UP " W H A T the public will make of the brawl , if it comes , can not at this moment be predicted with confidence . A polltaker who sought to read the national pulse on the topic of drug addiction would learn , of course , that most citizens are solidly against heroin ? but nothing else worth recording . Nor is this mysterious . The mass media have spared little to acquaint people with the facts of the addict 's life . They have offered the memorable image of Frankie Sinatra kicking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Man with the Golden Arm , as well as an endless number of TV shows on the theme ( four hour-long , prime-time plays in one week last October ) . Politicians in major urban centers have kept the subject more or less in the public eye ( a campaign promise to run the junkies off the streets was a feature of the last mayoralty race in New York ) . And municipal police officials have publicized the relations between addiction and crime ( some estimates claim that up to 50 per cent of the crime in New York is committed by addicts ) . But , surprising to say , none of this information is of much use to the citizen seeking genuine understanding of the feud . Despite the mass-media hoopla about addicts , despite the serious attempts of some organizations and publications to grapple with the problem , and despite the distinction of a substantial number of the Narcotics Bureau 's critics , the significant issues have never received full definition in public . Responsibility for this state of affairs rests in part with the present head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anslinger , who has held his job for more than three decades , carries on a portion of his official business by telephone from a small , yellow-brick house in Hollidaysburg , Pennsylvania , where he also cares for his ailing wife . A heavily built , square-faced man of Dutch ancestry , with a thick , pock-marked neck and a preference for iridescentsuitings and pate blue ties decorated with Chinese pagodas , the Commissioner enjoys an excellent reputation on Capitol Hill and is well thought of by most police officials throughout the country . He has resisted all invitations to bid for higher appropriations or a larger staff ( " We have enough funds and men " ) and is free of the mannerisms of the self-important . ( This is not to say his operations are modest : He directs some 400-odd employees and spent over $1 million last year . ) A visitor who sees him sitting in the coffee shop of the Capitol Hotel in Hollidaysburg- , chatting gently at midday with the country lawyers ( the town is a county seat ) , enjoying a noontime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem glass , or carefully putting pennies in the meter for his muted-tone Cadillac , is unlikely to read in his behavior signs of a world-devouring public official . But if the Commissioner is not an apparent empire-builder , neither is he a leader deeply interested in clarifying for the general public the scientific or intellectual issues raised by his work . Faced with a question about why doctors disapprove of Narcotics Bureau policies , he launches upon an argument for compulsory commitment of addicts , and explains that nar ? cotics police are " very gentle with all of them . We are the same with doctors . We say to them the doctors ) : Go in and get cleaned up . ' " He then adds , lowering his voice significantly : This is what the doctors are afraid of : they might be forced into the hospital In 1931 I wanted a civil commitment law . The medical profession was scared . We had evidence on 1,800 doctors and they would have had to be put in . If we could have eliminated the medical opposition we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reversed itself and agreed to allow addicts charged with misdemeanors to be sent to hospitals instead of to jail . Faced with the question why , the Commissioner does not answer directly . He responds instead with an artless " insider 's " tale about his relations with Robert Kennedy . The latter , as it appears , waged a shrewd campaign aimed at easing Narcotics Bureau hostility to change ? a campaign that began with a successful bid for 48 THE GREAT NARCOTICS MUDDLE trust . ( " Bob called me right in after he took office , " says the Commissioner . " He said he got more help during that labor-rackets investigation of his from the Narcotics people than from anybody else in any department . " ) The hid for ( rust was followed by an assurance that Commissioner Anslinger would remain indispensable at the Bureau even if he could put in no more than " an hour a month " at his desk . ( The Commissioner is sixty-nine years old ; he has often spoken of retiring and describes himself as " burned out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Commissioner recalled in conversation last summer , did the Attorney General press the matter of nonprosecution of felonious addicts . ( " Bob said , ' Listen , you 've got to give a little , ' and I said : ' Okay , Bob ? . . But only a little . ' " ) THE JOURNEY INTO CRIME I N A sense , this tendency to reduce issues to personalities is only a natural counterpart of the Commissioner 's absorption with procedural matters and suspicion of outsiders who interest themselves in his special field . The Chief of the Narcotics Bureau is fascinated by the intricacies of law-enforcement problems ; he is convinced , perhaps rightly , that his knowledge in this area is unmatched by that of any other enforcement official in the country . ( " I 've got a book on the Mafia , " he remarks . " No , a secret hook . I gave a copy to Bob but I could n't to anybody else . No , I could n't give it to I. Edgar Hoover . I just would n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaks enthusiastically about specific successes in breaking up smuggling rings , he is impatient with discussion of the root causes of such rings . And while he is far from claiming that he stands alone in his attempt to combat the problem of addiction , he rarely directs favorable attention to the work of researchers who have sought general understanding of the problem . The Ccinunissioner 's claim is that the most significant contributions to the solution of the Bureau 's difficulties have not come from the professional specialists , but rather from a religious group ? the Seventh Day Adventists . ( " The Seventh Day Adventists are the only people who have ever gone all out to help us . " ) And he does not hesitate to disclose his hope that his successor will himself be an Adventist . The man the Commissioner has in mind is Edward R. Bloomquist , a California doctor of medicine who has written at length against all proposed changes in present narcotics laws . ( " He 's a due , " says Commissioner Anslinger . " They ca n't say he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Narcotics Commissioner avoids discussing fundamental issues involved in his work does not mean , of course , that there are n't any such issues ? or any official Narcotics Bureau positions concerning them . The chief issue , as already indicated , is whether addiction should or should not be a crime . Maintaining that it is a crime , the Narcotics Bureau points at a number of federal and state statutes . Both the Boggs Act of 1952 ? which set mandatory minimum sentences ? and the Narcotics Control Act of 1956 ? which increased the severity of these minimums ? outlawed the unauthorized purchase and possession and sale of drugs . ( In some states a citizen can be prosecuted as a narcotics violator even though authorities have no proof of purchase or possession on which to hold him : evidence that the citizen is an addict is enough to warrant prosecution . ) In upholding these statutes the official publications of the Narcotics Bureau offer a simple enough interpretation of the addict 's plight . They assert that at the moment a man becomes an addict , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse that can not be interrupted . Defenders of the Bureau grant that there may be an interval of from six months to two years between the time a man becomes an addict and the time he , as an addict , becomes a thief . ( Commissioner Anslinger believes that 85 per cent of all addicts were lawbreakers even before they began to use drugs . ) But in their view the addiction-crime cycle , whatever its pace , is rarely if ever broken . They point out that drugs are expensive , and that people preoccupied with the effort to procure them can not long retain regular employment . What is more , the addict 's tolerance to drugs increases from month to month , which means that as his resources for satisfying his habit are diminishing , the habit itself is becoming costlier . The noose can not be slipped : the addict must turn to crime for funds . And therefore , according to Bureau spokesmen , it is essential that law-enforcement authorities have the power to anticipate the cycle . They insist they must be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Critics of this position do not quarrel with the observation that addicts often become criminals . They claim , however , that it is precisely the legal insistence that addiction is a crime which forces the addict to become a thief . At the bottom of this claim , to repeat , lies the belief ( expressed in the AMA-ABA report ) that the addict is best understood in any circumstances as a sick man , not as a criminal : ff the addict were recognized as a man with a disease , the cycle of addiction-crime might never begin in the first place . Noting that present law makes it virtually impossible for a doctor to treat an addict without risking heavy penalties , the critics argue that addicts must become criminals simply because they can not become patients . But suppose the addict were free to turn to doctors for physical and psychiatric help ( which could include legally prescribed dosages of drugs ) and suppose he could be strengthened to endure the agonies of " cold turkey " ( the sickness that follows the withdrawal of drugs ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And this in turn would lead to the collapse of the enormously profitable drug racket in which the addict functions both as consumer and distributor for organized racketeers . If there were public clinics where people hooked on narcotics could receive care , then it would be impossible for smugglers to recruit addicts who , desperate for means of financing their habits , were willing to become pushers and peddlers . The addict would be under far less compulsion to crime . SUPPLY " IN GOOD FAITH " I N PROOF of the good sense of these contentions , critics of the Narcotics Bureau cite the experience of England , where addiction is viewed as a disease ? and where there are presumed to be no more than 500 addicts ( the official estimate is that there are 60.000 in America ) . Addicts in England can seek medical aid without fear of criminal prosecution . Physicians are not allowed to supply them with drugs except in good faith ? which is to say , in connection with a responsible course of treatment . When addicts come to them as patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country there are well-enforced controls on possession and transfer of drugs . But none of these controls makes it illegal for a qualified physician to prescribe drugs for an addict , if the physician believes that a minimuin dose may enable his patient to continue to lead a normal life from year to year , or if he believes that withdrawal distress would be , in light of the particular patient 's condition , physically overwhelming . According to Edwin Schur , an American sociologist and lawyer who recently spent two years in England engaged in study of the British system of narcotics control , this approach has been remarkably successful . Not only has the estimated number of addicts remained extremely low Schur writes . it has actually decreased ? from 700 in 1935 in 359 in 1957 . All the evidence indicates that there are very few addicts other than those receiving their supplies through legal channels . No sizable underworld drug traffic exists . The addict furnishes no economic incentive for contraband peddling , and need n't become a thief or prostitute to pay for drugs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually have committed minor violations in order to get a little more of the drug than the doctor provided . Generally speaking , addiction and underworld life are not closely connected ? one reason , perhaps , why few young people in Britain ( even among the delinquents ) have taken tip addiction . On the basis of these findings Professor Schur goes on to declare that : " It is quite clear that American policies have not worked , primarily because of the vicious supply-and-demand cycle they set in motion . What is needed is an absolute reversal of our current attitudes and laws . " And other researchers share his views . Professor Alfred R. Lindesmith of the University of Indiana , a sociologist who has studied the drug problem extensively , has written at length contrasting the " punitive approach " of the Narcotics Bureau ( and present statutes ) with an enlightened medical approach . And the joint AMA-ABA committee took a roughly similar position in the report I have mentioned . Quoting a Senate finding that " The U. S. has more narcotics addicts , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Western world , " the AMA-ABA committee observed that the existence of this situation " raises doubts concerning the wisdom of the prohibitory approach to problems of drug addiction . " But there is an obvious ? and important ? weakness in citations of English experience as justification for an " absolute reversal of our current attitudes and laws . " In a published paper , the Research Center for Human Relations at New York University has established the existence of a direct relation between addiction and what are called " environmental factors . " The largest concentration of heroin users in America is found in urban centers where daily life is characterized by hypertension , lack of satisfying opportunity , alienation , absence of community . It is doubtful that a free supply of narcotics could be counted a positive civic resource in our city slums , for example . Moreover , even when such areas are left out of the tabulation , this country ranks as an immensely more volatile society than any in which a nonpunitive mode of handling addiction has yet succeeded . ( Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquor are roughly the same in England and America , the rate of alcoholism is almost four times higher here than there . ) Differences in the temper and traditions of societies do , in short , have a hearing on the kind of narcotics policy that is practicable in any single nation . And advocates of immediate reform of American policies who ignore or minimize these differences weaken their case. * It must be said , though , that if the critics of the Narcotics Bureau tend to overstate their case , the Bureau itself has done much to drive them into overstatement . By maintaining that there ore no other methods of handling the addiction problem except the one it favors , by resting firm in the ingenuous pretense that there is no " English system , " it has provoked anger among experts who are aware that other methods do exist . These experts have come to feel that they can not possibly win a hearing for alternative proposals ? including foreign methods of narcotics control that may have something to teach us ? unless they describe the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account . Their rule in dealings with the Narcotics Bureau has become : Oversimplify ? or be ignored . From long experience , they have concluded that this agency is a monolith unshakable except by attacks that forgo all qualifications . THE CURIOUS ANSWER T II E R E is much to support this assumption , quite aside from the Bureau 's stubborn obliviousness to alternative policies . In its public statements the Narcotics agency regularly shows itself forth as an extraordinary combination of prejudice , arrogance , and hostility to informed suggestion . Its " positive " recommendations for solving the narcotics problem amount to little more than a series of half-literate puffs for the idea of putting all dope peddlers in the electric chair and all addicts in narcotics installations like those at Lexington , Kentucky , and Fort Worth . ( From 75 to 90 per cent of the graduates of these enormously expensive federal institutions relapse into addiction . ) More important , the Bureau 's dismissal of its critics is * The joint AMA-ABA Committee did not make this mistake . Although it never addressed itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it did acknowledge that earlier U. S. attempts at a clinic system dispensing free narcotics had been " bedeviled " by mistakes , and it recommended only a " limited experiment devised to test directly the hypothesis that clinics would eliminate the illicit drug traffic and reduce drug addiction . " often accompanied by an appeal to everything that is mean , ignorant , and illiberal in the American consciousness . This appeal , as might be expected , has its roots in what used to be described as the " cop mentality . " Narcotics Bureau propaganda reeks with station-house hints that any man who interests himself in the problem of " known criminals " must have unsavory reasons for doing so . And since the medical profession has taken the most active interest in the addict 's situation , it is the doctor whom the Narcotics cops understand to be their enemy . They have come to feel threatened by the increasing AMA activity in the field since 1954 . And they are well aware of the scattering of doctors in large cities who dare to prescribe limited amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests that such treatment might have chance of success . This hostility of Narcotics officials to physicians is expressed not only in vigorous enforcement and in comment in interviews , but even in the official Narcotics Bureau publication . For example , the Bureau 's 186-page " answer " to the AMA-ABA report plants seeds of suspicion of the medical profession in its early pages . In England , it observes , " . . . doctors , nurses . members of hospital staffs , etc. , . . . who must be presumed to have knowledge of the addictive qualities of opiates , have the highest group addiction rate of that entire nation . " And the point is hammered at everywhere in the document . Nowhere , to be sure , does the Bureau say that the reason doctors wish to handle opiates without restriction is that they will then be free to satisfy their own drug habits . But the implication is present . The cop mentality also betrays itself in the Narcotics Bureau 's carelessness about the Constitutional rights of its opposition . It is a commonplace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rights of the individual are in fact mere tactics designed to harass the police . And this feeling has more than once been reflected in gestures made by the Narcotics Bureau against its critics . Last year the Bureau gave the impression ( intentionally or otherwise ) that it was determined to suppress the AMA-ABA report . Hearing that the document was to be published by the Russell Sage Foundation , the Bureau sent an agent directly to the foundation 's Washington office ? ostensibly to pick up a copy and to learn the source of the funds that underwrote the enterprise , in effect to suggest that measures of reprisal were under contemplation . Washington newspapers broke the story , the White House intervened , and at length the report was published , a full two years after its completion . But before its appearance between hard covers , the Bureau put in print thousands of copies of its own answer to the report . And among the curious aspects of this " answer " was that its outer cover was almost indistinguishable from that of the original , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's aim was to confuse the public by presenting its own views as those of the AMA report , * Such strategy is evidence that the Bureau believes passibnately in its own policies . But even an honest cop forfeits respect when zeal leads him to act on the assumption that critics of the law are necessarily the same as lawbreakers . The handmaid of the cop mentality in the Narcotics Bureau is a whole complex of attitudes associated with Bible-Beltism . It is a well-estabIished medical fact that addiction to heroin dulls sexual appetites ? but Narcotics Bureau officials are strongly given to tales of sex and drug orgies . Commissioner Anslinger 's latest book , The Murderers , " is filled with gamy accounts of heroin parties . ( " Four nude girls ? all about eighteen years old ? were surprised in a scene of unspeakable sexual depravity . Leaping up and crying out in high-pitched alarm , they ran for their clothes , while a naked Chinese cowered against the wall . " ) In addition , Bureau officials have a taste for public propaganda that panders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publications are peppered with villains bearing Southern European names , and are dense with innuendo about labor unions and big-city public servants . Indeed , the fury of the Bureau 's anti-intellectualism is without match in the government . Attempts are made to disguise this rage ? the Narcotics Bureau 's answer to the straightforward prose of the AMA-ABA report was thick with schoolboyish allusions to Coleridge , De Quincey , Francis Thompson , Theophrastus , and other famous junkies . But despite this literary decoration , the document may well be the crudest publication yet produced by a government agency . The tone ranges from thudding , pretentious irony to upper-case , italicized hysteria : * It was this report that contained the attack upon the Supreme Court as " hysterical . " As a result of pressure , the document was withdrawn from public sale through the Government Printing Office , but the Narcotics Bureau now circulates the volume , with the original attack undeleted , free of charge . ** Farrar , Straus and Cudahy , January 1962 . BY . The truth is that the extended hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and seduction of opium until it has law enforcement to remove the all too willing victim from the arms of Lady Morphia and to physically place him within reach if he is to have the advantage of what modern - medicine can do for him . To the man of medicine .. I say do not let the soft-hearted claque play down law enforcement as if it were something in opposition to or a substitute for your work . If you do , you may be withering your right arm . Absurdity and vulgarity of literary manner in a federal agency is not , of course , a certain sign of corruption in the agency 's nonliterary activity . But when such absurdity appears as part of a context of intimidation , smearing allusion to a respected profession , and hostility even to the most carefully planned experimental research , it takes its place as yet another symptom of an unhealthy bureaucratic atmosphere . Even if there were no ground whatever for criticism of the Narcotics Bureau 's policies , the presence of these symptoms in an agency of the federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T H E way to clear the atmosphere is not easy to specify . Suspicion has mounted to intolerable levels on both " sides . " Legislators aware of this situation have gone so far as to introduce measures specifically designed to transfer discussion of narcotics issues from their present setting , in the shadows of a feud , to neutral ground . Senators Javits and Keating of New York , for example , are supporting a bill calling for a White House Conference on Narcotics ( Commissioner Anslinger describes the proposal as " a waste of time " ) . The participants would include all professionally interested authorities ; the purpose would be to provide a platform at once open enough to permit public scrutiny of the controversialists , and prestigious enough to discourage cop-baiting and doctor-baiting . But while there is something to be said for a gathering of authorities under these circumstances , it must be added that past White House conferences have often proved to be no more than instruments of elegant evasion . The undeclared war between the Narcotics Bureau and well-regarded organizations of professional men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speeches from opposite points of view , followed by an evening of Presidential brandy and cigars . What is needed is a less open-ended instrument of inquiry . One sensible procedure might be the appointment of a special Presidential Advisory Commission of medical and legal authorities ? men who could be relied on to consider the narcotics dispute intelligently and objectively . A group of this kind could he directed to evaluate present policy , to consider problems of personnel in the Narcotics Bureau itself , and to advise on the feasibility of experimental action along the lines suggested by the American Medical and Bar Associations . Its conclusions could provide the Chief Executive with a sound basis on which to evaluate both the present operations of his Narcotics Bureau and the need for new legislation concerning addiction control . ( At sixty-nine , Mr. Anslinger can not continue as director of the Bureau much longer ? which means that now is the sensible time for the President to act . ) As is obvious , no Presidential commission , regardless of the wisdom of its recommendations , could solve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statutes on the books , the Narcotics Bureau must remain primarily a law-enforcement agency , at least for the present . Yet if it were instructed to co-operate with , say , an experimental federal narcotics clinic , it would be advancing into an area where the guidance of a public-health officer of considerable qualifications would become essential . It will not be easy to find such a man , nor will it be easy for him to function simultaneously as a public-health authority and as a police officer . Neither will it he easy for any group of experts to draft a whole new program of narcotics control . One might guess that , if there were to be a new program , it would involve the establishment of one or more experimental narcotics clinics in urban centers , in proper co-ordination with police authorities , and under a careful arrangement by which no addict would be given drugs except as a part of a regimen of medical , psychiatric , and social care . ( In fact , efforts are now being made by private groups to establish treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senators Javits , Keating , and others ? besides calling for a White House Conference ? have proposed a federal-state program to provide special hospital facilities for addicts . ) But guesses at this moment are idle . The point of significance is that a commission empowered not simply to talk but to make specific proposals might put an end to a situation in which hard questions are seldom faced as questions , only as insults and accusations . And nothing is more urgent than that this he accomplished . To speak of urgency is to name what has been conspicuously absent from discussion in this field until now . To be sure , no one who has been struck down and robbed in midtown Manhattan by an addict tormented by his need is likely to regard the problem as trivial . And for addicts themselves there is literally nothing to life except the terrible pressure generated by their habits . But for the public the matter has been relatively easy to treat as an item remote from central matters of national policy . The specifics of the problem are ugly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Few attempts have beets made to communicate a sense of emergency or crisis in this held to the country at large . Can such a sense be communicated ? Certainly the problem touches millions beyond the addicts themselves ? not least of all the urban taxpayer , whose bill for police protection soars from season to season . But mere pocketbook interest is not all that dictates a truce in the war of cops and cloctors described here . The truth is that the failure of the Narcotics Bureau and its critics to join forces in seeking better approaches to the narcotics problem amounts to a piece of plain inhumanity in itself . If no panacea is likely , there is at least a chance that a formal Presidential inq nit y might redirect the energy hitherto spent by public officials and private professionals in abusing each other , and might even develop specific proposals for alleviating what has already become a major urban agony . Now that the infallibility of the Narcotics Bureau has been challenged , and the professional associations arc ready to act , the public must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 