@@477667

Without a personal physician to ride herd on the specialists you can not have good medical care . But in a few years it will be hard to find one unless our medical schools drastically change their ways . Dr. Rutstein is professor and head of the Department of Preventive Medicine at Harvard Medical School and a special consultant to the U. S. Public Health Service . He is a frequent contributor to technical and general magazines and the author of " Lifetime Health Record " There is a legend that at about the turn of the century every American had a family doctor . He did everything . He took care of you when you were sick . He walked through snow in the middle of the night to deliver your baby at home , and he splinted your broken arm when you fell from a horse . Before the days of professional psychiatry , he treated your emotional difficulties with " common sense . " He knew all about you and your family . When there was trouble , he sat down with you in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a confidence . His charges were modest and he often failed to send a bill . The legend dies hard . Unquestionably there were individual physicians who approached this ideal . Your parents probably did receive more personal attention than you would today . Their health also was more continuously supervised . Since there were then very few specialists , they called the same doctor for appendicitis or a headache . They may well have had a greater feeling of security from the doctor 's visit than you do now . As Dr. Arthur E. Hertzler pointed out in The Horse and Buggy Doctor , " The ability of the old type doctor was enhanced because he remained at the patient 's bedside until his suffering was relieved , even though it required many hours to achieve that end . " He could do this because there was then a larger supply of physicians . in 1909 we had one doctor for every 568 persons . Now we have only one for every 709 . But , in spite of all this , medical care in those times was poor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often died unnecessarily in childbirth , and far too many infants died of infection during the first few years of life . Some of the reasons were pointed out in 1910 by Abraham Flexner in his now classic report on medical education , which described " a century of reckless overproduction of cheap doctors . " Only 22 of our 155 medical schools required more than a high-school certificate and most of the others had no fixed qualifications for admission . Dr. Flexner referred to the very large number of commercial medical schools " that . . have been persistently used for pecuniary advantage . " In most of these , existing scientific knowledge was not included in the curriculum and there was little or no research in the medical sciences . So it is not surprising that most medical care was directed toward the relief of symptoms , diagnosis was neglected , and little attempt was made to control the underlying disease . The Flexner report had an immediate impact . Many medical schools , particularly those operated for private profit , were closed . ( We now have only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association established standards of medical education . Research and teaching flowered in such basic sciences as physiology and biochemistry , which were made prerequisites to the study of clinical medicine and surgery . The concept of preventive medicine was introduced . With the help of the great founda. - A FAMILY DOCTOR ? tions , more and better medical research began to yield the knowledge so necessary for more effective prevention and treatment of disease . These trends inevitably led to specialization . The research worker , using increasingly complex techniques , penetrated deeper into ever-narrowing fields of investigation , In min , the practicing physician who wanted to take advantage of this expanding reservoir of knowledge was forced to add years to his training and to limit his scope to specific organ systems ? such as the nervous system ? or patterns of illness ? such as , for instance , allergy . The emergence of specialists was abetted by the patients ' immediate acceptance of the expert , and their willingness to pay more for his services than for those of a family doctor . The expert knowledge and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis for the growing reputation of American medicine . But , as early as 1927 , thoughtful physicians such as Francis Peabody recognized that the very process of specialization created new and serious gaps . By its nature , specialist care was confined to a particular part or a special illness of the patient . Indeed , the same symptoms might fall within the purview of more than one specialist . For instance , a severe pain in your left shoulder for which you ( mistakenly ) consult an orthopedic surgeon might be due to heart disease and you would he referred immediately to a cardiologist . Absorbed with a mechanism of disease , the specialist sometimes neglects to relieve the very symptoms which brought the patient to his office . Drugs to ease a back pain may be forgotten as both surgeon and radiologist concentrate on that queer shadow in your X-ray pictures . Moreover , in focusing on his particular field of interest one specialist might miss a manifestation of serious illness in the preserve of another . The cardiac consultant , in listening to the sounds coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lump in your breast which you accidentally discover four months later after it has grown a hit larger . As specialties multiplied and narrowed , several doctors might be caring for the same patient and yet not cover all his health problems . If a single physician does not accept responsibility for all aspects of the patient 's care the opposite situation may also occur ; the treatment prescribed by one specialist may conflict with that of another . Indeed , co-ordination of services and continuity of treatment have become strikingly deficient even in some of our great teaching hospitals . In the meantime what has happened to the family doctor ? His prestige , particularly in urban areas of the United States , has been gradually downgraded . Examining hoards created to certify specialists have established a hierarchy of practitioners above him . As the care of serious disease shifted from the home to the hospital , hospital services were gradually reshaped to conform with the trends in specialization . Better highways and more automobiles made transportation to office and to hospital relatively easy , so that home visits except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not qualified in a specialty , began to have an increasingly difficult time obtaining a hospital appointment . This lowered his status in the eyes of the patient who on admission to the hospital would be cared for by another physician . EDUCATING SPECIALISTS T he evolution of medicine into an increasingly compartmentalized science has been pioneered by the medical schools with their affiliated teaching hospitals . Their best students , hoping to become outstanding specialists , are awarded appointments on highly-specialized hospital services . Except for a dedicated few , it is now only the lower-ranking students who deliberately plan to go into family practice ? though others not qualified for teaching-hospital appointments may eventually drift into it . Few teaching hospitals have family physicians on their staffs to train young men in this field and to provide continuity of medical care for patients . The result of all this was indicated in a U. S. Public Health Service report to the Senate last May. * It showed that the number of doctors in general practice had declined from 112,000 in 1931 to 82,000 in 1959 ? and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 for every hundred thousand people to 46 . This means that fewer medical graduates arc choosing to go into family practice ? as the Association of American Medical Colleges ' Weiskotten report pointed out in 1956 . Actually the trend away from general practice is inherent in the way medical students are selected . Preference is given to those who have done an outstanding bit of original research in college , who score high on medical school aptitude tests , and who have high college grades , particularly in the sciences . Once the medical *Report of Consultants in Medical Research , Boisfeuillet Jones , Chairman , T.J. S. Government Printing Office , Washington , PAU . 147 student is admitted , constant exposure to scientists and specialists tends to increase his own disinclination toward family practice . This trend toward extreme specialization is documented by the qualifications of most of the recently appointed full-time professors of internal medicine . Demonstrated competence in the basic sciences ? particularly in one of the subspecialties of biochemistry ? is almost a prerequisite . Ability to manipulate the gene , the hemoglobin molecule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in management of a patient with a complicated disease . Those whose competence is limited to clinical research and teaching are likely to be passed over . A modern Sir William Osler , for instance , could not win appointment today as head of a department of medicine in an American medical school . The large sums for research recently made available from government and other sources have furthered this trend . Since there are no important sources of funds for medical education per se , a professor who can obtain large research grants is an asset to any medical school . Thus , we are faced with a dilemma . The highly-specialized research program of our medical schools must be stimulated and expanded . Students now being educated in ever-narrowing fields will not only contribute to research ? they will also use their highly-specialized knowledge and techniques for the patient 's benefit . But the gap between the training of these experts and the education of a general physician grows wider and wider . Indeed , it is becoming clear that our medical schools as presently organized can not do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that our existing and proposed medical schools can not keep up with our growing over-all need for physicians . The most recent study made for the Public Health Service Surgeon General ? the Bane Report* ? estimated that to maintain the present physician-patient ratio , by 1975 we will need 3,600 more medical-school graduates per year than the current output of 7,400 . This forecast appears reasonable . Americans are now averaging five visits a year to the doctor and there is no likelihood that the demand will diminish . On the contrary , with the rapidly increasing number of infants and old people in our population , it may be expected to increase . But our present system of medical education can not produce the physicians we need . Qualified *Physicians for a Growing America , Report of the Surgeon General 's Consultant Group on Medical Education , Frank Bane , Chairman . Washington , 1959. faculty members are scarce and we are gravely short of funds for medical education ? as opposed to research . Medical schools , un fortunately , are far more expensive to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates a minimum of $8 million needed to construct a medical school ? exclusive of hospital and research facilities . Annual operating expenses average about $2 million ? an inadequate sum in many respects . For the student , medical education is the costliest professional training he can choose . More than half of all medical-school graduates in the 1959 class were in debt and 20 per cent owed nearly $5,000 . Tuition fees have been rising and four years of medical school now cost around $11,600- Including college . internship , and residency , the doctor 's training may take eleven or twelve years . During the coming year the federal government will award some 10,000 predoctoral fellowships in the physical , life , and social sciences . psychology , engineering , the arts , the humanities , and education . In contrast the federal government makes no fellowships available to medical students . Many medical schools offer some scholarship support to the neediest students after the freshman year . But only 10 per cent of medical students held scholarships at the last count ; these averaged only $500 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few young men from the lower and middle economic groups contemplate a medical career today and therefore the pool of medical-school applicants is diminishing . THE ROLE OF THE INTERNIST S hrinking fastest of all is the supply of personal physicians . Their work is done in some upperincome urban and suburban areas by the specialist in internal medicine ? the - internist . " He accepts responsibility for a complete history , physical examination , laboratory study , and continuing care of his patients . But can the internist meet the need for family doctors ? The logistics of the situation dispel this hope . If internists were to provide continuous care for all patients there should he at least one internist for every 750 persons . Actually , the ratio is less than one per 14,000 , and they are not evenly distributed throughout the country . They tend instead to congregate in urban areas , with over one-quarter in New York and California . Moreover , many internists do not serve as family doctors but limit their practice to a sub-specialty , such as chest or gastro-intestinal disease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Armed Forces , or veterans ' hospitals . Finally , the total number of internists can not be increased rapidly as there are relatively few approved hospital appointments for their education . Where internists act as personal physicians they are seriously overworked . Demands on them are so great that they are forced either to turn away patients or to spend most of their waking hours at work . Those who tire of this demanding responsibility frequently take additional training and limit their practice to a sub-specialty where the patients are fewer but fees are higher . Others leave private practice for a full-time salaried position . Because he is paid by the visit rather than for the amount of time a case requires , the internist is tempted to see as many patients as possible . Conscientious internists who resist this temptation sacrifice income whenever they give a patient the extra time needed to discuss a personal problem or to assure continuity of medical care . In less prosperous rural areas internists are few and the dwindling number of family physicians do what they can to provide service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family physician seldom has hospital privileges , particularly for surgery . His income , like the internist 's , depends primarily on the number of patients he can see per day . The declining popularity of family practice is demonstrated by the steadily diminishing number of such physicians and their complete absence in some areas . Even in Massachusetts , with the thirdhighest ratio of physicians to population in the nation , many communities are short of doctors . Eleven communities in that state ? with a combined population of almost 27,000 ? have no resident full-time physicians whatever . Although precise evidence on this point is lacking , the unmet need for personal physician service is apparently being filled in a variety of ways . Part of the slack is being taken up by graduates of foreign medical schools , most of them sub-standard , who now fill about onequarter of all approved hospital internships and residencies in the United States . In 1959 there were 8,400 foreign physicians from 91 countries* *More of these imported doctors are now coming from the Philippines than from any other country ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Japan , and India following in that order . These are all countries which can ill afford to supply physicians to us . Indeed , we ought to be producing a surplus of doctors , beyond our own needs , to send to underdeveloped areas ? as the Russians are already doing . ( other than Canada ) caring for patients in 846 of our hospitals . The number of foreign graduates ( other than Canadian ) admitted to practice in this country , following their hospital training period , has increased from 458 in 1950 to 1,316 in 1958 . Many of these men probably serve as family practitioners , as do some 14,000 licensed osteopaths . Various paramedical professions also provide services once considered the province of the family doctor . For example , the public-health visiting nurse gives personal attention and health education . By interpreting the doctor 's instructions she saves his time and extends his scope . The medical social worker helps by mobilizing the community resources the physician must have for the care of his patient . Other useful auxiliaries are the general hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychologists , nutritionists , and vocational rehabilitators. * A JOS FOR THE MEDICAL SCHOOLS T these many kinds of medical aides create a new difficulty . As the patient 's care is further fragmented , there is an even greater need for co-ordination by a family doctor . But do you really want one ? There is much evidence that you would rather do without him . You cheerfully pay the specialist hundreds and even thousands of dollars . But you become highly indignant if your family doctor doubles his fee of a few dollars when your case takes twice the usual amount of his time . You rank manual skill and dexterity far above the wisdom of the physician who may save your life without subjecting you to an operation . As your hero on the television screen , the family physician has been replaced by a surgeon repairing a child 's heart . This may be understandable . But the question remains : Who is going to provide co-ordination and continuity in your medical care ? So far as I can sec , only the family doctor can do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is strong enough ? medical educators will accept the responsibility for training him . How can this be done ? I suggest that the medical schools set up two divergent courses of study ? one for medical re*For lack of a family doctor , many people are taking their problems to such advisers as Christian Science practitioners , marriage counselors , chiropractors , or naturopaths. search workers and specialists , and another for the practicing family physician . Such a plan is not new in American education . For example . in schools such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicists and engineers start off together on two diverging curricula , one leading in a theoretical and the other in a practical direction . ( fF a student changes his mind and has the capability , he may switch from one to the other . ) The same kind of plan could be put into effect in the medical schools . Hopefully , more and better medical research workers and specialists would he educated in the present program which includes a maximum of basic medical science . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a new curriculum would be designed to base the art of medical practice on a solid scientific foundation . This course of training would include all the basic medical sciences needed to interpret the natural history of disease , to care for minor illnesses with drugs or by simple surgical procedures , and to screen seriously-ill patients who need to be referred to specialists . Thus the new curriculum would he soundly based on medical science , in a school where the student is in close contact not only with clinical teachers but also with research workers and specialists . Above all , we must not slump back into the evils of the preFlexner era , where students were cut off from the scientific basis for medicine . A faculty for the family-doctor curriculum should not be hard to find . As in the education of physicists and engineers , initial training can be provided by expanding the basic science departments of the medical school . Many skillful young clinicians in our teaching hospitals now have no academic future because they are not adept at laboratory research . They would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training . Practicing physicians acting as part-time teachers would supplement their efforts . The time required to train this new kind of family doctor would be three or four years shorter ? and proportionately less expensive ? than the present program . After graduation from secondary school , six years in college and medical school and two years in a hospital should be adequate . Obviously this would help greatly to speed up the production of physicians to meet our growing needs . Even when we begin to use this more economical plan , our medical school facilities still must be greatly expanded . The large sums allocated for medical research must be supplemented by hundreds of millions to build new schools , to increase the capacity of existing ones , to pay additional teachers ' salaries , expand libraries , and provide teaching equipment and facilities in the laboratory and at the bedside . If we really want to draw qualified applicants from all economic and social levels into the medical profession , scholarship funds in large amounts must be provided. * Without such aid ? and with funds freely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will continue to dwindle . FINDING THE MONEY W ho will provide the money ? Voluntary fundraising for medical education , praiseworthy and helpful as it has been , has yielded small sums in comparison with the need . For example . the American Medical Education Foundation collects from physicians and distributes to medical schools about one million dollars a year . The National Fund for Medical Education , which concentrates on securing contributions from corporations and organized groups , allocates only a little more than three million a year among some eighty American medical schools . Such voluntary efforts are valuable in diversifying the financial support of medical schools and should be continued . But most of the additional financing inevitably must be provided by the federal government . Some money probably will come from the states . The lowest physician-patient ratios , however , are in the poorest states . Since the need is both nation-wide and vast , federal sources " of funds clearly must be tapped . To protect the independence of the medical schools , we could follow the pattern that has been used so successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public Health Service . Through them the government has allocated billions of dollars for research to medical schools without any interference in the performance of the research or in the operation of the schools . A revision of the medical-school curriculum along the lines proposed here would channel such funds to increase our supply of family doctors , as well as specialists and medical researchers . *A bill to provide federal assistance for scholarships to medical and dental students ( HR 10255 ) was introduced in the second session of the B6th Congress by Representative John E. Fogarty of Rhode Island . It was referred to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce , where it perished . Objections will , of course , be raised . Why ? it may be asked ? should you receive your medical care from a doctor less well educated than the specialists who now care for you ? The answer is simple . The new family-doctor curriculum would include all the knowledge required by the practicing physician . There is no point in spending years ? and a great deal of money ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , he will be specifically educated to co-ordinate and supervise the patient 's care , a task the specialist is not equipped to perform . To be sure there is a real danger that , in individual practice , the new family doctor might slip back to the pre-Flcxner level . This same danger , however , exists in our present system . There is evidence that when general physicians are isolated from specialist services , the quality of medical care is poor . Indeed , the general physician can be most effective as a member of a group-practice unit . Consequently , whenever practicable the new practitioner should be affiliated with such a unit , so that he can keep contact with the main stream of medical science and have ready access to all the specialties . A much better quality of medical care than is now usually available would thus he provided . Moreover , if some plan such as I am proposing is not adopted , millions of Americans will continue to get their medical care from foreign doctors with substandard training or from cultists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Who will want to be a second-class doctor ? The answer is : He will not be one , if his role is clearly understood . If you really want a family physician strongly enough to give him adequate income and social status , students will again be attracted to this field . AN ALTERNATE SOLUTION B ut if a plan such as this fails to win acceptance , there remains one other alternative for providing personal health services . ( In my opinion it is a rather poor one . ) The gap might be partially filled by upgrading the publichealth nurse . Her training could be buttressed with education in the basic sciences and in social service . It would also include the principles of midwifery , the use of simple drugs , and the techniques of minor surgical procedures . This program would be similar to that evolved in Eastern European countries for the upgrading of nurses or lay practitioners , known as " Feldshers " ( field barbers ) . Working whenever possible under supervision of full-fledged doctors , these " Feldshers " provided a great deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rural areas . After the 1917 Revolution , the training of the " Feldsher " was discouraged . But from 1929 to 1934 , during the Stalin regime , schools for " Feldshers " were increased from 59 to 154 . More recently , experienced " Feldshers " and nurses in the U. S. S. R. have been given preference in admission to medical schools , if they pass the qualifying examination . The Soviet Union now has one of the highest ratios of physicians to patients in the world . Approximately three-quarters of the practicing doctors are women and some of the work they do is performed iii the United States by public-health nurses or by social workers ? such as health education , careful follow-through to be sure that the physician 's orders are carried out , and discussion of the patient 's personal problems . Upgrading of the public-health nurse in the United Slates might help to rescue the nursing profession from its present plight . As routine hospital duties arc increasingly assumed by practical nurses or aides , the college-educated nurse might well be elevated to true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , might then be easier . The end result , however , would not be nearly as good as having a family doctor specially selected and educated for his professional task . Our medical schools are in danger of forgetting their traditional objective : to provide you with ample medical care of constantly rising quality . This requires above all a continued high standard of scientific medicine . But complete medical care means more than the sum of the services provided by specialists , no matter how highly qualified . It must include acceptance by one doctor of complete responsibility for the care of the patient and for the co-ordination of specialist , laboratory , and other services . Within a generation , if the present situation continues , few Americans will have a personal physician do this for them . So if you are to have family doctors as well as scientific medicine , our medical schools have a double job to do . they are now accomplishing only one half of it . . . and they can not possibly do it properly unless you demand and support a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education , But , before they undertake this complicated task , the medical schools must know : Do you really want a family doctor ?                     