@@493980

Professor Hans J. Morgenthau ( NR , November z6 , 1966 ) entered a long and serious indictment against the academic community , for selling out to the ad ? ministration , and against Lyndon B. Johnson , for cor ? rupting the country 's intellectuals . In short , he charged that American intellectuals have abandoned their tra ? ditional and independent roles of seekers after truth alone , and have prostituted their principles for the sake of ( temporarily ) enjoying the fruits of power . The President , in turn , has seduced the academics by tempt ? ing them with influence , prestige , and above all , gov ? ernment grants ; where these have failed , he has ap ? plied equally potent pressures to silence or discredit them . " The intellectuals of America , " he sums up , " have indeed been raped ; but many of them have looked forward to the experience and are enjoying it . " Professor Morgenthau 's accusations would be dis ? turbing were it not for the many inconsistencies in his argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumptions . Chief among these is his posing of truth and power as two opposite , and extreme , forces . He notes that the two are often intertwined , yet even in their proximity must always remain antagonistic . The search for the truth , which is , according to the writer , the only legitimate function of an intellectual , must be oblivious to power ; the politician , on the other hand , " at best will use truth as a means to his end , " which is , of course , power . Each threatens the other , one by de ception , and the other by unmasking that deceit . Are these narrow strictures the only definitions available to us ? The view of power as , by nature , de ? ceptive smacks too much of the conspiratorial interpre ? tation of history . Never accept anything at its face value , because the surface is only a cover-up for some deeper ? and darker ? force ; does a politician say some ? thing is thus and so , then it will surely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often does , assume de ? ceptive guises I do not deny ; that this is always the case I maintain is a perversion of history . And what happens to Morgenthau 's argument if one suggests that rather than " the truth , " there are " truths . " Would it not be more accurate to define the task of the intellec ? tual as the search for alternatives , and the means of evaluating these choices , so as to make the best pos ? sible election ? If , as I have suggested , Professor Morgenthau takes a conspiratorial view of politics and power , he certainly leaves no doubt who his villain is . Lyndon Johnson , being a master politician , has therefore got to be the enemy incarnate of the academic community . I have no quarrel with the professor 's analysis of Johnson 's confusing of consensus and the consent of the gov ? erned , by which the President equates dissent with disloyalty ; if anything , I would only add my support to the charge . ( I do , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in life , because of his political nature , and only because of it , is the attainment of more and more power . ) But the accuser here is as guilty of as serious , if not as dangerous , a confusion . By op posing truth and power , he equates service to the ad ? ministration by an intellectual to the betrayal by that person of his fellow academics . Both Professor Mor ? genthau and President Johnson seem to believe that " if you 're not with me , then you must be against me , and on everything . " Take , for example , the four alternate reactions that the professor allows to the intellectual : retreat into the ivory tower ; prophetic confrontation , i.e. , opposition ; expert advice ; and surrender . Dismissing the first and last for a moment , let us examine the other two . Mor ? genthau undoubtedly approves of opposition , and for good reasons . In this he follows the traditional view that one function , although he implies it should be the only one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which is supported by , and in turn justifies , power . Should the criticism be accepted , then the seek ? er must look for more of what John F. Kennedy called " the unfinished public business of the nation . " ( It is interesting to note that Kennedy ascribed this function , not to the academics alone , but to the presidency ; is it therefore possible , at least in some instances , for power and truth to operate harmoniously , and in the same individual ? ) Here , as a teacher , I would certainly agree , and sincerely believe that one of my tasks is to point out to my students what is wrong ( and what is right ) about contemporary society . The Intellectual 's Function But is Mr. Morgenthau realistic when he implies that such criticism exists in a vacuum ? " What he the in ? tellectual has to say about politics may have political consequences , " he writes , " which he may welcome or deplore , as the case may be . But these consequences are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his search for the truth . " ( My italics . ) How many of us can assume such a Socratic objectivity and noncha ? lance ? We do more than just " hope " for results when we discover error . No better example of this can be found than Hans Morgenthau himself . In his opposi ? tion to the current American involvement in Vietnam , he has gone far beyond the merely academic ; his con ? tinued efforts to effect a reversal of present policy indi ? cate that he does , indeed , " work " for political ends . The most important elective of the intellectual is expert advice . The academic may enter government as a participant , and in so doing , Professor Morgenthau declares , he " does not question the purpose and proc ? esses of government but accepts as given the frame ? work within which the government operates . He tells the powers-that-be what they need to know in order to achieve a particular result . . . . Given a certain objec ? tive , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to how to achieve it . " In short , he sacrificesany moral judgment , but is still , according to the writer , essentially at the service of truth , even though he puts it at the disposal of power . From here it is but a short step to becoming an agent of the politicians , and using his prestige as an intellectual to fulfill their ends . He ceases to be an intellectual , and becomes an ideologue , and at this point Dr. Morgenthau hurls his charge of treason . The fallacies in this argument result from an overly narrow definition of " intellectual , " and a rather distorted view of policy-making . According to Professor Morgenthau , I gather , an intellectual is one who can never be concerned with power because of his dedication to truth . It follows then that no intellectual can be a politician , and no pol ? itician can be an intellectual . The presence in the White House of such men as Thomas Jefferson , the Adamses , Theodore Roosevelt , Woodrow Wilson and John Ken ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posi ? tions of power of ( to mention just contemporaries ) William Fulbright , Paul Douglas , John Kenneth Gal ? braith , McGeorge Bundy , John Gardner and the late Adlai Stevenson , should point out the obvious weak ? nesses of the argument . Intellectuals are men who view the use of their intelligence as the major means of coping with and understanding the world and its prob ? lems . Not all intellectuals are buried in the groves of academe , nor are all university faculty intellectuals . As to the policy-making described by Mr. Morgen ? than , it would appear that the " pols " make the deci ? sions , and then call in the expert academics to justify and to implement them . it would be more realistic to recognize that intellectuals in the service of the gov ? ernment are frequently involved in the original making of decisions as well as their implementation . If he dis ? agrees with decisions reached , the intellectual can al ? ways maintain his integrity by resigning , as many have . But under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ve to assume that any one person , even the President , will agree with every decision . I am very much disturbed , however , by Professor Morgenthau 's entire attitude toward the service of in ? tellectuals in government . In accepting the " processes of government " and " the framework within which that government operates , " the intellectual is portrayed as committing some sort of hypocritical and shameful deed . This is , after all , our government as citizens as well as intellectuals ; why then should we be ashamed of contributing our talents when needed ? Granted cor ? ruption of purpose and hypocrisy of acts can occur ; but , as I am sure the professor is well aware , this can take place in the university as well as in the govern ? ment . The real treason of the intellectuals , it would seem to me , would be to retreat to the ivory tower be ? cause of fear of corruption . In such a case , power , left unaided as well as uncontested by truth , would cer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's phrase , to corruption . Many of the despicable deeds attributed to the John ? son administration may have occurred , but Professor Morgenthau fails to substantiate his charges . Aside from lambasting John Roche , he declares that the granting and withholding of governmental awards and contracts has silenced the community . This , according to the author , explains the lamentable paucity of po ? litical scientists who have spoken out against our Viet ? namese policy . At no time does he admit the possibility that an intellectual might support the war in Asia . There are many academics I know who would dearly like to see the United States disengage its forces , yet can not accept the simplistic solutions set forth by crit ? ics such as Morgenthau or Edmond Clubb . Perhaps political scientists have remained silent , not because of coercion , but because they view the uses and necessi ? ties of power differently . When the critics of American foreign policy come up with a realistic and workable solution of the problem , then perhaps more political scientists will speak out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contracts , if we follow the author 's reasoning , we might well come up with the following improbable , yet by his logic reasonable , conundrum . Two scholars ap-ply for federal support of a project . One is on record as bitterly opposed to the war in Vietnam ; the other is equally known for his support of the administration policies . If the grant is not awarded , do we interpret this as " punishment " for the critic , and , if it is given , is this a " reward " for the supporter ? Under Mr. Mor ? genthau 's reasoning , it would have to be one or the other , since there is no room allowed for judgment of the scholarly merits of the proposal , or the academic credentials of the sponsors . Professor Morgenthau 's complaint , in essence , is that he opposes the war in Asia , and the administration opposes him ; he obviously has not been silenced . Since he is under attack , all intellectuals should rally in his defense . Well , we do , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thought are concerned . We may defend his right to criticize , but does this mean we have to agree with him ? I for one resent his accusation that my lack of support for his position implies that I have sold out to the administration . There is more than just one truth , and not all of its varieties need be in conflict with power . Much of what Mr. Morgenthau writes is worth further examination , but his one issue , antinomian explanation of the rift between Johnson and the intellectuals falls far wide of the mark . Despite the huge congressional majorities enjoyed by President Johnson in the 89th Congress , not much was done for the slums of our cities . Some promising legis ? lation was enacted : the Housing Act of 1965 , the rent supplement bill , the demonstration cities bill . But in each case the issue of racial integration endangered the passage of bills , then emasculated them by the meager ? ness of appropriations . And now , with the 9oth Con- , gress , we have probably lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survived . Indeed , FRANCES Fox PIVEN and RICHARD A. CLOWARD are on the faculty of the Columbia University School of So ? cial Work . we may forfeit the small gains already made . It is time , therefore , to reexamine the relation , if any , between racial dispersion and decent housing for the slum poor . Patterns of ethnic and racial separation in urban settlement are age old , but improving slum housing has nevertheless recently come to be associated with the goal of racial desegregation . Restricted housing is regarded by reformers as the key factor in creating and maintaining racial barriers , and in turn racial bar ? riers are said to force Negroes into the deteriorated slum ; therefore , it is felt that desegregation should be a central objective of housing and redevelopment pro ? grams for the poor . But since there is , at best , little public support for low-income housing programs , and 