@@494566

Mylai Was Not an " Isolated Incident " It 's That Kind of War by Zalin B. Grant The number of noncombatant casualties resulting from combat air and ground operations is a matter of concern . These casualties have an adverse effect on . the rural reconstruction effort and the attainment of the GVN national goals . . . . I have every confidence in the discretion and judgment of our personnel , however ? I feel this problem is worthy of increased command emphasis . It is imperative that all our officers and men understand the importance of minimizing noncombatant casualties whenever possible . ? General William C. Westmoreland , Directive to all Subordinate Commanders , July 7 , 1965 . Most US officers arrived in Vietnam stamped with the notion that since war was indisputably hell , innocent civilians would be killed . It was simply a question of how many . But war 's hell , like Dante 's Inferno , had descending circles of terror . And America , with its fantastic array of killing tools , determined how hot hell became for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ casualty directive , Westmoreland approved the USE ' in South Vietnam of the most formidable antipersonnel weapon ever devised ? a cluster bomb that combined the horrors of white phosphorus , napalm and fragmentation . More than a half decade before Lieutenant William Calley , Jr. , choppered to Mylai , US army advisers grappled with the problem of fighting a war in which the enemy was so indistinguishable from the innocent that it was often hard to avoid killing both . Their solution was to rely totally on South Vietnamese government and military officials to finger the enemy . With the okay of the South Vietnamese , huge chunks of South Vietnam territory were designated as free fire zones on US military maps . American planes and artillery were given carte blanche to bomb and kill everything that moved in these " enemy " zones , which often included populous areas . Thus , two deadly precedents of the war were established . First , the US military defined the enemy in terms of geographical territory , rather than in terms of insurgents interspersed in a largely uncommitted population . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be Vietcong guerrillas , low-level VC cadre , or at least Communist sympathizers . US helicopters fired randomly in these areas . By stitching a few bullets through a suspect village or hamlet , the American helicopters hoped to draw return fire which would " fix " the enemy 's position . Often the random fire hit people , buffalo , houses . When US-advised ARVN forces attacked hamlets in enemy areas , all civilians killed during the battle were automatically classed as Vietcong . Dead women and children were used to inflate body counts reported by government troops . Later , American units did likewise . Secondly , the US fell into a pattern of complacent reliance on South Vietnamese officials , usually province chiefs , to determine which villages could be attacked by American firepower . When the Mylai massacre is thoroughly probed , someone probably will plead in extenuation that the South Vietnamese province chief had cleared Mylai as a free fire zone . Unlikely to be mentioned is the fact that shortly after the incident occurred , President Nguyen Van Thieu took the first steps to fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and incompetence . Almost all of these men , who very roughly corresponded to state governors , were inept political payoffs from Saigon . They seldom were familiar with the villages in the provinces they supposedly governed . Yet the province chiefs were the key factor in the US system of control to minimize noncombatant casualties . The province chief was the usual level from which US airstrikes were programmed for populated areas . He radioed the request to corps headquarters , where a joint Vietnamese-US Air Force Support Center routinely cleared and scheduled the airstrike . ( Province chiefs reportedly have extorted money from villages by threatening to call an airstrike on the area . ) Or if a US spotter plane drew a few rounds of sniper fire from a village , the pilot asked for permission from the province chief 's headquarters before he guided American bombers in to destroy the village . Needless to say , clearance was seldom denied . US ground operations in populated areas later were cleared the same way . For instance , before Americans burned villages in Binh Dinh province , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost never ventured from the safety of the province capital . The defoliation program was similarly organized . " Say we spot some rice growing in an area we have n't noticed before , " an American air force major , a crop-poisoner , once explained to me . " We check with the Vietnamese province chief and if he says none of his people live in the area , the paddy becomes a target for defoliation . " By early 1966 , American spray planes were poisoning ten thousand acres of rice and other food crops a month . Other brutal practices were frozen into the US military mentality early in the war . We tacitly , if perhaps reluctantly , condoned the South Vietnamese methodof prisoner interrogation , torture , which was frequently applied to civilians in enemy-controlled areas . Former South Vietnamese General Nguyen Chanh Thi , a legendary innovator , reputedly developed the famous helicopter interrogation method . Prisoners were taken aloft and tossed one-by-one from a helicopter , unless they agreed to talk . So a half-decade old heritage of disregard for the lives of civilians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildup began in mid-1965 . The military insensitivity that had prevailed before the buildup was now magnified several hundred times . More free fire zones were established ; more US helicopters roved over South Vietnamese villages randomly firing to " fix " the enemy . " It was cleared through proper channels " ? meaning the South Vietnamese province chief okayed the action ? became the self-righteous American excuse when journalists documented the bombing and burning of villages . The ugly American tactics were first dramatically exposed in a televised account of US Marines burning the village of Can-me in August , 1965 . The atrocity prompted a short-lived public outcry . The Marines responded to the criticism by importing a new public affairs officer to polish their image . They did n't stop burning villages , though . Neither did other US units ; destruction of villages became fairly routine and was seldom reported . The crucial time to formulate and enforce strict military policies to prevent civilian casualties came ? and passed ? in late 1965 . American public attention was focused on the controversy . General Westmoreland made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air and artillery pre-strikes on helicopter landing zones and random helicopter fire were tactics to be avoided . He banned undirected artillery fire , known as H and I ( harassment and interdiction ) , in certain areas . But as fresh US units arrived the guidelines either were misplaced , rescinded or disobeyed , and every night thousands of American artillery rounds randomly rained on the countryside . Intra-military debate on killing women and children assumed a tone of scholasticism . Some officers argued that civilian casualties did n't cause antigovernment reactions serious enough to hamper the war effort . They quoted surveys to support this contention . Others debated more specific points : should a village in which retreating VC are known to have sought refuge amongst civilians be bombed , even though the Vietcong have ceased firing ? Should a village near a landing zone be strafed for fear it shelters guerrillas who will fire on helilifted troops ? The answers were usually yes . Then events decisively shifted attention away from the civilian casualty controversy . Conventional North Vietnamese and American forces clashed in unpopuDECEMBER 20 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to worry about killing innocent noncombatants in the remote central highlands . The issue was buried by the headlines of big battles . Moreover , the US command was overwhelmed with the less morally taxing problems of supplying the rapid American buildup with enough food and ammunition . There are many reasons why the US military was n't compelled to seek an alternative to its brutal search and destroy tactics . The deficiency of war reporting , for example . Many journalists , though largely critical of the US performance , developed a **40;2158;TOOLONG syndrome . Newspapers and magazines usually " balanced " their criticisms of American tactics with a description of Vietcong atrocities . The juxtaposition served to ameliorate US actions . Domestic antiwar critics also failed to focus properly on the problem . Protest over the fate of civilians concentrated almost solely on the use of napalm . During the height of the napalm controversy , the US government dispatched respected experts to investigate charges that Americans were napalming women and children . The experts reported , probably accurately , that napalm burns among civilians were negligible . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when , in fact , the more undramatic weapons of war ? M79 grenades , machine guns , mortar and artillery shells ? were killing thousands of civilians . Indeed , so little pressure was applied to the military that no statistics were officially gathered on the number of civilian casualties until 1967 . By then the military attitude on the unavoidability of such casualties . had hardened hopelessly . When President Lyndon Johnson ordered the Pentagon in 1967 to build three US army hospitals solely for the treatment of wounded noncombatants , US military leaders refused to comply . They used various excuses , postponements and subter11 fuges until the idea was lost in the war 's shuffle . The hospitals would have been , of course , open admission that the US was killing innocent people . It would be grossly unfair to depict the majority of Americans in Vietnam as wanton , or even accidental , killers of Vietnamese civilians . Many were like Marine Colonel Michael Yunck , who refused to call an air-strike on an enemy village filled with women and children , instead took his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He got his leg shot off by a VC machine gun for his compassion . Perhaps many of the ugly occurrences in Vietnam can be described as " aberrations of war " ? the grenade tossed at civilians in a moment of panic , the village bombed because of mechanical failure . But for the past several years , an increasing number of so-called aberrations have appeared to be nothing more than premeditated brutality . AP photographer Dana Stone recounts the grim tale of US Marines who wanted to kill a wounded North Vietnamese they took after a harsh battle . An officer interceded and ordered the prisoner evacuated to a nearby American hospital . Several nights later , unknown persons slipped into the hospital and slit the wounded prisoner 's throat . Mylai ca n't be checked off as an aberation . Nor can it be dismissed , as it was by Mr. Nixon last week at his press conference , as " an isolated incident . " Vietnam is a difficult , complex war . Yes . But disciplined US troops , no matter how tired , understrength or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembled and massacred women and children  --  if they had been properly taught to value the Vietnamese peasant 's life . As a soldier at Mylai later said : " You ca n't just blame Calley 's platoon ; you 've got to blame everyone . It was a free fire zone . And you know , if you can shoot artillery and bombs in there every night , how can the people in there be worth so much ? "                     