@@488156

DF AR SIRS The article The Campus Scare Campaign " by William Wingfield The Armor ! , Sept 121 Lontains a very serious factual error . 1 reter to Mr. Wingfield J reference to Young Americans for Freedom as " a Birch Society affiliate " . . . if Mr Wingfield were as fond of research as he is of throwing mud , he would find that YAF has absolutely nothing to do with the John Birch Society . Charles Flynn Cmina , Calif DEAR SIRS Ihe California subcommittee on Un-American Activities specifically identifies the Young Americans for Freedom as a Birch fi on t . Menthe 's of the YAF advisoty board include John Rousselot , the Birch Society national public relations director , Dean Clarence Manion , member of the Birch Society National Council , and Edgar . Hiestand , former Birch Congressman from California At one time , one of the top YAF officials in California was Robert Gaston , who calls himself a " Rousselot-Republican ' In my home town , the Young Americans for Freedom hold their meetings in the Birch Society 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ membeiship in the Young Amei cans fur Freedom For a group that claims it has no connection with the John Birch Society , the Young Americans for Freedom seems to have more than its share of Birch leaders . William Wingfield no ban Kalamazoo , Mich . DEAR SIRS Mr. Wingfield discusses Loeffler 's boast that students at Western Michigan defied their letust professors " by reading None Dare Call Ii Treason . No teacher on Western 's campus told students they could not lead the hook None ot my colleagues are naive enough to believe they can control what a student leads on his own , not do they wish to Only fear-peddle ' Loeffler who embraces totalitarian methods would impute them to others . Lynwood H. Bartley , Broadcasting Dept . Western Reserve University thorn of the Tribune Brooklyn , N Y. DEAR SIRS The anti-labor image painted by James G. Smart in " Death of the Herald Tribune " The Nation , Sept. 261 will leave most liberal non-Tribune readers with the impression that its demise is small loss . The opposite , of course , is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may have thought ot its editorial page , served an extremely important function it kept The Neu ' York limes honest in its news columns . Anyone following new from Vietnam , for example , was immediately struck by the change in coverage by the Times when dispatches to the Trib no longer threatened news beats , and the Trib 's small Washington bureau was constantly able to come up with items that kept the larger Tunes bureau on its toes . In city news the last couple of years was a period of crusading reporting which heavily contributed to Lindsay 's election as mayor . During this period when everyone attempts to manage the news and the Tinier is probably the single most important source of the news , it was particularly important to the reading public that the Trib 's thorn he in the Time 's saddle . ( Continued on page 388 ) One of the staples of political commental y these days is that the President of the United Slates , by all odds the most powerful of world leaders , is not trusted , either by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspect of this distrust is in relation to Vietnam . The President it represented as being seriously interested in a negotiated settlement , and unable to understand why there is so much skepticism about his position It is not much of a punle Any President , any tiler , must he something of a manipulator , something of a conniver. in order to do his job . Fi lend and foe alike expect as much NI Johnson 's trouble is that he has canted intrigue too far , so that the gap between his words and his actions has widened beyond acceptable limits The glaring example , of course , is Johnson the candidate , a moderate vis- ? - vis Vietnam in contrast to the firebrand Goldwater , and Johnson elected , acting as the voters had assumed Goldwater would act  --  or worse . After that , why should any reasonably critical person accept the President 's protestations at face value ' Skepticism is the more justified because the President has continued on a course of pretense and deception and seems to be incapable of handling the burdens of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upcoming Manila session . Ambassador Goldberg launches still another peace offensive at the UN , differing only in microscopic detail from previous manifestos . President Marcos of the Philippines comes to Washington , is given a big reception and a big loan , and takes his turn at the UN . No sooner is Marcos out of the country than Mr Johnson " accepts " an invitation to tk to Manila in the cause of peace The Asian participants in this confabulation will all be client states of this country , dependent on us for arms and money So constituted , it must look in Hanoi more like a war conference than a peace conference , and Mr Johnson must look no more trustworthy than in the past . The stage management is so clumsy that Americans , except for the most sheeplike , can hardly be taken in either . The original date for this gathering of the anti-Communist alliance was October l8 . Could this timing have anything to do with domestic politics ? What with Mr. Johnson 's popularity slipping , it could indeed . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the World Series , when Americans will again have time for problems of state , and the November 8 election The trip would dominate the news while Mr Johnson and entourage are en route , while they are in Manila , and when they are back in Washington for the report to the Congress , press conferences , and the speculations of the commentators as to what is behind it all . The political implications of the trip as originally projected were in fact so palpable that the President felt compelled , as criticism mounted , to expand the itinerary so as to give the appearance of a broader purpose . But note that the schedule has been delayed slightly , so that live television coverage via satellite can be set up . There is altogether too much showmanship involved to allow much hope that a serious attempt at a settlement is really in prospect . No doubt the President would like to secure a settlement ? on his own terms . His role as an impresario reveals the carrot-and-stick strategy which has marked his previous promotions . Goldberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleads for peace , Secretary McNamara announces a hike in the purchase of combat aircraft . The President goes to Manila , ostensibly in the cause of peace . McNamara gOes on a military mission to Saigon . If all these answers fail , what comes next ? The President may boggle at the use of nuclear devices , but the least he will be able to settle for is a tougher war . It will be deferred until after November 8 ; when it comes , trust in Mr. Johnson will drop still another notch . Party Politics and Race The myopic schemers who mastermind the Republican Party sense that they can build an issue around " riots and disorders " by calling for " firmness " ( in Birchite nomenclature , " support your local police " ) and by hinting that " subversion " is responsible for disturbances involving Negroes . Stated bluntly , they , are tempted to make race the primary issue . Since they are not willing to take a stand for peace , race better suits their purposes . than Vietnam . To call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is cynical , sinister and contemptible ; it seeks to profit froin the streak of racism buried deep in the American psyche  --  by no means universal , but far from negligible in political potential . Despite this bias , it was possible earlier to rally major support for civil rights in areas outside the South . The Negro vote was pivotal in many big cities in populous states , and liberals , religious groups and fair-minded Americans generally were demanding . civil rights action . What made such action relatively easy was that the thrust of civil rights legislation was directed against the South . For Negroes in the North , voting , serving on juries and political equality in general were pretty much taken for granted . Supporting the extension of such rights to Southern Negroes involved no sacrifice for Northern whites . In 1964 , the " white backlash " began to be talked about . The expression originated in the North and reflected Northern irritation at discovering that the Negro aspired not only to political but to economic equality . Until the movement reached this stage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel virtuous at , the same time . But when moderate Negro leaders failed to get for the slums the expected benefits , and slum dwellers began to call attention to themselves in the only way that seemed to them still open , a large section of the white community resorted to the standard defense of dominant groups intent on maintaining ' their dominance . They did not blame themselves , they blamed the victims ; the misery of the slums was the slums ' own fault . Thus Time ( October 7 ) expresses its sorrow that the " Negro revolution " is devouring its children . " During a summer of insensate riots and black-power demagoguery , " Time editorializes , " the Negro 's legitimate struggle for full citizenship sadly lost momentum , while white reaction against Negro excesses continued to mount . " This rising white reaction , caught at the flood , is what some GOP leaders see as the party 's opportunity . If they seize it and succeed , the THE NATION / Oclob  --  r 17 , 1966 ultimate cost may appall even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next election The deadly stalemate which could ensue , with violence far exceeding anything experienced heretofore , is already in view . In proportion as the white reflex mounted , the South began to take heart from the fact that the struggle had shifted to the North , and the North was exhibiting Dixie attitudes , with only minor concealments The Northern backlash has fomented a renewed reaction in the South , of which Lester Maddox , the ax-handle aspirant for the governorship of Georgia . is one symbol , Wallace in Alabama another , Johnson in Arkansas a third , and others sprouting all over With not more than 3 per cent of the South 's Negro children attending integrated schools , the segregationists are making a stand against further integration , even at the token level The degree to which they have been emboldened is shown by Rep Mendel Rivers ' McCarthyite manhandling of U S. Commissioner of Education Harold Howe . Two courageous voices have been heard amid this racist tumult One was that of Rep. Charles Weltner , who repudiated Maddox at the cost of his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller of New York , who scornfully dissociated himself from statements by Republican national leaders , including former President Eisenhower , to the effect that the Administration had condoned and encouraged street violence Responsibility , Mr. Rockefeller said , rested with the mayors of the cities where violence erupted If the white blacklash presents an intra-party problem for liberal Republicans , Weltner 's dramatic action is almost certain to raise complications for President Johnson The counsel of caution would he to remain above the battle . but if the Republicans ally themselves with racism , can the President stay aloof while valiant Democrats of less pi ominence sacrifice their careers to their principles , How Much for a Life ? It depends . of course , on whose life you are talking about Until recently , in accordance with a 1929 treaty negotiated by some ninety nations in Warsaw , a passenger killed in the crash of an international an liner was worth $8,290 ? no more , no less In 1965 , after much pulling and hauling , the International Air Transport Association expressed willingness to raise the indemnity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , the passenger happened to be a well-heeled businessman on a New York-San Francisco flight , the heirs were more fortunate , a Jury might go as high as $500,000 in its evaluation of this extinguished life . But these are all Caucasian lives , and among them American lives have the greatest cash value For Asian lives , the American Government has another standard When a Vietnamese civilian is killed by misdirected U S air attacks  --  a not unusual occurrence  --  the surviving family ( if any ) is awarded $34 This is quite in line with other calculations of the South Vietnamese government , the U S. Defense Department and other U S. agencies . Refugees from our air attacks who seek survival in camps in areas free of the Vietcong are granted an allowance of 9c a day . The United States is a rich country , but frugal withal  --  except in killing , where no expense is spared and no cost is too great The bargain-basement valuation of Asian life may have some connection with General Eisenhower 's counsel that we should not rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biological warfare , which has not yet been perfected , atomic warfare is the least expensive means of wiping out a hostile population We would not even have to pay the $34 indemnity . ' New Politics ' in California From West Virginia to California groups are beginning to organize with an eye to independent political action The Nation is in thorough sympathy with the impulse behind this widespread and growing demand for a " new politics , " given an impetus by the surprising number of " peace candidates " Indeed , we voiced the demand long before the National Conference for a New Politics was organized ( " Time for a New Politics " by Carey McWilliams . The Nation , May 26 , 1962 ) . Maddox vs Callaway in Georgia , and Tower vs . Carr in Texas , are not choices but cruel echoes Today it is all too clear that the malfunctioning of the two-party system is creating a dangerous national mood of bitterness , frustration , anger and deep concern Not surprisingly , the demand for independent action is strongest in California where party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fared better than elsewhere At the moment , the state has the largest potential constituency for a " new politics " But merely to give vent to the existing frustration is not necessarily the best way to set a " new politics " ip motion . Consider , for example , the recent State-wide Conference on Power and Politics in Los Angeles ( See page 377 of this issue ) The impressive turn-out ? 2.089 delegates ? clearly reflects the existing annoyance with the sad state of our politics and our parties By an estimated margin of 60 to 40 ( these were no loll-call votes ) , the delegates voted to boycott both Reagan and Brown Since the prime purpose of the conference seemed to be to pi ? claim a hex on Brown , the effect of the action was to divide the potential constituency for a " new politics " Across town , another group . " State of the Future Conference for Californians , " met for the purpose of endorsing Governor Brown Speakers included- The Right Reverend James A. Pike , Sen. Edward Kennedy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stegner But the appearance of the rival group was merely one of several indications of the divisive effect of the decision to boycott Brown . At the " new politics " conference , five liberal California Congressmen ? Philip Burton , Augustus F. Hawkins , Edward R. Roybal , Don Edwards and George Brown ? released a statement endorsing the Governor . The delegates could baldly criticize the voting record of these men , some of whom might be defeated if Reagan were to sweep the state The AFL-CIO is , of course , supporting Governor Brown , but so is the International Longshoremen 's and Warehousemen 's Union and so is Cesar Chavez s Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee A few Negroes and Mexican-Americans attended the " new politics " conference , but they could hardly be regarded as spokesmen for their respective groups . Even the liberal intellectuals identified with the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions were divided ; some attended one conference , some the other . The reason for the division is clear enough . Reagan vs . Brown is not a Hobson 's choice like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We have been critical of the Governor , " to quote from the statement of the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee , " in the past and no doubt will differ with him again in the future . But we would be less than grateful , as farm workers , if we did not now urge his re-election : " The lesser-evil argument is tedious and has been grossly abused , but the margin of choice between Brown and Reagan is significant and the outcome can have important national implications . More to the point is the question of the tactical wisdom of raising an issue , late in the campaign , which was certain to divide those who , on almost any reckoning , would necessarily make up the constituency of a " new politics . " The boycott will probably not injure Governor Brown 's chances ? it may improve them ? and in the end many of the delegates who shouted approval of it may vote for him . But the question remains : was this the best way or the best time to launch so serious an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Hidden Ingredient When the United States Information Agency thinks that a book published in this country should be read by peoples abroad , it will subsidize a foreign edition  --  paying for the translation and in some cases buying enough copies for free distribution in influential circles to make the venture attractive to the publisher . The job of USIA ? an unenviable one these days  --  is to put America 's best foot forward , and supporting books which are thought to further that aim is in principle a legitimate part of the work . But sometimes USIA can not find a book that expresses the view it wants aired on a subject it thinks important . Then it becomes more active : it finds a writer , supervises his work ( how closely it supervises is a skittish subject with agency personnel ) and puts him in touch with a publisher . The foreign edition appears in due course , but often the publisher will also bring out , an edition for domestic sale . In such cases , American readers are asked to buy a book which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes . More important , they are asked to read a work that was commissioned as U.S. propaganda , but the government 's hand in the matter is not evident anywhere in the volume . Until recently , when the House Appropriations Subcommittee became upset by the policy , USIA kept secret the list of books in which it had an interest . Now the titles have been released and in the future cautious readers can presumably ferret out the subsidized books . But that is carrying caveat einptor rather far ; in simple honesty , books that are midwived by USIA should have the fact recorded on their title pages . However , that is an aspect of packaging , and packaging , as Congress well knows , is not the most ethical of pursuits . It is more than probable that we shall need a law obliging Praeger ( the most active publishing colleague of USIA ) and the other participating firms to carry a suitable notice when works they distribute at home are feedbacks from the government 's overseas public relations . The Red Paint Incident The following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First Unitarian 's vandalism insurance policy was canceled last fall by the company which held our insurance . This despite an eight-year record of more than $4,000 paid in premiums and only $1,200 in claims filed for all purposes , not just vandalism . Not a bad profit for any insurance company , you might think . But the company did n't think so . " What provoked the cancellation was featured on the front pages of the local papers as ' The Red Paint Incident . ' Distressed church officials were pictured pointing to the church building walls where vandals had thrown oil-penetrating ' bombs ' the night before . We 'd rented our facilities  --  as we have to other ' controversial ' community groups ? to a group which was pleading the ' Stop the War ' cause . Someone apparently did n't like that . " But we 'd rent again for the same cause or to the opposing , side . For we believe that truth will not be vanquished as long as reason is left to combat error . " First Unitarian Church , Richard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Saturday Evening Post 's " Speaking Out " department someone does occasionally ' speak out  --  witness Dr. William B. Ober in the October 8 issue on " We Should Legalize Abortion . " Dr. Ober asks , " By what right does state or church claim a jurisdiction superior to that of the woman involved in pregnancy ) I believe that every woman should be able to have an unwanted pregnancy aborted at her own request , subject only to the consent of her husband and the advice of her physician . " Even wider liberalization is advocated by Alice S. Rossi , a research sociologist at the University of Chicago , writing on " Abortion Laws and Their Victims " in the September/October issue of Transaction . Dr. Rossi 's position is that " any woman , whether married or not , should be able to secure a safe abortion , upon her own request , at a reasonable fee , in a licensed hospital by a licensed and competent ' physician . " Such views are prevalent among , the educated and sex-ually permissive , but will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unequivocal or state legislators ( each state being sovereign in this- field ) will consider the issue too hot to handle . But actually it is hot on only one side . The National Opinion Research Center of the University of Chicago scanned a representative sample of nearly 1,500 adult Americans in December , 1965 , and found that 71 per cent favored legal abortion Where the woman 's own health is endangered , 56 per cent where she is pregnant as a result of rape , and 55 per cent Where there is a strong chance of serious defect in the baby . But the percentages were abruptly reversed for the mother of a low-income family that could not afford more children or when the woman did not want to marry the man by whom she had conceived , or if , being married , she simply did not want any more children . The maximum favorable response in these categories was 21 per cent .. Judging by this survey , Americans are willing to sacrifice the fetus for the Sake of the mother 's health or to spare her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they do not hold with the abortion-on-demand principle approached in the Japanese Eugenic Protection Law of 1948 . Where the conventions are involved , they still favor punitive motherhood : an unmarried prospective mother , for instance , must embark on a high-risk marriage , or go through the pregnancy and put the child up for adoption , or bear and rear an illegitimate child . The majority will neither tolerate abortion as a last-resort birth-control measure nor recognize the absolute right of a woman to decide whether or not she wishes to bear a child Estimates of the number of illegal abortions performed annually range from 250,000 to more than 1 million . To make a beginning in cutting down this national disgrace , it would seem best to seek early changes in the abortion laws in conformity with the present state of public opinion , and to allow time for America to catch up with Japan before attempting wider liberalization.                     