@@478126

Thoughtful executives are becoming increasingly worried about how they can justify their big decisions . Are they really " in the public interest " ? And who should say what " the public interest " is ? VVhat is fast becoming a traditional American rite ? the periodic hassle over steel prices ? has again brought into the open some of the most troubling questions that American businessmen have to face . How can an executive ? with the best will in the world ? be sure that he is acting in the public interest ? How can he tell what it is ? And what should he do if his duty to the public conflicts with his idea of his duty to his stockholders ? Practically everybody now believes that the price of steel , and the wages which help to determine it , are matters of vital public interest . Several studies have fixed on increases in steel prices as the chief cause of inflation during the Eisenhower era . Hut there is nothing in logic or fact that makes the price of steel any more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cement , electrical machinery , or other major commodities . There is also a growing recognition that in many of these industries a comparative handful of executives make the crucial decisions . However , some business theoreticians have invented a new doctrine , the concept of the Corporate Conscience , to assure us that all is well . This idea would , of course , have dismayed Adam Smith . In his simpler age , the restraints of conscience had no place in business behavior . For the classical economists insisted that each man 's hand could , and should , be turned against every other 's . Out of this conflict , in which each pursues his own self-interest , the maximum well-being of all would automatically result . But this doctrine rested on a crucial assumption ? the existence of perfect competition . In a world where no single entrepreneur was big enough to affect the price and supply of his industry 's output , the consumer was king . Guided by supply and demand , then , resources would flow to their 38 THE CONSCIENCE OF BUSINESS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution to the satisfaction of impersonally determined wants . So long as every businessman aimed single-mindedly at making the biggest possible profit , he would inevitably serve the public interest . If theory and practice did n't quite jibe ? if women and children toiled In mines and poverty was the lot of most ? this was no indictment of the theory . Human imperfections , the stickiness of wages , or the fecundity of the poor were interfering with an elegant model . Today , of course , the gap between the reality of concentrated economic power and the fiction of perfect competition is too wide to be ignored . While most economists are reluctant to surrender the attractive classical model entirely , the fact of concentration is taken for granted by laymen and necessarily ( if tacitly ) recognized by public-policy makers . Typically , modern industries are dominated by a handful of producers . In steel , autos , aluminum , electrical machinery , cigarettes , chemicals , and many more , the major firms must take account of each other 's moves and generally follow the policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the classical competitive world who received his signals from impersonal markets , the executives of a General Motors , a General Dynamics , or a General Electric can exercise considerable discretion over their price , employment , output , and investment decisions . In such an economy , narrow self-interest no longer insures a state of bliss for the whole society ; decisions lack the automatic sanction of Adam Smith 's invisible hand . What , then , does justify the businessman 's behavior ? What is there to guarantee that his use of economic power will serve the public interest ? Thoughtful commentators and businessmen have fully understood this theoretical vacuum . To fill the gap , they have proclaimed a new breed of managers whose decisions are guided by a profound sense of social responsibility . In its simplest form , the new doctrine of legitimacy runs along these lines : ownership in the large , modern corporation is so widely diffused among tens of thousands of stockholders that none is powerful enough to exercise control . Bernard D. Nossiter , who was recently a Nieman Fellow at Harvard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post " since 1955 . He adapted this article from his book , " Myths and Mythmakers in the Modern Economy , " to be published by Houghton Mifflin next year . He earned an M.A. at Harvard in 19.48 , between Army hitches , Therefore control is vested in a largely self-perpetuating group of officer-managers . These managers are in an almost impregnable position . They operate the machinery through which their nominal superiors , the corporate directors , are elected . And the cost of rounding up enough shares to oust the directors in a proxy fight is extremely high . But this is a good thing . It largely frees the manager from the selfish interest of shareholders in stock prices and dividends ; it enables him to balance carefully the conflicting claims of all groups in society . The conventional wisdom on this subject was well expressed last year by executives from corporate , theological , and educational institutions who sat on the Business Ethics Advisory Council of the Secretary of Commerce . They said ; Every business enterprise has manifold responsibilities to the society of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligation of the managers of a business is to operate it for the long-term profit of its owners . Concurrent social responsibilities pertain to a company 's treatment of its past , present , and prospective employees and to its various relationships with customers , suppliers , government , the community , and the public at large . This , of course , is a much larger agenda than the simple goal of maximum profits prescribed by the classicists and still presented to all of us in introductory courses in economics . Scripture According to John ( Harvard ) The prophets of corporate responsibility are not always clear whether modern executives have attained the new state of grace or whether they merely aspire to it . However , there is general agreement that schools of business administration play a strategic role in the scheme . They are the spawning grounds of the enlightened organization man , imparting the values and techniques that train commonplace undergraduates for a life of responsible service in the corporate temple . Adolf A. Berle , a leading apostle of the new creed , observes in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business schools ? Harvard and Columbia ? have offered programs of background information and thinking in the larger ranges of social organization to selected business executives . " These programs are helping to create , he says , " a body of sophisticated thinking , whose aim , properly analyzed , is a conception of community making for the good life . " Corporations are leading the way to a modern " City of God " because their managers are tending to respond to the promptings of conscience or some inchoate higher law . Because of its crucial seminarian role , let us examine the scripture according to the most prominent business school , the one at Harvard . A cursory examination of the 1962-3 catalogue confirms the Business School 's concern with the moral revolution . Its 116 pages contain at least eight separate references to right conduct . A Harvard Business School student , we are told , " develops a concept of ethical values and of social responsibility in the making of concrete business decisions . " Elsewhere , the catalogue is sprinkled with phrases like " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibilities of business to the American society as a whole . " Harvard 's Divinity School , older and perhaps less optimistic , does not claim as much . The Business School offers a half-year course exclusively devoted to the precepts of corporate responsibility . It is labeled " Business , Society , and the Individual " and is known as BSI in the acronymic world of the embryo corporate executives , " The primary concern of this course , " the catalogue tells us , " is realistic managerial decision-making in business situations in a private-enterprise economy which requires profit , and which is complicated by the presence of issues of public responsibility , fairness , integrity , right and wrong , personal conscience . " BSI , like " Creative Marketing Strategy " or " Factory Management , " is an optional course offered to second-year students . Unfortunately it was not given this past year because its professor , George Albert Smith , Jr. , was on leave in Switzerland . However , he left behind his own text , 762 pages of documents and cases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case system , the study of situations drawn from the actual world of business . Professor Smith 's cases range over a bigger territory than Salesman Willy Loman dreamed of . Can a study of these cases teach us how the sentiments of the catalogue are translated into practice by decision-makers in executive suites ? Do they develop a technique to replace competitive markets and strike a balance between the competing claims cited by the Business Ethics Advisory Council ? Some of the BSI eases pose rather simple , Siinday school issues of honesty . Should a dealer in motor scooters who divides promotion expenses with his distributor , permit his advertising agency to pad the bills in order to shrink his share of the costs ? Should a business-school student , offered an expense-paid trip for a job interview by two different firms in the same city , collect his expenses twice ? Some of the cases raise broader questions of responsibility . How should the steel executives respond to President Kennedy 's request for price restraint ? Should a. candy manufacturer with a plant in the Philippines introduce machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , of course , no textbook solutions to these questions . George Smith does not profess to be a Solomon . Nor does he claim to be a ? ew Adam Smith , developing a theory that provides ready answers for decision-makers . Near the end of his text , George Smith quotes another business-school scholar , Richard Bells of Columbia : The well-tempered corporation is a system of private government with self-generated principles of constitutionalism that match corporate authority to corporate responsibilities and impose restraints upon corporate officialdom for the protection of the rights of persons and property against abuse of corporate power . Thus , Bells , who has also been in charge of something called " public policy research " at General Electric , lets the cat out of the bag . For he suggests that the principles of responsible corporate behavior can not he blueprinted . They are " self-generating " or , in effect , somehow divined . Both Smith of Harvard and Eells of Columbia , it is safe to say , would be dismayed at the suggestion that these principles can be discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason to believe , however , that this respected method of ancient Rome is much less fruitful than the doctrines of BSI . Indeed , Smith 's cases suggest that the main use of his course lies in introducing students to the variety of pressures that will affect their power when they reach the executive suite . BSI may teach less about beneficent decision-making than about the way to handle possible adversaries , such as government , labor , consumers , and suppliers . This is no warrant for cynicism , however . If the New Creed and the Business School ca n't supply simple guides to decision-making , this does not mean that corporate executives are not genuinely concerned about the gulf between their power and its sanction , between their performance and their aspirations . Some evidence on this score was turned up by the Reverend Raymond C. Baumhart , a Jesuit priest and former student at the Business School . He sent readers of the Harvard Business Review a provocative questionnaire that drew 1,700 re40 THE CONSCIENCE OF BUSINESS plies , mostly from men who said they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the corporate world . Nearly half of them agreed with a statement that American businessmen tend to ignore ethical laws and are preoccupied chiefly with gain . Four of seven thought that businessmen would breach a code of ethics if they thought they could get away with it . Four of five said there are practices generally accepted in their own industry which they personally regarded as unethical . Among these generally accepted " unethical " practices , they cited lavish entertaining to seek favors ; kickbacks to customers ' purchasing agents ; price fixing ; and misleading advertising . These replies do not add up to a world of amoral executives , accepting the corporate life for what it is . Instead , they indicate that these businessmen are uneasy about their own role and that of their fellows . Their distress is understandable . Nothing in the logic or practice of concentrated corporate industries now compels socially responsible decisions or even defines what they are . No formula explains how competing claims are to be gratified . No theory fixes responsibility on specific actors in the corporate drama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Business School , let us look at a few cases to illustrate the difficulties of socially responsible decision-making . In any roster of leading concerns , the General Electric Company ? the fourth-ranking industrial corporation in sales in 1960 ? would clearly shine . As Berle himself said in his celebration of the new creed , " The General Electric Company is , justly , one of the most respected of American corporations . Its management has been able and of unquestioned integrity . " GE , of course , was also the kingpin of the greatest criminal price conspiracy in the history of the antitrust laws . Indeed , GE has been running afoul of the antitrust laws for half a century . Between 1911 and 1952 , the company had been ordered to abandon some illicit practice , or been convicted , or pleaded unwilling to contest , in thirteen other alleged breaches of the monopoly laws . So the remarkable cases to which GE pleaded guilty in 1960 were hardly isolated incidents . Even more interesting , however , is the way the corporation and its chief officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the antitrust laws involved ranking corporation officials . During the 1950s , the government charged , they had met secretly with other producers of electrical machinery to agree on and sometimes raise prices and to allocate shares of markets . The conspiracies ? and there were many separate ones ? ranged from giant turbine-generators to watt-hour meters . They embraced billions of dollars in sales . GE 's highest management repeatedly asserted that blame could attach only to those who participated directly in the price-rigging and market-sharing rings . How could this be ? Simply because the corporation had issued a directive instructing its executives to obey antitrust laws and not to engage in agreements or discussions with competitors over prices and other competitive matters . Three GE officials were jailed , eight others given suspended sentences , and five more were fined . All of them came from just three of GE 's divisions . But the man directly in charge of these three divisions , Arthur F. Vinson , was sure no serious fault lay with him . Vinson , a Group Executive and Vice President , was questioned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conspirators . " It was my duty , " he said , " to have trustworthy , capable management in place and I delegated that authority and depended on them to do this job . " At another point , Vinson pictured himself as a sort of philosopher , aloof from the hurly-burly of prices and sales . He said , " ... it is my job to coach , guide , and help and be knowledgeable to the extent that you can . " At most , he would acknowledge some flaw in his Socratic dialogue . Vinson concluded his testimony by saying , " I think we could do a better teaching job " on antitrust matters . " Perhaps we did n't do enough talking about it . " On the next rung of the corporate ladder stood President Robert Paxton . In his view , " a handful of people " had " departed from proper conduct . " He , himself , could be blamed only for " an unsuccessful supervision . " The guilty handful , he said , " were supposed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are supposed to be people who conduct themselves properly . " Before he moved up to the presidency , Paxton had preceded Vinson directly in charge of the tainted divisions . But Paxton insisted that GE 's troubles flowed from some black lambs who had strayed from the fold because of their earlier , pre-GE rearing ; neither the shepherds nor the sheep pen were faulty . He told the Senators , " Too much of the morality of the business life has to be taught by the employer . It should have been taught by a church ; it should have been taught by a school ; and above all things , it should have been taught at home , but it is n't . " The highest executive at GE . Chairman Ralph J. Cordiner , at first adopted a somewhat ambiguous stance before the Subcommittee . In his formal statement he said , " As chief executive officer , I accept my share of responsibility for what happened , even though I did not know of these secret violations of the law or condone such acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cordiner regarded his " share of responsibility " as minute , and he returned to the Vinson-Paxton thesis of a corrupt few . " Finally , " he said , " this comes down to the individual attitude of an individual person and how responsive they are to the teaching and the belief and the conviction . " Speaking as a corporate entity , GE was as emphatic as Cordiner that guilt lay elsewhere . The 1960 annual report declared : The Company pleaded nolo contendere to thirteen of these indictments , while pleading guilty to six others upon being advised by counsel that the Company may be held technically responsible rmy emphasis for the acts of its employees even when they have violated a clear , long-standing Company Directive Policy setting up standards of conduct more stringent than requirements of the antitrust laws . Responsibility , in this view , is individual and personal ; it is neither executive nor corporate . But if this is so , what happens to the doctrine of responsible executives ? To be sure , there were dissents from this position . Federal Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much of the evidence , and sentenced the defendants , was not persuaded . Among other things , he declared : I am not at all unmindful that the real blame is to be laid at the doorstep of the corporate defendants and those who guide and direct their policy . While the Department of Justice has acknowledged that they were unable to uncover probative evidence which could secure a conviction beyond a reasonable doubt of those in the highest echelons of the corporations here involved , in a broader sense they bear a grave responsibility for the present situation . ... But at least in public , business leaders rallied behind GE and Cordiner . John W. McGovern , then President of the National Association of Manufacturers , told an inquiring newspaper , " In a large organization , you ca n't know every detail . Things like that could happen but people at the top would not be aware of it . " And the President of the Chamber of Commerce , Arthur H. Motley , observed : " As business gets bigger and more decentralized , a code @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . But it must be followed through personally . It 's possible to establish a policy that 's not followed . " This confronts the creed with a peculiar dilemma . Are corporate leaders responsible when things go well , but not accountable when they do n't , because the large corporation is too cumplex ? Where the Ford Gold Went This dilemma apparently troubled Henry Ford II , chairman of the Ford Motor Company and a GE director . Shortly after GE and the other electrical companies were sentenced , Ford declared that " it is the job of our corporate executives to keep their own houses in order . " In an address entitled " Business Ethics in 1961 , " Ford said : " I 'm afraid it is little use to drag out the old bad-apple alibi to explain away things ? the idea that there are always a few bad ones in every barrel . There is really only one thing for top executives to do at such a time as this . That is to forget the alibis and the explanations and have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say : This is our failure . We are chagrined and sorry . It will not happen " Ford 's attempt to resurrect the doctrine of responsibility was confounded one week later . He and the other GE directors ? drawn from the cream of American finance and industry and including a former Harvard Business School dean ? publicly endorsed GE 's management . They continued Cordiner in his newly enlarged role of both Chairman and President . If the price conspiracy illustrates the difficulty of fixing responsibility , Ford 's own company offers a prime example of the problem of determining just what is responsible corporate conduct . In his speech on ethics , Ford confidently asserted : " Business today understands well how its actions may impinge not only on the lives of individuals but also upon the goals and policies of our nation both home and abroad . " Former members of the Eisenhower Administration , not known for their antipathy to the corporate view , might well have done a double take at this . For Ford played a curious part in one of the Administration 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began betting feverishly against the dollar , pushing up the price of gold . Behind this outburst lay the deficit in the United States ' international accounts . The 42 THE CONSCIENCE OF BUSINESS speculators were betting that the deficit and the resultant loss of gold would force the United States to devalue , paying more dollars for an ounce of gold . The President and his Treasury Secretary , Robert B. Anderson , took to national television to tell the nation that the situation was perilous . " All Americans ought to be profoundly concerned , " Anderson said . After the election , Mr. Eisenhower , now a lame duck , moved decisively to curb the outflow of dollars and gold . Among other measures , he ordered the Department of Defense to reduce by 15,000 a month the number of dollar-spending servicemen 's wives and children overseas . He even hinted that the United States might have to trim its military expenditures on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization , and sent Anderson on a humiliating and largely unsuccessful mission to drum up help from the West Germans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford company announced it was about to add about 360 million of its own dollars to the unfavorable balance of payments . The sum was greater than all of the estimated savings in the first year of the Eisenhower orders . Ford was to spend the money to buy up the remaining 45 per cent of the shares in its British manufacturing subsidiary . The Detroit parent already owned 55 per cent , more than enough for absolute control . But the chairman declared that the remaining 45 per cent was needed for " greater operational flexibility and to coordinate better . " Simple observers were puzzled at how flexibility and coordination could be improved by enlarging a 55 per cent share to 100 per cent . But students of Ford 's finances thought they had a clue . The company 's cash and marketable securities had climbed by more than $200 million in 1959 to $666.3 million . In other words , excess cash was burning holes in Ford 's pockets . At the same time , the British plant was earning nearly 40 per cent more on its assets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and trucks by the English firm had expanded during the 1950s about fifteen times as fast as those of the American company . Ford appeared to be acting like a classical entrepreneur , putting its idle cash into the more profitable overseas venture . Anderson personally telephoned Ford asking him to soften the blow . But Ford , like the West Germans , was not about to do favors for lame ducks . In the week that Ford sent its check to London for the shares , the United States ' stock of gold dropped another $204 million . The point of this essay is not to argue that businessmen are greedy , hypocritical , or irresponsible . Rather it is to suggest that corporate executives , by training and outlook , are ill-equipped to make difficult judgments in the swampy area of social responsibility . This is a burden that can not and should not be placed upon them . As Theodore Levitt , a business consultant , has said , the theory of the socially responsible executive conjures up " a frightening spectacle of a powerful economic functional group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ context of money and things , but which imposes its narrow ideas about a broad spectrum of unrelated noneconomic subjects on the mass of man and society . " Too Simple An Answer Berle , eloquent champion of the conscience-ridden executive , saw through to some other major difficulties of his thesis . " If corporations are to make industrial plans , " he asked , " what are the criteria of these plans ? " In a world of perfect competition , this question is irrelevant ; the consumer is king and his choices , through the market , guide business decisions . But in a world of corporations emancipated in some measure from the market , no such criteria exist . Moreover , Berle observed , modern corporate managements have " substantially absolute power . " Even if agreement could be reached on what is and is not responsible behavior , there is no mechanism to make the corporate hierarchs accountable . Society generally has no process it can use to recall erring executives or hold a referendum on crucial corporate decisions . If GE 's chief officials disclaim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the corporate conscience is an uncertain instrument , what can take its place ? How can legitimacy and sanction he restored to economic decision-making ? For many economists , the answer is simple ? too simple , in fact , for life outside the academy . They say : Let 's restore competition . Their favorite method is a more vigorous antitrust policy . The more sophisticated economists , however , know that with the best will in the world , the Justice Department wo n't ( and should n't ) he able to recreate a world of atomistic competitors , no one of them big enough significantly to affect an industry 's price or output . These neo-trust-busters argue for a more limited goal . With considerable persuasiveness , they urge that greater competition and more reliance on impersonal forces would have considerable value in some industries . This does not mean , for example , fracturing the steel industry into hundreds of small corporations . Efficient production in steel requires large aggregations of capital . But it is doubtful that these need to be as large as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry 's output . The American producers ' belated introduction of new steel-making techniques pioneered in Europe testifies that the biggest are not necessarily the liveliest . The neo-trust-busters recognize that if antimonopoly regulation is to become more than a shield for business as usual , the laws will have to be amended drastically . Courts are reluctant to break up corporations ? at most , they will adopt such heroic expedients only to cope with obvious misconduct . Under present laws , they wo n't do it simply to reduce market power . An amendment to the Sherman Act proposed by Professors Carl Kaysen and Donald Turner of Harvard could be helpful . They would split up into viable units any corporation exercising " unreasonable " market power . " Unreasonable " power would be assumed wherever , for example , one firm accounted for half an industry 's sales or four firms accounted for 80 per cent . The giants could escape division only by showing that their preeminence arose as the result of gains in efficiency or if the cost of a breakup would he too great . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few economists , the pressure for it would not lift a small balloon ? great sectors of private economic power would remain . This stubborn fact has led others to suggest that we should keep the existing structure , but harness it by new devices to responsible ends . In effect , this idea revives the concept of responsible decision-making ? but declares that its definition is too elusive to be left exclusively to the business schools or the corporate managers . For the World As It Is Other groups , consumers , the government , labor might be enlisted to help shape crucial economic decisions through a variety of devices . One approach was embodied in a bill proposed by Senator Joseph Clark and Representative Henry Reuss a few years ago . Their measure would require dominant corporations ( and unions in important industries ) to spell out their price and wage plans before some public panel . The panel might then mobilize public opinion behind a set of recommendations . Another approach ? indicative of noncoercive planning ? has been tried with some success in Scandinavia , France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain . This technique brings together representatives of labor , management , other interest groups , and government . They try to agree on a specific set of attainable economic objectives and then voluntarily translate them into policies for individual industries and plants . President Kennedy 's Council of Economic Advisers quietly tried a dry run at this more than a year ago . But corporation economists , horrified at the implications of even noncoercive planning , were hostile . The President has also created a Labor-Management Advisory Committee with government and public representatives ; despite its difficulties in agreeing on even platitudinous statements , it is another stab in the same direction . So too are the government 's suggested wage and price guideposts which have caused the steel industry and the White House so much anguish . All of these hesitant stirrings in Washington reflect a slow-growing recognition that we no longer live in the world of Adam Smith ? and we have not yet reached a world of corporate philosopher-kings , whose intuitive consciences will guide them to make their decisions in the public interest . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unfair to our corporate executives to pretend that we will . Today , much private economic power exists in a political void . But this might be filled by broadening the narrow apex of private decision-making , by ensuring that other groups besides corporate managers shall bring their influence to bear on the crucial choices in the great corporations . A society that regards itself as pragmatic need rot be bound by any particular solution to this problem , but could fruitfully experiment with several . A domestic brand of noncoercive planning may prove most useful for the economy as a whole . It might well be supplemented by price-wage hearing panels in a few industries along the lines of the Clark-Reuss bill . None of these devices could or should be extended to every nook and cranny of the economy . They should focus instead on the significant sectors , on those industries whose economic size and concentration arm their managers with a strategic grasp on the material well-being of the whole country . Some new arrangements like these will have to be devised if the legitimacy that perfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those areas of concentrated power that can not and should not he broken up . 