@@478536

A city in deep trouble pine its hope on an Ivy League La Guardia . . . and the blessings of political competition . In New York ? where the governorship is the big prize this year ? politicians are defying the law of supply and demand . The Republicans , the minority party , are overstocked with topflight talent . They have Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller , Senator Jacob K. Javits , and Mayor John V. Lindsay ? all able , willing , and accustomed to success , The majority Democratic party , however , though filled with contenders for the nomination , has only one sure winner ? Senator Robert F. Kennedy . He is willing enough but can not run this year since the state constitution requires five years of residence for Governors . This fact will defer a direct contest between the brightest young stars of both parties ? forty-four-year-old Lindsay and fortyyear-old Kennedy . It might come in the gubernatorial race of 1970 . Or , since both men would like to be President and have a reasonably good chance of making it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1972 . Lindsay and the Republicans clearly bested Kennedy and the Democrats in the first round of their struggle for national power , the recent mayoral race in New York City . Kennedy 's maneuvering during that campaign suggests that he is still thinking in terms of the relatively simple ethnic and machine politics of his native Massachusetts . New York is immeasurably more complex . Its politics are affected by several unique phenomena ? among them the Liberal party and a vocal , undisciplined , yet important Democratic reform movement . The Times , the Herald Tribune , and other papers in New York exert an influence for political independence that the Boston press can not match . There is also in New York a hard-core Conservative vote ? mobilized with es38 LINDSAY , KENNEDY , AND THE pedal effectiveness last fall by National Review editor William F. Buckley ? which is as much a threat to the Democrats as to the Republicans . There is the presence of ex-Mayor Robert F. Wagner ? a force chronically underestimated by Kennedy . And finally there is the fantastic ethnic diversity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ricans , Negroes , Irish , Germans , and more than sixty other ethnic groups . Yet the mayoralty was won by Lindsay , who comes from one of the smallest minorities ? he is English-Dutch , Episcopalian , Ivy League . Furthermore he is a Republican in a city with a three to one Democratic enrollment . These were minimal handicaps in the predominantly middle-class Manhattan Congressional district where Lindsay had been rolling up increasing pluralities ever since his first victory in 1958 . He topped this performance in 1964 by winning handsomely again ? over an attractive Democrat ? while Lyndon Johnson was sweeping the district . Articulate , intelligent , and successful though he is , Lindsay seemed to be at a political dead end in early 1955 . Javits and Kennedy occupied the two Senate seats and looked unbeatable for the indefinite future . Rockefeller , who looked a good deal less unbeatable , showed no disposition to give up the governorship in 1966 . Nor ? in the first months of 1965 ? was he inclined to encourage Lindsay 's dawning ambition to make the long-shot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of reasons for the Governor 's reluctance . Differing more by temperament than on principle . he and Lindsay have never gotten on well . Rockefeller , early in the year , needed the help of Mayor Wagner to get an unpopular tax program through a Democratic legislature and was loath to launch a Republican drive against him . And ? more personally ? there was the Javits problem . Rockefeller is in deep trouble with upstate Republicans because of his divorce and his stand against Goldwater . The high taxes he has had to request are unpopular . Plenty of Republican leaders would like to drop Rockefeller this year and nominate Javits for Governor . To forestall this possibility Rockefeller last winter repeatedly urged Javits to run for Mayor of New York City . " Back in 1953 I wanted the nomination for Now a Manhattan resident , William V. Shannon keeps track of national polities as a member of the " New York Times " editorial board . He was a Washington correspondent for fifteen years and wrote " The American Irish , " to be published in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IN NEW YORK Mayor so bad I could taste it , " Javits is reported to have said angrily during one conference . But the party would n't give it to me . Now when I do n't want it , you and everybody else keep pushing it at me . " Throughout the spring , Lindsay had no firm commitments from his party as to money or support . Still the idea of running for Mayor would not down . " He kept turning it over in his mind , and right up to the weekend before he announced his decision to run , it was yes and no , back and forth , " Mary Lindsay , his wife and full-time political partner , recalled later . On May 13 , he announced his candidacy . Rockefeller , who had never slammed the door on him , let it be known through a friendly columnist that his guarantee of a $250,000 campaign contribution had been the crucial factor in Lindsay 's decision . In fact , Lindsay was not dependent on Rockefeller 's largess ( having access to big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and former Attorney General Herbert Brownell ) . His headquarters promptly and ostentatiously made known that $10,000 of a $100,000 Rockefeller loan had already been repaid . Lindsay decided to run because he and Robert Price , his campaign manager and closest adviser , had reached the conclusion that , at the least , he would make a good showing against Mayor Wagner and that even if he were defeated this show of strength would advance his career . Not quite a month after he became a candidate ? on June 10 ? Lindsay got his first big break ; Wagner announced that , after twelve years in office , he would not seek reelection . To some wiseacres it seemed that Lindsay had thus heen deprived of the obvious target of public disaffection . But events proved that the Democrats had lost their strongest candidate , the only one who could have held together the party 's warring factions , particularly the Reform clubs which had fallen into near-anarchy since the death of their titular leaders , Senator Herbert Lehman and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt . Wagner bowed out chiefly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a first-rate adversary . Many party leaders , aware of his special political strength , tried to persuade him to run . Robert Kennedy , however , was not one of them . During the first half of 1965 Kennedy had deliberately undermined Wagner 's leadership by intervening covertly against his candidates for leadership in the state legislature during a long squabble over organization . In the spring , when rumors of Wagner 's retirement began to circulate , there were erroneous press reports that Kennedy had urged him to run . Kennedy promptly made it clear that he was not supporting a draft , although he would back Wagner if he ram This was hardly a gracious stance toward a man who ? whatever his failings ? was the party 's only functioning leader in New York . Government by Procrastination Wagner did not exactly leave office in a blaze of glory . But he did execute an orderly retreat and is in good shape to make a political comeback , conceivably by running for Governor this fall . Leaving office voluntarily after twelve years . Wagner has a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own choice in 1952 . Just as people a dozen years ago complained of the Truman Administration scandals but added , almost in the same breath , their admiration for Truman as a " gutsy little guy " who took decisive action in Korea and stood up to Stalin in postwar Europe ; so New Yorkers now grumble about rising taxes , crime in the streets , filthy , polluted air and the " general mess the city is in . " But they also recognize that Wagner is personally honest and ran a comparatively scandal-free Administration , that he worked hard and is deeply devoted to the city . By the very act of leaving City Hall voluntarily , he boosted his own popularity because he spared his former supporters who had become disillusioned the painful ordeal of voting against him . Shortly after he pulled out of the mayoral race last June , he touched the city 's sentiments again when he married for the second time ( his first wife having died the year before ) . Wagner governed through a party-less system ( or one-party monopoly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no effective partisan opposition . His genius was to accommodate every political faction , social group , and municipal tradition . Wagner had serving in his Administration at various times a local superman ( Robert Moses ) until a housing scandal blasted him out , a super-professional administrator ( Dr. Luther Gulick ) , a personal friend ( Edward Cavanagh ? a Deputy Mayor and now Wagner 's brother-in-law ) , a career civil **25;2229;TOOLONG ( Paul Sere-vane ) , a lady reformer ( Anna Kross as Correction Commissioner ) , and a goodly sprinkling of both clubhouse hacks from the old-line party machines and young , middle-class lawyers from the Reform Democratic clubs . Wagner eventually found a place in his Administration even for Newbold Morris ( Parks Commissioner ) who , as the unsuccessful Reform candidate for Mayor in 1945 and 1949 , is the good gray link between the fusion movements of La Guardia and of Lindsay . If Wagner had stayed in office long enough , he doubtless would have found a job in the city 's antipoverty administration for Jesse Gray , the Harlem rent-strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the public-relations approach to government which is now endemic in this country . Significantly , two of Wagner 's closest advisers during his last years in office were Debs Myers , a professional public-relations man , and pollster Louis Harris . In the public-relations approach to government , every significant protest is accorded some gesture of recognition ; issues , instead of being clarified and decided through conflict , are managed toward a consensus . One of Wagner 's real triumphs was to convince his rivals that New York is ungovernable . Certainly his style of governing was distinctive enough to deserve a name of its own , Wagnerism . It consisted of government by the least common denominator and by procrastination until that denominator was found . He appointed good department heads and listened to expert advice but , before taking action , he also listened to all interest groups , great or small , sensible or eccentric , tried to accommodate as many points of view as possible , and all the while kept a wary eye on the newspapers . Thus , fluoridation of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twelve years there was recurrent controversy but no decision about the hideous proposal for a Lower Manhattan Expressway , an elevated truck route which would have been a Chinese Wall straight across the island of Manhattan . If nothing was ever dramatically won , nothing was ever irretrievably lost . Depending on one 's mood or viewpoint , one could praise his patience and goodwill or denounce his interminable delays . Romantics cursed him for his lack of style . Moralists were disappointed in his lack of crusading fire . Wagner clearly believes in Original Sin ; as Mayor , he always seemed to be saving , by his actions if not his words , that human beings with their flawed natures should not expect too much of government or any other human institution in this imperfect world . Nn city in the United States inculcates that harsh lesson better than New York , but it does not fit the soaring mythology of a city of skyscrapers and success-haunted people . Wagnerism left the city psychologically vulnerable to the appeal for dramatic change which Lindsay offered . A Rebuke to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot if the Democrats had stuck together and come up with a good candidate , " Lindsay said a few weeks after Wagner announced his retirement . " But they did n't . . . . Even more important ? his getting out shook loose the Liberals . " To win in New York City , a Republican has to gain the support of several hundred thousand Democrats and uncounted independents . Before last year , only two Republicans had succeeded ? Seth Low back in 1901 and Fiorello La Guardiain 1933 . In pursuit of a nonpartisan identity , Lindsay rejected all offers of help from the Republican National Committee and his party 's out-of-state luminaries . He also decided early to have at least one Democrat as a running mate . Wagner 's retirement made it realistically possible to seek the support of the Liberal party , which in municipal affairs had endorsed Wagner for nearly a decade . The Liberal party is a unique New York institution . It was formed in 1942 by a militantly anti-Communist faction which seceded from the American Labor party , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support Franklin Roosevelt without tying up with the local Democrats . For twenty-three years , two garment-industry unions ? the large , powerful International Ladies Garment Workers ( ILGWU ) and the small Hatters , Cap , and Millinery Workers ? have provided most of the partry 's members and money . ILGWU President David Thibinsky has been its grand chief and Hatters President Alex Rose its principal strategist . In national politics , the Liberals have always endorsed the Democratic ticket . In state and local races , they have zigzagged depending upon the candidates and the situation . In recent years , Rose became increasingly influential in Wagner 's inner circle . Amid the newly refurbished splendors of the Hotel Astor Grand Ballroom on Times Square , the Liberal party met in convention on June 28 to hear the report of its nominating committee . No Tammany clubhouse meeting was ever more effectively bossed . Everyone present knew that the committee , guided by Rose , had decided to endorse Lindsay and make a fusion ticket a reality . But the Liberals believe in open debate , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stereotypes and prejudices Lindsay would encounter in a city where many voters equate the word Republican with " the boss " and " the landlord . " The first speaker from the floor read in a strong Italian accent a statement from Luigi Antonini urging the endorsement of Paul Screvane , a half-Italian contender for the Democratic nomination . The absent Antonini might be called " the Italian Vice-President " of the ILGWU . But despite their considerable numbers , the Italians have never played a sizable role in the affairs of this Jewish-dominated union . It was not to be Screvane 's night , as it has never been Antonini 's . The next delegate said , " I do not want a man who is bigger than his party . I want a man who is rooted in his party .. , . I could not support someone who voted for Taft-Hartley . " ( Lindsay was not a Congressman when Taft-Hartley was enacted . Another member attacked Lindsay simply because he was a Republican . " Mr. Rose says forget party labels . But once Mr. Lindsay is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its label . The millions of dollars that Republicans are raising for him ? they are not raising it for a Liberal . " A pro-Lindsay man urged his fellows to remember their past mistakes . He recalled the party 's preconvention opposition to the nomination of Harry Truman in 1944 and of John Kennedy in 1960 . " I wept when I read of Hugo Black 's appointment to the Supreme Court , but he turned out in a way we consider satisfactory . " The last of nearly twenty speakers was seventythree-year-old David Dubinsky . " DD " had recently left the hospital and still wore in his lapel , as the chairman pointed out , a flower from the bouquet that Lyndon Johnson had sent him during his illness . He began by observing that four speakers against Lindsay were members of the ILGW15 . He was not angry , he said , and there would be no reprisals : " But I keep asking myself ? what kind of a teacher have I been ? " He had met that morning with the managers of the twenty-seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lindsay . The screening committee had voted for him , seventeen to one . Then he shouted , But you have already decided they 've made a mistake . They 're wrong , You are the smart guys . " The trouble with the Goddamned Democrats ? forgive my language , I thought I was talking to the union ? the trouble is that what we did to them in 1912 and what we did in 1952 was not enough . " If this party the Democrats could never be defeated , what corruption we would have ! " For some fifteen minutes , Dubinsky delivered his rambling talk in a guttural roar , lecturing the delegates as if he were their father and they unruly , ungrateful children . They accepted his mingled excoriation and exhortation with calm good humor , and some delighted in it , slapping their knees and shaking their heads with laughter . Of perhaps a thousand people in the ballroom , not more than a hundred were women , very few were under thirty-five , and , except for one on the platform , Negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marvelous medley of accents including Italian , Russian , Polish , Yiddish , and Brooklynese . One could not help wondering what will happen to the Liberal party a decade from now when Rose and Dubinsky have passed from the scene , and the garment unions are even more *In those years , the Liberals , dissatisfied with the Democratic nominees for major state offices , ran independent candidates , and the Republicans won . heavily Negro and Puerto Rican than they already are . But for 1965 , the old order sufficeth . Lindsay was endorsed for the simple reason that if the Liberals were ever to assert their independence of the Democrats , they could not hope to find a more progressive Republican . In the House Lindsay had been a member of a small " ginger group " of younger liberal Republicans who were effectively isolated by the plodding Midwestern conservatives who dominate the House GOP . His voting record was solidly progressive . In addition he has long waged a lonely battle on civil-liberties issues such as book censorship . the school-prayer amendment , and a proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government contracts . In these fights he put to shame the bread-and-butter liberalism of the New York City Democratic delegation , most of whose members are tone-deaf on civil liberties . The Liberals had no severe struggle of conscience in endorsing Lindsay . On election day , they did about as well as they have in recent years . Lindsay polled 293,000 votes on the Liberal line . Since he won by only 126,000 votes , the Liberals could not be said to have elected him single-handedly but he could not have won without them . In Search of a Brooklyn Jew Lindsay 's nomination by the Liberal party led to the next ritual ? the organizing of the balanced ticket . It is one of the few triumphs of the good-government forces in New York that they invented the balanced ticket and managed to stick Tammany Hall with the opprobrium for it . Tammany slates ? in that organization 's heyday , from the Civil War to the New Deal ? were unabashedly Irish . The bosses balanced the boroughs and picked a Dutch or English name now and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominate Jews , Italians , or other lesser breeds when there were deserving Irishmen available , as there always were . Fiorello La Guardia , that master politician , invented the ethnically balanced ticket in his first successful race for Mayor in 1933 . It worked for him ; it did not for Lindsay . Rose and Dubinsky , overconfident in June about Lindsay 's prospects , gave little thought to the political pulling power of his running mates as long as one of them was a Liberal . They blithely assumed that Lindsay would carry his ticket in with him . On this premise , they proposed Dr. Timothy Costello , a professor of psychology and business at New York University , as candidate for Council President . Because he is an Irish Catholic ? a circumstance very rare among Liberal party members ? he holds the ceremonial post of Party State Chairman . Costello had the " right " religion but he comes from Staten Island , the tiniest of the five boroughs ( only 3 per cent of the vote ) , had been defeated in his two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the general public . Lindsay , inexperienced and eager for Liberal endorsement , too readily agreed . Having found a Catholic Lindsay and his manager , Price , were still in quest of that elusive Democrat who ideally should come from Brooklyn and be Jewish . They found him in the most unlikely place : the Office of Housing Coordinator in the Wagner Administration ; his name , Milton Mollen . Republicans and civic groups had repeatedly attacked the outgoing Administration 's housing programs . Lindsay had placed one such attack in the Congressional Record earlier in the year . His choice of Mullen was greeted with dismay by those who were looking to a Lindsay victory for a clean sweep at City Hall . " Desperation is the only explanation of why Price settled on Mollen . Several better-known Jewish Democrats had turned the offer down . Time was moving along , and a decision had to be made . Everyone was obsessed with the idea that we had to have a Democrat and had to have a Jew . Mollen was the best available , " so one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the campaign . Within a few months , it was clear that the contest was going to be much too close for Lindsay to carry anyone in with him . Costello and Mullen were forgotten , as the question became : Can Lindsay save himself ? " I Know Your Neighborhood " A1065 mayoral campaign might have been expected to turn on the use of television . But Bob Price made a different decision . Lindsay regards thirty-two-year-old Price , who managed all his Congressional races , as a native political genius . There were many during the recent campaign who doubted it . but there is no answer to a victory cleanly won . Opinionated , hard-working , serious , sometimes brusque , Price is the epitome of the intense , dedicated staff man needed by every major politician . ( If he had more smiles and bounce , he could pass for LBJ 's ubiquitous Jack Valenti ; if he were more intellectual , he could be JFK 's devoted Ted Sorensen . ) Eating sandwich-jello-coffee lunches at his desk and working eighteen hours a day , Price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Rather than gambling on a blitz of television spot announcements and telethons , he invested most of the available money in 117 storefront headquarters which became the neighborhood nuclei for the canvassing drives of thousands of Lindsay volunteers . It amounted to setting up an entire clubhouse network in three months in a city where the Republican organization , in the words of one of Price 's aides , " has made a career out of losing to the Democrats . We 've got to get our own people in there and make sure the work is done . " It was a triumph of organization , and it delivered the votes on election day . Whether it can serve as the organizational framework during the next four years for a Mayor who has such a narrow political base in the city is one of the big question marks of Lindsay 's future . From June to Labor Day , Lindsay spent his time touring the city opening these storefronts . On a typical day , he left his headquarters in the Roosevelt Hotel on schedule at 10:30 A.M. The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By the sixth stop in midafternoon , it had fallen five minutes behind , which caused the staff much concern . A shortwave radio kept Lindsay 's car in continuous contact with the Roosevelt and his scheduled stops . " Come in , Benjamin . Where are yon ? Over , " a staff member queried from the Roosevelt . Lindsay picked up the microphone : " This is Benjamin " ? his code name . " We 're five minutes out of the Midtown Tunnel . Over and out . " Whatever those Midwesterners in the House may think , Lindsay is Republican in his efficiency . As the car drove through Queens , he talked about that borough , a thick slab of Long Island lying between older , apartment-house-lined Brooklyn to the west and the bedroom towns of Long Island proper to the east . Queens , the home of the recent World 's Fair and La Guardia and Kennedy Airports , has swelled in the post-World War II boom into a jumble of one- and two-story houses , garden apartments , and sizable apartment-house developments almost uniformly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two parties compete on equal terms . " You run into everything in Queens , " Lindsay said . " Within ten minutes there , you can be ? as I have been ? heckled both by CORE and by PAT . ' - *PAT is Parents and Taxpayers , a local organization formed to defend the neighborhood school against proposals , urged by CORE ( Congress of Racial Equality ) and other civil-rights groups , to bus students in order to achieve racial balance in the schools . His research people had prepared a one-page data sheet about each neighborhood he was to visit , its ethnic makeup , income level , local grievances , and attitudes on issues . Lindsay kept close to these suggested topics in his five-minute , extemporaneous talks at each stop . At each headquarters , he thanked the small shopkeepers who were its neighbors , sometimes adding , " I hope we bring you some business . " Then into his local pitch : " I know something about your neighborhood . I know you have a growing crime problem . You are worried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had some accidents . You have a protection problem . " Then on to the need for more lights , more police , or a mention of potholes in the street or a junior high school that was overcrowded . And then the finale : " Friends , fellow New Yorkers , we have the possibility of creating something new and exciting and hopeful for New York . If you give me your trust , give me your confidence , together we can make New York the great Empire City again . " He spoke of it as an Empire City . But he campaigned as if New York were a thousand small towns . His campaign never " built " to any climax . Lindsay is one with Robert Kennedy in his disdain for the jargon about campaign peaks and troughs that Richard Nixon once made fashionable . There was enthusiasm for Lindsay at the outset and enthusiasm for him at the end . He , his staff , and his volunteers never expected to lose but were never quite confident of winning . They took the underdog position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the way . An able research staff headed by the candidate 's brother George produced position papers on a wide range of problems from narcotics to housing to transportation to recreation . However , Lindsay never made any single issue the dominant theme in the campaign . Many suspected this would be a weakness . Stevensonian liberal Democrats complained that his campaign was too much image and too little issues . But , at the end , it was clear that his real theme was not an issue but a promise ? the hope of change . Like John F. Kennedy in 1960 ( whom Lindsay did not hesitate to paraphrase : " Let 's get this city moving again " and " As a great American who was killed while serving his government said , ' Ask not what your government can do for you , but what you can do for your government and your city ' " ) , Lindsay offered not a new program or a new set of answers to the old urban questions but a new perspective and a new source of energy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 to give the fresh-faced new boy a chance . When a party holds a three-to-one majority in voter registration , the opposition can not win an election ; the incumbents have to cooperate by losing it . The hidden half of the 1965 story in New York is how the Democrats lost the city they had ruled for twenty years . There was no smooth Democratic succession to the mayoralty because only Wagner had the political skills and the requisite assets to hold his coalition together : name , family background , personal record , and connections with the trade unions , the Liberal party , the machines , and the Reformers . A bruising primary battle for the nomination was inevitable . The Reform clubs in Manhattan splintered , some backing and some opposing maverick Congressman William F. Ryan . A few trade unionists and Irish sentimentalists rallied around labor lawyer Paul O'Dwyer , a beguiling talker and the brother of an earlier Mayor . With Manhattan Reform support scattered and the defection of the Liberal party , Wagner 's political inheritance was considerably diminished when he finally passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Screvane , a capable and articulate , if not exciting , public servant . The Kennedy Hedge Meanwhile the old-line Brooklyn organization headed by Stanley Steingut , which had been feuding with Wagner , lined up behind one of their faithful wardheelers , Wagner 's Comptroller ? Abraham Beame . So did former Congressman Charles Buckley 's old-line Bronx organization and Congressman Adam Clayton Powell 's Harlem machine . This three-way alliance had the block captains and the political muscle to win a primary , but the generally unsavory reputation of these kingmakers was to prove a deadweight in the race to City Hall . This same triumvirate had provided the power base which easily won for Robert Kennedy the Democratic Senatorial nomination in 1964 . In the mayoralty contest Kennedy seems to have been crafty in small ways , timid in the large . After Wagner withdrew he tentatively approached New York County District Attorney Frank Hogan and labor mediator Theodore Kheel as possible mayoral candidates . When each said he would run only if he could get the nomination unopposed , Kennedy dropped back . Although Beame was clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in supporting Screvane and would not enter a candidate of his own . Instead he placed 44 LINDSAY , KENNEDY , AND THE a man on the man in City Hall to look out for my interests , " Kennedy is said to have explained privately . It was Kennedy who persuaded Screvane to tap for President of the City Council Daniel P. " Pat " Moynihan , an Assistant Secretary of Labor , a writer , and the only Democratic candidate in memory to possess a Ph.D . degree . It was likewise Kennedy who persuaded Queens District Attorney Frank O'Connor to drop his own candidacy for Mayor and run for Council President on the Beame ticket . O'Connor not only defeated Moynihan in the primary but ran 300,000 votes ahead of Beame and 200,000 ahead of Lindsay in the general election . If he had been the candidate for Mayor , the Democrats would probably not now be turning City Hall over to Lindsay . This fifty-six-year-old , spare , handsome politician is blessed with Irish charm and an old trial lawyer 's volubility . He has always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now the front-runner for the Democratic nomination for Governor this year . Mayor Wagner 's heir apparent , Paul Screvane , did not make it , thanks to a combination of bad luck and bad judgment . Among his many mistakes , in the course of the primary , was his decision , based on overconfidence , to conserve his television money for use in the campaign against Lindsay . When he did appear on TV , he came across as pugnacious , abrasive , and ? quite inaccurately ? as humorless . " Lots of us could see what was going wrong , " a top Democrat reminisced later , but he always came back at you with those damned polls . No man since Dewey has believed in polls more and no one was ever more misled by them . Almost to the end , they showed him leading 50 per cent to Beame 's 33 per cent , with Ryan and O'Dwyer almost nowhere . So Screvane would say , ' Why should I mess around with my style when I 'm ahead ? ' " Screvane was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day he announced his candidacy , two credit-rating agencies dropped the city 's credit standing by one notch . Midway through his campaign , on August first , the city sales tax rose from 4 per cent to 5 per cent . And finally there was the water shortage . Screvane was in no way responsible but , as the Administration candidate , he got the blame . Beame 's surprising minority victory left the Democratic party 's cause in the hands of a bossy , fussy , conservative accountant . With a bookkeeper 's approach to government , he had no social vision to offer the city , no inspiration to lift its POWER STRUGGLE IN NEW YORK morale . He could only promise to administer the status quo in an economical manner . As with Nixon in 1960 , where there is no vision , the people may not perish but the candidate surely does . Beame was especially feeble in his several television debates with Lindsay . He had no program . Even on fiscal matters , he went no further than a promise to " roll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for business , and " go to Washington , where I have friends and where I am sure I will be welcome as a Democrat . " If he had gone to Washington , his Eisenhower-esque prose would have sounded familiar to the local press . Thus , Beame was fond of pointing to the " most crucial problem " ( there proved to be several ) , seeking taxes that would be " less onerous and also less burdensome , " and meeting needs that might cost " four and one-half billions a year annually . " " B Is Best ! " The unexpected public-relations success of William F. Buckley 's mayoral candidacy on the Conservative party ticket severely exposed the flanks of both candidates , but he made Beame look worse . The editor of the National Review at first seemed to be running as a lark . However , the three-week newspaper strike in September gave added importance to television , on which Buckley was a polished performer . Since he had no expectation of winning , he could skip the artifices of campaigning ( praising ethnic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without offering a program to solve them , proposing costly programs without suggesting a tax plan to pay for them ) . His high-Tory style was perfect for pricking the solemnities of both candidates . Lindsay , his private amiability aside , is deadly serious about his ambitions and his public convictions . He was no match for Buckley in wit , but once he schooled himself to hold his temper under the needling , he was able to make broad , blunt counterattacks . He also exploited Buckley 's reactionary proposals dealing with welfare recipients , drug addicts , and other unfortunates ( most of them Negro ) , by playing to Jewish voters for sympathy since Jews are highly sensitized to any political theme of the Radical Right that they believe has racist undertones . All the while , the candidate of the Democratic party , whose founder crusaded against the Alien and Sedition Acts and whose chief glory in the 1950s was Adlai Stevenson 's defense of civil liberties , was almost mute in response to Buckley 's neo-McCarthyism . Beame comes out of one of those solidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Democratic columns on the voting machines with the chant : " A is awful , B is best ! Vote B-B-B . " At the end , he had two forlorn hopes . One was that Democratic party loyalty would carry him through . The other that Buckley 's candidacy would hurt Lindsay more than himself . Neither hope was fulfilled . Even among the ethnic groups traditionally most loyal to the Democrats ? the Negroes , Puerto Ricans , and Jews ? Lindsay made sharp gains . At the same time , Buckley 's appeal drew as many votes from socially conservative Democrats ( policemen , firemen , small homeowners , etc. ) as from Old Guard Republicans . An Odd Bonus for New York Lindsay 's election was a severe defeat for Kennedy . Although Kennedy professes privately to believe that the Democratic loss did not damage him personally and many observers see him in a position to " pick up the pieces , " the fact remains that when Wagner 's retirement made the young Senator the dominant figure in the party . the first fruits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served to remind liberal Democrats of Kennedy 's ties to Charley Buckley and the other old-line bosses , exactly the memory he had spent a year trying to erase . Despite all the easy talk about City Hall being a graveyard for those with higher political ambitions , the office of Mayor of New York is still a command post of enormous power and influence . For the Democrats to lose this command post during the first year that Kennedy became active as one of the party 's movers and shakers does not speak well fur his political acumen . Because he governs the city that is the nation 's communications headquarters , any Mayor of New York has opportunities for publicity and for shaping public opinion surpassed only by those of the President . Lindsay is exactly the kind of alert , imaginative , telegenic politician who can be expected to exploit these opportunities to the limit . He is a competing attraction to Kennedy in a way that Rockefeller , battered by fate , and Javits , who will be sixty-four in 1968 , are not . As Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has formidable problems to solve and his rather free-and-easy campaign promises will not make his task any easier . He has pledged himself among other things to maintain the uneconomic fifteen-cent subway fare , undertake an ambitious program to reform narcotics addicts , spend two billion dollars on housing , and modernize and computerize the police force as well as increase its size . There is no money in the city treasury to meet these or any other increased costs . The city is running a capital-budget deficit on public-works projects already started and had to borrow money to balance its routine expense budget in the past year . The only hope is a giant infusion of federal funds ? which the city could reasonably request , since New York , after all , was not responsible for annexing Puerto Rico and making its residents citizens . Nor was it responsible for the lack of education and mistreatment of Negroes in Alabama and Mississippi for the past hundred years . Were it not for the influx of Puerto Ricans and Southern Negroes and the cost of trying to meet their needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget surpluses pleasing to the most orthodox conservative . But standing at the gateway to federal funds is New York 's Junior Senator , Robert Kennedy . Even under a Democratic Mayor he was already assuming a kind of viceroy role as the federal government 's Mr. Big in New York City . Thus , in one week last June ? the week when Wagner decided to retire ? Kennedy made the front pages three times by his actions involving city problems . On Monday , June 7. he participated in a tour of the city 's parks and recreation areas , bringing Secretary of Interior Stewart Udall in from Washington . On Wednesday , he and Javits introduced with considerable fanfare a bill providing a new approach to the treatment of narcotics addicts . The next day , he opened the antipoverty office in Harlem . If Kennedy was as active as this in the Wagner period , he is not likely to slack off during Lindsay 's tenure . He chafes at the passivity of the legislator 's role and simply has to have an outlet for his executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and its agonizing problems because of his genuine sympathy and desire to help the really unfortunate : the slum family , the retarded child , the lost young Negro , and the defeated old people . When political self-interest reinforces instinct and concern , Kennedy can not stay still in the sanctum of the Senate . Kennedy 's intervention , coupled with the still heavy Democratic majority in the City Council , may make life hard for Mayor Lindsay . But the City of New York , which has been becalmed for so long by the consensus of Wagnerism and ignored for so long by the benumbed native Republicans , can only benefit from the lively competition of these two ambitious , fiercely determined , and socially responsible young politicians . 