@@219395

EVEN as the U.S. pondered the direction of its foreign policy under the Nixon Administration , the Soviet Union showed obvious concern about the possible new thrusts of American intentions . In one capital after another , Russian diplomats anxiously sought out their U.S. counterparts in informal attempts to learn how the policies and personalities of the new Administration may affect relations between the world 's two superpowers . On the official level , Moscow has adopted a cautious wait-and-see attitude toward President-elect Nixon , despite his reputation there as a hardliner . As a West German diplomat noted : " For Khrushchev , Nixon was the epitome of the professional antiCommunist . But his successors evidently are smart enough to avoid anything that will turn Khrushchev 's assessment into a self-fulfilling prophecy . " <P> One reason for the Russians ' gingerly approach is that they face some grievous internal problems and want time to solve them . Thus , though the Kremlin rulers no longer seem particularly interested in meeting with Lyndon Johnson before he leaves office , they have let it be known that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A summit meeting would help restore the international standing that the Soviet Union lost with the invasion of Czechoslovakia in August . The Russians also want to reach some sort of agreement on limiting the building of anti-missile defenses , if for no other reason than that they recognize that development of the expensive systems will hurt domestic programs in the relatively hard-pressed Soviet Union more than in the affluent U.S. Besides , the Kremlin realizes that , as harmony between the superpowers grows , so does restiveness in Western Europe about U.S. intentions . <P> Vienna Rendezvous . Yet another sign of the Soviet desire to keep channels of communication with the U.S. relatively clear was a quiet meeting held in Vienna 's elegant Hotel Imperial last week between McGeorge Bundy , president of the Ford Foundation and former national security adviser to Presidents Johnson and Kennedy , and Dzher-man Gvishiani , son-in-law of Soviet Premier Aleksei Kosygin and a ranking member of the state committee for science and technology . The ostensible reason for the get-together was to discuss the creation of an East-West Institute , perhaps to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a site for meetings between statesmen and scholars from all over . <P> Even so , the Soviets remain wary and distrustful . When two lightly armed U.S. destroyers steamed into the Black Sea on a routine show-the-flag cruise , Moscow called it a " dangerous provocation " - even though the Black Sea is indisputably an international waterway open to ships of all nations . The Russians managed to sound especially self-righteous , since in recent weeks they have pulled back some 20 of the 52 ships from their flotilla in the Mediterranean . According to U.S. Navy officials , such sanctimoniousness on the part of the Russians is hardly justified ; the Americans claim that the Communist admirals are doing nothing more than returning ships to their home ports to ride out the winter weather .                     