@@212630

The six-year-old U.S. Student Press Association is composed of some 400 college newspapers that exchange campus news and maintain a four-man Washington bureau . When the association held its annual conference in Washington this month , its members had every reason to suppose they would discuss the state of the world in a rational fashion . The conference organizers , however , had something else in mind . " In the past , " said onetime University of Toronto Student David Lloyd-Jones , 24 , " the conferences have followed the conventional authoritarian pattern . This year we were resolved to change it . " <P> What resulted was sheer anarchy . For the first general session of the four-day conference at the Sheraton-Park Hotel , the editors found 500 chairs arranged in a circle , with 17 microphones placed at intervals . The idea was that anyone could speak whenever he felt like it . Those who felt most like it were hippie citizens of " Drop City , " Colo. , decked out in dungarees , headbands and feathers . " If I heard someone say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard it a hundred times , " reports Charles DeCarlo , director of automation research for IBM . Along with Buckminster Fuller and Economist Robert Theobald , DeCarlo had been invited to address the assembly . " It was the easiest speech I ever gave , " he says . In fact , he could not get a word in edgewise . <P> Projecting Violence . After a couple of ear-piercing , sight-and-sound sessions , the participants were about to settle down to an actual discussion of newspaper editing-only to have the lights go out . Then , on screens on three walls , flashed gory Viet Nam scenes from Communist propaganda movies , accompanied by a booming sound track . " The purpose , " explains Co-Organizer David Peterson , 23 , a University of Denver graduate , " was to make people aware that violence is going to be a great part of American civilization unless people start doing something about it . " The film was meant to blow the minds of the viewers , but they blew their cool instead . Some raced around trying to pull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands on the organizers . " We were very close to physical violence , " recalls Lloyd-Jones . " Instead of getting angry at the war , they got mad at us . We did n't expect they would be so up-tight , " said Peterson . <P> That was a tough act to follow , but USSPA managed it . As Democratic Senator Eugene McCarthy was addressing the group on the final night of the conference , three New Lefters arrived on the stage and started to heckle him . When he ended , six others came trooping down the aisle bearing a coffin . They overturned it , and out poured hundreds of the Senator 's campaign buttons , intended , as one perpetrator explained , to be a " witness to McCarthy 's impotence . " Peterson , who claimed no responsibility for the mock funeral , was filled with admiration : " McCarthy kept his cool very well . "                     