@@248505

By bus , automobile and special trains , 250,000 Germans originally from Silesia poured into Cologne last week . Jamming open-air restaurants and Bierstuben , they swapped stories with old friends over Rhenish beer and schnapps beneath banners proclaiming " For Silesia . " The occasion was the regular reunion of Germans expelled from Communist Poland after World War II . During a mammoth rally at fairgrounds on the banks of the Rhine , the gemtlich scene suddenly turned into a riot ; stirred up by a rabble-rousing politician , the crowd nearly mobbed a German TV reporter who had suggested that Poland is doing well by the territories seized from Germany after World War II . In German politics , it is an article of faith that these territories must one day be liberated and that the Germans driven from the area will be able to go home . <P> But this belief , while steadfastly maintained in public , is becoming increasingly hollow . Far more realistic than last week 's mob scene was a rare joint appearance by Christian Democrat Chancellor Konrad Adenauer and Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for reconciliation with Poland . The emotions that can still be stirred up by talk about the " lost homelands " in the East sometimes obscure a major political and social development in West Germany : the remarkably successful integration into the nation 's life of 13 million refugees , one-quarter of the population . <P> Happy Miracle . When their trek to freedom began 18 years ago , few thought that quick resettlement was possible . In one of the worst forced migrations of modern times , 9,400,000 ethnic Germans were abruptly expelled from Communist Europe , snowed up in West Germany in tattered covered wagons and with empty rucksacks . After the Iron Curtain snapped shut , 3,600,000 more Germans made their way West and heightened the crisis . The new arrivals were penniless , homeless and embittered . In the immediate postwar days , West Germans themselves were not much better off . The fierce competition between natives and " aliens " for jobs or even a roof created an explosive climate of mutual recrimination . It seemed as if the shaky new democracy , digging out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the human avalanche . <P> Germany 's " economic miracle " drastically changed the picture . As the pace of recovery quickened , thousands of the largely agricultural immigrants were retrained for industrial jobs , and became indispensable to the labor-short German economy . Sharing the credit for the tougher political miracle of resettlement are the Federal Republic 's two major political parties . Competing actively for the " refugee vote , " Christian Democrats and Socialists backed a unique 50% tax on all property that West Germans had managed to save through the war , in order to compensate refugees who had lost their possessions . A special Equalization of Burdens Bank granted thousands of low-credit business loans . Since virtually all were homeless , the East Germans were the chief beneficiaries of 6,500,000 new housing units built since the war .                     