@@272916

Taiwan has the unenviable distinction of getting epidemics ahead of the U.S. It was so with an epidemic of rubella ( " German " or " three day " measles ) that swept the western Pacific island eleven years ago ; the next major U.S. epidemic did not come until 1964 . Then it left at least 20,000 and perhaps 30,000 U.S. babies crippled or blinded from viral damage early in gestation . Taiwan is now experiencing another rubella out break and a threatened epidemic ; the next is predicted for the U.S. in 1971 . But this time , Taiwan is enjoying pre-epidemic benefits : thousands of doses of rubella vaccine , not yet available in the U.S. , have been flown to the island and more thousands are on the way . Early reports indicate that one shot of the vaccine gives full immunity against later infection . With enough shots , an epidemic may be averted . <P> Three U.S. manufacturers are mak ing and testing rubella vaccines . All are based upon a virus strain isolated by Pediatricians Harry M. Meyer Jr . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Merck Sharp &; Dohme grows the attenuated ( weakened though still " live " ) virus in fertilized duck eggs ; Eli Lilly &; Co. grows it in cultures of monkeys ' kidney cells , while Philips Roxane Laboratories uses dogs ' kidney cells . All told , the three companies have had about 20,000 children inoculated in pilot studies . <P> A fourth vaccine , made in Belgium from a different strain of virus and grown in rabbits ' kidney cells , is presently being tested for eventual marketing in the U.S. by Smith Kline &; French Laboratories . This vaccine will probably be licensed in Europe by year 's end , though U.S. approval will take longer . With four arrows in their quiver , U.S. public health authorities are confident that safe and effective vaccines to be given men and children will be approved in time to prevent future epidemics and thus drastically reduce , if not altogether eliminate , the ravages of rubella against the unborn .                     