@@478621

false charges which Roosevelt told Stalin he considered to be " vile misrepresentations . " In any event , it was useless for me , sitting there in Bern , to indulge in speculations . Orders were orders . The question was , how should they be carried out ? For the moment , / had lost contact with General Wolff . The first piece of business I set myself for Monday morning was to inform Major Waibel ( of Swiss Military Intelligence ) , whose whereabouts I did know , how things stood . I was not looking forward to it . As I was planning my moves the phone rang . It was Waibel . Parilli , at the Swiss-Italian border at Chiasso , had just called him ; he had astounding news . General Wolff ; his adjutant , Major Wenner ; and one of General Heinrich von Vietinghoff 's high staff officers , Lieutenant Colonel Viktor von Schweinitz , were on their way to Switzerland . They were coming to surrender . Schweinitz had full powers to sign for Vietinghoff . Wolff and Sehweinitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capitulation of all German forces ? Wehrmacht and SS ? in North Italy . They proposed an immediate meeting with me in Lucerne to arrange the details of the trip to Allied Headquarters . And I was under the strictest military orders to have no dealings with them . To say that I was in a predicament would put it mildly . Even to see the Germans would be a clear violation of instructions . Yet 1 was convinced that the Joint Chiefs would never have directed breaking off contact if they had known that the German envoys were already on their way to surrender . I radioed this news to Field Marshal Alexander in Caserta and to Washington and urgently requested new instructions . Then I explained my problem to Waibel . He offered to see the Germans himself , at least until my new instructions came through . Alexander reacted immediately . He cabled hack that AFHQ was requesting a reconsideration of the entire matter by the Combined Chiefs of Staff , so that we could at least ascertain whether the intentions of the German envoys were serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he hoped I could parry for time and endeavor to keep Wolff , Schweinitz , and Wenner in Switzerland until a final decision came from Washington and London . The following day , the 24th , I informed the Germans through Waibel that I had to refuse to see them . I also explained to them that Wolff 's trip to Hitler had naturally made our Headquarters believe that further negotiations were useless . My instructions , I said , had come before anyone knewwhat had happened to Wolff in Berlin and before we realized that Wolff was prepared to go through with the surrender . I urged them to be patient . They consented to stay a day or two and sent me Schweinitz 's full powers , and I radioed the text to Caserta and Washington . In translation , they read : The Commander in Chief , Southwest ; and Commander in Chief of Army Group " C " Headquarters , 22 April 1945 Lieutenant Colonel in the General Staff von Schweinitz has been authorized by me to conduct negotiations within the frame of the instructions given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( sgd ) v. Vietinghoff The phrase " within the frame of the instructions , " etc. worried me and I asked Sehweinitz to send me his interpretation of it through Waibel . It appeared that while Schweinitz had been instructed to try to negotiate on Vietinghoff 's " points of honor , " somewhat watered down from the earlier version , he was not bound to hold to them strictly . Regarding the surrender of the German SS troops , Wolff , by virtue of his position as SS head in Italy , had full authority to act . Then the waiting began . Would the Combined Chiefs change their minds ? Would the Germans quit and walk out on us before we got an answer ? All day on the 29th there was no word . I spent part of the time with Baron Parini , who started to tell us what had happened to Wolff when Himmler summoned him to Berlin . Waibel and Professor Max Husmann soon joined us in my room and all three contributed to the tale which is recounted below . I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way I heard it . I have also taken the liberty of adding certain details which Wolff later gave to Gero v. S. Gaevernitz , after the war was over , to make the story complete . Himmler Pacified Wolff and Himmler met about 100 kilometers north of Berlin , at a clinic run by one of Hitler 's personal physicians . Himmler immediately began to press Wolff , building up to what looked like an accusation of treason . Thereupon , Wolff produced a letter he was carrying written and signed by his ally , the German Ambassador to Italy , Rudolf Rahn . The letter , addressed to Hitler , subtly indicated that the contacts to the Allies which had been established ( Rahn did not say by whom ) had been planned to achieve an objective Hitler had sought , namely the holding up , to some extent , of the Allied offensive in Italy . The letter , Parilli explained to us , was a trick cooked up by Rahn for Wolff 's protection . Since Hahn , as both Himmler and Ernst Kaltenbrunner of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his trust a message from Rahn to Hitler could not safely be sidetracked . If Himmler or Kaltenbrunner had tried to get Wolff out of the way and Rahn had later learned that his message had not been delivered , they would have had to answer to Hitler for their treatment of Wolff . The letter seemed to have a pacifying effect on Himmler . Anyway , after reading it , he returned it to Wolff without comment . During the afternoon Kaltenbrunner appeared and revealed himself as the primary antagonist to what Wolff was trying to accomplish . He presented evidence of Wolff 's treason to IIimmler as though Himmler were the judge , but it was all too evident that Kaltenbrunner was merely trying to corner Wolff and no longer felt that the vacillating Himmler was of real importance in the case . Kaltenbrunner had a file of papers with him . Presumably it contained all the information he had gathered about Wolff 's actions . Much of it apparently was perilously close to the truth but Kaltenbrunner 's bumbling agents had somehow never got the whole story straight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incriminating evidence . Eventually , Wolff decided it was time to play his trump card . He said he now wanted to go to Berlin to see Hitler . He insisted that both Kaltenbrunner and Himmler accompany him so that he could account to Hitler in their presence for what he had done in Switzerland and why he had done it . Himmler begged off , possibly because he was himself very vulnerable . He had already become deeply engaged in his Swedish negotiations with Count Bernadotte , and probably was not sure how widely this was suspected or known . In Hitler 's Bunker So Kaltenbrunner and Wolff went off in a chauffeur-driven SS car to Berlin and arrived there at about three in the morning . Before they entered Hitler 's bunker , Wolff pulled the ace he had been hiding . It was the only moment he would have alone with Kaltenbrunner . He told Kaltenbrunner that if the latter started accusing him of secret negotiations in front of Hitler , Wolff would inform Hitler that he had already reported on his contacts with me to Him ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to bring Hitler into the picture . If Wolff was going to the gallows , he would see to it that Kaltenbrunner would swing next to him . Kaltenbrunner , according to Wolff , turned pale . He normally had a flushed vein-swollen complexion , resulting no doubt from the fact that he drank brandy heavily . The bunker , which they then entered , was filled with guards . Scurrying in and out of the various offices was SS Gruppenftihrer Fegelein , the brother-in-law of Hitler 's mistress , Eva Braun . He had taken over Wolff 's job as liaison officer between Hitler and the SS after Wolff had been sent to Italy . ( A few days later Fegelein was shot on Hitler 's orders , allegedly for trying to escape from Berlin . ) Suddenly Hitler stepped out of his private quarters to cross the hall to another room where a military briefing was to take place . He seemed surprised to see Wolff but greeted him cordially and asked him to wait until the briefing was over . Fegelein and Kaltenbrunner stayed on the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Wolff and Hitler . Hitler , although not outwardly hostile toward Wolff , was critical . He called Wolff 's approach to the Allies , which he had heard about from Kaltenbrunner , a " colossal disregard of authority , " but he did not accuse Wolff of having acted behind his back . Hitler then waited for Wolff to explain and Wolff launched into a long and detailed review of his work in Italy . He cleverly placed great emphasis on the meeting he had had with Hitler in February when , with Ribbentrop also present , Hitler had more or less given the nod to explorations of contacts to the Allies . He explained his not having informed Berlin before he went to see me on March Sth by claiming that , in entering into this contact on his own , he was giving Hitler the chance to disown and discard him if the whole thing went wrong . He concluded by saying that his undertaking had succeeded . He was happy to be able to tell Hitler that he had opened a channel for him that led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Minister Churchill ? if he wanted to use it . 64 THE SECRET SURRENDER Wolff did not mention the meetings with my " military advisers " ( Allied Generals Lemnitzer and Airey ) . He was convinced by now that Kaltenbrunner and Himmler , and therefore Hitler , knew only of the March 8th meeting . Hitler watched him closely , apparently waiting for him to waver or to avoid his penetrating glance . Wolff felt that he had succeeded in giving an impression of frankness , because Hitler told him that he accepted his presentation . He then asked Wolff what he thought the terms of a surrender would be . Wolff replied that unconditional surrender could not be avoided . . The possibility of some mitigation might , he thought , exist , but that would depend on the Germans demonstrating goodwill and respect for the country and the people of Italy . Hitler then broke off the interview by saying he had to get some sleep , and he asked Wolff to come back around five in the afternoon . Wolff was emboldened to face the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fiihrer . Hitler had always carried himself in stiff military posture but now he was bent , shaky , and flabby , his features sunken . He dragged his body around heavily and slowly . His right hand trembled constantly ; he seemed to have trouble with his equilibrium and , after walking only a few steps , he would appear to lose his balance and have to sit down . His eyes were bloodshot . For years his vision had been so bad that all memoranda addressed to him were printed on a special typewriter equipped with letters three times the normal size , which he then could read without glasses ; he felt glasses were unbecoming to a dictator . At times his mouth dripped saliva , which he was unaware of . When he spoke , however , he seemed to be able to regain temporarily much of the ruthless energy for which he had so long been known , and then his famous memory for names , facts , and figures seemed as good as ever . In their second conversation , that afternoon , Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in the morning in the light of his overall plans for the future . He had decidedupon using the following general plan of warfare from now on . Three large strongholds should be established inside Germany : one in the center , under his command , in the capital city of Berlin ; one to the north , in Schleswig-Holstein , Denmark , and Norway ; and one in the south , including the Alpine stronghold . He was intentionally withdrawing from the wide open areas between Schleswig-Holstein and Berlin , and between Berlin and the Alps , and had issued orders that the German troops should retire to whichever stronghold was nearest . Soon , doubtless , the Russians and the Anglo-Americans would meet somewhere in these open areas . The Americans , however , could not put up with this . They would therefore push the Russians back by force of arms . Here Hitler stopped and fixed Wolff with a piercing glance . That , he said , would be the point at which he , Hitler , would be invited to participate in the final war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could hold out in Berlin against East and West for at least six , and possibly even eight , weeks and for this reason he told Wolff that he must hold out in Italy that long . In the meantime , Hitler expected conflict would come about between the Allies , and then Hitler would decide which side he would join . A few moments later , with a sudden otherworldly and unnatural calmness , Hitler announced , " You know , my private ambition ever since the beginning of the war has been to withdraw and to observe the development of the German people from a distance , and to have my influence on it . I shall soon turn my power over to the most competent of my associates . " Wolff tried to bring the conversation back to practical realities . To this Hitler replied , " Do n't lose your nerve , man . I need my nerves for other things ; I can not allow myself to be softened by these reports . For the man who is to make the final decision must not let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war brings to every individual on the front and in the homeland . So do what I say . Fly back , and give my regards to Vietinghoff . " " No Negotiations of Any Kind " Then came a series of instructions , culminating again in the order to hold fast and defend , Hitler added that , should this fateful battle under his leadership not bring success , the German people would have forfeited their rights to existence . The greater , stronger race from the East would then have proved itself biologically superior , and there                     