@@490688

THE TALI ( OF THE TOWN Notes and Comment AERICM ANS need friends . And if President Nixon 's European trip has helped to show that somebody over there likes us it was worth the effort . His was the first Grand Tour by an American President since John Kennedy made his shining journey in pursuit of that dosive and receding prize the Grand Design . President Nixon 's carefully muted travels reflect not only a temperamental difference from his Democratic predecessors but the formidable necessity of seeking a new direction , for sometime between 1963 and today we have , half-consciously and without open acknowledgment , put aside the goals of almost a quarter century of American policy toward Europe . As those goals evolved in the early postwar period , they assumed a war-ravaged Western Europe rehuilding with American help behind the shield of American power and discarding the wasteful nationalisms of the past as it slowly merged in an economic and , ultimately , a political union . Such a strong , united Europe would , as an almost equal partner , spin ties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus creating a genuine Atlantic Community , or a Great Alliance of the West . This was a generous vision , and from it flowed achievements such as NATO , the Coal and Steel Community , and the European Common Market . If it has now faded , it is mostly because the necessities that gave birth to it have also faded , or taken a different shape . Foremost among these necessities were poverty and fear . And as the nations of Europe moved toward economic and political strength , the sense of urgency -- the belief that European unity was essential to prosperity , stability , even survival  --  virtually disappeared Not only are most European countries doing quite well but much of their industry and much of their agriculture have developed a vested interest in the structures that enabled them to grow . It is almost impossible to persuade people or institutions to leap from the familiar unless there is a crisis . And there is no crisis in Europe . In addition , the fear of Soviet invasion or of internal Communist takeover a powerful impulse toward unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territorial stability , and relative political stability as well . These changes have also stripped the United States of its once formidable ability to influence the . policies of European governments and , occasionally , to coerce them . Gone are the days when a Presidential statement or a visit by a high American official could redirect the thinking of European premiers and parliaments . It is still true , of course , that Western Europe exists under the nuclear protection of the United States . The Soviet Union has sufficient military power so that without the deterrent of the American nuclear force it could intimidate and , if it wished , conquer the European nations . ( A Soviet first strike could knock out the small nuclear force of France or Britain even if either of those countries could succeed in protecting its force From internal sabotage . ) Yet the European nations have become aware that our nuclear protection depends not on their willingness to be cooperative allies but on America 's calculation of its national interest  --  a calculation they are essential ! ) powerless to influence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is little foreseeable prospect of political unity in Europe or of anything more than a slow evolutionary advance toward greater economic union . We can expect that Great Britain will ultimately enter into some form of economic association with the Common Market nations , although her puzzling rather gleeful assault on de Gaulle 's latest proposals to this effect has undoubtedly further postponed such an association . The alliance with the United States is pretty much restricted to NA'ro  --  itself a limited and subordinate factor in Europe 's defense  --  and to particular matters of common interest , most of which have to do with trade , currency , and gold . For the last few years , the United States has been waging a rather large war without any real help from any of its European allies  --  a situation that would have been almost inconceivable in the nineteen-fifties . Could it have been different ? Perhaps . We might have pushed for unity much more strongly at a time when Europe was still fearful and in disarray . More important , the United States might have permitted European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe was liberated from its dependency , there could be no alliance among sovereign states that was founded on the principle that the United States would make the decisions and the others would follow . Yet on most matters , including such monumental ones as the quarantine of Cuba and the escalation in Vietnam , we acted alone . And when . France and Britain displeased us about Sues , we slapped them down . It may have been necessary for the United States to act in this way , but it unavoidably diminished our influence and helped cripple hopes for a ? Vestern Alliance devoted to protecting the independence and peace of nations on a global scale . In retrospect , it is somewhat difficult to understand why we were so passionately convinced that a united Europe was in our interest . There was no guarantee that a Super Europe , with its own nuclear force , would he more amenable to our wishes than a group of separate nations would be ; in fact , a unified European state could well have developed a " nationalism " just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by far greater power . The most persuasive argument for European unity was that it might swallow up the German problem by swallowing up Germany itself in a larger federation . The essence of the problem was , and is , that Germany is the only European country not substantially satisfied with the territorial settlement that followed the Second World War . No one except the Germans really cares very much about unifying Germany , and most Europeans would prefer that it remain divided . Still , the knowledge that the Germans themselves want reunification , coupled with memories of the German past , has been an important factor in our desire for European unity and for such other measures as the nuclear-mm-proliferanon treaty . Yet even the apprehension awakened by the prospect of a unified Germany has faded as the Western world has come to realize that in the age of the continental powers Germany can not hope to challenge the United States or Russia militarily . But we must not underestimate the lingering fear of Germany , especially among the Russians , as a factor in all that happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Third World War ever comes , it is most likely to be caused by an aggressive Soviet reaction to a resurgent Germany . Underlying our approach to Europe has been a quixotic , admirable , and wholly American trait : We like to think big , in terms of towering and conclusive international projects ( both the League of Nations and the United Nations are examples ) and of ultimate solutions . That is the way we tend to read our own history , although its reality is far more chaotic and evolutionary . W4. - may , for instance , talk of the Union conceived at Philadelphia by men of genius in a moment of inspiration , but in reality it took a century of conflict and a civil war to make a nation from divergent states . In any event , our European policy has often reflected a belief . unique in the history of nations , that other powers wo uld be easier to get along with and more sympathetic to our goals if we made diem stronger . Now that the Grand Design has faded , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a new way  --  seeking out areas of common interest and ambition , and developing the institutions and processes that will allow the United States and Europe to work , if not as equals , at least as partners . It is unlikely that we will any longer concern ourselves very much with the structure of Europe . That is the task of the Europeans  --  although we will continue to hope that England gets into the Common Market . Our focus will be the relationship of America to Europe and the relationship of both to the rest of the world . When the situation is looked at in this way , several areas of common concern can he seen . It is self-evident that we and the European nations are both involved with the military defense of the West  --  the development of strategy , military technology , and weapons systems , within and also beyond NATO . Economically , the increasing interdependence of the United States and Europe has spawned a varied group of institutions to deal with trade and currency . Yet recurrent crisis and fear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed , failing not only to protect what the United States and Europe have  --  which was their basic purpose  --  but also to stimulate the creation of the far greater wealth that our societies can produce . Perhaps the answer lies in an acceptance of the twin maxims that money has no nationality and that , as President Kennedy observed , the rising tide lifts all the boats . We all also have a mortal concern with peace : to resolve particular international conflicts without violence and , more generally , to lessen the divisions and fears that have kept us on the edge of world war for nearly twenty-five years . Despite Vietnam and Czechoslovakia , wisdom and necessity urge us toward closer ties with Eastern Europe and toward widening agreement with the Soviet Union . After all , both great powers seem willing to accept the territorial status quo ; certainly neither they nor the countries of Europe want to go to war to change it . On other continents , enduring peace will require new international techniques for preventing any armed conflict that might engage the interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East , in Southeast Asia , and on the Indian subcontinent , there is a clear need for measures  --  perhaps even international police forces  --  to make national borders inviolable . The United States can continue to thread a solitary route through crisis and dangers or it can try to provide a regularized mechanism , at the level of the President and the Secretary of State , for consultation and decision with the major European nations . Of course , this is possible only if all the participants are willing to develop and follow common policies more often than not . You ca n't have it both ways : an alliance , and the freedom to ignore your allies at will . Nor should the Western countries neglect their common interest in the economic progress of the underdeveloped world . At lust , we can together decide whether we really believe the familiar rhetoric that has continually linked our long-term security with the growth of other continents , and , if we find we do believe it , decide to rebuild the feeble and chaotic array of programs , banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The present trade and aid policies toward underdeveloped countries evolved out of , inter alia , a fear ( now greatly diminished ) of Communist successes there , a desire to maintain special relations with former colonies , and a vague sense of noblesse oblige , which has proved a very frail reed . If we are serious in the conviction that an island of wealth is ultimately vulnerable to an ocean of poverty , we will have to be equally serious in developing far more ambitious and coherent programs . In several cases , individual Western countries have special historical and economic ties to poor nations . Basically , however , this is an area in which national interest does not conflict with common action , and therefore does not conflict with the establishment of Atlantic institutions and policies . An extraordinarily fruitful , if less often discussed , range of possibilities for common action is provided by the intricate problems that beset all the members of a technological civilization . We all have traffic jams and pollution , urban congestion and student revolts . Nationalistic passions can destroy alliances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the computer or the automobile . It would seem to make sense for the United States and the European nations to establish a series of institutions that would involve experts and officials at various levels of government in research , in the exchange of ideas and information , and even in experimental programs to solve problents ranging from city planning to the control of pollution . On a more m mholic level , we could also consider the idea of European participation in the space program . A French astronaut on an Apollo mission might do even more for Atlantic relationships than a Presidential trip to Paris . All th 's is rooted in the principle that relations between the United States and Europe will he most effectively strengthened by a concentration on particular problems and , more significantly , by the establishment of institutions and machinery for common action . Our own history and national character are better attuned to such an approach than to any effort to impose a shared purpose and will through some encompassing structure of political theory . Even this more pragmatic approach will , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States must find the generosity to share some of its power , and the Europeans must he magnanimous enough to forgive us for being so strong and wealthy . And if we must hasten to discard any lingering illusion of omnipotence , the Europeans must guard against the self-indulgent disclaimer of responsibility which often flows from a sense of impotence . Like it or not , the fate of America and the fate of Western Europe arc linked . Together , America and Western Europe form that civilization which is both modern and respectful of individual liberty . One can not conceive of a serious threat to the security of either half which would not also menace the other . History is an uncertain guide in a world so greatly changed , but if it has any lesson for us at all , it is that nations neglect this kind of interdependence at their peril . E. U. Essien-Udom SINCE January bth , we have been tuning in on occasional weekday mornings to WCBS-TV 's " Black Heritage , " a series of half-hour programs on which black writers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disciplines have been examining the significant figures , movements , events , and achievements of Afro-Americans since their departure from Africa for this country . And , hearing one day last week that the only African scheduled to appear on the series -- Dr . E. U. Essien-Udum , author of " Black Nationalism : A Search for an Identity " and professor of political science at the University of Ibadan , Nigeria  --  had arrived to tape a three-part segment on the life and influence of Marcus Garvey , we got up early on a recent Saturday morning and went over to WCBS-TV 's West Side studios to sit in on the taping session and to have a talk with Dr. Essien-Udom . Shortly after we had made our way to the proper studio , Dr. Essien-Udom , a chunkily built man of medium height , walked in and introduced himself . He had a friendly , open face dominated by a thick , bushy mustache , was dressed in European clothes , and was carrying an apparently heavy briefcase . Roy Allen , the producer-director of " Black Heritage , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin . Mr. Allen then escorted Dr. Essien- Odom to a dressing room , where he changed his European suit for native clothes ( he is an Efik ) and then sat down with Mr. Allen for a last-minute review of his script . Afterward , they moved into Studio 45 , whose ceiling was covered with a nest of lights and whose floor was a multitude of cables . After more than an hour of being rehearsed by the technical staff --  what cameras he should look into , how fast he should speak , where in the script he should pause , whether he should stand at a lectern or sit at a desk , whether the makeup brought out the right tone of his skin , and so forth Dr. Es.sien-Udom was ready to tape his lectures . The majority of the studio lights went down , and , in a sonorous , somewhat ominous-sounding voice , the announcer , Pat Connell , intoned above the muted rumble of drums , " ' Black Heritage : A History of Afro-Americans . ' Today 's lecture on Marcus Garvey will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name , Dr. Essien-Udom strode out onto the softly lighted set ? and launched into the story of Marcus Garvey and the Universal Negro Improvement Association , the organization that Garvey made into the largest black-nationalist movement ever launched anywhere in the world . After the taping was finished , we accompanied Dr. Essien-Udom hack to his dressing room , and while he was washing the makeup off his face and changing back into his business suit , we asked him what his impressions were of the black struggle today compared with what he saw in 1963 , when he was last in the United States . " Up until 1963 , my impression was that , with the exception of the Black Muslims , whom I dealt with in my book , most black Americans saw their identity problems as individual problems rather than as group problems , " he said . " Now there is a great and growing search fur collective identity . At least , it seems so on the surface . I do n't know how deep it really goes or how serious it really is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the mood of self-awareness , it is quite possible that they ? arc not all in it for the right reasons . But I must say I did not foresee that within so short a period so many blacks in the United States would acquire so great a collective sensitivity to the problems they face as a group . " We asked Dr. Essien-Udom whether he thought the " Black Heritage " program in which he had just participated was one of the legitimate expressions of the search for self-awareness , and he said yes , of course , he had no doubt about it . " As far hack as 1963 , I was arguing that something of this nature should he done , " he went on . " It is necessary for blacks to know about themselves and for whites to know about blacks . The two groups ca n't go on forever carrying the wrong images in their heads or they wo n't be able to build the society they say they want to build . I remember talking with a certain professor in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history . He scoffed at the idea . He said to me , ' Why should we make a special thing out of Afro-American history ? MARCH 8 9 G 9 It 's simply a part of American history , is n't it ? ' I was amazed . Here was a man who was all steamed up about teaching the history of old African states , like Benin and Songhai , but he was n't going to touch the history and experience of African descendants in this country . So what 's happening now is good . I would add only one word of caution . While Afro-Americans should km Ay what 's good in their heritage , they should also know what 's bad in it , because far from everything in it is good . " We asked Dr. Essen- Awn , who had by then taken a seat in an easy chair and lighted a cigar , what the general view in LVest Africa was of the Afro-American identity and experience . He laughed , and said he did n't know that he could speak for West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West African views as there were West African countries . " But I can speak as one West African , " he continued . " I look on the Afro-American not any longer as an African per se but as the closest thing to an African you can find in the West . One of the reasons I sec the Afro-Americans this way is this : Because the slaves who came here were torn from different tribes and national groups in Africa , their descendants have been transformed into a new and distinct tribe-and-nationality group . In fact , the Afro-Americans are now the largest African tribe I know of . They have their own language , their own subculture , and their own world view . Of course , there has always been a fundamental ambivalence running through the group , and , considering their experience in this country , that is only to be expected . Because they have been so long denied freedom , Afro-Americans have been animated by two warring impulses  --  a search for racial identity and pride , arid a search for full citizenship within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the integrationist movement expresses the latter . Obviously , I have no idea what the outcome of this ambivalent struggle will be , but I have a feeling that the key to its resolution may he found somewhere between the nationalists and the integrationists  --  a racial and cultural integrity within the framework of American political citizenship . " Preserving the Greensward WHEN we heard that Marianne Moore was joining a battle against the city administration 's plan ' ? ? to take over seven and a half acres of Central Park for a new structure that its critics have described , variously , as the Mayan Pyramid , the Horse Mausoleum , and the Abominable Mound , we decided to find out what the fight was all about . Ordinarily , poets limit themselves to lyric words about nature instead of stepping into politics to defend it , so it was with considerable curiosity that we attended a press conference at which Miss Moore was to speak . The conference had been called he the Save Central Park Committee , and it began at 11:25 A.m. in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About forty people were there . Near one wall was a long table , covered with a green cloth , at which a half-dozen people , including Miss Moore , sat talking . Miss Moore was wearing her customary three-cornered black hat , a light-blue suit , a ruffled white blouse , a small diamond bar brooch , and a green lapel button saying " Give the Grass a Chance . " While we were waiting for the conference to begin , we read some releases distributed by the Save Central Park Committee , which informed us that the proposed structure was to be a partly underground complex containing administrative offices for Police Department employees , stables for a hundred and forty-four police horses , a riding ring for the training of police horses , and stables for a hundred and forty-four privately owned and **25;3571;TOOLONG horses . The complex would occupy the north end of the Great Lawn , in an area now partly occupied by a police parking lot and a Parks Department repair building , which together take up less than one acre . Thus , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and trees would be lost , and the new project ( we read ) would occupy more than twice the ground space of Macy 's department store , or an area nearly as big as Washington Square Park . At least three hundred people would he employed there . " This is the largest encroachment in the one-hundred-andten-year history of the Park , " we were reading as the first speaker rose . Sheldon Oliensis , a former president of the Park Association and now a di rector of it , moved to a lectern at one end of the speakers ' table and announced that eight other civic and conservation organizations , all of which objected to the complex in one way or another , were represented at the conference : the New York Chapter of the American Society of Landscape Architects , the Council for Parks and Playgrounds , the Atlantic Chapter of the Sierra Club , the Citizens Union , the Appalachian Mountain Club , the Lin-paean Society , the East Side Conservation Committee , and the Park Slope Civic Council . " This is the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued Mr. Oliensis , a husky man with a direct , crisp manner . " The idea apparently originated ten years ago with Robert Moses , and at that time was limited to an acre and a half , at a cost of two million dollars . The present plan calls for seven and a half acres , at a cost of six and a half million dollars . Most of the police who would be stationed at the complex would have duties wholly unrelated to the Park and have no business there . As for a commercial stable , we have seen no evidence that it could n't be put on a site outside the Park . And as for private mounts , they are an indefensible misuse of public land for private purposes , and we oppose such misuse . " Mr. Oliensis said that the current architectural design for the complex , drawn by Gruzen &; Partners , is better than previous designs , because , through landscaping , it attempts to create the illusion that the whole complex is underground , and he went on , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground . It is underground only in that it is grassed over . The main point is that it should not he there at all . " Mr. Oliensis sat down , and we watched Richard Eder Harrison , the cartographer and artist , who is chairman of the Save Central Park Committee , point to various parts of a large chart , which showed that the complex would take up an area thirteen times the size of the present City Hall grounds , twenty-three times the size of the proposed Huntington Hartford Cafe , which was kept out of the Park by citizens ' protests several years ago , and thirty-seven times the size of the controversial new croquet ground in the Park . Mr. Harrison , who speaks in dry , measured tones , concluded , solemnly , " The complex will effectively block the north vista of the Great Lawn . " Miss Moore then rose and delivered one sentence , in which she referred to Frederick Law Olmsted , one of the designers of Central Park : " Mr. Olmsted was a genius in art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefit of nature  --  a sense of enlarged freedom in limited space . " Miss Moore 's brief , matter-of-fact delivery was in contrast to that of the next speaker , Mr. Raymond S. Ruhinow , who had been a leader in a sue-                     