@@492082

. fans , the medieval stateliness of the helmeted Swiss guards and black-cloaked secret chamberlains. the grave beauty of Tu Es Primus ( Thou Art Peter ) sung by the Sistine Chapel choir as the day 's first sunlight shimmered through the high dome  --  these splendors were enough to overwhelm everyone present . Yet it was in their reactions to this opening ceremony that some of the council fathers first showed how closely and how critically they planned to scrutinize every aspect of the church . One of them , Bishop Manuel . Larrain of Talca , Chile , said he was " shocked by the church 's display of wealth and the luxury of its ceremonial " when half the world is living in poverty . Bishop Paul G ouyon of Bayonne , France , noted that " nothing is too beautiful for honoring God , but .. . efforts should be made not to shock the popular imagination through e aggera Led ostentation . " A group of Western European bishops called for a dramatic gesture in favor 01 the underprivileged people of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of which are made of gold and studded with precious stones . Some of the Protestant observers invited to the council were also critical of the ceremonial pomp , but , as one remarked , " I forgot my objections when I saw the humility of the Pope . " Pope John wore a white miter like the other fathers , instead of his heavily jaw-eled triple crown . lie refused to be carried down the center aisle of St. Peter 's , lined with the bleachers-style rows of seats for the members of the council . " Do you want to humiliate me in front of my brother bishops ? " he had asked his advisers . Instead he walked most of the way to the gold praying-stool at which he heard the Mass . With this simple gesture . the Pope was emphasizing the collegial leadership of the church by showing himself as a bishop among bishops , first among equals . The Pope 's opening speech was a strong mandate l'or a " predominantly pastoral " council rather than a " doctrinal " one . This meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and learning hos. , men may receive it . It meant viewing the church as a community inhabited by the people of God rather than an ecclesiastical body governed by a hierarchy . It meant stressing the spiritual life of the church rather than its administrative aspects . Most previous councils had been called as defensive acts , to protect the church against heresy . The Council of Ephesus i n 431 condemned the Nestorian heresy that Christ had two separate identities . The Council of Trent 11545-63 ) reaffirmed the validity of indulgences , questioned by Luther , and built a doctrinal fortress against the Protestant Reformation . Pope John showed that Vatican II was called not against . but for something . He gave equal importance to the tiNo meanings of the NN ord ecumenical : universal , as in ecumenical council , and unity of Christians , as in ecumenical movement . When the fathers sat in their green upholstered folding chairs for the initial working session on October 13 , their first task vas to elect members to 10 permanent commissions . On their desks for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preparatory precouncil commissions . All these preparatory commissions had been directed by cardinals of the Curia , the Vatican-based . Italian-controlled church civil service . The " guidance " lists , thoughtfully provided by the council secretariat , suggested to the fathers that ex erything would go more smoothly if they elected the Curia-favored experts who had done the preparatory work and would knoss how to steer the draft constitutions through the council . Implicitly at issue was the question of who would run the council  --  the Curia or the fathers themselves . And implicit in that question was the even more fundamental question of how open the Vatican would he to influences from the outside world . It did not come to a vote that day . A slightly stooped , white-haired , hawk-nosed figure rose from the presidency table of ten cardinals , facing the two long rows of council fathers . " We will not accept the lists of candidates prepared for us before the council opened , " he said . " On the other hand , we have not had time to pick our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own dispositions . " The request was seconded and approved and the meeting broke up , having lasted less than half an hour . The man who made the motion was Achille Cardinal Lienart , 78-year-old archbishop of Lille in northern France , known in some circles as " the red bishop " because of his forceful statements on controversial political questions . Cardinal Lienart had spent six months preparing for the council . What many fathers interpreted as a harmless method of speeding up the elections he recognized as a maneuver to give the council a special orientation . But the council showed it would not simply approve the decisions of Curia specialists . When it elected the 10 commissions Iwo days later the final list was balanced and international . The lines were now drawn between the two main groups of bishops , who became known as " conservatives " and " progressives . " The Vatican 's press office objected to the political terminology , pointing out quite rightly that the council was not a parliament . Unlike political legislators , the council fathers are not elected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet the two tendencies were clear . On the conservative side , said Father Francis J. McCool , a Jesuit Bible scholar from Maryland , were " those who see in the future a threat to the past . " On the progressive side were " those who see in the future the promise of the future . " The two conceptions collided on almost every issue . If there was one man who represented the conservative view it was the erudite 72-year-old Alfredo Cardinal Ottaviani . Born in his father 's bakery in the Trastevere section of Rome , Ottaviani has spent most of his life inside the one square mile of the Vatican . He is in a sense the prisoner of his function , which is to keep watch over the purity of doctrine and to condemn heresy . In the pontifical yearbook , his name is listed 23 times , and he is a member of seven congregations , two commissions , one tribunal , and is protector of 22 religious orders , His critics say he feels everything new is wrong . He says everything new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The progressive clerics had no single leader but gathered around a remarkably able group of cardinals from Germany , France , Austria and the Low Countries . Typical of them was Jan Cardinal Alfrink , the tall and athletic primate of Holland , who appears younger than his 62 years . He has maintained such continuous contact with the Protestant " separated brethren " in Holland that one Italian newspaper branded him " anti-Roman . " Many conservative prelates had not wanted the council at all and referred to it privately as " the Pope 's folly . " They tried to sabotage and delay the preparatory work , for they thought the council would harm the church by revealing its internal differences . They were determined to keep intact the decision-making powers of the Curia , under the control of Italian prelates proud of their parochialism , men like Bishop Pericle Felici , who once boasted that he had never been north of Milan . Progressive council fathers spoke openly of the " damage " being done by some of the men surrounding the Pope . One said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not fear the Pope but his government ) . The fathers expressed themselves in Latin that was not always Ciceronian , with scholarship that was sometimes haphazard and repetitious , but with complete freedom . One day after a turbulent ses ? sion a conservative cardinal remarked sadly , " How many things I hear in the council for which I could never grant the imprimatur " the license showing that a work is free from heresy . After one heated exchange a speaker addressed himself to the observers ' gallery and said , " As our separated brethren can see , we may say what we like without being punished or excommunicated . " Not everything was controversy , of course . One by one 600 fathers came before the microphones during this first session to give the council their views on subjects ranging from the needlessness of genuflections to the sacking of Constantinople by the Crusaders in the 13th century . Some were practiced orators . Others were so elderly and feeble they had to be helped to the microphone , and their votes were often void @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pencils that set off the electric computing devices . Often the council fathers showed their approval with applause , and it was said that a speaker 's success could be measured by the distance the applause traveled along the center aisle . It usually started near the bronze doors , where the youngest bishops sat . If it traveled the full 90 yards to the cardinals ' chairs , the speech was a triumph . More rarely , the fathers expressed disapproval of speakers who flagrantly abused the 10-minute time limit or indulged in harsh language . Latin was the " esperanto " of the council , but Maximos IV Saigh , Melkite patriarch of Antioch , insisted on speaking French , saying that " Christ , after all , spoke in the language of his contemporaries . " Because of unfamiliar Latin pronunciations , many fathers found it almost impossible to follow the language of the church . They rated the Americans and Spaniards about equal as the most unintelligible . Latin was such an obstacle , in fact , that a United Nations-style simultaneous-translation system is being studied for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important but relatively uncontroversial question , the council moved the problem of modernizing liturgy from seventh to first place on the agenda . This involves such questions as whether to say Mass in local languages rather than in Latin , whether to make the Mass a dialogue between priest and worshippers and whether to use local music and traditions in religious ceremonies . At one point the fathers themselves saw some novel rites at the morning Mass in St. Peter 's , to show What could be done to make the Mass meaningful to people of non-Latin cultures . They watched Ethiopians dancing and jumping around the altar to the accompaniment of handbells and drums , V , Alle the priest said the Mass in an unlikely language called Gheez . Bishop James H. Griffiths of New York reported later that he heard a clipped British voice behind him remark , " I say , the natives are restless today . " The bishops who serve as missionaries made eloquent appeals for adapting Catholic liturgy to the needs of people who already have their own customs and civilization . Bishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Indonesian island of Flores for 30 years , said he had learned more about liturgy " from the old men of my diocese , some of them non-Christians , " than at the seminary . He said he had set up a liturgical commission including unbaptized Indonesian tribal chiefs , and that they had devised forms of worship consisting of all-day functions rather than hymns and prayers . Sunday service might include blessing the village well , saying Mass , visiting a dozen or so homes , chatting with the village eiders , public prayers , and finally " a liturgical feast followed by a liturgical nap . " More conservative prelates showed dismay at such innovations . Francis Cardinal Speilman of New York , for one , spoke out against the dialogue Mass . Cardinal Ottaviani , the conservative leader , argued strongly for the maintenance of Latin in the Mass . The liberal Cardinal Alfrink of Holland , council president for that day , listened to Ottaviani with stopwatch in hand and cut him off when his time was up . Applause greeted Alfrink 's move , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the council hall for more than a week . The discussion over the use of sacramental wine brought out the need for diversity in liturgy . Paul-Emile Cardinal Leger of Montreal was strongly in favor of it , but a number of Indian bishopsopposed it as a violation of India 's prohibition laws . Besides , they added , members of different castes would never agree to drink from the same chalice . This variety of opinions , however , provided the " reformers " with a strong argument for less centralized control of the church . They argued that local bishops should be given power to make minor changes in the liturgy , according to local needs and customs , without having to get special permission from the Curia in Rome . The council finally adopted , almost unanimously , the preface and the first chapter of an eight-chapter " schema " on liturgy . The text voted on insists on the need for greater participation of the faithful in public worship and encourages the use of local languages and customs . The rest of the schema was postponed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Hallinan of Atlanta , a member of the liturgical commission , called this first vote " a victory over inertia and archaism . " The size of the majority was also a victory for the progressive fathers . The Curia , however , has not yet conceded . It is preventing Bishop Van Bekkum , the only missionary on the liturgical commission , from attending a scheduled meeting just after Easter , when the commission will put together the final draft of the seven unvoted chapters . His Curia superior , Gregory Cardinal Agagianian , prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith , told the bishop not to return from his distant Indonesian outpost but to send his views in writing . A chapter of the next schema on the agenda was called " The Two Sources of Revelation , " and its title indicated its failing . Prepared by the theological commission under Cardinal Ottaviani , it was an effort to return to the Counter-Reformation view that church tradition is a source of revelation equal to scripture and independent of it . This insistence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition of the church , in the teachings of the popes and councils , was a subtle deviation from Pope John 's declared aim of working toward greater Christian unity . Protestants recognize only scripture as a source of revelation . One Protestant observer confidedthat if the Ottaviani schema were accepted in its original form , he would leave the council , " for if tradition is placed on the same level as scripture , we can expect no renewal from the church . " Many bishops immediately began criticizing the draft , however . They used such strong terms that Cardinal Ottaviani felt compelled to say in his own defense that he was not the personal author of the draft and only directed the work of the commission . But Bishop Joseph de Smedt of Bruges , Belgium , revealed that Cardinal Ottaviani had refused to accept thecooperation of the Secretariat for Promoting Christian Unity in drafting the schema . " I regret to inform the council of this , " he said , " but it is the truth . That is why the schema notably lacks ecumenical spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes of those who feel the time has come to say , ' And let them be one . ' " Questionable doctrines Bishop Pietro Parente , assessor of the Holy Office , the Supreme Congregation which guards the Catholic faith against heresy , defended the schema by charging that some of the council fathers might be propounding false doctrines . " Not everything that has been heard inside the council is free of error , " he said ominously . The day after Bishop Jean-Baptiste Zoa of Cameroun spoke out against the schema he received a visit from Bishop Parente , who asked the young Negro bishop , " Why did you say you were speaking for the African episcopate ? Some of them do not leel the way you do . " " I said I was speaking for many African bishops , " Bishop Zoo replied . " How can you make pronouncements like that ? " asked Bishop Parente , adding , " Remember , I was your teacher in theology . Now , do you really believe there is only one source ? Is that what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What I am going to tell my people , " Bishop Zoa replied , " is not whether there are one or two sources , I am going to tell them the teachings of Christ . " When it came to a vote , the fathers who wanted to scrap the schema needed a two-thirds majority . They HI slightly short . But Pope John intervened to correct what he considered a procedural injustice . He appointed a mixed theological commission to redraft the schema , including the previously ignored Secretariat for Promoting Christian Unity , thus insuring that the revised draft would not offend the " separated brethren . " The implications of such an apparently procedural move were enormous . One theologian called it " the end of the Counter-Reformation , " By intervening at this point , Pope John showed clearly that he was willing to work with the majority of progressive bishops . This was instrumental in deciding sonic of the uncommitted bishops and changing the minds of others . Finally , the Pope 's move was a departure from his announced intention not to interfere in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the council since the opening ceremony , but he followed it minute by minute over closed-circuit television in his library , and he told visitors , " Sometimes I would like to say a few words myself . " When receiving the French episcopate , however , he said he was like Jacob watching his sons quarrel and that " in silence he considered them . " Actually he broke his silence several times . One of the most notable interventions came after the Pope heard an elderly Yugoslav bishop urge a more important role in the church for St. Joseph . Ernesto Cardinal Ruffini of Palermo , Sicily , rather abruptly cut short the bishop and told him that it was not his function to lecture the council on the merits of St. Joseph . This stirred the Pope to action . He decreed the insertion of St. Joseph 's name in the canon of the Mass , the first change in the solemn central part of the Mass since the seventh century . Although the move had little to do with the great issues of the council , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show this was the kind of minor gesture the council did not have to trouble with , and that it should get down to the real problems or the church . " The last three weeks of the council were taken up by discussions on church use of mass media , the dissident Eastern churches , and the unity of the church , but one sudden crisis overshadowed them all  --  the Pope 's illness . Members of his entourage had long known he was not well . On his train trip to the shrine of Loreto before the council opened , Eugene Cardinal Tisserant was sitting neat to the Pontiff and saw him suddenly clutch his stomach and writhe in pain . He worsened after saying Mass on his birthday , November 25 , and was bedridden for several weeks . None of his doctors would make a diagnosis public but it was believed that he was suffering from a prostate condition and a stomach tumor . Curtailed in his activities , restricted to a one-meal-a-day diet that has taken about 30 pounds off his portly frame , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the night , for during the day I govern the church . " How he governs it was clear from the Pope 's last decision of the first session . He set up a supercommission to rework 73 cumbersome and overlapping sche mata into 20 broad themes , which the fathers will take up next fall . The Pope thus discarded the original proposals of the Curia-controlled preparatory commissions and made sure that the vital work being done between sessions will follow the council 's pastoral aims . Beyond the warmly compelling figure of the Pope and the recorded statistics and results , the fathers had much to remember as they awaited the second session . There was the gentle authority of Augustin Cardinal Bea , the 81-year-old German Jesuit who headed the Secretariat for Promoting Christian Unity . He seemed so frail under his cardinal 's cape that one had the feeling he would crumble at the slightest touch , and yet he wielded great power . Thanks to Cardinal Bea , the Protestant observers received copies of the secret schemata , and the Secretariat for Unity was raised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain a permanent body of the church , in charge of contacts with non-Catholic Christians . It already includes some brilliant prelates , such as Msgr . John Willebrands , who , after exchanging coded messages in true cloak and dagger style , spent a week in the Zagorsk monastery outside Moscow arranging for the arrival of two Russian orthodox observers , Groups as well as men made a special impact on the council . The Iron Curtain bishops were notable partly because of those who stayed behind . As Archbishop John C. Heenan of Liverpool said , " We listened to them and thought of the others in prison , and the ones who had not been able to come , and we realized that those who were here might not return . It gave a new meaning to the church militant : Our devils are nebulous , theirs are visible and entrenched . " Archbishop Hallinan of Atlanta said that one of the most dramatic and moving moments in the work of the liturgical commission came when the three members from Iron Curtain countries explained , " We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; our teaching sisters are robbed of their religious dress : we have only the liturgy to communicate with the faithful . " I t was perhaps the mission fathers more than any other group who provided the " fresh air " the Pope said he wanted to bring into the church , After the stuffy debates on doctrinal line points , listening to these men from desolate , unchristianized parts of the world was like hearing an account of battle from a soldier who has fought in it . The physical hardships and spiritual anguish of the missionaries contrasted strikingly with the comfortable and cloistered lives of many Vatican prelates . The missionaries told of priests who make the rounds like country doctors , reaching distant villages only once or twice a year , and able to stay just long enough to deal with the backlog of baptisms and marriages . They described the problems of the church in recently decolonized lands , where it is too closely identified with the former colonial rulers . After hearing them , an American bishop said , " The mission fathers are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ecumenical challenge . " Somewhere in the midst of these contrasting extremes was the American episcopate , which brought no bold program but a capacity to learn and a well-established reputation as efficient and successful pastors . " We 've been so busy building schools and churches we have n't had time to keep up with the scholars , " said Bishop Albert R. Zurowestc of Belleville , Illinois . " A sense of humility " Bishop Griffiths of New York , a member of the theological commission , explained that " we came here with a true sense of humility . We were n't suffering from omniscience . And as the council progressed we began to wonder how sonic of these high-powered European bishops write books and run a diocese at the same time . " In place of the intellectual sophistication of the Europeans , the American bishops offered refreshing candor . Archbishop Joseph T. McGucken of San Francisco admitted that he really had n't understood the schema on the two sources of revelation very well . " At first I thought it looked good , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had second thoughts . " Bishop Thomas K. Gorman of Dallas , Texas . confided after a session of procedural intricacies , " Some of these fellows could teach a Yankee pitcher how to throw curves , " The American bishops sometimes enjoyed picturing themselves as innocents abroad , but under the thoughtful leadership of two Midwesterners , Joseph Elmer Cardinal Ritter of St. Louis and Albert Cardinal Meyer of Chicago , many of them rallied to the progressive banner . In the eyes of many fathers , there were three major achievements in the lirst session . Heading the list was the presence of the 40 non-Catholic observers . Father Yves Congar , a French theologian , said tears came to his eyes the first time Secretary General Felici intoned the " ex one armies- ( everybody out ) that signifies the start of a secret working session , and added " passim . renranere nacres , periti et observatores " ( the fathers , experts and observers may remain ) . Many fathers began their remarks with a salutation to the " carissimi observatares . " It was , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true miracle . " The Swiss theologian Father Hans Kung hailed the presence of the observers as the council 's most important result , saying , " It does not mean the start of interchurch negotiations , but neither is it a mere courtesy visit . It shows that the church no longer wants to exist in splendid isolation , treating its neighbors with suspicion . Reunion is no longer the domain of a theological avant-garde , admired and praised by some , pitied and ridiculed by others . The stateof-siege theology has been replaced by a theology of mutual encounter . " The observers agreed . One , Methodist Bishop Fred W. Corson , even referred to " our " council , and said that no Protestant meeting had ever generated so much interest . Orthodox observers , whose churches had broken with Rome over the issue of papal primacy , found themselves praising the Pope for his benevolent leadership . While grateful for the red-carpet treatment , some observers warned that it was too early to draw conclusions about unity . " The council is still like the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Douglas Horton of the International Congregational Council , " without form , like a void . These are the beginnings of conversations that might eventually produce a kind of union . But as far as getting new definitions of Catholic doctrine that Protestants would approve , they 're whistling in the dark . To get a definition of the papacy acceptable to non-Catholics , they would have to change doctrine , and they ca n't do that . " A second major result of the council is the reversal of the Augustinian theory of the two cities , the city of God in lofty remoteness from the city of Man . Archbishop Benedict Gregorios of Trivandrum , India , was one of the many fathers who declared it futile for the church today to separate religious and secular matters . " Flow , " he asked , " can the church propose to the large mass of human beings in India the high standards of living of a Christian moral and spiritual life , if the conditions in which these people live make it almost impossible for them to live up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Belgium , disclosed that Pope John is sympathetic to a plan to study four of the most urgent world problems . The next session is likely to include a secretariat on war and peace , poverty , social justice , and the population explosion . Lay experts on these subjects may be asked to address the council . The third major council achievement concerns the powers of the bishops . The bishops have forever dispelled the notion that they are " errand boys " of the Pope and the Curia . The first Vatican council , which defined papal infallibility , never got around to the complementary subject of the powers of the bishops . Paradoxically , the bishops have been subjected to the disciplinary sanctions of the Curia , although their teaching authority is far greater than the Curia 's . In principle , the bishops are the successors to the apostles just as the Pope is the successor to Peter . In practice , the bishops must refer to the Vatican for many trivial matters , which are handled by " clerks who have taken over the management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If one of his communicants is sick , the bishop must ask the Curia for a dispensation from the obligation to go to Mass . By the time that dispensation arrives , the communicant will probably be either cured or buried , for cases referred to the Vatican have been known to take as long as eight years to be resolved . The unwieldy and sometimes restrictive practices of the Curia have made the bishops seek far greater authority to settle their own problems . These achievements are still in the " intangible " stage , for they will not be specifically acted on until the second session next September . In this sense , the first session was something like a dress rehearsal . Its real importance was to show the world that the council fathers , and their Pope , are determined to face modern problems in modern ways .                     