@@270540

L'lmpromptu de Versailles and Les Fourberies de Scapin ( by Molire ) opened the Comdie Franaise ' three-week visit at the City Center by happily passing up fanfare for fun . With such full-length classics as Molire 's Tartuffe and Racine 's Britannicus to follow , a troupe that matches polish with perkiness leaped in with minor Molire and made it seem , in a dreary season , a major evening even for those with shaky French . The two works , moreover , make a pleasant contrast . <P> Concerned with rehearsing something rushed into production on Louis XIV 's orders , L'Impromptu wags a finger in several directions : a little at the King for his capricious commands , a lot at Molire 's enemy actors in a rival troupe , a lot more at acting itself . In L'lmpromptu , Molire personally directs the rehearsal , sketches actors ' roles , silhouettes their shortcomings , and is now friendly , now irritable , now ironic amid travestied types of people and exaggerated modes of acting . With the Comdie Franaise players bringing a sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baroque French character a bright character part , L'Impromptu is a neatly controlled romp , a briskly ceremonious curtain raiser . <P> By comparison , Les Fourberies de Scapin ( roughly , " Scapin 's Knavery " ) is a farcical hellraiser , with its resourceful scamp of a hero-the traditionally pert and clever servant-engineering a whole repertory of deceptions with a full battery of slapstick . Based on a famous Roman play , Terence 's Phormio , Les Fourberies is served up in the famous Italian style of the commedia dell ' arte . For their sons ' sake , Scapin hoodwinks two miserly fathers-one of whom , as the price of Scapin 's saving his life , has offered him a coat " after I 've worn it a little longer . " Whether mimicking the old boys or mulcting them , whether hiding them in sacks and clouting them or-caught out-gaining their pardon by pretending to breathe his last , Scapin is never stumped . Full-bloodedly , unabashedly crude , Les Fourberies is something to race through in nonstop French , to keep ricocheting with nonstop foolishness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amusing bag of tricks , while Robert Hirsch , as Scapin , is something extra and something different . Looking lithe , gamin , even apache in a very modern way , Hirsch is fun-loving but hardbitten , a kind of acrobatic con man , up to every trick , on to every wile , physically all bounce , mentally all barbed wire . Hirsch 's Scapin seems even more resourceful than Molire 's , and on a stage full of antique , chattering magpies and grinning dolls and grimacing puppets , he is a kind of unpredictable mechanical toy with , at moments , shock value as well as spin .                     