@@431782

 | Why Cops Hate Liberals and Vice Versa THERE is an increasing body of evidence which suggests an affinity between police work and support for radical-right politics , particularly when linked to racial unrest . During the presidential campaign , George Wallace was unmistakably a hero to many policemen . John Harrington , the president of the Fraternal Order of Police , the largest police organization in America . with over 90,000 members and affiliates in more than 900 communities , publicly endorsed him . And Wallace has reciprocated this affection for some time . While governor of Alabama , he placed the slogan , popularized by the Birch Society , " Support Your Local Police " on the automobile license plates of the state of Alabama . During the 1964 and 1968 presidential campaigns , he frequently referred to the heroic activities of the police , and denounced the Supreme Court , and bleeding-heart liberals and intellectuals , for undermining the police efforts to maintain law and order . The police were pictured as the victims of an Establishment conspiracy to foster confrontationist forms of protest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student activists . Similar reports concerning police support for right-wing or conservative candidates who have campaigned against civil rights and integration proposals have appeared frequently in the press . Thus in 1967 , Boston journalists commented on the general support for Louise Day Hicks among the police of that city . Mrs. Hicks had won her political spurs in the fight which she waged as chairman of the Boston School Committee against school integration . And when she ran for mayor , the police were seemingly among her most enthusiastic backers . In New York City , police have stood out among the constituency of the Conservative Party , an organization which also has opposed public efforts to enforce school integration . The New York Conservative Party was the one partisan group in the city to fight a civilian review board of the police department , an issue which has come up in many other communities . Jerome Skolnick of the University of Chicago made a study of the Oakland , California , police in 1964 based on interviews with many of them . Ht. concluded that " a Goldwater type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the police . " During the 1964 campaign . a broadcaster on the New York City police radio suddenly made an emotional appeal for support of Senator Goldwater . Many police called in to endorse this talk . Almost no one out in police cars that night phoned in to back Lyndon Johnson . or to complain about the use of the police radio for partisan purposes . In Los Angeles , an official order had to be issued in 1964 telling the police that the ' could not have bumper stickers or other campaign materials on their police cars , because of the large number who had publicly so supported Goldwater . The late chief of police of the city , William H. Parker , stated his belief that the majority of the nation 's peace officers were " conservative , ultraconservative , and very right wing , " a description which fit his own orientation . There is also evidence of strong support and sympathy among the police for the John Birch Society . In 1964 , John Rousselot , then national director of the Society , claimed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a study of the national membership of the Society by Fred Grupe , a political scientist at Louisiana State , confirms this contention . Mr. Grupp sent out a questionnaire to a random sample of the Birch membership with the help of the Society and found that over 3 percent of those who reported their occupations were policemen , a figure which is over four times the proportion of police in the national labor force . In New York City in July , 1965 , a reporter judged that the majority of the audience at a large rally in Town Hall sponsored by the Birch Society 's Speakers  | Bureau wore " Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association badges . " The Society itself " estimates that it has five hundred members in the New York City Police Department . " In Philadelphia , the mayor placed a number of police on limited duty because of their membership in the Society . In a recent interview , Richard MacEachern , head of the Boston Police Patrolmen 's Association , frequently referred to Birch Society material as the source of his information concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police through use of deliberate violence . That peace officers in high places are sympathetic with the Society may be seen in the fact that former Sheriff James Clark of Selma , Alabama , who not only played a major role in suppressing civil rights demonstrations in his city but also has been a frequent speaker for the Birch Society , was elected president of the national organization of sheriffs . While serving as chief of the Los Angeles Police Department , William H. Parker took part in the Manion Forum , a right-wing radio discussion program run by Clarence Manion , a leader of the Birch Society . According to William Turner , iii his book The Police Establishment , Louis Neese , the police chief of Trenton , New Jersey , " incorporated sections of a Birch Support Your Local Police ' circular into a declaration of departmental policy . " All this is no new development . The identification between the police and right-wing extremism is not simply a reflection of recent tensions . During the 19305 , investigations of the Black Legion , a neofascist organization in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities , indicated that it appealed to police . Not only did it include many patrolmen in Michigan and elsewhere , but a grand jury in Oakland County , Michigan , reported that the chief of police in Pontiac was an active member . The Legion , it should be noted , engaged in kidnapping , flogging , and even murder of suspected Communists . Father Coughlin , who was probably the most important profascist leader of the 1930s , also found heavy backing within police ranks . An investigation of his organization , the Christian Front , revealed that 407 of New York 's finest belonged to it . Gunnar Myrdal , in his classic study of the race problem in America , An American Dilemma , conducted in the late thirties and early forties , asserted that one of the principal sources of Ku Klux Klan activity in the South at that time came from law enforcement officers . This finding jibed with reports of the membership of the Klan during the early 19205 when it was at the height of its power , controlling politics in many Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one account " took particular pride in emphasizing the large number of law enforcement officers . . . that had joined their order . " Typical of Klan propaganda which attracted police support was the plank in the program of the Chicago Klan which called for " Supporting Officials in all Phases of Law Enforcement , " a slogan close to the " Support Your Local Police " campaign waged by the Birch Society and George Wallace four decades later . According to Charles Jackson , membership lists seized in different parts of California indicated that " roughly o percent of the . . . policemen in practically every California city , " including the chiefs of police in Los Angeles and Bakersfield and the sheriff of Los Angeles County , belonged to the Klan . In Atlanta , the home base of the organization , a study reports that " a very high percentage " of the police were members . Considerable police backing for the Klan was also reported in analyses of its operation in cities as diverse as Portland ( Oregon ) , Tulsa , Madison , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country , we find that the anti-Catholic nativist American Protective Association ( APA ) , which flourished in the early 189os , also appears to have been supported by the police . My own researches on this movement and its membership indicate that the police were considerably overrepresented among APA members . In Minneapolis 6.5 percent were policemen , in Sacramento 8 percent , and in San Jose 7 percent . ALTHOUGH there is a general understanding that the police should be politically neutral , their role as public employees has inevitably involved them in local politics . Prior to the emergence of civil service examinations , appointment to the force was a political plum in most cities . And once a man was hired , chances for promotion often depended on access to local officeholders . In many communities , the police were part of the machine organization . The widespread pattern of toleration of corruption and the rackets which characterized urban political life until the 1940S usually depended on the cooperation , if not direct participation , of the police . Those who controlled the rackets paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city hall , in order to make sure that they would not be interfered with by the authorities . Although machine and racketeer domination of local government is largely a thing of the past in most cities , the police are of necessity still deeply interested in local politics . High-level appointments are almost invariably made by elected officials , and those who control city politics determine police pay and working conditions . Hence , the police as individuals and as a body must be actively concerned with access to the political power structure . They must be repared to adjust their law enforcement  | policies in ways which are acceptable to the political leaders . Such assumptions would lead us to believe that police would avoid any contact with radical groups , with those who seek to change the existing structures of political power or community leadership . Thus the evidence that significant minorities of police have been moved to join or openly back right-wing and bigoted movements is particularly impressive . For every policeman who has taken part in such activities , we may assume that there were many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to avoid endangering their job prospects . ( This comment , of course , does not apply to those communities which were actually dominated by extremist movements . ) The propensity of policemen to support rightist activities derives from a number of elements in their occupational role and social background . Aany of the police are not much different in their social outlook from others in the lower middle class or working class . Twenty-five years ago , Gunnar Myrdal noted that police in the South were prone to express deep-seated anti-Negro feelings in brutal actions against Negroes and thus undo " much of what Northern philanthropy and Southern state governments are trying to accomplish through education and other means . " He accounted for the phenomenon as resulting from the fact that the police generally had the prejudices of the poor whites . " The average Southern policeman is a promoted poor white with a legal sanction to use a weapon . His social heritage has taught him to despise the Negroes , and he has had little education which could have changed him . " A recent study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a former member of the Department , reports that " for the past fifteen years , ( luring-a cycle of prosperity , the bulk of police candidates has been upper lower class with a sprinkling of lower middle class ; about ninety-five per cent has had no college training . " In a survey of the occupations of the fathers of i2,000 recruits who graduated from the New York Police Academy , he found that more than three quarters of them were manual or service workers . The Birch Society apart , movements of ethnic intolerance and right-wing radicalism have tended to recruit from the more conservative segments of the lower and less-educated strata . On the whole , the less education people have , the more likely they are to be intolerant of those who differ from themselves , whether in opinions , modes of culturally and morally relevant behavior , religion , ethnic background , or race . The police , who are recruited from the conservative , less-educated groups , reflect the background from which they come . John H. McNamara recently found that when he separated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of their fathers ' occupations , those " with fathers in the higher skill classification were less likely to feel that the leniency of courts and laws account for assaults on the police " than those who came from lower socioeconomic origins . Once they are employed as policemen , their job experiences enhance the possibility that whatever authoritarian traits they bring from their social background will increase rather than decrease . McNaivara bound a sizable increase in the proportion of police recruits who resented legal restrictions on their authority or propensity to use force . At the beginning of recruit training , only 6 percent agreed with the statement " The present system of state and local laws has undermined the patrolman 's authority to a dangerous extent , " while 16 percent disagreed . After one year in field assignments , 25 percent of the same group of men agreed with the statement , and only 19 percent disagreed . Similar changes in attitudes occurred with respect to the proposition " if patrolmen working in tough neighborhoods had more leeway and fewer restrictions on the use of force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be greatly reduced . " Fourteen percent agreed with the statement at the beginning of their career , as compared with 3o percent after one year in the field , and 39 percent among a different group of policemen who had been employed for two years . In general , the policeman 's job requires him to be suspicious of people , to prefer conventional behavior , to value toughness . A policeman must he suspicious and cynical about human behavior . As Niederhoffer points out , " He needs the intuitive ability to sense plots and conspiracies on the basis of embryonic evidence . " The political counterpart ol such an outlook is a monistic theory which simplifies political conflict into a black-and-white fight , and which is ready to accept a conspiratorial view of the sources of evil , terms which basically describe the outlook of extremist groups , whether of the left or right . The propensity of police to support a radical political posture is also related to their sense of being a low-status out-group in American society . The Oakland study revealed that when police were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the category most frequently selected was " lack of respect for the police . . . . Of the two hundred and eighty-two . . . policemen who rated the prestige police work receives from others , 7o per cent ranked it as only fair or poor . " The New York City study also indicated that the majority of the police did not feel that they enjoyed the respect of the public . James Q. Wilson found that a majority of Chicago police sergeants who completed questionnaires in 196o and 1965 felt that the public did p not cooperate with or respect the police . Many articles in police journals comment on the alleged antagonism to the police voiced by the mass media . Studies of police opinion have indicated that some police conceal their occupation from their neighbors because many people do not like to associate itlt policemen . If policemen judge their social worth by their incomes , they are right in rating it low . A recent article in Fortune reports that " the patrolman 's pay in major cities now averages about S7,50o per year ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lour in moderate circumstances in a large city , according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . " As a result , many are forced to moonlight to earn a living . Fletcher Knebel cites an expert estimate that from a third to half of all the patrolmen in the country have a second job . The relative socioeconomic status of the police has worsened over time . Richard Wade , an urban historian at the University of Chicago , points out that the situation has changed considerably from that of fifty years ago when " policemen had an income higher than other trades and there were more applicants than there were jobs . " John H. McNamara , who has studied the New York Department , concludes : During the Depression the department was able to recruit from a population which included many unemployed or low-paid college graduates . . . . As general economic conditions have improved , however , the job of police officer has become less attractive to college graduates . In his surveys of police opinion in Chicago , Boston , and Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the prestige of police work is lower than it was twenty years ago . Lower police morale is not simply a function of a relative decline in income or in perceived status . The police believe their conditions of work have also worsened . Eighty percent state that " police work is more hazardous today than five years ago . " Sixty percent believe that the way the public behaves toward the police has changed for the worse since they joined the force . The policeman 's role is particularly subject to fostering feelings of resentment against society , which flow from a typical source of radical politics , " status discrepancies . " This term refers to a sociological concept which is used to describe the positions of individuals or groups who are ranked relatively high on one status attribute and low on another .  | Presumably the fact of having a claim to some deference makes people indignantly resent as morally improper any evidence that they are held in low regard because of some other factor in their background or activities . In the case of the police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its laws and are expected to risk their lives if necessary ; on the other hand , they feel they receive little prestige , and they get a relatively low salary as compared with that of other occupational groups which have much less authority . Many police have consciously come to look upon themselves as an oppressed minority , subject to the same kind of prejudice as other minorities . Thus Chief Parker explained some of the bitterness of the police as stemming from the " shell of minorityism " within which they lived . This view was given eloquent voice in 1965 by the then New York City Police Commissioner , Michael J. Murphy : " The police officer , too , belongs to a minority group ? a highly visible minority group , and is also subject to stereotyping and mass attack . Yet he , like every member of every minority , is entitled to be judged as an individual and on the basis of his individual acts , not as a group . " Clearly , the police appear to be a deprived group , one which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the risks it takes for the community 's safety . These risks are not negligible in the United States . In 1967 , for example , one out of every eight policemen was assaulted . This rate is considerably higher than in any other developed democratic country . The belief that police are rejected by the public results , as Wilson argues , in a " sense of alienation from society " which presses the police to develop their own " sub-culture " with norms which can provide them with " a basis for self-respect independent to some degree of civilian attitudes . " Given the assumption of the police that they are unappreciated even by the honest middle-class citizenry , they are prone to accept a cynical view of society and its institutions , and social isolation and alienation can lead to political alienation . The police have faced overt hostility and even contempt from spokesmen for liberal and leftist groups , racial minorities , and intellectuals generally . The only ones who appreciate their contribution to society and the risks they take are the conservatives , and particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been hostile , the radical right friendly . It is not surprising therefore that police are more likely to be found in the ranks of the right . In the larger context , American politics tends to press the police to support conservative or rightist politics . Liberals and leftists have been more concerned than conservatives with the legal rights of the less powerful and the underprivileged . They have tried to limit the power of the police to deal with suspects and have sought to enlarge the scope of clue process . Efforts to enhance the rights of defendants , to guarantee them legal representation , to prevent the authorities from unduly pressuring those taken into police custody , have largely concerned liberals . The American Civil Liberties Union and other comparable groups have fought hard to weaken the discretionary power of the police . To many policemen , the liberals ' constant struggle is to make their job more difficult , to increase the physical danger to which they are subject . Many are convinced that dangerous criminals or revolutionists are freely walking the streets because of the efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed to the seamy side of life , who view many deviants and lawbreakers as outside the protection of the law , the constant concern for the civil rights of such people makes little sense , unless it reflects moral weakness on the part of the liberals , or more dangerously , is an aspect of a plot to undermine legitimate authority . And the fact that the Supreme Court has sided with the civil-libertarian interpretations of individual rights in recent years on issues concerning police tactics in securing confessions ? the use of wiretaps , and the like ? constitutes evidence as to how far moral corruption has reached into high places . Reiss 's survey of police opinion found that 90 percent of the police interviewed felt that the Supreme Court " has gone too far in making rules favoring and protecting criminal offenders . " The liberal world , then , is perceived as an enemy , an enemy which may attack directly in demonstrations or riots , or indirectly through its pressure on the courts . THE fights over the establishment of civilian police review boards which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a struggle between the liberal political forces which favor creating such checks over the power of police departments to discipline their own members and the conservatives who oppose these . In the best-publicized case , the referendum in New York City of November , 1966 , to repeal the law creating such a board , the ideological lineup was clear-cut . The Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association was supported in its successful efforts by the Conservative Party of New York and the John Birch Society . It was opposed by New York 's liberal Republican mayor . John Lindsay , as well as by Robert Kennedy , the reform Democrats , the Liberal Party , the New York Times , and the New York Post . There can be little doubt that this struggle has helped to strengthen the police backing for the Conservative Party .  | The greater willingness of police to join or back groups which have been antagonistic to religious ( Catholics in the nineteenth century , Jews in the twentieth ) and racial minorities also may be a function of concrete job experience , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ethnic slums characteristically have been centers of crime . violence . and vice . Most immigrant groups living in urban America in the past , as well as more recent Negro migrants , have contributed disproportionately to the ranks of criminals and racketeers . Hence , the police have often found that their experience confirmed the negative cultural stereotypes which have existed about such groups while they lived in the crowded , dirty , slum conditions . The ethnic minorities have , in fact , often appeared as sympathetic to criminals , as supporters of violence directed against the police . The ethnic slum historically has been an enemy stronghold , a place of considerable insecurity . Right-wing political groupings which define minorities or leftist radicals as conspiratorial corrupters of American morality have strongly appealed to the morally outraged police . In evaluating the disposition of the police to participate in the radical right , it is important to note that only a minority of the police are involved iii most communities . Most police , though relatively conservative and conventional , are normally more concerned with the politics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the politics of right-wing extremism . The Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association is basically a trade union which seeks alliances with oilier labor unions , particularly those within the civil service , and with the powerful within the dominant political parties . Police have struck for higher wages , much as other groups have done . There have been occasions when they have shown sympathy for striking workers on the picket line , particularly when the workers and the police have belonged to the same ethnic groups . One of the main attractions of police work is the lifelong economic security and early pensions which it gives . In this sense , the policeman , like others from low-income backgrounds , is concerned for the expansion of the welfare state . Like all others , the police are interested in upgrading the public image of their job . They do not like being attacked as thugs , as authoritarians , as lusting for power . Some cities have successfully sought to increase the educational level of new recruits and to have a continuing education program for those on the force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and colleges in various communities has been improving , and there is much that is hopeful going on . Yet the fact remains that recent events have  | sorely strained the tempers of many police . Almost two thirds of the police interviewed in Reiss 's study feel that " demonstrations are a main cause of violence these days . " The reactions of police organizations around the country suggest that Ortega y Gasset was correct when he suggested in his book The Revolt of the Masses , published in 1930 , that free societies would come to fear their police . He predicted that those who rely on the police to maintain order are foolish if they imagine that the police " are always going to be content to preserve . . . order as defined by government . . .. Inevitably they the police will end by themselves defining and deciding on the order they are going to impose ? which , naturally , will be that which suits them best . " In some cities , leaders of police organizations have openly threatened that the police will disobey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrators . The Boston Police Patrolmen 's Association has stated that the police there will enforce the law , no matter what politicians say . The president of the New York Patrolmen 's Benevolent Association has announced that his members " will enforce the law too per cent , " even when ordered not to do so . This " rebellion of the police " is a response to their being faced with " confrontation tactics " by student and black radical militants . New Left radicals and black nationalists openly advocate confrontation tactics . They seek deliberately to inflame the police so as to enrage them into engaging in various forms of brutality . Stokely Carmichael has declared that a demonstration which does not result in police action against the participants is a failure . The events at Chicago during the Democratic Convention constitute the best recent example of the way in which a major police force can completely lose its head when faced by a confrontationist demonstration . ' Some black and white New Radicals openly declare that the killing of police in the ghetto area is not murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But police have been shot at and occasionally killed in ambush . The current tensions between the police and New Left student and black nationalist radicals probably involve the most extreme example of deliberate provocation which the police have ever faced . The tactics of the campus-based opposition rouse the most deep-seated feelings of class resentment . Most policemen are conservative , conventional , upwardly mobile working-class supporters of the American Way , who aspire for a better life for their families . Manv of them seek to send their children to college . To find the scions of the upper middle class in the best universities denouncing them as " pigs , " hurling insults which involve use of the most aggressive sexual language . such as " Up against the wall , Mother F ? , " throwing bricks and bags of feces at them , is much more difficult to accept than any other situation which they have faced . Police understand as normal the problems of dealing with crime or vice . They may resent violence stemming from minority ghettos. but this , too , is understandable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior from youths who are socially and economically much better off than they and their children is more than the average policeman can tolerate . The deliberate effort to bait and provoke the police by contemporary New Left radicals is rather new in the history of leftist movements . The American Socialist Party in its early history actually pointed to the police department as a good example of the way the government could provide needed services efficiently . The Communists , of course , never described the police in this fashion , but in the twenties , European Communisists concerned with attaining power rather than with symbolic demonstrations defined the police , like the rank and file of the military , as exploited workingclass groups who should either be converted to the revolution or at least be neutralized . They directed propaganda to the self-interests of the police , calling on them to refuse to serve the interests of the  | ruling class during strikes or demonstrations . The European left has often sought to organize the police in trade unions , although it is , of course , also true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The police have been involved in brutal suppression of left-wing and trade-union demonstrations in Europe , which have made them the target of left-wing criticism and counter-violence . Nevertheless , the left there remembers that the police come from proletarian origins . During the May , 1968 , student demonstrations and strikes in Italy , a leading Communist intellectual , Pier Paolo Pasolini , told the New Left students that in a conflict between them and the police , he stood with the police : " Your faces are those of sons of good families , and I hate you as I hate your fathers . The good breeding comes through . . . . Yesterday when you had your battle in the Valle Giulia with the police , my sympathies were with the police , because they are the sons of the poor " ( quoted from the Corriere Bella Sera by Melvin Lasky in the August issue of Encounter ) . Given the interest shown in the welfare of the police by sections of the European left , their membership in trade unions , and their working-class origins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police has been more ambivalent than that of their American compeers . On various occasions , segments of the police in Europe have shown sympathy for left and working-class forces , particularly where they have been serving under leftist governments for some time . This was true in Social Democratic Berlin and Prussia generally before 1932 , in Vienna before 1931 , and in parts of Republican Spain before 1936 . The ambivalent attitudes of the police have shown up most recently in France , where a number of police unions issued statements after the May , 1968 , events , denying responsibility for use of force against student demonstrators . The police organizations wanted it known that the government , not the police , was responsible for the vigor of the actions taken . It is doubtful that the American New Left students will ever come to see the police in a sympathetic light , as exploited , insecure , alienated members of the underprivileged classes . As members of the first leftist youth movement which is unaffiliated with any adult party , they are unconcerned with the consequences of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . To a large extent , their provocative efforts reflect the biases of the educated upper middle class . Lacking a theory of society and any concern for the complexities of the " road to power " which have characterized the revolutionary Marxist movement , they are prepared to alienate the police , as well as conventional working-class opinion , in order to provoke police brutality , which in turn will validate their total rejection of all social institutions . Hence , we may expect a continuation of the vicious circle of confrontation and police terror tactics . Liberal moderates properly react to this situation by demanding that the police act toward deviant behavior much as all other professionals do , that they have no more right to react aggressively toward provocative acts than psychiatrists faced by maniacal and dangerous patients , that no matter what extremists do , the police should not lose their selfcontrol . Such a policy is easy to advocate ; it is difficult to carry out . Furthermore , it ignores the fact that most of the police are " working-class " professionals , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points out , " This means they bring to the job some of the focal concerns of working-class men ? a preoccupation with maintaining self-respect , proving one 's masculinity , not taking any crap , ' and not being taken in . ' Having to rely on personal qualities rather than on formal routines . . . means that the officer 's behavior will depend crucially on how much deference he is shown , on how manageable the situation seems to be , and on what the participants in it seem to deserve . ' " If society wants police to behave like psychiatrists , then it must be willing to treat and train them like psychiatrists rather than like pariahs engaged in dirty work . At present , it treats their job like a semiskilled position which requires , at best , a few weeks ' training . Norman Kassoff of the research staff of the International Association of Chiefs of Police has compared the legal minimum training requirements for various occupations in the different American states . Calculated in terms of hours , the median minimums are 11,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1200 for beauticians , and less than 200 for policemen . The vast majority of policemen begin carrying guns and enforcing the law with less than five weeks ' training of any kind . The new tensions have increased the old conflict between the police and the liberals . For it must be said that liberals are prejudiced against police , much as many white police are biased against Negroes . Most liberals are ready to assume that all charges of police brutality are true . They tend to refuse to give the police the benefit of any doubt . They rarely denounce the extreme black groups and left radicals for their confrontationist efforts . They do not face up to the need for tactics to deal with deliberate incitement to mob violence . If the liberal and intellectual communities are to have any impact on the police , if they are to play any role in reducing the growing political alienation of many police , they must show some recognition that the police force is also composed of human beings , seeking to earn a living . They must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning their problems .                     