@@312879

Optimism is a sturdy soldier , frequently able to survive even against overwhelming odds . Last week in Viet Nam it joined the list of casualties . Not since the early months of 1965 , when the Communists were on the verge of overrunning South Viet Nam just before the U.S. buildup , had the mood and prospects of the allies looked so totally grim . <P> At the uppermost levels of the Administration and the Pentagon , where optimism has been endemic from the war 's earliest days , officials were still trying to find something comforting in the recent Communist Tet offensive despite all of the evidence to the contrary . Vice President Hubert Humphrey declared that the Saigon regime " if anything has been strengthened by the attack , " and on TV the U.S. Ambassador to Saigon , Ellsworth Bunker , in effect agreed . Despite some qualifications made by both men , such statements sounded absurd ( see THE WORLD ) . <P> In contrast , middle-and lower-echelon officials at the State Department , the Pentagon and U.S. headquarters in Saigon voiced profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Vietnamese government , dejected by the demoralization of a populace suddenly feeling even less secure than before , disappointed by the failure of U.S. intelligence in anticipating the scope of the Communist move at a time when such attacks clearly should have been anticipated . No one of course believed that half a million U.S. troops could be defeated by the enemy in Viet Nam ; but there was considerable fear that they had been spread entirely too thin over too many crisis areas to be effective . While the U.S. and its allies officially reported 40,000 enemy soldiers killed since the Tet offensive began at the beginning of the lunar New Year , some U.S. officers in Saigon reckoned the losses to be closer to one-third of that figure . That would leave North Viet Nam 's Defense Minister Vo Nguyen Giap with considerable muscle for a new wave of attacks on the cities . U.S. casualties were a fraction of the Communist losses , but they were the war 's heaviest nonetheless , totaling more than 1,350 dead and 6,800 wounded since the beginning of the Tet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its buildup in South Viet Nam 2 years ago , it has been committed to two wars : one of bombs and bullets , the other of plows and pamphlets . In both wars , the U.S. effort has been set back by months , and perhaps years , as a result of the Communists ' recent attacks against the cities of the South . With the countryside wide open to Viet Cong soldiers , recruiters and tax collectors , the crucial rural-pacification effort is at a standstill . " We have had a hell of a setback , " admitted a high-ranking U.S. official in Viet Nam . " To even mention ' the other war ' at this time is just a lot of nonsense . "                     