@@248404

He can neither read nor write-but neither , points out Saudi Arabia 's Mohammed ben Laden , could the Prophet Mohammed . The Middle East 's biggest builder , hard-driving Ben Laden last week mobilized his construction teams to begin a 600-mile road across the desert and mountains from Mecca to Saudi Arabia 's capital , Riyadh . Since setting up his company in 1938 ( he learned construction techniques as an Aramco laborer ) , Ben Laden , 49 , has completed $500 million in projects , including jetports in Jidda and Medina , a handful of palaces , and miles of superhighways . His greatest thrill was building a new mosque over Mohammed 's tomb at Medina . Says Ben Laden : " To me there are only two things in life-work and Islam . " Simca , France 's third largest automaker ( after Renault and Citron ) , this week gets a new president : outspoken Georges Hreil , 53 . He replaces fiery Henri Pigozzi , who founded Simca in 1934 and ruled it with an iron hand until Chrysler bought control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aviation , Hreil became a national hero for bringing out the successful Caravelle , but resigned last year after the government sharply trimmed his authority to call the shots in the joint Anglo-French effort to build a supersonic jetliner . <P> <P> When the 79-year-old president of the Japanese National Railways-the world 's biggest passenger-carrying railroad-retired last month , Premier Ikeda found that just about no one wanted the job of runing the debt-ridden road , which carried 5.4 billion passengers in 1962 . He finally found a taker who was old enough ( 72 ) to retire and who had never run a railroad . The new president is Reisuke Ishida , an economic adviser to Japanese military governors in Hong Kong and China during World War II , who was purged by the Allies in 1946 and has since stayed in the background . He inaugurated his railroad career last week by insisting that the Japanese railways must have more government aid and less government interference .                     