@@217599

The English Reformation substituted the supreme legislative authority of King and Parliament for that of Pope and Council , but it left untouched the hierarchical structure of bishops who governed the Church of England . That structure has , in fact , remained essentially the same since the time of St. Augustine of Canterbury in the 6th century . Now it is about to undergo a radi cal change , giving way to a government by synod similar to that already used by many Protestant churches . Such is the recommendation made last week in a report by the Church of England 's Synodical Government Commission , which was appointed in 1964 by the Arch bishops of Canterbury and York to study the restructuring of the church . <P> Typical Compromise . The report , composed by 15 clergy and lay people under the chairmanship of Lord Hodson , calls for a sweeping democratization of the church through the admission of the laity into every level of church government from top to bot tom . It suggests that a General Synod of 543 members - 43 bishops , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be instituted as the central governing body of the Church of Eng land and given broad legislative powers . <P> The Synod would replace the present Church Assembly , created in 1919 , which has only limited legislative pow ers in administrative matters . The Gen eral Synod would also absorb the power to legislate in matters of doctrine and liturgy that are now the exclusive province of the clerical Convocations of Canterbury and York , which ante date the Norman Conquest . However , in the past 30 years , there has been an increasing tendency to submit even these matters for consideration to the Church Assembly . In a typical English compromise to soothe the church 's conservative Anglo-Catholic wing , the venerable convocations will not be abolished outright . It will still be possible to convene them , though it may no longer be mandatory , and they will retain a veto power over changes in canon law and liturgy enacted by the General Synod . <P> This synodal structure , granting an extensive role in governing to the laity , will be extended to all levels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced membership to make them more effective , will replace the current and cumbersome diocesan conferences , which have vague advisory powers and no standing in canon law . Under the new plan , bishops will be required to consult their diocesan synods on matters of general concern to the diocese . The ancient ecclesiastical subdivision of dioceses , still called the " rural deaneries " even though nowadays they may be exclusively urban areas , will also get their own clericallay synods in place of existing conferences . As the basic unit of church synodal government , these " ruridecanal " synods will elect representatives to the diocesan synods and General Synod of the church .                     