@@488078

The bracer program died in 1968 , after a long illness . Under its provisions , 4 5 million Mexican temporary workers were brought into the United States between 1942 and 1963 as supplementary farm labor Officially terminated by Congress in 1963 ? long after the World War it labor shortage which it was intended to ease had ended  --  it finally trickled to a halt in August 1968 when Secretary of Labor W Willard Wirtz denied a request by California tomato growers for 2,200 Mexican farm workers He characterized this refusal of legal entry as " a historic step towards healing the migrant worker sore in California and in the entire United States " But current 1968-69 immigration records show the apprehension of 150,000 Mexican nationals who had entered the United States illegally . and the incidence of these wetbacks in American employment is perhaps triple the number caught . This would suggest that Secretary Wirtz 's cure is at the most cosmetic Illegal entry by Mexican nationals has afflicted domestic low-income workers since World War II In 1942 , after Mexico had agreed to supply temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet agreed wages and working conditions . In response , MexiTHE NATION/October 20 , 1969 co for a time cut off the supply of workers , but U.S. to cross the border illegally They were then apprehended and " paroled " to Texas farmers , thus avoiding the terms of the international labor agreement Farmers and border industries got cheap labor , domestic farm workers and El Paso garment workers and meat packers suffered wartime inflation but were forced to accept low wages if they wanted to work at all In 1954 the President 's Commission on Migratory Labor studied the border labor problem and concluded : " The United States , having engaged in a program giving preference in contracting to those who had broken the law , has encouraged a violation of the immigration laws . Our government has thus become a contributor to the growth of an illegal traffic which it has responsibility to prevent " That same year , the Justice Department launched Operation Wetback , a roundup of more than a million illegal entrants in an area stretching as far as St. Louis and Chicago San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Immigration and Naturalization Service stated optimistically in its 1955 report that it had ended the wetback problem . The boast proved premature . The Border Patrol and the Investigation Section of the INS are diligent , outnumbered and outmaneuvered . The comparatively few illegal entrants who attempt to cross the natural , and for the most part barren , frontier on foot are easily spotted by the continual overhead observation 403 of Border Patrol spotter planes ; they are then picked up by ground patrols which run along exfoliated drag strips . Some few aliens risk their lives in airless car trunks and campers , or precariously flattened on a ledge beneath passenger cars . Such trips cost from $100 to $300 . One recently ended in death by asphyxiation . But for 70 to 80 per cent of the illegal entrants access is neither hazardous nor romantic . More than a million Mexican aliens carry visitors ' permits . These salmon-colored cards , issued by the Mexican Government at a cost of about $80 , authorize visits of seventy-two hours in an area not more than 25 miles from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are not looking forward to a visit The typical wetback meets an agent in Mexico who provides him with a routing or a contact . Once across the border , he is transported to a city , often Los Angeles , and there referred to a job . In some instances . the agents provide transportation by selling a group of wetbacks an automobile . in which they can better elude detection . Those who lack the cash are offered a " go now , pay later " plan under which the price of the car is deducted from future wages . Once inside , the alien easily merges into urban or rural Chicano barrios . Anyone can get a Social Security card by filing an application : proof of legitimate entry or birth certificate is not required Employers record the Social Security number and could n't care less about the worker 's status . It is a felony to induce an alien to enter the United States , to transport him or to harbor him from detection : but conservative legislators from farm districts have managed to exempt the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even when the employee is known to be a wetback . Agriculture absorbs the bulk of the illegal entrants . During fiscal 1968. 38.950 of those apprehended were doing farm work . Wetbacks are preferred by most farm ers because they are thought to work harder than Americans and to complain less about conditions The minimum wage for farm work in California is $1 65 an hour : wetbacks in labor camps are lucky to earn $1 35 , not enough to live on in California but tour times the Mexican minimum wage The rich regions of California are dotted with the grim labor camps which formerly housed braceror Wetbacks now live in many of them , hidden well off public roads on land posted against trespassing . While most wetbacks seek farm work during the busy seasons , substantial numbers are kept on the year around , or find off-season jobs during the very periods when domestic farm workers . residents of the area . are unemployed and dependent on public assistance Winter unemployment in farm regions runs as high as 16 per cent of the domestic labor force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in public assistance . Ten thousand wetbacks were caught in the five states that make up the Southwest in February 1969 . From this figure one can assume that from 10.000 to 40.000 low-income families were displaced from jobs by wetbacks during the winter months , at a cost in taxes and loss of domestic wages amounting to tens of millions Surveys show that the prevalence of wetbacks also depresses IA age levels and encourages employers to ignorethe laws governing wages and working conditions . Union leaders find it difficult to organize in areas saturated with wetbacks . A nationally reported example is the stubborn resistance Cesar Chavez 's United Farm Workers Organizing Committee has encountered in its efforts to sign contracts with the California table grape growers . Strikes are not a compelling argument with employers who can rely on Mexican nationals , and the union has been forced to organize a nation-wide consumer boycott of table grapes to achieve its purpose . Displacement of local workers by wetbacks is no longer a predominantly rural problem , since illegal entrants increasingly gravitate to more permanent jobs in the cities From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Los Angeles metropolitan area . Recently , the Border Patrol uncovered a smuggling operation which specialized in supplying wetbacks for industrial jobs in Chicago Despite the seemingly impressive figures on apprehensions , the wetback problem is not being brought under control . The program is hampered from the start by a shortage of manpower and equipment . As one patrolman in the Stockton , Calif. , area put it : " We stake out Route 99 and the smugglers hear of it and take another road . There area t enough of us to cover all the main highways all the time On any given day , approximately 300 officers are on duty in the five Southwestern states . A more basic problem than the size of the Border Patrol is the ease of entry afforded by the visitor 's card and the absence of administrative controls on its use . The zone of travel permitted by these cards ( with no record kept of entry and departure ) was recently reduced from 150 to 25 miles from the border and that is making it easier to tag violators en @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systematic road checks on approaches to Los Angeles have turned up hundreds of aliens with no residency documents . However , Border Patrol officials complain privately of the Justice Department 's failure to require fingerprints as part of the permit procedure . Lacking that identification . it is almost impossible to spot previous violators w hen they reappear at the border , and wetbacks who have been returned to Mexico re-enter again and again , visitor 's permit in hand Also , since no record is kept as to when a seventy-two-hour visit begins , a Mexican who has eluded detection for weeks or months can depart unquestioned . The very volume of violators has dictated an informal handling of those caught . and this also fails to discourage the increasing traffic Illegal entry is a crime for which the violator may be prosecuted in the federal courts and formally deported by the INS . Re-entry after such a deportation is a felony . But resort to these remedies is infrequent . The present policy is to allow the illegal entrant to leave voluntarily within three days of apprehension . Often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own . Or he may be taken to a detention ccntei in El Paso . Tex. , or El Centro , Calif. , to await bus transportation to the interior of Mexico at U.S. Government expense . Not only does the wetback get a free trip home but back wages are collected for him by Border Patrolmen . Voluntary return is likened by an INS administrator to a " game warden who discovers a hunter without a license and helps him carry the deer he 's killed out of the park . " Multiple returnees are seldom prosecuted and are formally deported only after the fourth . fifth or sixth entry , unless they are caught assisting other wetbacks to cross the border . A formal deportation procedure takes no more than fifteen minutes , and does not require the services of an attorney , but the INS claims that there are insufficient hearing officers to handle all the possible cases and that in any case deportation would n't stop the alien from trying again . Authorities do not even officially notify a grower when illegal entrants are found on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an economic crime of low priority and most Americans sympathize with the wetback , who is after all a very poor man trying to get ahead . Few jurists or juries appreciate the relationship between illegal entry and the plight of the domestic poor . Federal prosecutors have little time even for wetback smugglers , accepting only aggravated cases for prosecution . Despite the high apprehension rate in Northern California-3,500 in August 1968 ? there has been almost no prosecution of smugglers or transporters . Officials suggest that strict enforcement , involving due process for each alien , would choke court dockets , overburden U.S. attorneys and tie up patrolmen as witnesses . The more pessimistic add that extensive prosecution would ultimately fill the prisons to capacity  --  a line of reasoning not applied to marijuana cases . INS investigators are hampered by the taciturnity of wetbacks , who refuse to say how they entered the country or who helped them to do so . Aware that failure to cooperate will not land him in jail , the alien has no inducement to reveal what he knows of the smuggling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers against growers using wetbacks allege that such employment is an unfair business practice calculated to lower their wages , diminish their employment opportunity and force them to seek public assistance at the taxTHE NATION/October 20,1969 payers expense . While employment of illegal entrants is exempt from the legal sanctions against harboring wetbacks , farm workers charge that growers are nevertheless criminally implicated , since offering wetbacks employment and shelter from detection is aiding and abetting in the crime of illegal entry . This resort to self-help law enforcement by the poor is a reflection on the failure of the Justice Department to perform its duties . The ambivalence of the INS in the area of illegal entry is striking . The search for violators is persistent but ineffectual , and it seems clear that more could be done . The service operates on a budget of 86 ; 45 0,000 , more than half of which is . committed to the four states bordering Mexico . Detention and transportation of apprehended illegal entrants alone costs $1.6 million , yet no funds can be found to hire more hearing officers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money to increase the Border Patrol and investigation staff , despite increased illegal entry and the much heavier work load demonstrated by the higher apprehension rates . An obvious need is the fingerprint identification of seventy-two-hour permit holders . INS officials argue that it would be impractical to match the fingerprints of apprehended wetbacks against those of 1 million cardholders . Yet the need to check at most 500 fingerprints a day , - the ostensible average number of wetbacks caught in the peak months , is small compared to the FBI 's work load of 32.000 identifications a day from a file of 15 million sets of prints . The replacement of cards at four-month intervals would make it easier to revoke the cards of violators . A requirement that holders of the unlimited entry peimit post a bond to secure observance of the terms of entry . a device authorized in related immigration taws , could be an effective deterrent . Other steps could be taken to provide more effective enforcement . A recent act which authorizes a federal magistrate to handle petty crimes could undoubtedly speed the prosecution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second illegal entry within two years , the power to assess administrative fines in lieu of prosecution ( thereby attaching a portion of the wages earned ) , and even the right to confiscate the vehicle used in the transportation of illegal aliens . as is done in narcotics smuggling , would also discourage the border hoppers . Important remedial legislation is before House and Senate . A bill to prohibit the intentional employment of a person illegally in the United States was introduced on March 26. 1969 by Sen. Edward Kennedy and Rep. Michael Feighan . The measure is co-sponsored by nine Senators and twenty-three Representatives . But even if passed , it will not result in many prosecutions , since the present difficulties of proving smuggling will be compounded when the federal attorney must submit his case to a jury . However , the abrogation of the employment exemption , combined with occasional well-publicized prosecutions and stiff fines , should cure many employers of hiring wetbacks at bargain rates . Similarly , a bill introduced by Senator Mondale would amend the National Labor Relations Act to make it an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , or to 405 hire nonresident commuter aliens during a labor dispute . Any of these measures , applied for several years , would provide increasingly effective deterrence to illegal entry . Even so , the problem of the wetback will remain as long as the Mexican-American border is open , the border economies remain interdependent , and American earnings are five to ten times the Mexican wage . But in our increasingly technological society , with its chronic unemployment among low-income unskilled and semi-skilled workers , it is a problem which can not be ignored . The continued use of nonresident Mexican labor in border areas , a concession co the artificiality of the border , should be coupled with affirmative enforcement of wage standards and labor laws to provide domestic workers with earnings commensurate with living costs , at least equalaccess to jobs , and the freedom to bargain collectively . Moreover , urban and rural areas distant from the border have no interdependence with the Mexican population and economy . Lack of enforcement in such places , except for the futile apprehension-return cycle , is really a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " move people off the welfare roles and onto the payrolls . " Despite the good record of the Border Patrol , administrative deficiencies in coping with the inflow of illegal entrants can not be explained entirely by a lack of imagination or a lack of funds . It is not pure fantasy to conclude that the policy of the Justice Department on illegal entry is to do just enough to avoid wholesale criticism , without arousing the serious anger of anti-union employers who favor an abundance of cheap labor .                     