@@488134

Harold Pinter 's The Birthday Party ( Booth Theatre ) is a good and entertaining play . I begin in this blunt and , in certain respects , noncommittal fashion for reasons I must explain . I saw it first in London after I had seen the same author 's The Caretaker . That production of The Birthday Party ( Pinter 's first full-length effort ) had been staged by Pinter himself , and disappointment led me to suggest that the writer murder the director . Another reason for advancing circumspectly to a truer evaluation is that a critic , being as lamentably human as any of his fellow creatures , sometimes reacts more to other reactions  --  especially to those of other critics  --  than in accord with his own . The critic thus tempted must be sufficiently patient with himself to discover what he really thinks ! The Birthday Party is a good play because it is extremely well constructed , admirably written and the first extended expression of an unmistakably original personality . The play keeps us alert . And it is not obscure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a short stretch of dialogue I fancied I heard echoes of Odets ' Paradise Lost ; but this too is only conjecture . The point is that whatever influences have shaped Pinter 's work , he has transmuted them into something of his own : stingingly humorous , strangely disquieting , laconically tight to the point of mystification , theatrical to the point of staginess . Occasionally there is a tremor of compassion in The Birthday Party though more notably in The Caretaker . Pinter , I repeat , is not obscure : what he intends us to understand can be readily understood . For example , the unctuously plausible and malevolent Goldberg and his thick-headed henchman McCann in The Birthday Party may be taken as the police or as wardens of a mental institution or even as Death itself . In effect it does n't truly matter which , what does matter is that they remove Stanley , the play 's anti-hero , to a place where he dreads to go . Stanley resides at a wretched boardinghouse which its owners , like so many in England who supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be normal living quarters  --  and " very nice . " ( Pinter is a master at making us sense the damp dreariness of such environments , as he is of setting down the speech of the folk who usually run them . ) Stanley is something of an artist ; at least , a person of sensibility . He has suffered the humiliations which almost inevitably attend such people 's lives . ( The same is true of the young man in The Caretaker ) . He has retreated from the world to avoid further injury Even though the hosts of his hiding place are stunningly stupid , they are innocents . But the " furies " ( Goldberg and McCann ) against which he is powerless catch up with him , take him away and , we presume , destroy him . The play is a parable placed in circumstances and couched in language that may pass as " realistic " Pinter does not however aim to represent a precise milieu or to depict particular individuals He writes to evoke the atmosphere of a widespread modern condition His style @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simplest of Pinter 's plays It has less scope than The Caretaker ; it is less cutting than The Homecoming Still The Bilthday Party is not only a good play but for a " beginner , " as Pinter was in 1958 at the time of its first production , a consummate one . Do I " agree " with Pinter9 Is his view of life acceptable to me as a universal truth ' ' No , I do not " agree " with him , and his truth is not universal . But nowadays it is something commonly and very acutely telt by many of us everywhere-the reduction of man to a menaced and quivering atom in a senseless , horribly vacuous world . Alan Schneider 's direction is emotionally pointed . The play might be conceived as a lucid nightmare , but pity is at the core of Schneider 's interpretation . There is more pathos than horror in it . His characters are not drained of life ; they still retain a degree of vitality ( The Royal Shakespeare Company 's production under Pinter was merely inexpressive ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moments close to a feeling of domestic comedy . Thus , Pinter 's dumb housekeeper acquires a distinct sweetness , and her passive husband a benevolence which sadly comes to nothing What we see at the Booth Theatre is more assimilable and persuasive for our audiences than a colder or more severe English reading of the play might be . James Patterson projects the mutilated artist 's torment convincingly Always a fine actress , Ruth White makes the housekeeper more touching and less drab than perhaps Pinter 's text indicates . Ed Flanders as Goldberg mixes acid and schmaltz in very nearly the right proportions . Alexandra Berlin as a cockney " bird " is juicy , comically affecting and unmistakably present . No one in the cast is bad . I " agree " with George Tabori 's two one-acters which come to us under the distasteful title The Niggerlovers ( Orpheum Theatre , 26 Second Avenue ) , but I do n't care for them In the first of these skits called " The Demonstration , " a cultivated gentleman named " August " sympathetic to our Southern blacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He hopes in some way to be of service to them . He accepts a demonstration of how they are treated by the law in the South . Two black men playfully apply themselves to the task . They give him a brutal going over which makes him cry out " I do n't want to be a Negro any more ! " In the second and still more abstract piece called " Man and Dog " a genteel young man of liberal stripe walks his dog along the streets of one of our ghettos . The dog is an aging Austrian bitch ( attractive in the person of Viveca Lind-fors ) and something of a Fascist . She , despises " spicks " and probably Negroes and Jews as well . She is severely reproved for this by her master But she is harmless ? she no longer has any real bite and she is only moderately randy . Because she still reeks of old-world charm , her " boss " is devoted to her despite her reprehensible prejudices When , in the course of their walk , the man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he supposes intend to " molest " him he ends by calling for the police to take strong measures against his " assailants " At the conclusion of the episode we find him along with his bitch baying at the moon . The meaning is clear The liberal-minded American , indignant about Fascist traits and behavior in foreigners , is patient , often even affectionately tolerant with them when they no longer constitute a direct threat , but he will clamor for counterviolence to avoid danger from the insulted and injured at home . This is a good insight . But Tabori 's treatment has a counterfeit ring . It is tricked out in the stylistic modes of the " new theatre " ? not Brecht , Genet or good red vaudeville but with a smattering of all three . The writer 's personal stamp is missing . He has chosen a form alien to him Evidence of this is furnished by a passage ( almost an interpolation ) in " The Demonstration . " Here August 's lady secretary describes the guilt suffered by a person whose relatives have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or she ) has managed to escape to safety . Such a person constantly tries to assuage his troubled conscience by taking special pains to act kindly toward those weaker or less privileged . This monologue might prove moving in another context . ( It might also be more effective if it were spoken by a man . ) Set where it is it strikes an incongruous note Though it contains a few funny lines , the show remains static . The director , Gene Frankel , has sought to enliven the evening by acrobatics , choreographic stunts , somersaults , jujitsu , chases in slow motion . They are well employed and the players are to be congratulated on their aptitude . But they , no more than the excellent jazz players or the music which accompanies Tabori 's lyrics , not even Stacy Keach 's ability as a character actor , can turn The Niggerlovers into a stimulating event . Murray Schisgal 's two playlets which are collectively titled Fragments ( Cherry Lane Theatre on Commerce Street ) probably antedate the same author 's Luv as well as The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elaborate blackout sketches . The first of these , " The Basement , " is about a man so entirely devoted to his work as a " scientist " that he cruelly neglects his father , brother and , above all , his wife . He pursues his idiotic dream of a discovery so stubbornly that his wife , tried beyond endurance , leaves him . The final moment shows him maudlin over his bereavement . This little satire failed to amuse me despite some comic bits of business and James Coco 's performance as the nincompoop 's brother . The second item with the literal designation " Fragments " is inventive to the extent that it presents an uninteresting clerk with literary ambitions in his physical impulses , his conscious mind and his subconscious or , as some would have it , his id , his ego and his superego . But once we identify the gimmick  --  the three " characters " we see are all parts of the same man  --  curiosity abates . The result is neither very revealing nor especially entertaining . Gene Hackman who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and only competent as one of the " fragments " in the second piece He hardly has the opportunity to be as effective here as he was in Any Wednesday or as he is in Bonnie and Clyde . TELEVISION JOHN HORN Another commercial television season has arrived in a cascade of new evening entertainment programs apparently designed for the younger sibling of the mythical 12-year-old for whom Hollywood once made films . The new series , like the old , is preoccupied with vicarious sex and violence and with comedy , the eager fascinations of children at puberty , electronic equivalents of comic books and pulp fiction . TV pulp , however , is more attractive than print pulp . Less effort need be expended but more advertising is consumed , a mutual accommodation appreciated by both audience and sponsors . Tacitly admitting the low state of standard programing this fall , the networks have been soft-pedaling their series and stressing the uncommonly large number of specials to be telecast through 1967-68 . Some of these future specials , like Reginald Rose 's original drama , Dear Friends , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lion , appear to be special indeed , judged by sample tapings last summer . The significance of their appearance is that they mark a reversal of network programing policy . Two years ago , the programing vice presidents of the three major networks acknowledged to a Television Academy of Arts and Sciences symposium that their selection of programs reflected not their personal taste but their conception of cultural democracy . Ratings told A B.0 , C B.S. and N.B.C . what was popular , and the popular was provided . The executives described themselves as merely conduits for the mass taste . That this is less a programing policy than an abdication of responsibility apparently troubled the networks less than the later realization that such a course is a dead end To seek the lowest common denominator of taste in an audience conditioned to faddist mobility , without offering a choice for change , improvement , rebellion or whim , is to abandon that audience The complaints of critics and the deprived minority of non-boobs did not change the collective executive mind Death of a Salesman did . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . some eighteen months ago and the panic was on for specials . The networks have no objection to do-goodism provided it makes money . Only a handful of the forthcoming specials will be worth the time and attention of audiences seeking adult entertainment . The season 's specials , both good and bad , will total not more than 5 per cent of the prime-time schedule . But tokenism is an over yesterday 's exclusion . Meanwhile , the Congress has finished struggling with that other major evidence of the failure of the American way of commercial television  --  the bill to establish a corporation for ( noncommercial ) public television . If commercial TV satisfied America 's wants and needs , truly operated in the public 's interest , convenience and necessity , there would be no need for a Corporation for Public Broadcasting The corporation was proposed by President Johnson in March and passed by the Senate . An appropriation of $9 million just to found the corporation , and a conception of it even before birth as an impotent giant controlled by pygmies , worried the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other pressures . The bills ' uneasy passage bodes ill for the handling of next year 's larger question , that of financing the corporation 's operations at an estimated $270 million annually . The Carnegie Commission on Educational Television , on whose findings the President based his recommendations . has proposed a federal tax on television sets . The tragicomic circle is thus complete . Congress is basically responsible for the sorry state of U.S television . It gave the nation 's air waves to commercial operators under inadequate rules inadequately enforced . It is unwilling to admit , let alone correct , the error . But next year it no doubt will ask the people to pay for the mistake while private telecasters continue to rake in extraordinary profits . A New Yorker , W. L. Schubert , pre-sented the case for the American peopie in a succinct letter to The New York Times . It is not reasonable or right to triple-tax the public for the dubious " pleasure " of watching TV ? first through payment for the advertising which is certainly billed into the product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boorish commercials , and now as you propose through contributing directly for what we had a right to in the first place Thomas P. F Hoving , chairman of the newly created National Citizens Committee for Public Television , will have trouble topping that . THE NiATIoN/Oetoher 23. 1967 