@@492085

THE REVOLT OF EUROPE One by one the ambassadors came flying home at the special request of President Kennedy . Red Dowling came from Bonn , and his embassy took the unusual step of issuing an announcement that he was going to Washington for " urgent talks . " David Bruce came from London after conferring three times in two days with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan . The only man missing was Charles Bohlen , nursing an eye ailment in France . Mr. Kennedy had cabled Bohlen that he was not surprised at his affliction " in view of what you have been seeing in recent days . " What Bohlen had seen  --  and what caused the President to send for his envoys  --  was the spectacle of General de Gaulle announcing his grand design for the future of Europe . Almost single-handedly the French president had thrown U.S. policy into disarray , brutally excluding Britain from the European Common Market and virtually turning his back on the NATO alliance . De Gaulle had not only challenged but openly derided Kennedy 's leadership . In effect he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against America . This revolt of the Europeans is important to every American . Already it is affecting wheat farmers in Nebraska and hog raisers in Indiana , threatening to close the market for their goods ; soon the revolt may be felt by every businessman or worker concerned with export sales  --  or meeting competition from abroad . It is also bound to affect the life-and-death issue of the nuclear bomb  --  for at the heart of Europe 's revolt lies the question of who shall control the military power of the atom . European resentment over U.S. ascendancy in the Western alliance has been brewing since the middle ' 50 's , but few Americans were aware of it until de Gaulle came to power five years ago . Yet de Gaulle had prophesied a challenge to Washington in a work that most high officials in the State Department claim to have read with avidity , his three-volume war memoirs . There de Gaulle predicted that the 1960 's would see the role of Europe " growing greater , while that of America diminishes . " The " states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he wrote , " must form a political bloc that will be one of the world 's three great powers , an arbiter , if necessary , between the Soviet and the Anglo-American camps . " Once in office , de Gaulle proclaimed these lofty visions as French policy . He went out campaigning for them , not only in every nook and cranny of France but during visits to Germany too . And as they heard this imperious old man proclaiming that the time had come for the Americans to " recede , " leaving the " Slays , Germans , Gauls and Latins " to work out Europe 's destiny , many Germans , as well as Frenchmen , felt their hearts leap up with new pride . In Washington and London the first instinct was to dismiss de Gaulle 's conceptions with a tolerant smile and such phrases as " foliedegrandeur . " Few U.S. diplomats believed he really meant them , and almost none allowed for the fact that millions of Europeans appeared to share his views . That was why the U.S. Government was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translated his philosophy into drastic action . It was a striking moment . The curtains of the Salle des Fetes in the Elysee Palace were majestically swept aside . The Garde Republicaine , brass buttons sparkling against their blue-black tunics , sprang to attention as a tall , soldierly figure strode to the podium and faced a gathering of 800 newsmen . A hoarse voice announced , " Monsieur le President de la Republique . " General de Gaulle had stage-managed his appearance magnificently . For weeks the rumors had been flying across Europe  --  yet no one , not even his cabinet ministers , knew exactly what de Gaulle would say . Characteristically , he had preserved " un silence terrible . " Now de Gaulle broke his silence with eclat . First he addressed himself to the British , whose negotiators appeared on the point of concluding an agreement to join the Common Market . De Gaulle vetoed their entry . The British , he said . were " insular " and " maritime. - Their whole history had predisposed them to look outward to the overseas world of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans , they were not " true Europeans. - Therefore , saidde Gaulle . the British can not join the New Europe until they have divested themselves of their non-European entanglements  --  in particular , their special relationship with the United States , As the newsmen scribbled down this momentous news , de Gaulle swept on to his second political adversary . Washington , he charged , is conspiring with Britain to create a " colossal Atlantic community under American leadership which would completely swallow up the European community . " Meanwhile , de Gaulle argued , the U.S. is trying to hold on to a monopoly of Western nuclear power . This , plus the fact that President Kennedy was communicating privately with Nikita Khrushchev , confirmed in de Gaulle 's mind a danger he prophesied years ago  --  that " as political conditions change , the two powers that have nuclear monopoly might agree to divide the world . " To prevent this , France would continue to " construct and , if necessary , to employ our own atomic power ourselves . " The first reactions to de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five partners in the Common Market  --  West Germany . Italy and the Benelux countries  --  were aghast at his decision to exclude Britain . Belgian Foreign Minister Paul Henri Spaak , who has given 20years of his life to the cause of Western unity , was close to tears when he said that de Gaulle was " wrecking the work of a generation. - Across the channel Cyril Osborne . a British Tory M.P. , asked in bitterness , " Who the hell does de Gaulle think he is ? If it had not been for us , France would still be an occupied satellite. - Other Britons expressed their annoyance in a spate of de Gaulle stories that flooded the pubs and the clubs . One told of a diplomat visiting the French president and finding him on his knees , praying , " Almighty God , have confidence in me. - The jokes could hardly make up for the bewildered sense of rejection that most Britons felt after de Gaulle had barred then from Europe . And their dismay visibly deepened a week later when French Foreign Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France 's live partners in the Common Market and finally broke off the 14-mouth negotiations at Brussels over British entry . " This is had , " said Harold Macmillan . " Bad for Britain . had for Europe , bad for the free world . " Macmillan 's gloom was shared in Washington . President Kennedy pointedly remarked that " neither the U.S. nor Europe could he certain of survival if they acted alone against communism . " No sooner had he spoken than de Gaulle signed a treaty of alliance with West Germany 's 87-yearold Chancellor Konrad Adenauer , who bussed him on both cheeks . The treaty pledged the two most powerful nations in western continental Europe to " join forces " in the development of their technology , military training and education . No one could deny the two old leaders ' exultant claim that this was a historic act , promising to " end four hundred years of quarrels , dispute and warfare . " Washington dutifully agreed  --  but President Kennedy 's closest advisers began racking their brains over what the U.S. should do to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editors and even housewives began condemning de Gaulle as " dictatorial " and " power-mad . " Much of this criticism is justified . Yet Americans would be making a deadly serious mistake if they assume that the Gaullist roadblock could be dismantled overnight if only le Grand Charles would disappear from the scene . The brute fact is that tens of millions of Europeans agree with General de Gaulle . They may dislike his manners and his methods . They worry about his dividing the Western alliance , and they would like to see the British in the New Europe . But a majority of Europeans . including some Britons , secretly relish the thought of de Gaulle 's giving the back of his hand to Washington . From Copenhagen to Taranto there is a creeping rebellion against U.S. leadership  --  and de Gaulle has been quick to exploit it . Resentment of the top dog is normal , perhaps inevitable . Yet this new European revolt is rooted in something deeper than old-fashioned jealousy . The new Europeans are beginning to feel their new power , and they want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  at America 's expense . It is not hard to discover the source of Europe'snew assertiveness . Sit , for example , in a businessmen 's club on the banks of the Rhine and watch the huge river barges passing as thickly as cars on a superhighway . You can not escape the sense of surging power . Or wander through the cities of Northern Italy and gaze at the forest of new buildings thrusting up toward the sky . You feel through your pores the " second Renaissance . " Across the broad farmlands of Brie and Beauce , French peasants are consolidating their once-tiny farms so as to use new combine harvesters , large as those in Kansas . France expects to be the breadbasket of Europe  --  and to cut imports from overseas . In the area around Amsterdam , Dutch businessmen are opening new chemical and electronics plants at a rate that led one American to describe Holland as a new " electrotechnical Ruhr . " Exports from this pulsating new complex will be shipped from Rotterdam , which is about to pass New York as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come from Groningen . where European oilmen are starting to tap 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas , part of an immense field believed to lie near and under the North Sea . These impressions of a " second America " rising in Western Europe are confirmed by the hard statistics . As a whole , including Britain , the 14 European nations have overtaken the United States in steel and coal production , they are rapidly catching up in machinery , chemicals and automobiles ( 5 million produced last year ) . In three key areas Europe is far ahead . Its world trade is double that of the U , S. ? more than half of the world 's total of imports and exports . Its combined financial reserves ( gold and hard currency ) are more than $26 billion  --  compared with $16 billion in the U.S. Most important of all , the economies of the European nations , with the exception of Britain and its Scandinavian partners , are growing twice as fast as that of the U.S. ? 5 percent per year in the Common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some signs on the horizon that the European boom may be tapering off , The main point remains  --  that millions of Europeans , who nowadays are starting to move across one an-other 's frontiers almost as easily as Americans travel from state to state , are beginning to believe that Europe 's economic revival entitles it to a bigger say in the Western world . " For twenty years , " a prominent Belgian explained , " Europe was flat on its back . During that time the Russians robbed us of half our continent ; the Afro-Asians , with American help , dismantled our world empires , and the U.S. took command of the seas and the air , and our fate . Now we are back on our Feet . We expect our views to be heard . " U.S. diplomats call this feeling " European-ism . " It is not yet a full-fledged " patriotism , " except among the dedicated few , but it does reflect the fact that the new generation of Germans , French , and Italians are laying aside their parents ' " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole . The continent is evolving a new kind of European man , just as the U.S. developed in the 18th century a uniquely American man . The best-known of these new European men is Jean Monnet , to whom Europe is the " only fatherland . " But there are tens of thousands of others , rapidly moving into positions of influence . Max Kohnstamm , the Dutch vice-president of Monnet 's powerful Action Committee for a United States of Europe , is a case in point . " I feel about Europe , " he says , " the way a man from Michigan feels about the United States . " Fernand Spaak , son of the Belgian foreign minister , feels just the same : " I am as excited in my guts about what happens in Italy as I am about what happens in my own country . I would find it very hard to become a pure Belgian again . " Among the younger people of Europe , Spaak 's attitude is second nature . The under-30 's remember little of the Second World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in love with little reference to the old frontiers . German auto plants are sprinkled with young Italians . The universities of Italy are full of French and Dutchmen . Every year " new Europeans " in bikinis pack the beaches along the Riviera . Trying to explain how these youths feel about Europe , Wuva Lewin , a teen-age German boy who lives at the foot of the mountain where the legendary Siegfried slew the dragon , says , " I do not feel particularly German . I am a European . " Enrico Breschi , 36 , an Italian civil servant , says , " I am a born Roman , but I honestly want to see Brussels or Paris become the capital of our great new Europe . " The same goes for Richard Mehrten , a 26-year-old Alsatian with crisp , close-cropped blond hair and rimless glasses . His grandparents were German ( 1871-1919 ) ; his parents , French ( 1 919-1940 ) ; he was brought up in a German school ( 1945-50 ) , " Now , " says Mehrten , " I feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil ' . " No barriers at the Rhine Perhaps the most striking example of the way the young are becoming " European " is the rapprochement of youthful French and Germans . Returning to Paris from a visit to the Rhineland , Guy Hordoir , a 21-year-old French student , commented , " We still hear among the older generation words like boche and fritz . To us this seems a reference to a people of long ago . " Peter Springer , a young German from DUsseldorf , said , " Paris to my father was abroad ' ; to me it 's just eight hours ' drive . " Hundreds of similar youngsters are being graduated each year from the new " European schools " set up to teach the new generation to see their national origins in the context of a new Europe . One such school is in the Brussels suburb of Uccle , where 146 young Germans , 165 Belgians , 257 French , 227 Italians , 193 Dutch and 36 Luxembourgers are being taught multilingually to get away from the notion of regarding each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Uccle are divided into four mainstreams  --  French , German , Italian and Dutch . They learn the three " R 's " in their native language , but two afternoons a week they all join together for " European hours , " in which they sing and dance and play together freely . Thereafter , from if to 18 , history and geography are taught in the second language . Special " European " textbooks are being written for the schools , and , as one French staff member puts it , " we no longer teach that France w as the fountainhead of liberalism and Germany the source of militarism and reaction . Each country in Europe has its liberals and its militarists , and a Frenchman in 1815 should have had as bad a conscience as a German in 1918 . " So far there arc four all-European schools  --  at Brussels , Luxembourg , Moe ! ( Belgium ) and Karlsruhe ( Germany ) . There are a dozen colleges , too , including the European Business Institute ( INSEAD ) at Fontainebleau , near Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of de Gaulle 's finance minister , INSEAD 's 199 " participants " are young executives from companies doing business on a Europe-wide basis . " You ca n't just make a living out of being Eurominded , " is d'Estaing 's philosophy ; " you have to be a Europe-something  --  a Euro-businessman , for example . " It is the Euro-businessmen who , more than any other group , are helping to create " Europeanism " and , incidentally , to convince Europeans that anything America can do , Europe can do as well . The prefix " Euro- " appears on every conceivable commodity  --  from Euro-raincoats and Euro-beer to Euro-Union ( a mutual fund ) and Euro-vision ( the television linkup between a dozen European nations ) . Prof. Ernesto Manuelli , president of the huge Italian Finsider combine , says , " A pan-European steel industry has come into existence . " The European manager of a big U.S. advertising firm adds , " The Common Market forced the creation of pan-European selling . It has also stimulated designers to turn out products with a ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' American Look . ? The Euro-businessmen , like the Euro-school graduates and the Euro-bureaucrats who serve the Common Market , are by no means all Gaul-lists . Many regard de Gaulle as the last great French nationalist and an obstacle to European-ism . Nor are they anti-American . I have never met one who did not enjoy American music and fashions and whose wife did not long to equip her home with an American-style kitchen . The younger generation of " new Europeans " also tends to admire President Kennedy as a " man who gets things done . " Unfortunately for Kennedy , however , many of the things the " new Europeans " intend to " get done " are not at all what Washington wants . They are closer to de Gaulle 's views . The most important clash between the New Europe and the New Frontier involves nuclear power . It is here that the European revolt is at its strongest and most vocal . The " new Europeans " are no longer sure that their ideas on when and where to apply nuclear power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for example , the U.S. went to the brink of World War III because American national interests were at stake . It thereby risked the destruction of Europe  --  without consulting the Europeans . By contrast , some Europeans felt it was a matter of vital interest to keep control of the Suez Canal , to win the war in Algeria , to hold onto Katanga . But the U.S. disagreed , and the Europeans , lacking power , had to admit defeat . The lesson that many of them drew from these experiences is that Washington is that many other distinguished strategists , not only in Europe , think the New Frontier 's military policy is structurally unsound . Their objections are directed at Defense Secretary Robert McNamara 's new " doctrine of controlled response . " Instead of America 's hitting back at a Soviet attack with instant and massive nuclear retaliation , the Kennedy Administration plans a more sophisticated approach , emphasizing ground forces . Under this theory , the U.S. and its NATO allies would repulse a Soviet ground attack with conventional Western arms , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar U.S. atomic weapons . By shifting the emphasis from nuclear to conventional arms , Washington hopes to avoid " instantaneous escalation " to the use of thermonuclear forces that would destroy the world . From the U.S. point of view this makes perfect sense . But the Europeans  --  on whom the U.S. is relying for the extra divisions needed to implement its strategy  --  reject its basic assumptions . A senior British general complains , " McNamara is practically telling the Soviets that the worst they need expect from an attack on West Germany is a conventional counterattack . " General Pierre Gallois , one of de Gaulle 's confidants , put this even more starkly : " The doctrine of controlled response has destroyed the most essential factor of the U.S. deterrent  --  its credibility . " Suppose , Gallois argues , that the Kremlin decided to seize Hamburg . No sane Russian government would order such an action  --  against the 23 NATO divisions now on guard  --  unless it had previously decided to go all-out and win . The West must , therefore , assume that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieve its objective , including the 1.200 intermediate-range nuclear rockets it has in Western Russia . Against such a force , Gallois believes , it would make little difference whether NATO had 23 conventional divisions or the 30 divisions that the U.S. is demanding . Without nuclear arms of their own , these divisions would be defeated . Then the only relevant question in the Frenchman 's mind is whether the U.S. would actually use its nuclear forces at the risk of all-out war . And despite Washington 's repeated assurances to the contrary , Gallois , like many other Europeans , is inclined to doubt this . He points to the Soviets ' construction of Polaris-type submarines and nearly-invulnerable missile bases  --  irrefutable evidence that Russia , too , is building a " second-stri ke capability " ? meaning the ability to destroy America even if the U.S. hits first . This implies , as Gallois sees it . that the certain cost of any U.S. President 's intervening in a European war , by retaliating against Russia , would be the destruction of two thirds of America ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government , he asks , can possibly make such a policy credible ? I put this question to Adelbert Weinstein , one of Germany 's leading strategists . A wounded veteran of the Russian campaign , he answered like a shot , " The New Frontier 's nuclear policy is completely incredible to me , and , if we in Europe do n't find it believable , why on earth should the Russians ? " In reply . I pointed out that 250,000 GI 's are stationed in Germany . Surely the U.S. could be counted on to use its nuclear forces to save them from defeat . Weinstein 's reply was revealing : " You had a million men in Korea and still you did not dare to use your nuclear weapons . But look what happened to the Koreans . Hundreds of thousands were killed . " Weinstein 's conclusion , which is shared by many senior officers in the Bundeswehr , is that " limited wars are impossible in central Europe . The Kremlin must be made to realize that any move against West Germany automatically means World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer willing to give this guaranty , the Europeans must . " It is our survival that is at stake , " he said . " We are not prepared to he one of Kennedy 's options. ? ' There is some evidence in Washington that President Kennedy understands these European views . That is why he made his offer to share U.S.nuclear power with NATO . Yet even if the " new Europeans , " including the French , were to accept the multilateral force , the problem of control would remain . With or without de Gaulle , the New Europe is bound to insist that it be given the right  --  and the ability  --  to employ the European elements of such a force at times and places of its own choosing . In short , when Europe 's supreme interests are at stake , a European deterrent must be independent of Washington 's control . It is unlikely that Congress will accept this condition in the foreseeable future . Until it does , however , Kennedy may find it impossible to achieve any effective military integration with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserting their new strength in the economic field . The first place where Americans are apt to feel the effects is in Atlantic trade . During the " Kennedy round " of tariff negotiations that are scheduled to start between the U.S. and Europe this summer , the Common Market countries are expected to bear down hard on U.S. exports . The U.S. Treasury has already had a taste of the New Europe 's toughness . When Secretary Douglas Dillon asked the Europeans for help in Kennedy 's pet project , the Alliance for Progress in Latin America , a French banker replied . " Please do not tell us where to spend our money . " Much the same thing happened when Secretary of Agriculture Orville Freeman protested against the Common Market 's discriminatory tariffs on U.S. frozen poultry ( exports to West Germany have dropped from $12 million to $2 million in a month ) . The Europeans ' reply , delivered by French Minister of Agriculture Egar Pisani. was simple : " Europe . . . will not accept proposals that are prejudicial to its interests . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its awareness of the size of its stake in its European trade . American businessmen and farmers sell S6.1 billion worth of goods each year to Europe ( including Britain ) , earning a S2 billion surplus over imports in hard European currencies . But it ' the French have their way and the New Europe nears self-sufficiency , American farmers stand to lose the whole of their European market for wheat , the bulk of their lard and meat exports , and a substantial portion of their sales of barley and corn . The U.S. is far from helpless in the face of such an attempt to shut its farm products out of Europe . It could retaliate against the Common Market 's high tariffs with reciprocally high U.S. tariffs . It could offer to join with Britain , the Commonwealth and the Scandinavian countries in forming a " free-trade area " which would have such an attraction to the Low Countries that it might crack the Common Market itself . To make up for any loss in its earnings from trade with Europe , the U.S. might also reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " continental defense , " based on nearly invulnerable Minuteman missiles dispersed in the American heartland and a fleet of Polaris submarines at sea . There would he no lack of congressional support for such U.S. policies  --  indeed , they might prove popular . Yet President Kennedy is almost certain to reject them . For economic reasons the U.S. can not afford to turn its hack on the world 's fastest growing market ( since 1958 U.S. exports to Europe have increased 59 percent ) . For military reasons it dare not pull hack its forces from Europe ( though it might perhaps reduce them ) in a manner that would tempt the Russians to make a grab for the Ruhr . Above all , the U.S. has  --  and is always likely to have  --  an inextricable political commitment in Europe . It simply can not afford tostand idly by if authoritarian forces , against which Americans have fought two world wars , show signs of taking control of a continent of 600 million , armed with nuclear bombs . It is equally impossible for the U.S. to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being split three ways  --  between a Franco-German Europe , a British-Scandinavian free-trade area and the continent of North America . Any such fragmentation would confirm Karl Marx 's prophecy that the capitalist world was bound to split apart . It would also destroy any chance of the West 's benefiting from the growing split between Russia and Communist China . To prevent this , President Kennedy can be expected to use every diplomatic resource of the United States . He is also convinced that the forces of economics and technology  --  the jet aircraft that have turned the Atlantic into a lake , the atom that threatens every nation alike , the ballistic rockets that soon may land men on the moon  --  are on the side of those who prefer an open Atlantic partnership to an inward-looking little Europe . But , though the President 's Atlantic conceptions may prevail in the long run , it is General de Gaulle who still holds the key to the door through which the U.S. must pass . And though de Gaulle , like all other men , is mortal , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not evaporate when this giant Frenchman leaves the scene . De Gaulle has exploited and sometimes perverted this revolt , but in doing so he has demonstrated a basic fact in the modern world  --  that history 's wheel is still turning , that the long postwar period of unchallenged American hegemony is drawing to a close . This does not mean that the New Europe is about to elbow America aside . Even if it were to be united there would be no chance of that  --  and de Gaulle has deeply divided it . What the European revolt does mean is that the President of the United States may no longer he able to control the strategy of the Western world all by himself . 