@@492366

The Reverend Father Germanos , Greek Orthodox curator of Jerusalem 's Church of the Holy Sepulcher , placed a cup of thick , muddy coffee before his guest , stroked his beard reflectively , and confessed to the sins of his predecessors . " Nobody can imagine , " he declared , " how we used to quarrel here . Here in this church , God 's holiest place , where Jesus Christ , His Son , was crucified and buried  --  how we used to quarrel ! " The sudden clangor of a nearby bell , rung in the frenzied Greek fashion as if it were more an alarm than a call to prayer , struck through the open window of the reverend father 's room . A few secondslater , as though in response , the measured cry of a muezzin sounded from another quarter , with the telltale crackle of an electric amplifier distorting the nasal intonation of the human voice : " Allahu akhar , Allahu akbar . Ash ' hadu an la ilaha illa'Llah .... " Father Germanos 's eyes twinkled for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first principles of Islam . " ' God is most great . There is no God but God . ' You see , my friend , on fundamentals we all agree  --  Christians , Moslems , even the Jews . But still we quarrel . And nobody , I 'm afraid , has quarreled more than we Christians among ourselves . " The din outside continued as he took a noisy sip of his coffee . " But you know , " he said , " there 's a new spirit here at last . We are learning to cooperate . It is the temper of the epoch . " Abruptly as it had begun , the bell stopped its violent alarm and began a gentle tolling . The pnuezzin gave his last electronic cry . ' Hwy ! was something like peace in the room again , ; aril now through the window could be heard the . click arid chip of many hammers falling upon stone . Father f - wrinanos got up and crossed to the window to look down into the courtyard Of the church where , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masons were shaping and facing great blocks of creamy Judean stone . Across the bulging facade of the church itself , half-hidden behind a corset of old steel buttresses , other workmen swung the finished stones to their places . " There you are , " said Father Germanos , pointing to three figures huddled over a chart beneath the buttresses , " our own three wise men the churches of Constantinople . Armenia and Rome bound together by a single purpose  --  the spirit of cooperation made flesh l " It was a flight of hyperbole , deliberate and half-ironic , yet the story of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher today almost justifies the comment . For the first time in centuries the three main Christian communities that share the church have agreed to cooperate in its repair and restoration , and the three men were the architects responsible for this unique and complex task . Each appointed by his own church  --  one Greek Orthodox , one Roman Catholic and one Armenian  --  they did , indeed , seem to embody a new spirit of tolerance in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspiring as much sectarian division as devotion . No shrine in Christendom has had greater need of wisdom , or seen less of it , than this crumbling jigsaw puzzle of a building known as the Churcii of the Holy Sepulcher . Yet no place in the Christian world is more holy . Here is not just one shrine , but several . all central to the Christian Easter story . " Now in the place where He was crucified , " says the Gospel . " there was a garden ; and in the garden a new sepulcher , wherein was never man yet laid . There laid they Jesus , therefore , because of the Jews ' preparation day ; for the sepulcher was nigh at hand . " Over the centuries since then , this whole area of Christ'scrucifixion and burial has been gathered beneath the roof of a single edifice  --  much as if someone had taken an American village church . its graveyard and a nearby chapel as well , and linked them with walls , colonnades and roofs into a composite place of worship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Christ : the rock of Calvary , or Golgotha , where He was crucified : and the stone on which He is said to have been anointed . And here is the cave where the Empress Helena . mother of Constantine , the first Christian Emperor of Byzantium and builder of the first Orthodox church in Constantinople . found the " true cross " three centuries after Christ 's crucifixion . Unhappily , the pious accretions of the centuries have laid upon them all a heavy cloak of mystery and dirt . The icons and the candles , the marble and the dust , the reek of incense and the polyglot incantations of prayers by bearded Orthodox priests in stovepipe hats . by black-cowled Armenians. by Roman Catholics in gilded copes  --  all these create an atmosphere that is bizarre . A real effort of faith or historical imagination is needed nowadays to see the bare bones of the place as they might once have been . The tomb has become an ornate marble structure under a vast and rickety dome . The rock of Calvary . although still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . is approached only by a narrow and pitch-black flight of steps and is scarcely recognizable as a rock beneath its casing of marble and plaster . The stone of the anointment is a blatant 19th-century addition , a slab of tawny polished marble lit by flickering oil lamps . The Chapel of the Finding of the Cross is a clank and echoing cistern . 30 feet below the ground . Yet around these dark and incense-laden shrines great tides of Christian bitterness and intolerance have ebbed and flowed for centunes . Only in the beginning was the Church of the Holy Sepulcher free from the competitive strife of rival denominations . When the Empress Helena built the first church over the tomb in the fourth century , to rescue the site from the desecration of the Romans who had built a pagan temple there , she had no competitors . But in the centuries of war . invasion and Christian disunity which followed in the Holy Land , other communities secured footholds in the church . The Armenians. who broke away from Byzantium to form their own theocratic state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Holy Land . western Christians mounted the Crusades to win it back  --  and through Crusader victories the Church of Rome for a time assumed command of the relics of the Holy Sepulcher , red .. cing Greeks and Armenians to relative impotence . When the Moslems threw the Crusaders out again , and the Turks established their empire in Asia Minor , the eastern churches were again ascendant and Roman influence was rejected . Lesser sects rode in with the stronger : Schismatic Georgians from the Russian Caucasus . Syrian Catholic and Syrian Orthodox . Egyptian and Abyssinian Copts  --  all the ancient splinter groups of oriental Christendom joined the struggle to call some corner of this holy place their own . As cenLry succeeded century , the growing bitterness of sectarian feuds was equaled only by their deepening obscurity . Except for the brief Crusader period , the Holy Land was ruled through most of these centuries  --  as a great deal of it still is today  --  by Moslems . They found the squabbles of their Christian subjects a fearful cross to bear . Yet the Moslems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captured Jerusalem for Islam in 638 , he refused an invitation to pray inside the Church of the Holy Sepulcher lest his soldiers use the precedent to turn the church into a mosque . Instead he prayed in an ( ) Pen space nearby . and named one of his soldiers to protect the church from Moslem interference . The name of the soldier was Nusaibeh . Today , 13 centuries later , the Nusaibehs. one of the leading Moslem families of Jerusalem , still hold the keyto the Church of the Holy Sepulcher  --  not because their Moslem brothers covet the building , but because the Christian communities could never agree among themselves which one of them should be entrusted with it . Thro.igh the centuries the rival sects sought cnampions among Europe 's Christian powers , someone to intercede with the ruling Turks on their behalf . In one brief period in the 17th century , preeminence in the holy places changed hands between the Roman Catholics and the Greek Orthodox no fewer than six times . The Georgians lost their foothold and disappeared entirely . The Abyssinian Copts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivals and unable to command support in Europe , were also ousted from the church , but they took up station in a cluster of huts on a flat part of the church roof , where they have remained for the last 3thi years in stubborn and pathetic isolation . By the middle of the 19th century all the great powers of Europe had been sucked into these squalid fights . But then , in the hope of extricating themselves from further embarrassment , they underwrote a settlement known as the " Status Quo . " This allotted roughly three fifths of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher to the Orthodox and divided most of the rest equally between the Armenians and the Catholics . Some parts of the church , like the tomb itself , were deemed to be owned by all three and were called " common ground . " Other shrines , like Calvary , were divided into two or three parts . The lesser sects got little except a chapel or two and the right to hold some services in the building . The Protestants , arriving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and continue to have  --  no rights at all . Alas , this settlement turned out Lu he more of a nonsettlement , a happening that did n't happen . The habit of sectarian lighting was by then too strong to break , and the communities continued , right down to the 1960 's , to light and defraud one another . Only a few years ago the Abyssinians on the roof were the focus of a characteristically bizarre incident . One of their monks died , and in some misty quarrel with the Egyptian Coptsover the Abyssinians ' right to take a funeral procession through the church beneath them , the corpse lay putrefying upon the roof for two weeks before the Jordan government sent armed police to remove it in the interests of public health . Centuries of such devout disagreement left the Holy Sepulcher a shabby mess instead of a place of Christian glory . Fires . wars and earthquakes shook the building , and it slipped steadily into dinginess and dangerous decay . To guard their rights by night as well as day , the monks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filthy proximity among the dark chapels like bats in a cave . Crusader workmanship was jealously plastered over by the Greeks . and Byzantine relics were defaced by the Catholics . Doorways were walled up and open spaces enclised in mutual spite . After yet another earthquake in 1927 , only the urgent intervention of the British Mandatory Government in Palestine saved the building . They erected the ungainly but effective steel scaffolding that has shored up its facade ever since . Vet not until nearly 30 years later did the three main communities reach preliminary agreement on the need for a survey , In 1954 a neutral committee representing the Jordan government and the Greek , Roman and Armenian churches invited a report from the British architect Sir Basil Spence , designer of England 's new Coventry cathedral . A practicing Anglican churchman himself , Sir Basil was shocked by what he saw . " The first architectural impression , " he wrote , " is one of great confusion and lack of light . The second deterrent to architectural appreciation is dirt . " Sidling around an agreement throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Cnristian communities finally agreed in 1959 to restore the entire building . In 1961 they began a technical survey . In July , 1962 , with the pace of progress becoming almost hectic , they started the practical work of repair . Still the ancient suspicions died hard . The 19th-century Status Quo agreement was resurrected , and every clause was interpreted with jealous hairsplitting and legal argument . Each architect appointed by the three communities had hidparate office , his own team of workmen . and his own exclusive responsibility for the particular portions of the church owned by his sect . For six months the Orthodox and the Catholic architect were forbidden to meet at all . Every difference between them . however minor , had to be referred to their religious masters . Yet the daily necessity for cooperation and compromise , especially in the sections of " common ground . " gradually brought on a sense of mutual confidence . Now , nearly four years later , a degree of tolerance and understanding has been generated such as Calvary has hardly known for 2.000 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , whose professionalism provides a measure of personal " common ground . " For all that , however , they stand firmly on their communal rights . " This place is too precious for generosity , " says Athanasius Ekonomopoulos , the architect for the Orthodox community , " so we give away nothing . " Inevitably Ekonomopoulos is the dominant member of the trio , because his church claims ownership of three fifths of the building . Young but paunchy , like a comfortable priest , he is as Greek in his jovial capacity for instant friendship as in the way he retreats into a hooded shell of suspicion whenever his colleagues press their own ideas beyond the limits that the Orthodox Church can permit . In Father Couasnon , a wiry little Dominican priest and architect who represents the Church of Rome , he has an astringent needle of a man to stretch both his joviality and his suspicions to the limit . Habitually dressed in blue denims and a Breton beret , Father Couasnon is the daddy of the group in years , wit and worldly wisdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merits of the Greek and Roman styles of church architecture , he can generate a crackling tension from which the sparks sometimes threaten to fly . But they rarely do , because Father Couasnon 's sharpest quips are usually delivered with a glint of fond humor , and also because these moments of tension are often resolved by the third member of the group . Unlike the other two , Diran Voskeridjian , the Armenian architect , is mostly silent and withdrawn . His church is theologically nearer to Greece . but his French architectural training places him professionally in the Roman tradition with Father Couasnon . He is therefore an excellent middleman  --  enigmatically listening , calculating and assessing , and swinging his weight in the tug-of-war between his two colleagues . Their way has been smoothed by the happy choice that brought them Henri Deschamps as their joint Man Friday . Deschamps is a French master builder who was appointed chef de chant ter , a sort of superior foreman . for all work on common ground . He has become , through the depth of his experience and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craftsmanship throughout the church . A lean , taciturn and dedicated man who has spent most of his 60-odd years in church repairs and reconstruction in one country or another , Deschamps has sensed in the Church of the Holy Sepulcher the challenge and the opportunity of a lifetime . So determined is he to revive the Holy Sepulcher 's ancient glories that he has trained all his local masons to work with special tools copied from those used by Crusader workmen eight or nine centuries ago . These little hammers and adzes , dimpled and corrugated in tiny patterns , give a finish to the new stone that exactly matches that of the old , and they have become standard equipment for all stone work , even in those non-common areas where Deschamps originally had no authority . Even Ekonomopoulos , the Greek who properly prefers the earlier traditions of Byzantium to Crusader innovations . is deeply respectful of Monsieur Deschamps . " The fact is , " he says , " we could do practically nothing without him . He is the one man among us who is irreplaceable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to practical solutions , each agreement has made the next one a little easier , so that the work has acquired a quickening momentum of its own . What seemed difficult or impossible three years ago is often settled swiftly now . " We had one misunderstanding about the north transept. " says Father Germanos , " that had gone on for three hundred years . We settled it not long ago in a few minutes . " It was a characteristic dispute about the ownership of some arches claimed by both Orthodox and Catholics . Through the centuries intrigue had overgrown this simple question like ivy about a ruin . Bribes had been passed to the civil authorities of Palestine to arbitrate one way or the other , and fistfights had occurred between the monks over the right to clean the arches or conduct religious processions beneath them . But . now the Orthodox Patriarch and the Catholic Custos have produced a commonsense formula out of a half-hour informal colloquy , The bottom half of the arches , said these two distinguished prelates , should go to the Greeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restorations should be paid for accordingly . Another coffee , your Beatitude ? As a result of several hundred unprecedentedagreements of this kind , the work has gone ahead , and now more than half the restoration is complete . Many of the unsightly later additions to the building have been pulled down . Monks have been displaced from their unwholesome roosts of centuries . walls have been demolished and doorways opened . " Temporary " scaffolding erected inside the church has been removed for the first time in 40 years , and soon the British steel buttresses on the facade will be removed . The fragile outer walls have been strengthened with horizontal concrete girdles injected into the bulging stone , and decayed columns and crumbling arches have been replaced or reinforced . Decoration that has been hidden for centuries by early crude repairs is being uncovered again . Other decoration , eroded by dirt and time , is being restored . In less than four years , the three communities have so far spent almost 8500,000 on the work . The Orthodox Church has received its share of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special act guaranteeing to meet from its own resources the full cost of the Greek works . The Franciscans , acting on behalf of Rome in their traditional capacity as custodians of the Holy Land , have collected their share from their mem-bers all over the world . The Armenians have ob-tained support from their wealthy congregations in the United States , as well as the inevitable donation from the foundation of the late Calouste Gulbenkian  --  the Armenian who became famous as the " Mister Five Percent " of many Middle-Eastern oil concessions . Another three years and perhaps another $400,000 should see the present work completed . By then the communities feel certain they will be ready to tackle the most exacting problem of all  --  the restoration of the rotunda , the massively domed and columned circle that surrounds the tomb of Christ . This is the oldest and , in a sense . the holiest part of the church . Surveys made during the present work have confirmed that the lower walls of the rotunda date from the fourth century when the Empress Helena built the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and divinity arouse even more proprietary passions in sectarian breasts than the rest of the church , and the three main com-munities agreed to postpone work upon it until all the rest was finished , Three years ago there was serious doubt in Jerusalem whether they would ever agree about the plans for this last and most work . But successful cooperation else-where has now brought a euphoric certainty 01 ultimate agreement to the old contending parties - Father Germanos , " says his Catholic counterpart , Father Albert Rock , " has proved to be a very good and understanding man . " So much so , indeed , that when Father Rock took a holiday not long ago he named Father Germanos his deputy M the affairs of the Holy Sepulcher during his absence . " Father Rock . " says Father ( Ierinanos , returning this singular compliment , has treated me with complete confidence . I am very happy to work with him . " So unusual is this spirit of mutual tolerance that . many visitors to Jerusalem now jump to the conclusion that the ecumenical spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders in the last few years . has suddenly swept away all the old suspicions in the Holy Land . They are too sanguine . It 's true that Pope Paul . on his visit to Jerusalem two years ago , paid a personal call on the Orthodox Patriarchs , as if to show to all the priests of the holy places that the mightiest princes of the church could make their peace . But the underlings in Jerusalem are sometimes slow to take the hint . An Armenian priest , encountered recently at the very portals of the tomb of Christ , threw back his head and laughed at the notion that Christian unity and ecumenism might have had some beneficent influence on the affairs of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher . The ecumenical spirit may be active elsewhere , " he said , snorting with cynicism under his black cowl , " but here in this church we 're the last to know about it . We light for our corner , as we 've always done ! " Even Father Germans , optimistic as he is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prefer , " he says sharply , " to talk only of cooperation . We have our beliefs . We have our differences . We can not simply forget them . " Even upon Calvary the sorry disagreements have not quite ended . Visitors who climb the dark , steep steps to this holy eminence will find there the celebrated unswept stone of Golgotha. a two-inch strip of paving between the Roman and Greek chapels that divide the Rock . The stone officially has never been swept for centuries because nobody could decide who was its rightful owner . To most Christian pilgrims nowadays , especially those from western countries , these petty quarrels seem a betrayal of the fundamental message of Christendom , which they take to be one of love and charity . Many are the murmurs of shock and disappointment that may be heard in the hotels of Jerusalem after a new party of visitors has returned from a first inspection of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher . ? Jesus wept , ' " said one American , " and I do n't blame Him ! " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher a touch of redemption . It is one of the necessary paradoxes of religion in an imperfect world , they argue , that the holiest objects should inspire the most unholy passions : better a battleground of devotion than a wasteland of indifference . To be just such a battleground has always been Jerusalem 's honor  --  and misfortune . " Pray for the peace of Jerusalem , " sang the psalmist. because he had already been compelled to mourn its desecration . If the priests of Jerusalem have answered the Psalmist 's call to peace lately and acquired at least a little mutual tolerance and understanding , that is as much as anyone should expect of them in this world . Universal love and charity are more the attributes of the next  --  a fact that Jesus undervx.icl and wept for in the agony of the Easter The wonder is , surely , that even tolerance ias arrived upon Calvary at last . 0 