@@493429

Why Stevenson ? by Silbert A. Harrison " Have you read ' the story ' ? " a reporter asked Pierre Salinger late last Monday afternoon . Salinger smiled , said no , but that it was on his " reading list . " A few hours earlier in the White House , the President had told an upset Adlai Stevenson that he too had not read " the story , " but from what he had heard , he did n't like it . However , he reminded Stevenson , even the President can not control what journalists choose to write . " The story " was , of course , the colorful account in the December 8 Saturday Evening Post by Stewart Al-sop and Charles Bartlett of how the decision to blockade Cuba was reached . In a letter accompanying ad-vance copies of the magazine , the editorial director of Curtis Publishing Company , Clay Blair ( a former Time man and a specialist in exposes ) billed the article as an " exclusive , behind-the-scenes report , " of the " hitherto unrevealed role played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban crisis .. . an authoritative account of top-secret sessions of the National Security Council 's Executive Committee . " Only Stevenson , the article said , dissented from the consensus among the President 's advisers that had been formed by Saturday , October 20 . " There is disagreement in retrospect , " they added , " about what Stevenson really wanted . ' Adlai wanted a Munich ' , says a non-admiring official who learned of his proposal . ' He wanted to trade the Turkish , Italian and British missile bases for the Cuban bases ' . " Note the word " learned " ; the " non-admiring official " did not have personal knowledge of Stevenson 's " proposal . " ' The comment which best sums up what went on during the five days before the President 's blockade speech of October 22 , Alsop and Bartlett wrote , was this : " At first we divided into hawks and doves , but by the end a rolling consensus had developed , and except for Adlai , we had all ended up as dawks or hoves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps Stevenson ? would have got too excited about the article were it not that Charles Bartlett is an intimate of the President , his recent weekend guest , and the author of the story that had alerted the " knowing " to the eventual down-grading of Chester Bowles . The article kicked up a storm also because the " knowing " have long been aware of Stevenson 's unpopularity with some of the Kennedy crowd ever since the 196o Democratic convention . He has not been spared their private ridicule . Such remarks as , " Adlai is n't soft on Communism , he 's just soft , " have been commonplace in Washington . Moreover , the Alsop and Bartlett piece was not an isolated attack . Last January , Joseph Alsop wrote of " the drive of the UN-minded group of Kennedy policy-makers to base American policy more and more upon the UN . " He said that this drive " is being made by former Stevenson supporters , and it is increasing . The aim is to increase the already considerable dependence of this country to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute resort to the UN for normal diplomatic processes in more and more international crises . " ( Brother Joe returned to the battle on December 5 ; he thought he saw " a deep difference in outlook between Ambassador Stevenson and the Administration he serves in Washington . " ) In a speech before the National Press Club last March 20 , Senator Jackson took much the same line , charging that " practices have developed which . . . lead to an undue influence of UN considerations in our national decision making . " Jackson inferred that the US delegation to the UN was operating " as a second foreign office . " Stevenson tossed that attack off as a " flurry , " not a " conspiracy , " but Washington reporters read it as a criticism of excessive Stevenson influence on the President of the United States . The Radical Right naturally has concurred . Senator Goldwater put the point bluntly on November 12 when he called for the dismissal of Stevenson ( of whose loyalty he had " no doubt " ) , because Adlai just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the President should " rid his Administration of those who have consistently urged a soft policy toward Communism , both in Cuba and elsewhere in the world . " It was inevitable , therefore , that the Alsop-Bartlett account would stir up speculation on whether a " get Stevenson " movement was really underway . I do n't know how the Saturday Evening Post story came to be written . Mr. Salinger has said that " nobody at the White House saw the article before it was printed , " but there are reports that the President encouraged Mr. Bartlett to put together a story of the Cuban decision . If so , many official doors would have been opened that might otherwise have been closed to inquiring reporters . It has been denied that the authors had the benefit of consultations with the President during the writing of their story ? and the denial is plausible . But it can hardly be denied that they had " inside " help . Throughout , the article bears the imprint of official access . Remarks made by the President at high-level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though somewhat ambiguously , some of the content of " the famous , still-secret Friday-night letter from Khrushchev to Kennedy . " On Saturday , December 1 , three days before the article was scheduled to appear on the newsstands , Mr. Kennedy was informed by his press secretary that The Washington Post would be running a story quoting from the article and recalling Mr. Bartlett 's somewhat privileged relationship to the President . That news did not please Mr. Kennedy . He was said to be " furious . " He promptly instructed one of his aides to reassure Adlai Stevenson . But that aide was about to leave town , and 24 hours later Stevenson still knew nothing of the Alsop-Bartlett piece . But when Stevenson arrived in Washington on Monday , December 3 for a meeting of the Executive Committee of the National Security Council , he was shown a statement to be given the press that morning by Pierre Salinger . The statement asserted that Mr. Stevenson had " strongly supported " the blockade action . It made the further , and perhaps central , point that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of what he allegedly said in confidence to the President is pernicious , and added that " the various positions of the members of the National Security Council taken during deliberations must also remain secret in order to permit access by the President to the frankest expression of views . " Stevenson might then have preferred a stronger statement , such as the " fullest confidence " letter he received two days later , in which the President expressed admiration for Stevenson 's performance in the UN and in Washington . ( " That we have eliminated the nuclear menace from Cuba is the best evidence of the prudence of our policy and its execution , in which you played such an active part . " The issue , after all , was not just Adiai 's own sensitivity ; his prestige at the United Nations was at stake . Still , it was hard to say at what stage the President should have publicly and directly entered the controversy . And anyway , as of that Monday morning , Mr. Kennedy seemed inclined to think it was all much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Stevenson was less sanguine . He recollected that one of the authors , Stewart Alsop , had written an article in June of 1961 , which implied that Stevenson 's strong objection to US air support for the Cuban invasion may have contributed to the collapse of that operation . That , so far as the President was concerned on December 3 , was water over the dam . What bothered him now was what effect the Alsop-Bartlett account might have on the Administration . As one of the White House staff put it : " This wo n't do us any good . " Stevenson came away from his brief encounter with the President on Monday not entirely reassured , The President 's position was clear . But what of " the others " ? Who was trying to " cut him up " ? A year ago , though he had it'Cad no part in the Bay of Pigs decision , Stevenson had been given information on the basis of which , as Stewart Alsop then reported , he " passionately protested American innocence before the UN , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landed in Cuba , showing Cuban Air Force markings ( which had , of course , been painted in by the CIA ) . When he heard , too late , that a State Department underling some say a White House aide had been stupid and that the defection story was in fact a lie , Stevenson was understandably furious . " Another diplomat might have been less furious , but Stevenson had fought two Presidential campaigns against misrepresentation in high places . What Stevenson Proposed Was Stevenson 's position misrepresented by Alsop and Bartlett when they wrote that " only Adlai Stevenson , who flew down from New York on Saturday , dissented from the . . consensus . " Stevenson says so , and the evidence appears to back him up . What was this " consensus " ? The article is not precise on the question . The authors say that by Saturday , October 20 ( " the moment of decision " ) , " on one point all present agreed . The Soviet missiles had to be removed or destroyed before they were operational . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he disagree ? Presumably not . Then where did he part company with the others ? Elsewhere , Alsop and Bartlett refer to Stevenson entering the picture on Saturday , October zo . Actually , he came in the preceding Tuesday , October .16 , when he had lunch with the President and later , in a private talk , was informed by the President of the photographic evidence on the Soviet missile sites . At the President 's request , Stevenson stayed in Washington and joined the consultations then under way . On Wednesday , October 17 , he suggested that the President dispatch a personal emissary with a note to Khrushchev . That counsel did not prevail . He returned to New York Wednesday evening , but came back again on Friday , October 19 ( not Saturday , as Alsop and Bartlett report ) , where he remained to participate in the weekend discussions . By this time , basic policy had been hammered out . Stevenson 's position throughout was roughly this : he was opposed to an immediate air strike on Cuba or to invasion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken promptly to demonstrate that the US meant business , he cautioned against pulling the trigger without being sure what might be set off ; and he urged that the reaction of other nations , both in the UN and the Organization of American States , be anticipated and given serious consideration . As subsequent defense showed , this was President Kennedy 's view too . Stevenson did object to a suggestion that the blockade initially apply to petroleum , reasoning that an all-inclusive quarantine might supply Castro with an argument that the US was trying to starve the Cuban people . The President apparently agreed . Stevenson also suggested that such an embargo be used as a second step , if needed , and that a total blockade , if needed as a third step , might follow . Alsop and Bartlett 's informant to the contrary , Stevenson never favored a swap of British , Italian or Turkish missile bases for Cuban ones , though an exchange of bases in Turkey had been suggested by Walter Lippmann earlier that week , and there were more than a few military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the US . What Stevenson actually said was that should Khrushchev demand a base " swap " ( as he did in his second , ignored , note of October 27 ) , the US should refuse , but with a reminder that under the general terms of disarmament negotiations foreign bases already had been accepted as something for discussion . And on December 5 , Wallace Carroll reported in The New York Times that although " the President and his aides discussed the possibility of trading the withdrawal from the American missile bases in Turkey for Soviet withdrawal from the bases in Cuba " and that Stevenson " also suggested such a trade , " he later " submitted a written memorandum to the President in which , it is understood , he opposed such a move . " In the inner councils that fateful week , before " blockade " had been decided on , Stevenson further stipulated that there should be no further general disarmament talks , including the matter of bases , until the weapons had been removed from Cuba . This too was accepted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climb back off the limb . The " no invasion " pledge ? once the limited objective of the removal of the weapons had been assured accomplished that , though it bound the US to nothing more than what it is already committed to under the United Nations Charter . Much had been made of the President 's use of John McCloy in the negotiations over Cuba . Was this not a gesture of some lack of confidence in Stevenson , an evidence of Presidential distrust of his Ambassador as the chief negotiator at the United Nations ? That is one interpretation , but it is simpler than is warranted by the facts . The President had told Stevenson that he wished to establish an executive committee to coordinate what was being done in State , the Pentagon and the UN . He said that he was naming Ball from State , Gilpatric from Defense and wanted a Republican so that responsibility would be shared between the two political parties in the event that something went wrong . He proposed Herman Phleger , legal adviser at State during the Eisenhower Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phleger , whom he did not know , and in a telephone conversation with the President , McCloy 's name was mentioned . The President was favorable and asked Stevenson to enlist him , which he did . Stevenson did not then or later feel that his authority to negotiate in the United Nations had been compromised by this " troika " or by McCloy 's work in New York . There is a last point . Initially , the President planned to address the country on Sunday , October 21 . Stevenson was among those who thought the speech should be deferred until the following evening , allowing time for OAS Ambassadors to be informed ; he advised further that the President should announce his intention to order a quarantine , not that one had already been established . The delay proved prudential , and contributed to the unanimous OAS endorsement of Tuesday , October 23 . The World 's State of Mind At bottom , the critics of Stevenson 's contribution to the blockade decision ? in the White House , State , the Pentagon and CIA ? dislike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ image " of the United States . Their word for him is " woolly . " They think he is overly concerned with how US action will look to other nations , that he may be too fussy about legal niceties . But all such concerns are appropriate to the US representative to the United Nations . It is a preoccupation the President would expect , indeed require , from his UN Ambassador . As it turned out , the line of action that was taken succeeded brilliantly . In contrast to the Bay of Pigs ( a " hawk " operation ) , it was a diplomatic triumph for which Stevenson can share credit . The irony of it isthat he has been singled out for censure . In their distinction between " hawks " and " doves , " Alsop and Bartlett report that the " hawks " favored an air strike " either with or without warning . " Among the " hawks " they list John McCone , Douglas Dillon , Dean Acheson , General Taylor and McGeorge Bundy ; while the " doves " who " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( " the leading dove " ) , Robert Lovett , and the former Ambassador to Russia . Llewellyn Thompson . ( They add that it was Thompson , not Stevenson , who " warned that Khrushchev must not suddenly be faced with precipitate action to which he might respond on impulse . " ) Why then pick on Stevenson and him alone for having " preferred political negotiation to the alternative of military action " ? Why , though he backed the blockade and defended it vigorously at the UN , is he and he alone made to appear as the one adviser who was out-of-step with the President ? If the drama required a villain , why not the " hawks " whose first-strike strategy might have triggered general war and whose views were rejected by the President ? There 's one good reason . Adlai Stevenson is politically a " soft " target . The President , Secretary McNamara , Robert Lovett , Llewellyn Thompson , Robert Kennedy are not . If Stevenson can be discredited , the counsels of reason and prudence may be discredited too ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no " lobby " to get Adlai out but there are active lobbyists . Kennedy will not fire him ( " I 'm absolutely sure , " says a White House staff man ) . For one thing , no one can think of an alternative who could match Stevenson 's prestige and effectiveness in the UN . The President is reported as having said that if he had wanted to get rid of Stevenson he would not have done it through Charles Bartlett ; a more propitious time would have been when Democrats in Illinois were beseeching Stevenson to be their sacrificial lamb in the campaign against Senator Dirksen earlier this year . I believe this report . The distinction between this incident , the President is said to have observed , and the undercutting which preceded Bowles ' fall from grace is that the President wishes to keep Stevenson . Anyway , politically speaking , Stevenson is more useful to this Administration inside than he would be out . So much for the practical considerations . The trying of public men in the public prints is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even so scrupulous and dedicated man as Adlai Stevenson can escape trial by journalistic insinuation and misrepresentation ; and as he said the other day , " I 'm used to assassins . I remember McCarthy very well . " But more than Stevenson has been hurt . The press , the President , the processes of deliberation within government have been damaged . 