@@488083

Mr. Luria is Sedgwick Professor of Biology at Af.I.T . He is the author of General Virology ( John Wiley &; Sons ) . In the past twenty years , one has heard much talk of a biological revolution and of its consequences for mankind  --  not only in medical and economic achievement but in the nature of man itself . Man may soon be able to influence his own heredity directly , rather than only by the indirect process of eugenics . Scientists and science writers discuss such prospects with an uneasy mixture of optimistic predictions of benefits to come and dire warnings of possible catastrophes  --  as in Desmond Taylor 's The Biological Time Bomb . Here I shall attempt to examine briefly the scientific basis of the expected developments , their probable nature , and the responsibility they present to both scientists and the public . What has happened in biology in the last two decades is not a revolution but a scientific fulfillment . Modern biology started about 100 years ago with the foundation of Darwin 's theory of evolution , which ties together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a single historical process of parenthood . The achievement of the last decades is the understanding of the nature , function and changes of the organic substrate of evolution , the genetic material , which is the stuff that carries from one generation to the next the set of instructions that dictate what an organism is. how it responds , and what kind of descendants it will in turn produce . By 1952 the material of the genes was identified chemically as consisting of nucleic acid  --  generally ( except in some viruses ) desoxyribonucleic acid or DNA . In 1953 Watson and Crick proposed for the structure of DNA a model ,  - -  the famous double helix  --  which not only proved to be correct but opened up entire new approaches to the study of the chemistry of heredity . Within the last sixteen years biologists have come up with the following satisfactory picture of what genes are and how they function . A gene is a certain stretch in a long DNA fiber con-406 tained in the chromosomes of the cell nucleus . It carries in chemical imprint the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each cell division and disposable - subcopies " or messages , which are used as instructions for synthesizing all the machinery of the cell . The messages are molecules of another kind of nucleic acid called RNA . Gene structure and gene function are not immutable  --  if they were , evolution and development could not take place . On the one hand , the structure of genes can change by mutation , a relatively rare accidental change in chemical composition . Natural selection then brings about evolution by selecting for reproductive success those individuals endowed with particular genetic constitutions . On the other hand , the function of the genes in a cell is regulated by the environment , including the action of other genes in the same cell , the chemical messages from other cells , and also the external environment such as food and temperature . Thus while all cells of a complex organism have identical sets of genes ( barring rare mutations ) , they function differently because some of their genes ( which may number from a few thousand to several million , depending on the organism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this article is that all the essential features of the genetic process , insofar as they have been clarified , have turned out to be interpretable in strictly biochemical terms . No new principle or phenomenon has emerged to justify the assumption that some unique " vitalist " principle is at work in biological processes . This point is essential to a grasp of the present status and future course of biological technology . What molecular biologists have done is to make the genetic mechanism directly available to chemical experimentation . Arthur Kornberg and other biochemists have purified DNA from bacteria , viruses and from animal cells , including human cells . They have then caused it to produce more copies of itself in the test tube , under the influence of enzymes extracted either from the same organism or THE NATION/October 20 , 1969 from other organisms . At the time of this writing , Ghobind Kho7ana is perfecting the chemical synthesis of a gene in the test tube . The chemical mechanisms of gene mutation have been clarified . The process of making gene messages , and , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cell machinery , have been duplicated and analyzed in the : est tube . The nature of the chemical signals  --  the regulatory substances that turn on and off specific genes -- is now i : - wn , at least in bacteria . Biochemists have purified of these regulatory substances and demonstrated their actual attachment to the specific genes that they block or unblock . Obviously such knowledge , which reaches to the most intimate level of the hereditary mechanism , can generate a now and powerful genetic technology . The traditional technology was applied in agriculture and husbandry to breeding desirable varieties of crops and animals . and in medicine to undertandin , diagnosing and treating such genetic disorders as hemophilia. diabetes and phenylketonuria . Social application of classical genetics in the form of human eugenics has been advocated but seldom carried out . The selective elimination of genetic defects by restraining procreation on a voluntary basis has never found much favor . Positive " germinal selection " ? that is. the spreading of exceptionally desirable sets of genes through sperm banks and artificial insemination --  was advocated forcefully by the great geneticist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including the ethical problems of who is to decide what is desirable in human heredity . In any case , germinal selection gives at best improved odds for superior progeny : the lottery of genetics  --  the random distribution of chromosomes and - genes of each parent into different sperm cells or eggs ? makes this process slow and inefficient . In Brave New World , his nightmarish utopia of a conditioned humanity published in 1932 , Aldous Huxley foresaw for the year 600 " After Ford " a type of eugenics based on artificial fertilization , twinning induced in the test tube , chemical conditioning of the growing embryos , and psychological conditioning of the growing children . Some of the embryological techniques imagined by Huxley , and others even more powerful , are rapidly approaching reality . For example , artificial fertilization of human eggs has been recently achieved in the test tube by Edwards and his co-workers in England . The separation and reshuffling of the cells of fertilized mouse eggs in course of division , followed by reunplantation and normal birth , has been accomplished by Beatrice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nucleus of an unfertilized frog egg was replaced with the nucleus of an adult cell  --  a process that could produce at will large numbers of truly identical twins . It may soon become routinely feasible with mammals , including man . Thus , at least in principle , Huxley 's made-to-order human being has become feasible much sooner than he anticipated . But these embryological methods represent only a relatively clumsy , unrefined technology when compared to the one promised ( or threatened ) by true genetic surgery  --  the artificial correction , replacement , removal or addition of genes , based on the discoveries of molecular biology . A coupling of genetic intervention with embryological surgery would open the way to truly awesome possibilities . The actual applications are admittedly still very distant ; but I believe it is not too soon to become aware of the prospects . Here are some of the relevant facts . In bacteria , which are used most frequently for this kind of research , it is already possible to introduce genes or groups of genes as purified pieces of DNA molecules . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high chance of replacing the corresponding resident genes . Thus a bacterium that is sensitive to streptomycin , for example , can be " transformed " to being resistant to streptomycin by replacement of the appropriate gene . The descendants of such a : transformed bacterium are all resistant . When this process of gene replacement is carried out with unsorted DNA fragments it is very inefficient ; but there are methods , still being perfected , for sorting out DNA fragments to correspond with individual genes or groups of genes . I mentioned before that the chemical synthesis and copying of genes in the test tube is also becoming possible . It is clear , therefore , that the ability to manufacture large amounts of any specific gene may soon , like all purely technical achievements , become only a matter of investing sufficient money and personnel . The introduction of specific genes into human cells , especially in the cells of the germ line that give rise to sperm and egg , is still far from actuality . But developments that may lead in that direction are already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some mild viruses can pick up one or more genes from the cells in which they have grown and transfer them to other cells . Then these genes may either replace the resident ones or become added , more or less permanently , to the gene set . In some cases the added genes upset the regulation of their new host , for example , by inhibiting the function of certain other genes . Besides viruses , there are other , even less destructive , agents called episomes or plasmids , which in bacteria can transfer and add genes from one cell to another . It would not be surprising if similar phenomena were soon to be discovered in the cells of animals and of man , where they would provide a way to add or replace genes . In fact , some viruses that produce tumors in animals ( and possibly also in man ) have certain properties of the gene-transferring viruses . A major barrier to genetic intervention will be , of course , the difficulty of manipulating the germ cells It is conceivable , however , that gene-carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even the injection of DNA molecules into eggs in the course of artificial fertilization may become possible . What kind of applications can we foresee for the discoveries that I have just outlined ? By and large , they fall into four groups : medical , bio-industrial , social and military . In medicine , we may envisage replacing the present treatments of genetic defects  --  for example , insufficient production of a hormone such as insulin  --  by supplying the proper gene to certain cells from the outside , or by implanting functional cells , or by causing the corresponding gene to become activated in other cells of the body which normally do not produce the hormone because of regulatory repression . Manipulations of this kind could also , for example , alter the immunological reactions that cause the body to reject foreign tissue , an achievement that would make organ transplants much more sucressful . In the bio-industrial field , it might be possible to use direct genetic manipulation instead of selective breeding to manufacture more desirable or healthier strains of a variety of organisms , from yeasts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or chromosomes . With social applications , we enter the truly controversial field . If it becomes possible to manipulate the genes of the human germ line or to achieve artificial fertilization and nuclear transplantation with human eggs , we would be faced with the terrifying responsibility of deciding what we  --  the human race  --  intend to become . At the start , we may simply remove defective genes or replace them with their normal counterparts . Then we may start to fool around by introducing supposedly " desirable " genes . We may even be tempted to manufacture many identical copies of a supposedly " superior " individual ; for example , by introducing identical nuclei from its cells into series of enucleated eggs , which may then be implanted in the wombs of foster mothers . At this point , ethical and legal problems of a completely new nature and magnitude arise Who is to decide what is desirable or undesirable , superior or inferior , in a man ? The doctor ? The state ? And beyond that , what ethical and legal criteria would apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but are the product of deliberate genetic manipulation ? When does a " repaired " or " manufactured " man stop being a man ( what-408 ever that means ) and become a robot , an object , an industrial product ? I shall refrain here from speculating on possible genetic weapons . Whereas the obstacles in the way of supposedly constructive genetic surgery are very great ( but not insurmountable ) , the obstacles to destructive uses may be smaller , if only because any one of many possible noxious results may be " desirable " in the military sense . Thus , for example , we may witness efforts to invent viruses that can spread in an enemy population genes that produce sensitivity to poisons , or susceptibility to tumors , or even transmissible genetic defects  --  in other words , genetic genocide . The development of pathogenic germs resistant to certain antibiotics has been going on for years in the biological arsenals of " civilized " countries . Finally , we should not ignore the possibility that genetic means of controlling human heredity will be put to massive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Huxley 's nightmarish society might be achieved by genetic surgery rather than by conditioning , and in an even more terrifying way since the process would be hereditary and irreversible . The situation that I have tried to project , based on biological developments which are either current or reasonably predictable , is not unique to biology . Whenever a science develops to the point of generating new technology , it presents society with a mixed bag of opportunities and risks . The question that faces society is not that of feasibility . Once the scientific principles are established , technological application is almost certain to come . Thus , faced with the prospect of a new genetic technology , we must ask ourselves as soon as possible whether and how it will be used and what can we do about it . Optimists and pessimists differ . Robert Sinsheuner , of the California Institute of Technology , stresses " the chance to ease the internal strains and heal the internal flaws directly . " Rollin Hotchkiss , of Rockefeller University , warns that m putting the new genetic technologies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that leading to all of men 's enterprise and mischief , be built from a combination of altruism , private profit , and ignorance . " But they both stress the need " to prepare now for the new reality " and " to caution an impatient altruism , curb an overenthusiastic self-interest , or offset an uninformed interventionism . " These concerns have to do , of course , with the constructive possibilities . The destructive ones , military or otherwise , would be welcomed only by the most narrow-minded , Neanderthal type of rabid nationalist or totalitarian . What can we do about it ? The least rational and least effective approach would be to advocate a moratorium on science in order to prevent the rise of potentially misapplicable technologies . The human cultural enterprise depends an freedom of inquiry . Science , like the arts , has become an inseparable part of the intellectual adventure of man . What is needed , rather , is a rational machinery , both national and international , to determine sensible policies and priorities in the application of scientific knowledge . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way decisions are made on major programs such as the man-on-the-moon venture . Even more THE micnoN/October 20 , 1969 relevant and more frightening is the apparent inability of organized society to cope with the menace of overpopulation , a threat greater than that of nuclear self-destruction . Whether or not a rational decision-making machinery can be achieved within society as it is now structured , either in the United States or in any other country , remains to be seen . A recently published report of a Panel on Technology of the National Academy of Sciences deals with some of the issues in a constructive way Its limited range of recommendations , however , provides little comfort to those who feel that the problems of technology and human life require radical action by informed and responsible governmental bodies . Basically , we need to create a society in which technology is purposefully directed toward socially chosen goals . This is a political rather than a scientific task , and scientists can hardly be expected to provide the solution . What they can and must do , however , is face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the negative side , scientists can make a conscious effort not to promote or encourage technological development without having first faced and resolved in their own minds the social implications . On the positive side , scientists must assume the responsibility to tell society , in aforceful and persistent manner , what science is discovering and what the technological consequences are likely to be . We ought not to be deterred by the widespread and increasing ignorance of the public , including governments , in scientific matters , but rather should strive to break through that barrier Long-term educational programs may be inadequate because time is short . Faster ways must be found to convey the practical implications of the modern world of science to the scientifically uncivilized public consciousness . If these responsibilities , however limited , are to be met , most scientists must undergo a major change of attitude . I believe that such change can be brought about because the present and forthcoming realities  --  whether those of an overpopulated world or of a humanity that can remake itself in whatever image it choosesare stirring and disturbing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active leadership will be needed to develop and crystallize within the scientific milieu an enhanced concern for the social consequences of science and for the responsibilities of its practitioners . Even more important , this leadership must find the way to awaken the public and their elected representatives from the complacency that lies behind the distorted priorities of present-day society .                     