@@488113

Mrs. Heckert. a resident of the Virgin Islands , is the author of a novel , Mucovado , which is about to appear in paper reprint She is now completing a second novel under contract with Doubleday . St Thomas , I/ If you had an accident in the Virgin Islands . and were rushed to the hospital for emergency surgery . the chances are four to one that your surgeon would be black , and only one of your three nurses would be white Should you wish later to pursue the legal niceties of the accident , you would know that of the 200 policemen who might investigate the case , 196 are black , and that the chances were even that a black judge would hear your case in municipal court . Eighty per cent of newspaper coverage of your adventure would be controlled by blacks And if you had arrived recently from the States , where " burn , baby , burn " vies with " law and order " and Huey Newton confronts George Wallace across an impasse of hate , you might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these island outposts of the United States , your white skin would not be held against you Neither , however , would it gain you an advantage . And of course you would be outnumbered five to one . Integration is an almost ancient fact in these islands , a strange sort of integration wherein the white man has come to seek acceptance from the black . A few more statistics and then a little history ? Of the estimated 54,000 residents of the Virgin Islands , 17 per cent are white . In the public schools about 70 per cent of students and 75 per cent of teachers are black . Three out of five principals are white About 90 per cent of the students at the new College of the Virgin Islands are black , but the faculty is about half white Of the fifteen Senators in the Virgin Islands legislature , twelve are black On the other hand , of the sixteen American Governors appointed ( by the U.S. President ) since the United States bought the islands from Denmark in 1917 , only three have been black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money here says that the first elected governor will be a white man , but not because he is white . He is native . The intended implication is that the largest part of such discrimination as does exist here is of an older sort . not drawn on lines of color but according to whether one was born here or came from somewhere else . And it happens that , while a good many natives are white ( mostly of French , Dutch and Danish origin ) . a large part of the immigrant population ( from neighboring British and French islands , w here work is scarce and wages are incredibly low ) is black . Integration came to these islands ( the U.S. Virgins , comprising St. Thomas , St John and St Croix ) before the Americans took possession fifty-one years ago . In 1835 , Peter von Scholten , the Danish Governor-General , invited intelligent and well-tutored slaves to his formal dinner parties Foreseeing the certainty of emancipation , von Scholten was eager to establish social possibilities between responsible Negroes and the whites they would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the white guests , having heard of his plan , did not show up . But the Danish colonists were essentially a liberal lot , and from the time of the second attempt at an integrated dinner party until the present , Government House has been the scene of mixed gatherings . Von Scholten 's mistress , a free colored woman , was his hostess at both political and social functions . Von Scholten is given much of the credit for obtaining King Christian 's signature on a bill ( in July , 1847 ) proclaiming all children henceforth born of slaves to be free . The bill stated further , however , that the slaves themselves were to remain in bondage for twelve more years , so that they could be educated for their freedom . The promise of freedom was not enough for the slaves and they threatened to revolt unless they had freedom now . They got it within the year , and from 1848 the blacks of these three islands have been not only free but possessed of goods and a very real power to control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danes had openly loved , and often married , their Negro women . As a result , the larger part of the islands ' real estate was THE NATioNl October 14 , 1968 owned by citizens of mixed blood when the Stars and Stripes were hoisted over Fort Christian . For a good many years integration  --  complete integration as far as one can tell  --  was quietly and innocently practiced as daily routine Marriage and social congress between the races were not considered unusual . There were occasional complaints of discrimination when the white U.S. military personnel ( for Washington recognized the islands ' strategic advantages ) were generous with their seed but unwilling to assume the responsibilities of an integrated family life But for the most part , black and brown and white moved about without giving much thought to color . The integration that was a natural state in this primitive community turned into an economic necessity about twenty years ago with the considerable ingress of white entrepreneurs from the United States and Europe . These businessmen saw a potential that had escaped the imagination of all but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possessed of capital , business ideas , energy and faith in the growth of the islands . As they began to prosper , so did the large majority of heretofore desperately poor natives , the per capita income for the Virgin Islands became ( and remains ) the highest in the entire Caribbean arca . Thus the now powerful black middle class was born . And with the incredibly rapid growth of tourism came a , unspoken knowledge that complete racial concord , or a least the appearance of it , was essential to the islands ' e onomic foundation . When there is racial disturbance , the visitor almost never gets a whiff of it . In fact , the proofs of working integration are so dazzling and refreshing to the newcomer that he is easily led to imagine a perfection that does not exist . In the last year there have been several minor racial conflicts and the murder of two whites by blacks . ( Most local opinion would say , perhaps defensively , that these were the direct results of agitation from stateside black militants ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luther King had been killed . It was very simple . a black man walked into a restaurant in St. Croix and killed ( by his own admission ) the first white man he saw . The second was the killing of the publisher of a local liberal and controversial magazine by a Negro who had displayed " kill whites " signs on his taxi several months earlier , and who had for that reason been removed trom the streets by black policemen . It is generally thought that the man is insane . Everyone concerned about the island 's future thinks of these incidents as horrible exceptions to an otherwise nearly satisfactory situation Rumors have been circulating , some of which seem reliable , that certain Black Power groups will be the first to bring the notion of real racism to the islands  --  that in fact the basic strategy for infiltration has already been laid . I discount any strong possibility of success for such movements . I am not , of course , speaking of those groups whose aim in the States is to forward the cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too advanced to be worth their efforts But anyone or any group devoted to Violence as a means of achieving black separation wouldlack the slogans that would mean anything to anyone . It is a simple fact that equality of opportunity is a way of life here  --  in education , in housing , in jobs , in social situations . The kind of discrimination that is in fact a problem ( i.e , that displayed by " natives " toward " off-islanders , " black or white ) would only , I think , work against any attempt by outside militant groups to change the present situation But this in turn suggests one group that might be susceptible to the arguments of militants from the States : the off-island blacks , who have indeed been faced with living conditions comparable ( in some ways ) to the ghettos in America . About 12,000 bonded aliens work in the U.S. Virgin Islands Black and white islanders employ aliens almost exclusively as domestics , and aliens swell the rank of businesses that are in need of menial or hard labor . Natives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driving their own taxis or office work . Here the alien is at a disadvantage and is made to feel it  --  in the already overcrowded housing and hospital facilities and in the schools . There is a great deal of social interaction between blacks and whites in the upper economic strata . The educated , affluent Negro appears to accept his white counterpart without challenge . If he has hidden misgivings , they most probably stem from a fear of losing his island culture and heritage . Blacks of this class have been forced to develop a razor-sharp sense of tolerance , for they have in most cases been exposed to long periods of white arrogance during stateside education , military service or business dealings . No statistics , alas , are available concerning interracial sexual drives in the islands , and since the subject is bound to lurk in the back of most readers ' minds , I offer a personal sampling of opinion One black woman friend voiced a feeling I have heard expressed commonly " I could be attracted to white guys here , but I simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a white man would n't value me or take me seriously He does n't in the States ; why should he here ? " A white woman 's response to the question of her inclination toward black men : " I 've been involved that way , but never again . The attraction on their part is spurious . I doubt that a Negro would ever trust my motives , even though I know he has good reason to . " And from a black man . " I 've reached the point where I do n't want to go out with white women any more . In the beginning I suppose my desire for them was mostly curiosity . But a lot of these tourist chicks come running down here on a fling and they think a black man 's here for them to use . There 's a sign on them that says ' look at me , Pm liberal ' but when it 's all over they shake hands and are as businesslike as a Cuban prostitute . No thanks , not for me . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lesson from the colored girls I know . White women tend to let you take something for a price  --  oh , not a monetary price but a psychological one . Colored women have a more giving nature . " Today , less than half the real estate ( and only a small portion of the real value ) of the islands is owned by blacks . Along the main streets it is easy to see that the white man definitely controls retail business Of white owners , mainlanders rather than natives are in the majority , but several vast business empires are owned or controlled by white natives It is said that all but a few Virgin Islanders have been too close to the woods to see the big bills growing on the trees It is also said that they feel a deep resentment of the whites to whom they have sold the vineyard . And what about the wealthy stateside black businessmen ' ) If our spring is so sweet and pure , why have so few of them come to taste the water ? Here I must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had been very successful in business on St. Thomas , but eventually sold his interests and returned home . He said he had left the islands so that his children could have the benefits of a more cultural atmosphere When I asked him if the discrimination he would face back home was worth the exchange , he smiled and asked , " What discrimination9 It 's in ' to be black today " Many of the bright younger black natives are leaving the islands for a wider variety of job opportunities and very few mainland blacks are coming to take their places Some blacks from the States say the local natives resent them ( which is true ) and make it difficult for them to liveand work here . Some say the cost of living is disproportionate to the low salaries , and still other say the islands have nothing to offer the black man except a good climate and a very groovy spot for retirement . White tourists ( and why almost all the tourists here are white is a matter that has puzzled me for years ) often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sometimes presents problems for all of us who live here A black doctor friend tells me of a white woman who was brought to the hospital atter an automobile accident Only emergency surgery could save her life . As she was being wheeled along the corridor she became conscious and cursed my friend and the nurses , telling them all to keep their black hands off her . I asked the doctor if he had not been tempted to do just that , and let her bleed to death " We have to be tolerant of people like that , " he said softly . " Before she left the hospital she even liked us . " More recently , after another automobile accident , a teen-age son of white islanders found himself in the emergency room , where the black nurses and doctor treating him began to talk about race relations in the States As the doctor took a stitch in the patient 's eyebrow , he hesitated Looking into the boy 's eyes he grinned broadly and said " You better believe black is beautiful . " 