@@215818

( See Cover ) <P> The Pentagon is the most formidable redoubt in official Washington . Squat and solid as a feudal fortress , it hunkers in a remote reclaimed Virginia swamp that used to be called Hell 's Bottom , across the Potomac River from the spires , colonnades and domes of the federal city . Through its two tiers of subbasements and five aboveground stories , windowless corridors weave like badger warrens . The bastion of America 's military establishment not only houses the Secretary of Defense , the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a mint of high brass , but is also a beehive of bureaucracy where some 10,800 civilians shuffle routinely through the daily load of paperwork . It is actually five giant buildings , concentrically interconnected and braced one upon another . <P> Against that physically and functionally immovable object last week surged a self-proclaimed irresistible force of 35,000 ranting , chanting protesters who are immutably opposed to the U.S. commitment in Viet Nam . By the time the demonstration had ended , more than 200 irresistibles had been arrested , 13 more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Within the tide of dissenters swarmed all the elements of American dissent in 1967 : hard-eyed revolutionaries and skylarking hippies ; ersatz motorcycle gangs and all-too-real college professors ; housewives , ministers and authors ; Black Nationalists in African garb-but no real African nationalists ; nonviolent pacifists and nonpacific advocates of violence-some of them anti-anti-warriors and American Nazis spoiling for a fight . <P> Acid &; Acrimony . The demonstration began under a crystalline noonday sky at the Lincoln Memorial . It took on special impact by climaxing a week of antiwar protest across the nation . Beneath the marbled gaze of Lincoln 's statue , red and blue Viet Cong flags mingled with signs affirming that " Che Guevara Lives , " posters proclaiming " Dump Johnson " and asking " Where Is Oswald When We Need Him ? " The meeting had hardly begun before three Nazis were arrested for jumping a British trade-union orator who criticized U.S. involvement in Viet Nam .                     