@@491721

How Hector Heckles Washington Louis Julius Hector , a disillusioned ex-bureaucrat , is waging a courageous crusade against the inefficient and often unjust procedures which he found in some of the powerful Federal regulatory agencies . By Harold H. Martin Trouble is brewing for the alphabet agencies . The storm clouds that for a dozen years have been gathering over the Federal boards and commissions which regulate nearly every aspect of the nation 's economy now are giving off ominous rumblings of thunder and an occasional lurid flash of lightning . In the House and Senate , in the legal profession , in the ranks of the philosophical students of government and among the general public there is a growing disenchantment with the huge bureaus whose rulings affect every citizen  --  from the price he pays for an airplane seat to the kind of threads that make up his Sunday suit . There is no effort afoot to free the nation 's business from all controls . There is , however , a growing belief that over the past quarter century many of the regulatory bodies have become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer can effectively carry out their duties . There is also a strong suspicion that many of them have ceased to Junction in the public interest and have become , in effect , Washington branch offices of the industries they are supposed to regulate . The most spectacular lightning bolts , as every headline reader knows , have come from Rep. Oren Harris ' Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight , created nearly three years ago when " Mr. Sam " Rayburn , speaker of the House and legislative father of many of the agencies , decided the time had come to find out whether they were doing the job that Congress had set them up to do . The results were immediate and dramatic . The Adams-Goldfine " influence " case blazed in the headlines ( Continued on Page 64 ) February C , 1960 following the Harris committee 's discovery that Mr. Goldfine , an old friend of presidential assistant Sherman Adams , had habitually ignored the Securities and Exchange Commission 's requirements that he tile an annual financial report on his companies whose stocks were sold to the public ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Trade Commission 's ruling that he not falsely label , as pure wool , cloth that contained other fibers . A hard look at the Federal Communications Commission turned up the case of commissioner Richard A. Mack , who allegedly took loans and gifts of money from a lawyer interested in the award of a Miami , Florida , television channel . Afterward came the quiz-show scandals and the appalling disclosure that Mr. Charles Van Doren was not one of the greatest intellectuals of our time  --  he was merely one of the greatest actors . This revelation , which left the nation 's television viewers so shaken they could hardly reach out a trembling hand to twist the dial , developed  --  by implication at least  --  the fact that the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission were either powerless or unwilling to protect the public interest as they should . Following the quiz-show scandals came the " payola " probe , with record manufacturers confessing that they had paid money to disc jockeys to plug their songs ; and there have been hints of revelations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commissions , to the students of administrative law who write for the learned journals and to many of the investigating congressmen themselves , these spectacular accusations of malfeasance in high and low places are of relatively little significance . They are merely symptoms of a deeper illness , which can not be cured by such minor surgery as driving a presidential assistant from office , citing a cloth manufacturer for contempt , indicting an FCC commissioner or causing an English professor to confess that he cheated on a rigged television show . The most searching diagnosis of the Federal agencies ' deep-seated malaise and the most drastic recommendations for a cure so far have not come from congressional probers , nor from academic critics learned in the theory of administrative law . They have come instead from an insider , Mr. Louis Julius Hector , a Miami attorney who served for two and a half years as a member of the Civil Aeronautics Board . There he watched with growing disillusionment the slow and , to him , haphazard workings of the complex and cumbersome regulatory machinery . Then he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polyphony  --  the Gregorian chant  --  for relaxation , Mr. Hector was appointed to the Civil Aeronautics Board by President Eisenhower in 1957 , as a Democratic member . He left the S20,000-a-year job in September of 1959 , three and a half years before his six-year term was up . It is usual , in these cases , for the disgruntled bureaucrat who is quitting his job to give a tight-lipped " personal reasons " as his motive for returning to private life . If deeply disturbed , he sets off a blast in the public prints and rides off on a white charger to make fiery speeches attacking the evils which offended him . Mr. Hector , after long thought , decided against either of these courses . The President had appointed him . The President , therefore , was entitled to know in detail the reasons for his departure . When he showed up in the office of presidential assistant Gerald Morgan in the West Wing of the White House , he brought along the usual formal letter of resignation . He brought also a most unusual document @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only pointed out the flaws it . the CAB 's operations as he had seen them firsthand but which dealt with the weaknesses of other agencies whose system of operations was similar to that of the CAB . Mr. Hector 's memorandum to the President was written dispassionately , in a lawyer 's formal language , and it was as forthright as a grand-jury indictment . It began with the blunt statement that Mr. Hector 's experience on the CAB had convinced him that an independent regulatory commission was not competent , in these days , to regulate a vital national industry in the public interest . Passing lightly over a point which he knew to be painful to Mr. Eisenhower  --  the difficulty of getting capable men to come to Washington to serve in government  --  he went on to point out that his charge of incompetence was not a judgment of the character or ability of the men who serve on commissions today . The CAB as it is now organized , he said , could not fulfill its obligation to the public even if the nation 's founding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , lay in a system which has made the CAB a creature so imprisoned by its own structure and procedures that it is unable to make sound plans or to administer its affairs with vigor and dispatch . Mr. Hector also had been disturbed by what he , as a lawyer , considered the inability of an agency , such as the CAB , to give a true judicial hearing to parties who come before it  --  though the agencies hand down more decisions than all the Federal courts combined . Judicial form was observed at almost interminable length , he pointed out , but judicial substance was lacking . There were other shortcomings which he felt to be deleterious to the nation 's economic health . The CAB , for example , had direction and control of one great segment of the national transportation system . Yet its policies and plans were in no way co-ordinated with the work of the ICC  --  which controls the railroads , the barge lines and the trucking lines  --  nor was it responsive to the general policies of the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fragmented direction and control , the country  --  so far as Mr. Hector could determine  --  had no effective na- . Atonal transportation policy at all . These flaws were curable , Mr. Hector felt , without drastic surgery . There was a congenital weakness , however , in the basic concept of an administrative commission , and this defeat could not be cured by palliatives . The members of the CAB and the members of other regulatory agencies , by the nature of their jobs , must be policy makers , judges , administrators , investigators and prosecutors . This , in Mr. Hector 's view , is an impossible task , for these duties and responsibilities are not compatible . A man can not be a policy maker and planner on Monday and Tuesday , a judge on Wednesday , an administrator on Thursday and an investigator and prosecutor on Friday , he argued , for men 's minds can not be so neatly compartmented . In view of what Mr. Hector termed ' these " organic " faults , he recommended that his own agency , the CAB @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , planning and administrative responsibilities to an executive agency , such as the Department of Commerce , the Federal Aviation Agency or a new Department of Transportation ; transfer its judicial and appellate duties to a true administrative court ; transfer the task of investigation and prosecution to an executive agency such as the Department of Justice . In short , Mr. Hector would do away with CAB as it now exists . Thumbing through the document in which these views were expressed , Mr. Morgan , the President 's assistant , was quickly aware ti it here was something that could not be swept under the rug even if the White House had any inclination to do so , The congressional subcommittee had thrown the harsh spotlight of publicity on certain cracks and blemishes in the regulatory facade . Mr. Hector now was planting a time bomb beneath the foundations on which the whole regulatory structure was built . For two hours Mr. Morgan and his associate , Mr. David Kendall , leafed through Mr. Hector 's memo , asking questions which Mr. Hector , speaking slowly to control a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House at eleven o'clock . went back to the CAB to announce his action to his four associates there and then went home to pack his suitcase . Feeling a strange lightness of spirit , he was , he felt , shaking the dust ol Washington from his feet forever . It has not worked out that way . Every few weeks since his resignation Mr. Hector , crew-cut , rumpled and carrying a briefcase loaded with arguments in support of his theme , has been called back to Washington from his home in Miami to confer with others who share his views that if the public interest istobe served , the Federal agencies must be reorganized . The Federal Aviation Agency , an executive department which took over i he CAB 's air-safety program , wanted to hear more about Mr. Hector 's idea that economic-policy making in aviation should become an FAA responsibility . The Department of Justice , which has long looked askance at a system of regulation which exempts the aviation industry from the antitrust laws , found merit in Mr. Hector 's argument that Justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of CAB 's rulings . The American Bar Association supported Mr. Rector 's view that litigated cases should be tried in special administrative courts . Mr. Hector , who is basically a modest man despite his habit of speaking his mind forthrightly , was considerably surprised at the flurry which his resignation caused . Within an hour after he had left the White House an aviation-magazine reporter was on the phone , asking him if he would confirm the fact that he had resigned . Remembering his resolution to remain silent until the White House itself announced that he had quit , Hector searched for some paraphrase of the old " no comment " cliche . He came up with a curiously stilted legalistic phrase . " I will have to stand mute . " he told his questioner . For about a week the White House also stood mute . Mr. Hector had resigned on September eighth . On September sixteenth the White House made public a copy of his letter of resignation , in which he mentioned his belief that the regulatory agencies were incompetent and referred to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up his allegation . The President 's letter in reply was also released . He thanked Mr. Hector for " a job well done " and said his memorandum had been " particularly helpful . " The President added that the memo was being sent to the Secretary of Commerce , under whose direction a study of the whole transportation picture was under way . At this unusual handling of what might have been a routine resignation , ears pricked up all over Washington . Mr. Hector 's telephone began to buzz . Mr. Robert W. Lishman , chief counsel for the House oversight subcommittee , called to ask for a copy of Mr. Hector 's memo . Mr. Hector replied that it was up to the White House to release it . Mr. Lishman said if the subcommittee subpoenaed Mr. Hector , he would bring a copy , would n't he ? Mr. Hector said , Yes , sir , he surely would . The agencies , naturally , were scrambling for copies . The Supreme Court asked for one ; and all over the country , heads of industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out in detail exactly what Mr. Hector had said , Finally the White House authorized the Commerce Department to make the memo available to all who asked . Amid all the uproar , Mr. Hector  --  still mute  --  picked up his wife and four children and moved home to Miami , there to resume his law practice where he had abandoned it nearly three years before . It is perhaps just as well that he left the scene . Among the agencies the reaction to Mr. Hector 's allegations was sharp and somewhat bitter . There were few , in light of the Harris subcommittee 's revelations , who would claim for the agencies a completely clean bill of health . But , they argued irately , Mr. Hector was trying to tear down the whole regulatory house  --  when some minor remodeling would probably do as well . It was also pointed out that there was nothing new in Mr. Hector 's memo . Similar ideas had been expressed in years past by two Hoover commissions , The American Bar Association and various other committees set up to study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistently rejected them . The strongest rebuttal came from Mr. Earl W. Kintner , chairman of the FTC . February 6 , 1960 Though Mr. Hector had made it clear he was no foe of Federal regulation , if effectively carried out , Mr. Kintner saw in Mr. Hector 's stand another attack in the old battle to abolish all regulation . Mr. Kintner 's argument , in essence , was that so far as the FTC was concerned , Mr. Hector did not know what he was talking about . The other agencies which had come under Mr. Hector 's dispraise made no public utterance . The staff of Mr. Hector 's old agency , the CAB , studied his memo carefully and drew up a point-by-point rebuttal . It was not made public , on the theory that the ammunition it contained could best be used in self-defense when members of the board were called twestify before Mr. Harris ' subcommittee . There was little doubt , however , how the galled but silent agencies felt about Mr. Hector . He was , they said privately , a brilliant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unfortunately he was an impractical egghead who was naive when he came to Washington and he did not stay long enough to become dry behind the ears . In his zeal for reform he had attacked the agencies with half-truths , exaggerations and oversimplifications . In addition his recommendations for trisecting the agencies would cause more delay , confusion and lack of co-ordination than exist today . As for his allegations that the CAB was ineffective and incompetent , the strength and vitality of the airlines that CAB had nurtured were proof that this charge was in error . To the charge that he was naive when he came to Washington , Mr. Hector cheerfully pleads guilty . In college at Harvard and Williams , as a Rhodes scholar and as a law student at Yale , he had developed certain idealistic attitudes about government and he had become eonvinced that every qualified citizen should devote part of his career to his country 's service . He was not , however , entirely unfamiliar with the Washington scene . In the early days of the war he had served as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regulations under which the emergency wartime agencies were being set up . He moved from there to Mr. Edward Stettinius ' Lend-Lease agency , and went with him to the State Department . Barred from uniformed service because of bad eyes and his habitual stammer , he had then gone out to China with Col. Wild Bill Donovan 's OSS . Here he had served as liaison between the sabotage and the espionage units . He came home at the end of the war eager to begin his law practice , but found that the Hector family firm , which sold packing crates and fertilizers to Florida vegetable growers and manufactured feed for dairy cattle , was having serious financial difficulties , including tax problems . He had to take over as president , reorganize it and set it on its feet . This took eight years , and he had just completed the job and turned the company over to a younger brother when Sen. George Smathers , whom years before he had beaten out as a candidate for a Rhodes scholarship , called to offer him the CAB @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He had just finished setting up a new law firm , he said . His wife was about to have their fourth child , and he had hired a contractor to start building two new bedrooms on his house . Smathers ' call had come at eleven o'clock in the morning . At three o'clock that afternoon Hector called him back to tell him that he would accept . His change of mind , he knows now , was a result of his naivete . He still thought of the Federal agencies as he had thought of them in his college days , when men of the stature of Justice Douglas , Dean James Landis and Jerome Frank were running them . To Hector the agencies were huge but delicately adjusted machines , working with wisdom and infinite care to regulate the giants of our economy in fairness to industry and the public they served . His disenchantment began early . Two weeks after he took his place on the CAB he began to suspect that the efficiency he had assumed as being basic to the agency 's operations was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the old legal theory that justice delayed is justice denied , they were punitive in their slowness . H is first conviction that this was so came in his study of the Seven States case . This case Mr. Hector cites as an extreme example of the ponderous processes by which the agencies reach a decision . In the middle 1950 's , the railroads , with the blessing of the ICC , were rapidly discontinuing passenger-train service between many of the small towns in the Dakotas , Nebraska , Iowa , Illinois , Wisconsin and Minnesota . If the citizens were to have any long-range transportation  --  other than their private automobiles  --  the airlines , which served only the larger cities , would have to step in to provide it , and this service would have to be subsidized . In December of 1955 the CAB instructed Mr. Curtis C. Henderson , a hearing examiner , to call on the air carriers . the communities and anyone else who might be interested , for a statement of their desires . They gave him no specific policy guidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for nearly two years . Lawyers , economists , statisticians , mayors , presidents of chambers of commerce , and airline executives bombarded him with arguments in favor of their cause and with objections to the 71 claims of others . From 194 witnesses he collected a thousand " exhibits " that added up to a stack of documents nine feet tall . With this mountain of material , much of which in Mr. Hector 's view was irrelevant to the case , Mr. Henderson sat down to formulate his plan for air service for the region . More than two years after the investigation began , he produced his plan  --  two volumes totaling 658 pages . For one man , working alone , it was a good job . But no one involved was completely satisfied . Nearly everybody filed exceptions and briefs saying what they liked and what they did n't like about the examiner 's report . At last the board , which for two years had sat in complete isolation from the matter , came into the picture . They tried to read the examiner 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five members of the board are busy men , and it was hard to get around to all this reading . So a hearing was held  --  four days of oral arguments before the full board . Sixteen senators , twenty-two representatives and three mayors appeared the first day to argue for their constituents . The next day the airlines got their chance  --  though desperately pressed for time , since each had but thirty minutes to present its case . Then sixty-five towns and cities came in for ten minutes each . Finally , late on the afternoon of the fourth day , with everybody dazed and groggy from twenty-one hours and thirty-five minutes of steady talking , the hearing ended . The case then went into that mysterious silence which lawyers practicing before the commissions call the " dark side of the moon , - when the board is presumably pondering the facts and the law and gestating a decision . The first meeting on the case came a month after the hearing ended . The board 72 quickly decided that the examiner had been too restrictive in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revised substantially . So the members sat down each with a map and some colored pencils to draw the routes they felt the region should have . It took them fifteen sessions , totaling some thirty hours . During this period it seemed to Mr. Hector that the prodigious labors of the examiner and the millions of words written and spoken by the parties to the case were having relatively little to do with shaping the final decision . In a moment of whimsey he decided to test this theory . He remembered , years ago , hearing his father , who migrated from Iowa to Florida , speak of the little town of Clarinda , and the melodious name had stuck in his mind . He looked on the map to see if Clarinda was still there . It was  --  a county seat in southern Iowa with a population of 5086 . Clarinda had not been one of the cities recommended for air service by the examiner , and it had not appealed to the board to cure this omission . It therefore was not a party to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made an impassioned plea that Clarinda. as the site of a state hospital , should have air service . Without protest , his fellow board members amiably agreed to draw a line upon the map , giving an air route to Clarinda . They also added another line . giving air service to Spencer , Iowa , the home town of one of the assistants to the board . In the long run . neither Clarinda nor Spencer got an air route . Mr. Hector explained that he was only joking . and the native of Spencer had left the board before the final opinion was made public , In May of 1958 the board announced its decision in a press release . Then a staff of " opinion writers " ? experts in legalistic prose , who from the same set of Facts , Mr. Hector claims , can preach the theory that the world is either round or flat  --  took over to explain and lustily the board 's new plan . No member of the board took part in drafting this document , Mr. Hector says , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board of the reasons for their decision . Then , more than three years after the board 's original action , the new air service went into effect . in Mr. Hector 's view , the Seven States case epitomized the weakness of the CAB 's procedures . In the first place , he says , the examiner was working in the dark , with no set policy to guide him . Thus handicapped , he had to accept a great deal of testimony that had no real bearing on the matter , thus increasing his own labors and prolonging the case . Once his decision had been made , it was largely ignored by the board . The board 's final decision , in Mr. Hector 's opinion , was based not on the facts presented , but on the personal ideas of each member of the board as to which communities should have service and which airlines should sere them , But most offensive of all to Mr. Hector 's legal mind , was that this decision plucked , so to speak , out of the air , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who had taken no part in reaching the decision . A study of these decisions , Mr. Hector says , will reveal no consistent policy ; for the opinion writers , knowing that a few months hence they may have to write an opposite opinion from a similar set of facts , cake care to express themselves in misty generalities . In each case , the decision makers " play it by ear , " and it is only natural that the litigants , knowing this , should try to get a commissioner 's ear and put a bug in it . The case-by-case approach , Mr. Hector believes , is almost an open invitation to parties who feel that , since there arc no set rules or principles , they must resort to some other means to win their cases . These " other means " may take many forms other than a crass effort to buttonhole a commissioner and ask for his vote . The CAB , for example , is charged with promoting aviation as well as regulating it . To promote the industry , the boardmembers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads to social associations , to bridge and cocktail parties , luncheons and dinners , fishing and golfing trips and long junkets  --  at industry 's expense  --  to inspect new air routes . At appropriate times such as Christmas , gifts may be sent to the commissioners . There is nothing venal in this , in Hector 's view , though it may lead to suspicious practices , as the House oversight subcommittee discovered when it found that some members of the FCC had accepted Thanksgiving turkeys and color-TV sets from the broadcasting industry . It does prove his point , he argues  --  that a man charged with promoting the expansion of an industry can not at the same time be a completely unbiased judge . For example , CAB for some years has urged the airlines to try new , lower fares as a means of promoting passenger business . When one line tries it and another protests , the same men then have to sit solemnly in judgment on the merits of the case . It is also Hector 's strong belief that aviation is now out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowed more leeway in making purely business decisions . One line , for example , last year added steeper-type seats on its transcontinental flights at no extra fare . A competitor protested . The CAB ruled that the line which was trying to give the passenger more leg room for the same money would have to stop it or charge a premium fare . These are matters , Hector feels , that should be left to the airlines ' own business judgment . Under the law , CAB is charged with regulating the aviation industry " in the public interest . " The public interest he thinks , would best be served by allowing the airlines more freedom to compete . The tight rein on competition , the long , drawn-out hearings , the decisions based on personal attitudes , not on clear-cut policy , can not continue much longer , Mr. Hector feels . " If a private business tried to conduct its affairs this way . it would go broke , " he told the American Bar Association at its convention in Miami . " If we tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way , we would still be a third-rate power . And if we keep on trying to plan our national transportation system this way , we 'll wake up one morning to find it wo n't do the job . Clearly these procedures must be overhauled . " Mr. Hector knows that in his efforts to overhaul them he is in the position of a Don Quixote in a sincere suit , jousting at windmills which many people in Washington do not wish to see destroyed or greatly changed . He is well aware that many regulated businesses are quite content with their chains . They fume occasionally , when a decision goes against them , but in the main they are happy to be under the wing of a friendly Federal agency which protects them not only from the antitrust laws but from predatory competitors in their own ranks . He knows also that his recommendations for a cure  --  that policy making in the agencies become an executive function and that adjudication be turned over to special courts  --  raised no huzzas on Capitol Hill . No lawmaker in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive department . Nor do many congressmen want to give up their right to call up a commissioner to pressure him gently on behalf of a worthy constituent . Woh these powerful forces opposing him , Mr. Hector is not naive enough to believe that the changes he has called for will come immediately ; and he knows that they may never come in the form he recommends . He is convinced , though , that many of the agencies , tangled in their procedures and drawn ever closer to the industries they are supposed to regulate , have forgotten that their first and foremost duty is to function " in the public interest . " When it finally dawns on the public that this is so , the reforms , he thinks , will be inevitable . Is the Noise Getting You Down 1Continlicd from Page 33 ) vehicles , increase some costs and lower the efficiency of some industrial processes ; but it can be done if society is willing to pay the price . " Doctor Beranek speaks for a whole new species of scientist dedicated to noise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , acoustical engineers , mathematicians , neurologists and psychologists who spend their time hushing military , industrial and transport noises as well as the noise from ordinary household equipment . The acoustical experts have even silenced the barely audible " tick " of thermostats in electric blankets  --  a sound Consumers Union once likened to the stomping of a robin on the lawn . One of their most baffling problems at the moment is jet-airplane noise near airports , to be considered separately in a later issue of The Saturday Evening- Post . Another thorny challenge is traffic noise , which is still the most widespread source of noise complaints over most of the United States . Offensive traffic noise , Doctor Beranek explains , is primarily truck noise , for a reason deeply imbedded in the curious arithmetic of noise multiplication . Suppose that you live near a highway and that the average automobile as it passes injects a moderate noise into your living room by day and your bedroom by night , It would take nine similar cars , all passing at once , to double the loudness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a good muffler  --  can inject as much noise as the nine cars ; and one truck with a defective muffler can produce a roar equivalent to ninety or 100 passenger cars passing simultaneously . Six years ago , when The Saturday Evening Past last surveyed the nation 's noises ( THis SCREAMING WORLD , by Steven M. Spencer , August 15 , 19531 , the villains in the truck noise pandemonium were the trucking and truck-manufacturing associtions , which had spent five years in a study of the situation , but had not yet agreed upon standards governing how noisy a truck should be . That Post article created a considerable stir in trucking circles , and within seven months the Automobile Manufacturers ' Association issued the long-awaited A.M.A. truck-noise standard . Today , according to the American Trucking Associations , more than 99 per cent of all new trucks have mufflers which meet or better the standard . But alas , all is still far from serene along the nation 's streets and highways . To find out why , we spent a night at a truck-equipment check @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east of the Norwalk tollgate . The first big diesel rig flagged down by Trooper Robert Malesky , noise specialist for the Connecticut Stale Police , was emitting an obnoxious cross between a rasp and a bellow . Climbing down under the rig with Trooper Malesky 's flashlight , we could easily spot the reason . The muffler had been excellent when new ; but the quieting baffles inside it had been completely eaten away by exhaust fumes . What was originally a muffler had become an echo chamber . " How long has that thing been on ? " Trooper Malesky asked the driver . " I would n't try to kid you three hundred sixty thousand miles , " was the reply . The useful life of a good muffler is usually estimated at 100,000 miles  --  six months to a year of over-the-road service . Among the other trucks netted that night was one with a muffler less than two months old . It looked tine to us ; but Trooper Malesky showed us how someone had sawed the case open , removed the inner baffles and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his muffler had been deliberately " sodded . " The sodding , he told us , increases the speed of his rig , gives him more power uphill , saves fuel and extends the life of his valves . We asked Lewis Kibbee. automotive engineer for the American Trucking Associations , about sodding . Ten years ago , Kibbee conceded , truck mufflers really did build up a strong back pressure in the engines . But the best new mufflers produce less back pressure as well as more quieting , The roar from a substandard or rodded muffler may give the driver an illusion of greater power , but the actual gain is negligible . " Replacement mufflers meeting or bettering the A.M.A. standard are available today for almost every truck on the road , " Kibbee told us , " and enlightened trucking companies are increasingly installing the best , " The trucking associations are educating the laggards to the importance of replacing mufflers often enough , and of selecting replacement mufflers that meet the A.M.A. standard . Law-enforcement programs like Connecticut 's achieve the same result by arresting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lot , " says Kibbee , " but we do n't deny that more can still be done . " Trooper Malesky 's chief problem at the moment is that there is n't a meter available for measuring truck noise accurately . We asked Doctor Beranek about this meter problem . Scientists , he explained , have long measured noise in decibels ; but the decibel scale is not an accurate measurement of loudness to the human car , and is misleading for truck noise , jet noise and many other kinds of noise , To understand why , consider two tones of equal " intensity " as measured in decibels , one a bass note near the lower end of the piano keyboard and the other a note just one octave higher . Both may kick the ordinary decibel meter to the same eighty-decibel level , but to the human car the                     