@@488153

Mr. Hoffman is director of Leadership Training for the Child Development Group of Mississippi . Mr. Mudd is the Group 's executive director . The tragedy of the poverty program , as it emerges today in Mississippi , one of the states where the need for it cries out most loudly , is that just when it is becoming possible to visualize the social processes necessary for effective " community action , " this understanding has been made irrelevant and unusable by the impending emasculation and dismemberment of the Office of Economic Opportunity . The creative potential of OED 's programs and the courage of its leaders have been consumed by the expanding influence of a conservatism alarmed by Vietnam and fearing inflation , the increasing alienation of the poor who remain unaffected by its promise , and the disillusion of liberals over projects controlled by precisely those institutions whose failures made the program necessary in the first place . Since the goals of the program necessarily aroused the hostility of conservatives , its only hope for survival was to create a grass-roots'political constituency among the poor themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poverty program has fallen by default to the active-support of the big-city mayors who find in it another supply of oil for their machines , with the frustrated liberals acquiescing because they are unable to create any positive alternative . Given this unradical sponsorship , the poverty program , if it is to exist at all , will focus on " safe " programs such as the Neighborhood Youth Corps and conventional Head Start projects which , like traditional welfare activities ; hold out no possibility of creating basic changes in the society . Ironically , the anti-poverty program , though conceived in the spirit of social reform , has had less effect on transforming existing institutions than the traditionally less reform-conscious courts . The Community Action Program ( CAP ) was to be the revolutionary core of the original anti-poverty act passed by Congress . The bill stipulated city , county , or multi-county boards to be composed of representatives from government , private civic agencies and the poor , which would administer and coordinate all the anti-poverty efforts in their area . Most significant and most often betrayed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor " In Mississippi , as elsewhere in the country , disappointment with CAP has been twofold First , what was " feasible " turned out to be a tokenism which allowed for only minimal and peripheral involvement of the poor Second , the jump from social impotence to a scat alongside the members of the power structure unavoidably aroused in the poor feelings of inadequacy and fear An intermediate stage in which the poor could develop skills and confidence through experience of controlling an organization or a program was neither perceived nor provided for The 0E0 favored throwing the unevenly armed forces together to effect instant " community " ? with predictable one-sided results The creation of the kind of community action originally envisioned requires certain essential preconditions . First , in locales where individuals come from vastly different backgrounds ( as in Mississippi and in virtually every American area of poverty ) there must he a sufficient consensus , a perception among the diveise groups of common problems , a olutual self-interest in thc , r solution , and psychological readiness to accept the full implications of cooperation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and skills which are necessary to participate effectively . And finally , innovative plans for eliminating the causes of poverty must be developed and supported . The consideration of only stop-gap palliatives for poverty creates the illusion of action but none of the substance . When these three preconditions are present , the concept of community action through the mobilization of all residents and groups to fight poverty is sound When they are not present , it is 0E0 's obligalion to insure their development rather than to condone the establishment of structures which falsely assume them . The disastrous effects of overlooking such unpreparedness for community action are painfully obvious in Mississippi , where not a single community has met the preconditions described above It is self-evident to those who have first-hand experience of the state that there is no community in Mississippi There are several communities split along economic , religious and , most blatantly , along racial lines Although the long-range common interests of the two racial communities may be apparent to an outside observer , they are invisible from within the society The white community wants no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partners , now or in the future No effort to deal with the root causes of poverty is likely , since the social policy of the white power structure has been to preserve a sufficient supply of cheap unskilled labor and , at the point where this population becomes superfluous , to encourage emigration . One moderate resident of Canton , Miss . requested an audience with the president of the Chamber of Commerce following the tear gassing of the Meredith marchers . He expressed his displeasure with the police tactics and argued that programs such as federally subsidized housing for the Negro community should be initiated " Oh , " replied the C. of C. man , nerecluto-s at the nal , , , t.4 of the clignectInn , " hut if we do that , then they wo n't ( cave . " The poverty bill protected umbrella community action agencies as a way to coordinate local efforts . However the commendable desire to avoid wastefulness and inefficiency has in practice provided a device for blocking the creation of " dangerous " protects which threaten existing power relationships In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivated by the desire to control all poverty funds flowing into the community . Most counties in the state began forming their CAP boards in earnest only after independent groups like the Child DeNelopmcni Gump of Mississippi raised the specter of eco= nomic autonomy . The implications of independent lush. - tutional forces with a broad popular base were not lost on local and state political leaders . The considerable power inherent in CAP to prevent , rather than encourage , efforts to change the position of the poor can be seen in the process by which board members are typically selected . CAP boards in Mississippi are undemocratic and unrepresentative , frequently controlled by the county Board of Supervisors . In many counties this has created a situation in which White Citizens ' Coun-cil members , Klansmen and police officials notorious for their mistreatment of Negroes sit on committees whose stated goals are to undo the damage for which they are largely responsible . As Fannie Lou Hamer said recently before a state-wide meeting of 2,000 Negroes in Jackson : " The people on those boards are the same people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 64 ? and OEO says that 's okay ! " Alongside these habitual custodians of local power sit Negro members of the community who are hand picked for their willingness to be parrots for the white community , on whom they remain economically dependent . The CAP boards also enjoy the cooperation of the " Negro power structure , " which sees the new programs , as a spawning ground for a leadership that might jeopardize its traditional position . One could hardly conceive of a less promising team of anti-poverty fighters . OEO has made some effort ( particularly in areas where protest from the Negro community has been most Vocal ) to make the CAP boards less blatantly unrepresentative . The usual solution has been to expand the current board by the election of additional poor Negro members . The number of new seats is never sufficient to wrest control of the board from its founders , and the poor Negro community remains powerless , and the more galled by its lack of - " objective " grounds for complaint . In addition to these legitimate , but ultimately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In one Mississippi county , when the existing board was informed by OEO that additional elections were necessary , it approached three Negroes and instructed them to call community election meetings . Their selective invitations brought out an audience which overwhelmingly elected the three to the board . In summary , the CAP board structure in Mississippi is in direct conflict with the aims Of community action stated in the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 . The poor are again deprived of control of factors which most directly affect their . own lives , and , as a result , lose the opportunity to acquire the competence which would allow them to sit as equals , able to represent effectively the claims of their group . In fact , a traditional authoritarian pattern , which at best approaches humanitarian paternalism , is reinforced . The few immediate beneficiaries of the programs among the poor will receive a short-term boost to their incomes through their dole as " aides , " but even these gains are contingent on the acceptance of whatever strings of dependency may be implicit . The danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of a " low-level equilibrium trap " in which the human basis for continued growth is throttled rather than liberated . THE NATION / October 24 , 1966 What is needed , therefore , in Mississippi ( and what is being dehbeiately rejected ) is a training ground to provide poor people with new skills , confidence and competence , one in which they , as a group , can exercise control over programs which are more than hollow . The efforts of the Freedom Democratic Party and the Lowndes County movement have provided this kind of opportunity in politics  --  and to a certain extent , also , in economics , through the budding coops in Lowndes County and elsewhere . However , our primary concern here is with the " anti-poverty " bill and ways in which this intermediate stage of development can be provided for under it . Since the direct control of CAP boards by the poor is unlikely , particularly in Mississippi , it is essential that government agencies become more receptive to the emergence of independent projects run by the poor . A report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 428 , pp. 7-9 ) affirms that : The Congress has contemplated the existence of independent single-purpose agencies in the same community that sic a community-wide structure has been created Such competitiveness and expenmentation is appropriate in an area in which conclusive remedies have not yet been established . This stated policy has hardly , if ever , been implemented , although it clearly would provide an ideal opportunity for groups that might otherwise be crushed under the heel of a Community Action Program which poor Negroes are unlikely to control in the present political environment . Officials who fear that such projects constitute high risks must recognize that control by the poor does not necessarily imply the exclusion of competent professionals . When the help of specialists is needed , the poor have proved their ability to select it in their own best interests . An alliance of the poor and the professional on this basis holds out great promise for the fullest possible development of the human resources of the poor community . Such programs encourage democratization of the CAP structure from within by preparing the ground for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Child Development Group of Mississippi is the only large poor-controlled and anti-poverty project in the state that has had the ; resources and the orientation to develop into an effective , creative force in the society . CDGM was organized in the spring of 1965 by professionals bent on regenerating an outmoded social order by working with the " untarnished " pre-school children , and representatives of the poor communities responsive to this new opportunity . With the encouragement of OEO , which had just begun to develop its nation-wide Head Start program , it grew far beyond its intended scope and found itself running a summer program for more than 6,000 children in eighty-odd communities . At that early date , CAP boards had not yet been formed in the state and the Mississippi power structure suddenly found itself confronted with a force it did not control that enjoyed a government-paid budget of more than $500,000 ' a month . Support of the project was a daring political act by a young and pioneering OEO which has abruptly sunk into middle-aged conservatism , partially from the pressures exerted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 413 this encroachment on his home territory . Three of the four-hour hearings the Subcommittee on Appropriations held in October . 1965 , on the $1.5 billion anti-poverty appropriation were devoted to a $1 4 million grant to CDGM . As a result , OEO was far less bold when the request to refund CDGM w as submitted in November of 1965 . The money was not granted until late February , 1966 , and only then after receiving considerable external encouragement from liberal organizations led by the Citizens Crusade Against Poverty , a coalition of civil rights , religious and labor groups , supported by such strong voices as Martin Luther King and Walter Reuther . This new grant assigned $5 6 million to seise 9.000 children in 121 communities for six months As it turned out , the demand for participation was so great that 12,000 children were enrolled . At that time , there was little legal basis for denying funds to CDGM , since the formation of umbrella agency CAP boards was still just getting under way . The second grant officially terminated on August 31 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live through October 15 . On October 3 , OEO formally announced that it was rejecting CDGM 's proposal for an additional year of service to more than 13,000 children . The CDGM achievement is to be disposed of in two ways . In counties where CAP boards now exist , control of the Head Start Program is transferred to them , the changeover to be expedited by an eighteen-man OEO task force which has been in the state for several weeks The larger allotment , encompassing all nineteen CDGM counties where there is no CAP board , as well as forty-one other non-CAP counties in the state , will go to a secretly formed group , Mississippi Action for Progress , Inc . ( MAP ) , which became known to CDGM only when news of its existence was leaked to a local newspaper . The formation of this board was initiated directly by Sargent Shriver , who in August approached Mississippi NAACP leader Aaron Henry and industrialist Owen Cooper and instructed them to round up members for the substitute board . Henry , in particular , was informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make it impossible for OEO to continue the program Details of this charge have recently been published and show no problems which were not internally correctable . They were made known to CDGM only after their release to the press , on the day when the grant was officially refused . The decision was transparently political . Henry collected his brother-in-law , a political lieutenant in his home town of Clarksdale , and two Negro businessmen , who , together with Henry , formed the Negro backbone of the Mississippi Democratic Conference , a now almost defunct coalition around which national Democratic headquarters hoped to create a loyalist party- after Mississippi gave 87 per cent of its vote to Goldwater in 1964 . The white membership of the board was characterized by its opposition to ex-Governor Barnett , which in Mississippi qualities one as a moderate Hodding Carter . III , a Greenville ncwpaper publisher . is an officer of the Young Democrats of Mississippi . another embryonic loyalist group which has thus far been unsuccessful in gaining any constituency . Other board members include a second newspaper publisher two plantation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Baptist Seminary tor Negroes All in all , the hoard conspicuously lacks representatives of the labor unions , of the poor and of Catholics , who already sponsor a state-wide adult literacy program funded by OEO . Perhaps more damaging than this precedent for bald political use of poverty funds is the retreat to a pattern whereby leadership is selected from the top . In effect , the " substitute " board has all the characteristics of a gigantic CAP board selected this time by OILO itself rather than by the County Board of Supervisors . The lack of participation by the poor , the clandestine formation and the tie-in to the existing power structui e ( the charter provides for eventual control of MAP by the governor himself ) are all too familiar to us from our examination of community action programs . The funding of MAP will result in the containment of independent poverty programs such as already exist in the Delta counties of Bolivar , Panola and Tallahatchie , all of which will face their own battles for additional money before the end of the year . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The elimination of independent , Negro-controlled programs appears to be a relief to OEO , which has come to see CDGM as a divisive influence in local communities . It has provided the Negro community with the resources to prevent its " integration " into " legitimate " structures , and has provided jobs for poor people who might otherwise have to remain part of the existing system on terms which they do not control . In the eyes of the poverty program officials , this has fostered a kind of separation which is equated with black power , a fright concept today which blocks any rational thought about race problems . They ask : " If we support an independent , largely black-controlled project , are we not in effect federally subsidizing some form of black nationalism ? " The answer seems to be quite the opposite . In many ways CDGM has been more in step with the stated goals of community action than the established community action agencies themselves . Since it is staffed , operated and controlled by the poor themselves , it is attacking one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a precondition to effective community action , the poor must obtain training and experience in exercising the responsibilities required for participation in the institutions of a highly structured society . By drawing people from the poor community into administrative and supervisory positions , while at the same time providing training in the necessary/ skills , CDGM was taking a major step in this direction . ' In this context , black power means nothing more than developing the organization and skills already possessed by the white community , so that the two groups could relate to each other . In Mississippi , this would necessitate an intermediate period of what Christopher Jencks has called " paragovernmental " structures , within which the Negro community could compensate for centuries of powerlessness and the lack of opportunity to develop responsibility ' and decision-making skills . - - Fears of a permanent system of parallel institutions are Unfounded . ( In addition , it should be emphasized , the con-tinued existence of the K.K.K. organization and mentality Which has led to public threats and intimidation of whites involved in these programs is an incomparably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CDGM had already begun to produce a better poverty program and a better community . In several counties in which it has been operating since its inception , CDGM-affiliated community people now sit on the CAP boards themselves and are in the process of building a bridge between the " parallel " operations , thus opening the possibilities of convergence in the near future , If CDGM were permitted to continue operating in the rest of the state , this pattern of increased community cohesiveness through the temporary support of intermediate parallel operations would no doubt multiply , Instead , the parceling out of CDGM to MAP on the one hand and to existing CAP boards on the other , threatens to lead to what Negroes in the state have begun to speak of as the " New Plantation , " on which the black man remains at the mercy of the boss man and the " head nigger , " who stand between him and the decisions and choices which govern his life . The parallels between these recent developments and the events of post-Reconstruction history are all too apparent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the old script . On , October 8 , 3,500 people attending a state-wide CDGM meeting in Jackson , voted to boycott the new MAP organization ; to operate CDGM centers voluntarily until funds could be raised  --  from private sources , if necessary  --  and to seek a Congressional investigation of CAP agencies in Mississippi and a hearing for CDGM . In the Delta county of Sunflower , the home of both Senator Eastland and Fannie ' LQU . Hamer , Negro parents have continued to operate their own Head Start program on a volunteer basis for the past eleven months , rather , than subject their children to the already , funded program run by the CAP board , Whether the stubborn integrity of this effort can be duplicated on a state-wide basis remains to be seen . 