@@493755

The three Englishmen principally responsible for A Kind of Loving ? John Schlesinger , the director , Keith Waterhouse and Willis Hall , the screenwriters ? have now produced Billy Liar . This is the second metamorphosis of the work , which was originally a novel by Waterhouse ; it was dramatized by him and Hall and was presented successfully in London and elsewhere . The material is Billy Liar ( Continental ) simple : the fantasies of a twenty-year-old provincial clerk that are his refuge from the frustrations to which circumstances and weakness of character have sentenced him . One of the strengths of this film is that it really relies on its material . There is minimal plotting , as such . Several things happen to Billy in the course of the story : the two girls to whom he is simultaneously engaged find out about it and throw him over ; the girl he really likes leaves for London without him ; his grandmother dies ; his pipedream of a big-city job explodes . But the emphasis of director and authors is on organic development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic purpose is to explore Billy 's character , and the motions of the story are merely sufficient to put it on view . This is intelligent risk-taking in a film , and here it is largely successful . Billy is a clerk in a firm of undertakers , which profession we see from the inside . ( Miss Mitford will note that , in smarminess at least , the British Way of Death is not very different from ours . ) His problem is that he is normal , in his dreams and even his daydreams : abnormal in the way that his dayDECEMBER 14 , 1963 Room at the Bottom dreams influence his actions . He can not help lying even when there is no need for it , just to affect in some way the reality that he hates . When a neighbor asks about his father 's health , Billy , for no reason , invents an illness and operation . When complications follow , he lies more desperately . Similarly he has pointlessly lied his way into his two betrothals to girls whom he does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tight , he imagines himself in trooper 's uniform with a submachine gun , spattering his tormentors with bullets . Schlesinger slips the film easily in and out of the fantasy sequences : the trooper flashes , or Billy 's imaginary country , Ambrosia , whose dictator and defender he is . The chief bond between Billy and his beloved is their mutual imaginary country . He also has a few visions about sex , about suffering in prison and writing it up , of the transformation of his middle-class parents into toffs . Additionally , we see Billy play-acting in life , with his fellow-clerks or alone in his boss ' office where he wallows in mimicries . Moments like these ? because they delve into byways of whimsy hard to define but universally true ? are the film 's best . In terms of what he has to do , Tom Courtenay , of The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner , is versatile and funny . In terms of what he is , he lacks conviction . One can not believe that two girls would be fighting over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chosen THE NEW REPUBLIC him above all the rest . Julie Christie , as this girl , is adequate but is handicapped by the fact that she has been told that she is a striking new personality . We get a great many smiles . Mona Washbourne , Ethel ( jiffies , Finlay Currie are excellent as various local types . In his first dramatic role , as Billy 's father , the well-known BBC figure Wilfred Pickles has appropriate vinegar . As one expects by now from a Waterhouse-Hall script , the dialogue is lean and swift , the characters generally well understood and distilled . The exception to this is Miss Christie 's role , which seems rootless and weakly motivated . There is also a weakness in the device of the firm 's Christmas calendars : zoo of them that Billy omitted to mail and has kept in his wardrobe at home . ( He has pocketed the postage money . ) Why are they so difficult to get rid of ? And if it is difficult , why does he carry them back to the office itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the toilet ? The sequence seems forced . In contrast are numerous subtle and felicitous touches , like the dance band on the midnight train by which Billy and his girl plan to leave for London . The musicians ' sleaziness seems to predict the future of the runaways . Schlesinger and his authors have a weakness for scenes in which a character sits and thinks until he reaches a decision . ( Billy does it here in his bedroom . ) But this director knows how to get the most out of his settings ( cemetery , office , hospital , sooty hills ) and how to make scenes flow in and out of rooms , up and down stairs , through streets , like coursing water . In his increasing skill with the film form and with actors , there is the sense of a watchful , responsive talent . Despite its North Country setting , this is not just one more English social-realist film , telling us of the plight ? - fixed or altering ? of the working class . As is made clear with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here is with the new middle class , enlarging in Britain as it has already enlarged here , with the young among them deluded by propaganda of possibilities into believing that all things are possible for them . The facile comparison of Billy with Waiter Mitty does not hold . Mitty is a middle-aged householding husband whose fate is molded and made , who knows it and dreams instead of drinking . Billy is still in process of realizing his boundaries , has not yet quite reached them . The mythology of advertising , the benzedrine of mass communications implant and pump up the dream . ( Billy 's idea of escape and realization is to become a script writer for a comic . ) Industrial democracy ( " All Things Are Equally On Sale to All ? As Long as You All Keep Buying " ) must make him believe that all things are possible : so that he will buy the magazines , the TV set , the pop record , the new ties . If they will make him look and act and talk like Frank Sinatra , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will never leave the little humdrum street . First , there is not room at the top , not that much . Second , only extraordinary luck or drive ( more important than extraordinary abilities ) can blast him upward . Some do it ; many more do not , and can , if they choose , console themselves with fantasies . What is needed , of course , is anger at the professional lies , the false promises of possibilities that , even when realized , are not worth much . The few at the top get their pink Cadillacs by pushing the dope-dreams of pink Cadillacs . Billy Liar is a good allegory of the striptease that the Bitch Goddess performs , just out of reach , before she sends the wide-eyed watcher back to solitary satisfactions. 