@@494501

It is no accident , but also no credit to those who affect an enthusiasm for liberal democratic order , that " support your local police " bumper stickers have come to be taken as a declaration of enthusiasm for right-wing , anti-libertarian orthodoxy . And while there are historical and social explanations of the estrangement of the liberal left from local and other police establishments , there is little excuse for the antipathy or scholarly indifference shown toward police work . For , as James Wilson points out in the introduction to his remarkably contemplative book , there is scarcely any public agency that affects the lives of more people . And there is no alternative to public law enforcement , other than the less appealing military state . Professor Wilson does not attempt to mediate between opponents and supporters of contemporary police methods . His is a social scientist 's book . He attempts to distinguish the various processes that make up what we call police work , to identify the forces that determine what policemen do and how they do it , to delineate differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to explore the possibility that these differences express " community " rather than purely bureaucratic attitudes and decisions . At the root of his inquiries , however , is a skepticism about current efforts to " reform " the police organization by decentralizing police activities , and by granting to community constituencies a voice in the business of deciding how police are to do their job . It is a skepticism that proceeds from a virtually inexhaustible attention to the procedural and political details that make police performance what it is , and from a tough-minded , anti-polemical attitude toward the balancing of political ideals with political institutions and processes . Wilson takes pains to point out , in a work of almost numbing scholarly deSorting Out the Cops by G. Michael Curtis tachment , that a number of distinctions are crucial . The first and most Ibvious is between the policeman 's duty to maintain order and his obligation to enforce the law . How a patrolman " maintains order , " ? how scrupulously he quiets drunks , involves himself in family or other boisterous disputes , pursues speeding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference in our judgment of him . At the same time his " enforcement of the law , " a function in which he has much less discretion , will tend to vary little from department to department . The question of discretion is important . In other bureaucratic organizations the range of discretion widens as one rises higher in the bureaucracy , but the reverse is true of the police . Patrolmen have an unenviable burden of discretion in deciding how aggressive or patient or legalistic or tolerant to be on their beat , and the police administrator , Wilson argues , may influence only the general tenor of that performance . At this point , the author offers his second crucial distinction ? between watchman style , with its dominant concern for the " order maintenance " aspect of the police function , and legalistic style , which stresses " law enforcement . " The difference , as Wilson 's study of eight community police departments demonstrates , can be striking . In Oakland , California , for instance , a " legalistic " police department issued nearly 91,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 000 population . In Albany , New York , only 1,368 tickets , or 11.4 per i , 000 population , were issued during the same period . Both fall into Wilson 's " high-crime cities " category , but differ sharply in police style and hence in their management of social problems that are extrinsic to , but overlap , the conventional police function . The " watchman " style stresses , for example , an indulgence of social unrest so long as it is more or less localized and self-regulating . In practice , this means that minority groups , specifically Negroes ( though in some communities Mexican-Americans or Puerto THE NEW REPUBLIC Ricans ) are often left to their own devices , so long as the stresses of the ghetto , or slum life do not spread beyond their physical boundaries . Where the law is not uniformly enforced in these " outsider " communities , Wilson notes , the process of self-regulation takes hold . But this process is erratic and nontransferable to the broader community . Hence the estrangement of so many Negroes from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structures of which they are nominally a part . The watchman style presumes to be benign , choosing not to prosecute the law vigorously in areas where to do so invites strong community hostility and risks greater unheaval . But in its tolerance of localized disorder , it discourages localized respect for police authority and weakens belief in the legitimacy of the political structures to which the police are responsible . Still another curious consequence of the watchman style , says Wilson , is that it " places heavy demands on the constraining influences of community and familial norms . " Where those norms are weak , or the police believe them to be , it may be assumed that arrest , or the use of physical force , is the " only way of maintaining order . " As a result , the " Negro arrest rate for intoxication in Albany is twice as high as that for whites . " By contrast Oakland , which is much more aggressive in enforcing the law , arrests whites at a much higher rate than Negroes . Where police tend to emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disorder in Negro sections of the community . And as a corollary , when they do crack down on Negroes they do so disproportionately and with greater force . While the legalistic style is more impartial in its assertion of police authority , it is also more punitive and less sensitive to distinctions based on youth or other social factors . And , Wilson writes , " because the legalistic police style encourages patrolmen to take a law enforcement view of the situations they encounter , it also encourages them to take as their standard of justice one which assumes that the function of the law is to punish , on the basis of individual culpability , those who depart from the behavior required by the law . " No one who watched the Democratic convention last August will quickly forget the demonstration of the legalistic police style . But it is consistent with the Wilson model that Mayor Daley and his top police officials were so indignant at the charge that they had acted with greater ferocity than the situation required . The Chicago police performance was impartially brutal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selectivity was there . It should be no surprise that those responsible for it were so virtuous in self-defense . There is a phrase that echoes throughout Wilson 's book , when the scholarly strain of objectivity gives way to theoretical impatience . " It is far from clear that what the police adminster is justice . " " It is not yet clear exactly in what ways , if at all , middle-class college-educated men make better police officers . " " It is not clear that redistributing authority over the police is the proper means for involving the police more deeply in neighborhood affairs , for choosing more explicitly what police style we prefer , and for providing the patrolman with more guidance in keeping order . " Neither is it clear to Wilson or to other students 