@@488103

It is ironic , in this year when both major parties ( and of course George Wallace ) are soliciting Ole Massa 's vote , that the black man can be the decisive factor in how the region goes . In 1964 , just over 2 million Negroes , were registered to vote in the South . This year the figure is up to 3,112,000 . Since 1962 Negro voter registration in the South has more than doubled , with no comparable increase in white registration ; the face of every sixth voter in the South today is black . In contrast with his historic alienation from , and victimization by , Southern politics , the black man has recently been making solid political gains throughout the region . As a registered and active voter , as an office seeker and officeholder , the black man has become in the 1960s a major participant , in the South 's political process . THE NATION/ October 21 ? 1968 Negroes are gradually reshaping Byzantine Southern politics by struggling from a position of virtually no political status in 1944 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state and local races . Similarly , Negroes can now determine how Southern states will cast their electoral votes in 1968 . The Presidential election , of 1964 , and the state-wide and Congressional elections in the South in 1966 , supply precedents for saying that the Negro vote can swing this year 's election in the region , and ( who knows ? ) in the nation . A study by the Southern Regional Council of the 1964 election shows that of the six Southern states carried by Lyndon Johnson , four ( Arkansas , Florida , Tennessee and Virginia ) would have gone for Goldwater had it not been for the black vote . One other , North Carolina , might have gone Republican . Oply in his native Texas , among the eleven states of the South , did Mr. Johnson clearly receive the majority of white votes . And in the five states carried by Goldwater , Negro registration was abnormally low , lagging behind the regional average . In the 1966 election , the black vote supplied the winning margin for a U.S. Senator , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition , a number of Negroes were elected to public office at state and local levels . Today there are nearly 300 black elected officials in the South and the number is expected to go above 300 in this November 's elections . To be sure , the growing black vote has not sil6hced racism in the South , as was hoped several years ago . The 1966 gubernatorial campaigns in Georgia , Alabama and Florida are examples of racist victories . The same could be said of the 1967 Mississippi governor 's contest . Indeed , it could be argued that the rise of black political influence , along with other advances made by the Negroes , has intensified racism in the region . The white South obviously feels that the blacks have gone too fat in their demands for justice and equality . Integration of lunch counters and public facilities , desegregation of the voting booths and token desegregation of the schools  --  although fought at every turn  --  are thought to be enough , if not too much . While the percentage of Negro voters is up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registration has matched , or nearly matched , new Negro registration . Events this year have ' also demonstrated what black people have known all along  --  that the South has no monopoly on racism . George Wallace 's incredible campaign has made obvious this sociological fact . In the Johnson-Goldwater race for the Presidency racism was a controlling factor in the South . Johnson and Goldwater ' offered two distinct views on the race question , and the issue therefore caused mass defections of previously Democratic white voters to Goldwater , and of previously Republican black voters to Johnson . But in 1968 , with " law and order ? a major issue , the shadow of racism hangs over au entire national campaign . Given all this , along with the candidacies of Humphrey , Nixon and Wallace , where will the Southern Negro vote go in November ? The fact is that the Southern Negro has the franchise but no choice . As in 1964 , the Republicans have failed to offer the black people a can-397 didate for the Presidency ; they wrote off the Negro vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional incentive to vote for Humphrey . This does not mean that Southern Negroes are irrevocably committed to the Democrats . They vote their interests and they vote for the candidate or party acceptable to their aspirations and their dignity . For example , in Pine Bluff , Ark. , in 1964 , Negroes voted 97.8 per cent for President Johnson and 88.5 per cent for the Republican candidate for governor . In 1966 , Negroes in South Carolina and other parts of the South gave key support to Democratic candidates . In the Arkansas governor 's race , however , Negroes gave decisive support to the Republican nominee . Nor is there , this year , great personal affection for Mr. Humphrey . Had Robert Kennedy lived and won the Democratic nomination , he would have enjoyed the overwhelming support of black people in the South . He was a man who cared about their problems , and they remembered his brother . They also remembered Robert Kennedy 's service as attorney general ; they listened to his speeches . They saw him in the Mississippi Delta in-Z9s vestigating and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The death of Senator Kennedy , along with that of Martin Luther King , leaves a void in the hearts of black men in this election year . Of course , Hubert Humphrey is no stranger to blacks in the South . Negroes either remember or have heard of his courageous leadership in behalf of civil rights at past Democratic conventions . Southern Negroes recognize that he has long championed the cause of justice and equality , and continues to do so . As Vice President , however , Mr. Humphrey 's image has been somewhat tarnished . His photographed embrace of Georgia 's Gov . Lester Maddox was very disturbing . What kind of politics is that , the Negroes asked ? Humphrey 's obvious courtship of Southern Governors in his bid for the Democratic nomination was poorly received . Did he really believe he could count on McKeithen , they ask in Louisiana ? What is his actual position on Vietnam ? The blacks are becoming increasingly concerned about that faraway war . Finally , why would Sen. Robert Byrd of West Virginia be the keynote speaker at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puzzled . Nixon has no positive record in the field of civil rights , nor has he been identified with the cause of black people . His call for law and order , his criticism of the Supreme Court , the reported promises to Southerners on school desegregation , and the roles of Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and " Bo " Callaway of Georgia in his campaign are not calculated to win him the black vote . From what we have seen and heard in the South , the-crowds Nixon attracts across the country are lily white , attracting few , if any , Negroes . Wallace , of course , ? is not in contention for black votes . However , his presence in the campaign will be a factor in getting Negro citizens to the polls on Election Day . Many blacks will vote against Wallace as much as they will vote for one of the other candidates . The Wallace brand of racism generally insures a good black turn-out wherever it is applied . The 1966 governor 's face in Alabama illustrates this point . Wallace was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing in . In the primary , 74 per cent of the 235,000 Negroes registered in Alabama voted . This was a remarkable showing , since more than half of the Negro registration had been added in the months leading up to the election and thus were voting for the first time in their lives . The white turn-out in the election was 61 per cent of the white registration . Candidates aside , the 1968 conventions of the major parties are additional influences on the black vote in the South . The Republican delegations from the South were almost entirely white , a departure from the older tradition of heavy black representation on Southern delegations to GOP conventions . There were only four Negro regular delegates from the region  --  two from Arkansas , one from Tennessee and one from Georgia . Black representation nation-wide at Miami , delegates and alternates , was only 3.5 per cent . Except for the address by Sen. Edward Brooke , Negroes were almost invisible . THE NATION/October 21 , 1968 At the Democratic convention , on the other hand , 381 black delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the South alone , even before the seating of the Mississippi and Georgia challenge delegations , there were forty-three regular Negro delegates and fifty alternates . Four years ago , Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer of Ruleville , Miss. , was on the outside trying to get into the Democratic convention . This year , black people across the nation saw Mrs. Hamer inside the convention , speaking from the podium and trying to get her black brothers from Alabama into the hall . In addition to , seating the biracial delegation from Mississippi , the ' convention decided to divide the Georgia vote between the regulars and the challengers , driving the enraged Lester Maddox out of the convention and letting Julian Bond in . The abolition of the unit rule was an important change for Negroes . The nominations of black men for President and Vice President , however symbolic , had real meaning for black people . Thus Negroes in the South tend to see more hope for their aspirations and needs within the Democratic Party . Their actions at the ballot box in November may reflect more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeds , than a loyalty to the nominee . As the election approaches , it becomes increasingly clear that Nixon has little hope of attracting black voters . His October Southern tour offers no evidence that the candidate is trying to draw black voters , though obviously his Southern strategy must somehow include them . At the same time , if Humphrey is to carry any state in the South , he must have an enthusiastic turn-out of blackvoters  --  plus ( such as it is in the South ) the moderate-toliberal white vote . This combination , along with a split in the rest of the white vote between Nixon and Wallace , could put Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Tennessee and Arkansas in the Democratic column . I would concede only Alabama , Mississippi and Louisiana to Wallace . Georgia could go either way . The nearly 350,000 Negro votes in Georgia could provide Humphrey with the 34 per cent of the vote needed to get the state 's twelve electoral votes . Florida is the only Nixon certainty in the South , Texas being too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North , Negroes in the South are not indifferent about the current Presidential race . Yet you can not feel today the enthusiasm and excitement that existed in 1964 . Nor do Negroes anticipate victory as they did then . On the contrary , they grudgingly acknowledge that Nixon is likely to win . This November , thousands of black people in the South will be casting their first vote for a President . A large number of additional black ' voters will be participating in a Presidential race for the second time . Voting is still a novelty for Southern Negroes and a Presidential election is one they are least likely to pass up . The crash get-out-the-vote campaigns now under way and growing , under the direction of civil rights organizations and Ideal groups across the South , could lead to a black turn-out at least proportionate to the white turn-out . If that happens , the Democratic nominee has a better chance in the South than most political observers give him . Certainly , the key to a Democratic victory in the South is the black voter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ' expect them not to forget that fact .                     