@@493849

Correspondence Ladies ' Day Sirs : Betty Bavier 's letter " Who is ' Women " ( November 28 ) prompts me to add my comment on Dr. Bettelheim 's article in The New Republic 's Both Anniversary Symposium . I had meant to do so but hesitated . Nobody expects a woman to be objective about being a woman . I feel a little like the finch in Pogo who was told by the Bird-Watcher 's Society : " Here now ! You do n't get to vote on what you are . " I labor under a disadvantage ; I still do not understand what Dr. Betteiheim , in his discussion of male and female roles , means by inner and outer space . The division of labor he observed in the Israeli kibbutz seems to correspond to many primitive divisions of labor : the men go hunting and the women take care of babies . He does imply that the choices available in an agricultural society are different from those available in a complex , industrialized society , but he does not draw the conclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both . He seems to equate hunting with , let us say , business , and taking care of babies with teaching or social work . Here I disagree . I prefer being a secretary to heavy physical labor for obvious reasons ; heavy physical labor is just too hard for me and more sedentary pursuits are far more comfortable . But I far and away prefer physics to teaching . Perhaps Dr. Bettelheim 's image of physics ( or business ) is at fault . Physics is not a " conquering " profession , stereotypes in the newspapers to the contrary ; it strongly resembles the arts . I have done both , and I think I know what I am talking about . Men in business assure me that business administration is by no means the " manipulating " profession Dr. Betteiheim makes it out to be , and that in fact business resembles pottery-making in the oddest way , and pottery-making resembles painting or writing , and painting or writing resembles physics and so on . All activities are manipulating , conquering , receptive . From what I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professions arises from either their specific necessary skills ? or the social stereotypes . Why is business administration " manipulating " while administering , let us say , a nursery school , is not ? The latter is in a traditionally " feminine " area , and nobody would think of an elementary school principal or a nursery school director or the director of a department of social work in the same masculine terms as a " captain of industry . " ( See the recent rash of books and films about business that describes it in terms more appropriate to the Spanish Main . ) Yet the skills can be almost identically the same . I think Dr. Bettelheim is falling into an old fallacy which tries to explain the differences between the sexes ( I believe there are differences ) according to a kind of " division of labor " of human traits . Basic qualities of human organisms like " active-passive " or " pioneering-sustaining " are assigned neatly to the division of the sexes . " Inner space ? outer space " is just such a duality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what it means . ) I suspect that Dr. Bettelheim would find a list of what I consider the real differences to be too scanty , too inexpensive . Statements like " men are stronger than women " or " women have babies " do not satisfy the feeling of sexual difference that is based on sexual attraction . I think the process goes something like this : if I respond so differently to men and women , then certainly men and women must be very different . For centuries men have insisted that women are mysterious , secret , fleshly , earthly and so forth , the tenor of the song being that qualities actually attributable to sexual attraction and sexual pleasure are assigned to what provokes the attraction and the pleasure . ( I feel myself that there is something ? well , something different about men , something closer to the earth , something less reflecting , less sensible , less explainable than women , altogether less human , if human is what I am . ) But sex is not an absolute , essential quality any more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens . Children think that " children " and " parents " are unchangeable categories and can not imagine that some day they will be parents and have children of their own . But their parents know that this will happen . To get back to Dr. Bettelheim , I agree with Betty Bavier . I do not want a " special genius " for anything . I have had a special genius for virtue ( loth Century ) , a special genius for pleasing ( 18th Century ) , and a special genius for obedience ( 17th Century ) . None of them has been to my advantage . Enough is enough . Too many men have said too many things about women . Dr. Bettelheim recognizes many of the difficulties women face nowadays and that is to his credit . But the game of definitions ( women-arelike-this , women-are-like-that ) is pernicious at best . His " special genius " is too close to definitions that have been used over and over again in the past and used in bad faith . It is always the men who do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious or scholarly essay by a woman which describes men as special , as limited in this way or that , and as having particular talents in certain directions . Of course it is not bad to conserve , to cherish . But let us please allow people whatever talents or inclinations they actually posses , and leave the mysticism ? or poetry ? or whatever you want to call it ? out of then argument . Daedalus held a symposium on women a few years ago ? nobody holds symposia on men , of course ? in which some of the participants were actually women themselves . The men ( except for David Riesman who always treats stereotypes as just that , stereotypes ) spent their time in ingenious , enraptured discussions of how wonderfully different women were from men . The women , without exception , were defensive . " Never mind that " ( they seemed to be saying ) " give me maternity leaves , give me respect , give me flexible hours and leave to do what I want , enter whatever profession I want , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am ! " Old habits die hard , even in psychiatrists . Joanna Amateau New York , N.Y . Commenting upon an article in The New Republic 's 5oth Anniversary issue , Betty Bavier suggests that its author , Bruno Bettelheim , may be subscribing to a new stereotype of womanhood , especially perhaps for having agreed with Erik Erikson in his article " Inner and Outer Space ; Reflections on Womanhood , " which appeared in the Spring 1964 issue of Daedalus . Mrs. Bavier asks , " Who is ' women ' " ? The theme of the Erikson article is largely developed from observations he made of ten , eleven , and twelve year old boys and girls ( and not women ) in a study conducted at least fifteen years ago at the University of California . One conclusion drawn by Erikson is that while boys produced constructions emphasizing " outer space , " those of girls emphasized " inner space . " These findings are then speculatively related to basic anatomical considerations ? " the groundplan of the human body . " Despite the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow that findings in a comparable study for women would be the same . For one thing , in the course of growing into womanhood girls may encounter frustrating competitive conditions which bring characteristically masculine attitudes to the fore . In any case , there is evidence in the Erikson article to suggest that the group of girls in question included some who were atypical such as tomboys , with well-developed " outer " inclinations ? incipient representatives , perhaps , of Mrs. Bavier 's " womanly rebel . " Thus all may rest assured that " what-every-woman-should be " is , in every respect , sufficiently flexible to include , for example , a natural genius both for nursing and for mathematics . What is crucial is that women , if professionals , should find themselves doing that for which they are most suited . This is likely to be that which they most enjoy . Finally , it can be said that both Professors Bettelheim and Erikson uld support Mrs. Bavier 's goal for women , " a flexible society that will let us find ourselves , each in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Subsidizing the States Sirs : I object to Edwin L. Dale 's contention in his article , " Subsidizing the States " ( November 28 ) that , " At this early stage , it appears that by far the weightiest argument against the plan Ito turn back to the states a portion of each year 's federal income tax collections certainly from the liberal side ( my emphasis ) , is the federal government should insist on strings over the spending of the money . " His Machiavellian answer to this implies that if we are not getting strings , something is better than nothing . I side with those " who see a fundamental of democracy at stake in not allowing groups and individuals to make their own decisions on matters that concern mainly themselves . " This does not deny the need for earmarked grants in areas of special national interest . However , one of the main purposes of the Heller proposal is to help state and local governments fill the gap between shrinking revenue sources and increased demands for expenditures . . . . I realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strings attached " program . But this could be inconsequential when compared to the misallocations and distortions to local budgets caused by a program defined rigidly from the top . Gerald W. Sazama University of Wisconsin LSD-25 Sirs : I was disappointed to see such a review as Alan Watts ' " Who Will Run Your Nervous System " appear in The New Republic ( November 28 ) . Of what significance is it that L5D " even in minute doses " has its characteristic effect ? What is a " minute dose " anyway ? Is it correct to say that one 's " thoughts and feelings interpret " information " our senses screen " ? Our senses do not screen information , they gather it . Our thoughts and feelings do not interpret this information , they arise from it . If LSD is to be called a " mind-opener , " why not define the term ? Is a telescope used for several purposes ( not , " used in various ways " ) such as voyeurism or astronomy really like using LSD ? Then too , alcohol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Dr. Watts cites , is not a narcotic and is addicting , if at all , only in extreme circumstances . One could go on . Perhaps LSD is an avenue to mystical experience ; 1 do not know . But LSD , which does cause hallucinations , disorders of consciousness and pyschotic symptoms is not , contrary to Mr. Watts ' suggestion , a back entrance to sanity . I have never before heard sanity equated with mystical experience . And to further suggest that " official psychiatry " ( whatever that is ) opposes a . shortcut to mental health shows ignorance of the goals of most psychiatrists who are , by the way , physicians , not priests . This latter distinction is clear in the minds of most medical men , even if it is not clear in Mr. Watts ' mind . As for the fatuous comment about " five years of therapy at fifty dollars a week , " one can not help observing that there is no shortage of psychiatric patients yet and , unfortunately , LSD even by the pound would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other " methods of molding human character makes fanciful reading indeed , but what in the world does this have to do with the transient effects of LSD ? " Transformation of personality " by LSD has yet to be demonstrated . Finally , if restriction of LSD usage is infringement of a constitutional right , as Mr. Watts suggests , is not the same true of the use of opium , the tranquilizers ( which are not addicting ) , antibiotics and digitalis ? These drugs , at least , are of proven benefit . Kurt Link , M.D. New York , N.Y . Winning Without War Sirs : The New Republic of August 8 , carrying C. B. Marshall 's review of my book , Winning Without War , just caught up with me . Mr. Marshall writes " South Vietnam 's late Ngo Dinh Diem is cryptically referred to as a playboy . " After referring to Diem as despot number one ( page 139 ) , I wrote there : " Diem 's tyranny cast long shadows on the policy of intervention for progress when this playboy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only proved unable to suppress pro-Communist forces , but turned American arms and American-trained and financed forces against the non-Communist Buddhist majority of his country , to implement his religious persecution laws , to snatch bodies of priests who had burned themselves alive in protest against his rule , to arrest teenage students , to impose one of the most corrupt tyrannies on earth . " " Indonesia 's policy is alleged to have moved significantly closer to the West in 1963 , " writes Mr. Marshall . This is , indeed , my statement ( see page 149 ) , only , the word " significantly " was added by Mr. Marshall ; the whole point of my chapter was that such shifts in foreign policy orientations are neither stable nor , in themselves , of any significance . Above all , Mr. Marshall spends more than half of his free associations on my book to denounce my " multiple-toppling " approach . ( I devoted about a paragraph to it . ) He characterizes it thus : " If a regime is not up to the mark in economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reader must have realized that this is quite fantastic . I suggested nothing which , by any stretch of imagination , could be so interpreted . I stated that , if a terror government is established in a country like Haiti , it might be justified to support its removal , and I warned that one is not to expect the next day a flourishing democracy to be established . This warning was necessary , as disappointment of naive hopes , following the coup in the Dominican Republic , prevented a more systematic support to opposition to terror regimes in other countries . Other comments by Mr. Marshall are similarly ill-founded . Amitai Etzioni Columbia University Corridors of Power Sirs : In your usual admirable book review number , where you do measured justice to such disparate and important talents as Howard Mumford Jones , Cyril Connolly , Arthur Koestler , and Robert Hutchins , I find it slightly irritating that you have printed also Malcolm Muggeridge 's autobiographical saunter through C. P. Snow 's Corridors of Power ( November 28 ) . Of course , since Muggerdige ? excuse me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malicious both in print and on the Jack Paar show , I suppose he has a right to have his say somewhere . Nevertheless , as one who prefers measured justice to the malice that often passes as the whole of wit nowadays , I hope Mr. Muggeridge will not review the two or four novels promised to complete the Strangers and Brothers series , whether he reads them or not . Harvey Curtis Webster Louisville , Kentucky The Curse of Official Culture Sirs : Robert Brustein 's " The Curse of Official Culture " in your Anniversary Issue gratifies the hope that men of honestl and power still exist . He has proved that he contains the very audacity he recommends . We need just this and more of this in all American criticism . 