@@491965

Boswell of the Jet Set T o many Americans Igor Cassini is a name with a vague but powerful aura of glamour . A small , dapper man with brown , wavy hair , he is not someone you 'd recognize immediately on the street . He is another kind of celebrity . Under the name of Cholly Knickerbocker , Cassini writes a society-gossip column which the Hearst Corporation syndicates to 50-odd newspapers and a claimed 20,000,000 readers . Under the corporate name of Martial he controls a public-relations firm with fees estimated last year at nearly 5800,000 . His brother Oleg is Jacqueline Kennedy 's favorite American dress designer , and Igor himself has enjoyed cordial relations with the first family . He named Jacqueline Bouvier as the top debutante of 1948 : he attended her wedding to the young Senator from Massachusetts . Cassini 's third wife , Charlene , is a daughter of Charles B. Wrightsman , an immensely wealthy oilman and next-door neighbor of the President 's father , Joseph P. Kennedy , in Palm Beach , Fla . This whirl of high-level activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the jet set. - Explaining why he prefers this term to the outmoded " caf ? society , " he once told a reporter , " The jet set is people who live fast , move fast , know the latest thing and do the unusual and the unorthodox . " " Unorthodox " is a mild word for some of Igor Cassini 's activities , which might surprise the millions of readers who savor Cholly Knickerbocker 's tidbits about the jet set . For one thing , there is a strange relationship between Cholly Knickerbocker and the Martial public-relations firm . Martial 's clients , and people associated with them , have an astonishing way of turning up repeatedly in Cassini 's column . This alone is enough to justify some angry questions from anyone who believes in a free and independent American press . But Cassini also likes to dabble in American foreign relations on behalf of such interests as the government of Mexico and the Brazilian Trade Bureau . He now has attracted the critical eye of the United States Government . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington , has Cassini under close scrutiny . The Department of Justice also is probing Cassini 's affairs . Both inquiries center on the question of Cassini 's relations with the bloodthirsty dictatorship of the late Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo , " El Benefactor " of the Dominican Republic . The glamorous Igor has already testified before a Federal grand jury , and by the time this article appears in print he may well be testifying before the Senate committee . Cassini claims entry to society through his family and its connections . Born Igor Loiewski in Sevastopol , Russia , in 1915 , Cassini lists himself in Who 's Who as a count , a title authorized by the last czar , but the family fled to Italy to escape the Bolshevik Revolution . When Igor finally emigrated to the United States in 1937 his mother urged him to take her own name of Cassini because it was better known here . Her father , Count de Cassini , had been the czar 's ambassador to Washington , and she had been his hostess and a belle around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America remember who you are , " she cried to the departing Igor . " Cassini , Cassini ! " For a while Cassini bounced around in a variety of jobs , such as selling cold cream . But things perked up when his mother followed him to the New World a year later . Cashing in on her old Washington acquaintances , she got her son a job on the now-defunct Washington Titnes-Herold . Not long afterward Cassini began writing his first gossip column , called " These Charming People . " Among these charming people Cassini included the late Harry Hopkins , President Roosevelt 's confidential aide . He wrote a column describing a lavish party given for Hopkins at the height of wartime austerity in 1943 . Cassini still thinks it was an act of revenge that he was drafted the next week . After the war ( he served in psychological warfare , then on the armed-services newspaper Stars and Stripes ) Hearst executives still remembered the way Cassini had brought a light touch of gossip to the traditionally staid coverage of Washington society , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York Journal-American . The column was already an institution , founded in 1919 by Maury Paul , the man who had coined the phrase " caf ? society . " Cassini , who had come to the United States barely 10 years earlier , was only0 30 . But in the strange world of gossip and publicity he was already on top , As a " newspaperman " Cassini rarely sees the inside of the Journal-American . Surrounded by hundreds of czarist tin . soldiers , he works instead out of hit ' Park Avenue offices at Martial , where the telephone rings from time to time with an item for the column . ( The bulk of it , however , is received by an assistant . Cassini has hired , who remains on duty at the newspaper . ) His day begins about ten in the morning and usually ends around two A.M. He lunches at a select few Manhattan restaurants , chiefly the Colony . There was a time when he raced to in dozen-odd parties each night . He now sends his assistant , Liz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concen-trates on private parties and such elab-orate shindigs as the April in Paris Ball . In many ways Cassini 's gossip column is much like any other . It is full of fairly unimportant items about who goes with whom to what nightclub . But it also includes an extraordinary number of items about people associated with the clients of Cassini 's public-relations firm . The name of Martial despite its warlike sound is actually a sort of anagram made up from the names of Cassini 's son and daughter and that of the daughter of brother Oleg . They are , in the order of appearance , Marina , Tina and Alexander . Cassini founded the company in 1955 , served as its president and current ! ) , is a director and majority stockholder . Cassini told me he sees no conflict of interest in the situation . " This is a very important point for me , " he said . " I want you to be satisfied . I want to dispel the rumors . Go as deep as you want into that subject . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found : One Martial client was fashion designer Florence Lustig , in his column Cassini wrote , " The real mystery in Palm Beach is who is wearing the real diamonds and who is wearing the new Lustigems . The latter , created by Florence Lustig , are impossible to tell from the real thing . . .. The Lustig salon will not reveal , even under torture , the names of famous and delighted purchasers . " Another client was a company called Island Development , one of whose interests involved a ski resort at Sugar-bush , Vermont , " If you do n't want to travel that far for a schuss , " Cassini advised his readers , " try Sugarbush , Vermont , where the smart set has discovered its own versions of St. Moritz or ' El Morocco on the Rocks . ' Sugarbush boasts a popular new bistro this year . Adjacent to the Inferno Lodge , it is Michael Butler 's hot spot , the Seven Deadly Sins . " Butler was one of the organizers of Island Development , which also had interests in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island . A typical Cassini bulletin flashed . " Spyros Skouras and Joe Pasternak of the movie elite have joined the smart set 's newest venture , the St. Tropez Club at Talisman , Fire Island . " Despite Cassini 's denial of any link between Martial and his column , Martial 's own records indicate just the opposite . Lanvin Parfums , for example , was a Martial client , In a report to Lanvin from Martial that 1 obtained , found under the heading of " publicity placements " numerous plugs credited directly to Cassini . Typically , from his newspaper column , one said , " Knickerbocker : Lanvin party . Lanvin 2 mentions . " Another , from a magazine column Cassini wrote , reported , " Lanvin Salon mentioned  --  also Arp  --  ge , My Sin , Crescendo and Spanish Geranium . " Still a third , from an article Cassini had bylined , boasted , " Story on Lanvin party . Lanvin , Crescendo and Arpage . " Yet another Martial client is the Colony Hotel in Palm Beach . Martial records disclose that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glances at his Cholly Knickerbocker column show that it 's filled with references to the " chic , " " elegant " and " swank " Colony Hotel . Sometimes Cassini hits two birds with one item . One column noted , " Publisher-industrialist Russell Maguire and his Mrs. stopping over at the swanky Colony Hotel in Palm Beach before going on to Jamaica . " This may not be of overwhelming interest to Knickerbocker 's readers , but it presumably delights the Colony Hotel , and also Maguire , one of whose enterprises Cassini had landed as a Martial client . Similarly , Cassini might report that Mr. and Mrs. Edward Gropper " arc down at the Colony Hotel in Palm Beach celebrating their wedding anniversary . " Readers who have no more interest in Cropper than in Maguire might as well know that Cropper heads a cigar company which retains Martial for its public relations . gest-Dressed Wives Cassini does n't take all his clients to the Colony , however , When he prepared a list of the world 's best-dressed women he named Jacqueline Kennedy , Mrs. Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have signed up with Martial for public relations . One of them was Mrs. Edward Gilbert , wife of the Wall Street wheeler-dealer who skipped briefly to Brazil last summer after some dubious machinations in the stock market involving funds of his firm , E. L. Bruce Company . Gilbert had hired Martial to oversee public relations for the Bruce company . Cassini also filled his column with social plugs for the Gilberts like " At the party were such other well-known New York faces as Ambassador Aly Khan , Eddie and Rhoda Gilbert ... " Cassini took a different tack after Gilbert fled to Brazil . One column , in the form of a memo from Cassini 's secretary to him , declared , " 1 read with amusement where the other papers say that Gilbert was one of the big backers of the swank Lc Club . Soon they will say it was he who started Disneyland . " The fact is that Gilbert really was a major backer of Le Club , a private-membership New York nightclub that Cassini helped found . Cassini also served as its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so goes the jet set . Cassini is forever finding fashionable affairs crowded with people who are connected with Martial clients , In one column he managed to work in eight such folk . At a party were not only the Eddie Gilberts but the Basil Goulandrises . Goulandris , a wealthy Greek , heads a Martial client called Orion Shipping and Trading . At a society gala mentioned further along , Cassini reported the presence of the Ed Groupers and " also spotted Harry Winston . " Winston , a Fifth Avenue jeweler , is also a public-relations account at Martial . Aside from his column , there are other curious aspects to Cassini 's publicity activities , One Martial client which brought in 530,000 a year was Fiat Motor Company . When Fiat was casting about for someone to mount a new sales campaign , Martial recommended an advertising agency , which won the account . For " special services on the Fiat account " Martial got back from the ad agency a percentage of the gross billing paid to the agency by Fiat . This advertisJanuary 19,1963 ing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In due time Fiat became dissatisfied with the agency . Despite arguments by Cassini , Fiat decided to drop the advertising agency . The agency , not too surprisingly , promptly dispensed with Martial 's public-relations services . Another curious maneuver began when a number of socially prominent people were suddenly invited to Cassini 's home . 1 later talked to four of them , and each told me that he had the impression they were there simply to pose for a publicity photograph on behalf of a charity called the Tolstoy Foundation . Everyone on arriving signed a release without bothering to look it over . Some months later , to their amazement , they found themselves in a full-page liquor ad which appeared in several national magazines . None of the four people I talked to was aware that Martial received 324,000 a year to handle public relations for the liquor shown in the ad . One of the people in the photograph was Douglas Fairbanks Jr . He says , " 1 was completely persuaded that it was all a promotion for the Tolstoy Foundation . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charity . I had no idea it was to be used for a commercial advertisement . " Colonel Serge Obolensky , a New York hotel man and a director of the Tolstoy Foundation , also appeared in the ad and also feels as Fairbanks does . After a series of stiff letters from Fairbanks and Obolensky , Cassini said it was all a " misunderstanding " and he would see what he could do . I learned from the Tolstoy Foundation , which is hanging on by its financial fingertips . that it finally received two checks . One for 3250 arrived December 28 , 1961 . Another , for 3750 , came on May 23 , 1962 . A former Martial executive describes Cassini 's standards of ethics about his column and his public-relations business as " curious . " A newspaperman who formerly served as Cassini 's assistant on the column told me the column was used to " court " clients for his public-relations firm . But Cassini himself heatedly denies this . He says that he is concerned only with " policy " at Martial , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The publisher of the New York Journal-American , Joseph Kingsbury Smith , expresses confidence in Cassini : " We have assurances from Mr. Cassini and we rely on his word that no Martial clients are in his column . " The same week that t spoke to Kingsbury Smith , however , Cassini 's column prominently noted the forthcoming publication of the autobiography of architect Edward Stone . " The book , due of Horizon Press Nov. 19 , " Cassini wrote in part , " is a handsome thing with more than 400 photographs , plans and drawings . " Perhaps nobody would dispute that as an objective judgment , but Martial had contracted to promote the Stone autobiography . Cassini also writes regularly for a Hearst magazine , Town and Country . Not long after I talked to him I read an article he had produced for it . Escape to IL-lexica was the title . Roughly half of the article dealt with the delights an American tourist could find in Mexico . The rest paid homage to former Mexican President Miguel Alernan . Everything Cassini wrote about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that Martial receives a substantial public-relations fee from Mexico and that 5125,000 of it is budgeted to " foster and promote tourist travel. - A leman , as head of the Mexican National Tourist Council . decides who handles the account . Labors roe Trujillo Of all Cassini 's activities , none is more curious and more complicated than his labors on behalf of the Dominican Republic 's Trujillo regime . Trujillo , who had run his island as a personal her for a generation , had gone to considerable trouble and expense to convince Amer-leans that he was a good friend . At one time or another he retained such figures as Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr . and Morris Ernst in hopes they would aid his cause . But Trujillo remained an unpopular figure  --  despite a flurry of praises from Cholly Knickerbocker . " The Dominican Republic was unexpectedly peaceful after all the stories I 'd read and heard in Washington , " Cassini once reported . " . . . I was amazed to get a glimpse of the Generalissimo taking a constitutional with a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at him , an old woman approached him to sell him a flower . " Cassini himself dates his extreme interest in the Dominican Republic from early in 1961 . When I asked him about it he told me that he had learned from such experts as Dominican playboy Porfirio Rubirosa that the Communists planned a move to overthrow . Trujillo . Cassini says that he brought up the matter during a visit to his father-in-law , Charles Wrightsman , in Palm Beach in February , 1961 . He spoke of it not only to neighbor Joseph P. Kennedy but to Allen Dulles , then director of the Central Intelligence Agency , who was a guest at the Wrightsman home . On the basis of Rubirosa 's reports of an impending Communist revolt , Cassini " informally " promoted a confidential visit to the Dominican Republic by a member of President Kennedy 's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board , former Under Secretary of State Robert D. Murphy . In actual fact , the main pressure on Trujillo at the lime came not from any Communists but from the State Department , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Dominican Republic as a result of Trujillo 's attempt to assassinate the president of Venezuela . Cassini went along with Murphy " at his own expense . " Whatever conclusions may have been reached by the Murphy mission soon became academic as far as Trujillo was concerned . On May 30 he was assassinated by a band of dissident military men . Cassini describes his role of diplomatic middleman as " modest , " but The New York Times . which first revealed the Murphy mission , editorialized : " ... The secret archives of the deposed Trujillo ) regime reveal that Igor Cassini , who retails chichi chatter as Cholly Knickerbocker and whose brother , Oleg , designs dresses for the President 's wife , was instrumental in having a special White House representative assigned to report on whether steps should be taken to prop up the tottering dictatorship . Happily no lasting damage was done ... even though the files indicate that the Trujillo forces were vastly encouraged by the reports they received from Mr. Cassini . " This was not the first time , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dominican Republic affairs . Just how modest remains to be determined by the Cassini Justice Department and Senate investigations . As a result of my own inquiries I can report that Cassini arranged in 1959 for a close friend and business associate to undertake a public-relations program which would portray Trujillo as a " peaceful pro-American " and " anti-Communist , " This friend and business associate was Paul Englander , a New York lawyer in his 70 's , who at the time was the secretary and treasurer of Martial . He retired in May of 1961 . ) Early in 1960 Cassini journeyed to the Dominican Republic , where he met with Englander , a third Martial executive and Trujillo himself to discuss Trujillo 's image in the United States . I first learned of these early links between Cassini and the Trujillo regime last October when I heard that an executive whom Cassini hired to run Martial had resigned in 1959 because of Cassini 's effort to land the Dominican account . The executive , a highly regarded public-relations man named Donald Maher , confirmed the reasons for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forget about the Dominican Republic . He recalls that Cassini replied , " You do n't have to be involved . It will be a separate company , and you wo n't have anything to do with it . " When 1 saw Cassini in his office at Martial he said Rubirosa had tried " once or twice- ro get him to take the Dominican account but that he had refused . Other than that , he denied to me that he had any dealings with the Dominican Republic or Trujillo before 1961 . The foreign-agents ' registry at the Department of Justice seemed to confirm this . Americans representing foreign interests are required to register as well as to explain in detail what they are up to and why . If they do not they are subject to fines of " not more than $10 , - 000 " or imprisonment " for not more than five years , or both . " Martial , which regularly carries foreign accounts , was registered . As officers of Martial , so were Cassini and Englander . The Dominican Republic was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Englander , either individually or corporately , registered elsewhere with the Department of Justice in connection with the Trujillo regime . I then received an anonymous telephone call which suggested that it might be " worthwhile " if i combed the foreign agents ' registry for the names of any employees Cassini had hired during the past five years . I found such a person , and this led me into the incredibly complex web of Cassini 's Latin American affairs . He was Martin T. Birnbaum , who among other things helped Cassini with his column . On August 3 , 1959 , he had registered as an agent for the Dominican Republic , giving his employer as Inter-American Public Relations Ltd . Inter-American , according to the form Birnbaum filled out , had its home office in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . Birnbaum was the only U.S. citizen listed with the Justice Department as having any connection with I nte r- A merican , Further investigation led nowhere at first . inter-American had not been incorporated in either Brazil or the United States . But I subsequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bahamas , British West Indies . Records in Nassau listed Inter-American 's president as one Jo  --  o de Rezende , who resides in Brazil and is a society-gossip columnist there . Cassini is a close enough friend of de Rezende to have attended his wedding . Although he was listed as president , I discovered that de Rezende was a figurehead for Cassini 's business associate , Paul Englander . Englander Got the Bills Birnbaum , as required by law , had itemized a number of expenses he had incurred while working for Inter-American . Since New York telephone and post-office records had no listing for Inter-American as such , I asked several firms who had done business with Inter-American where they sent their bills . They were forwarded , 1 learned , to the office of a New York lawyer  --  Paul Englander . Birnbaum , in his foreign-registration forms , had given his home address as his place of business . When I questioned him about this , however , he said he had worked primarily out of an apartment across the street from Martial . This apartment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Birnbaum 's functions for Inter-American was the apparently modest task of collecting newspaper and magazine articles in the United States that contained favorable references to Trujillo . Birnbaum would then translate them into Spanish and forward them to the Dominican Republic via the Trujillo consulate in New York . In this task Birnbaum had to be assisted by a Martial executive whose native language was Spanish . This executive told me that he had been " requested " by Cassini to help Birnbaum . He added , " I did this editing because it was not in my opinion involving me in any policy matters . " Birnbaum , after some hesitation , told me , " The Dominican account was in my hands for more than a year . Englander was the man I worked for . He paid me . To the best of my knowledge Igor never got anything for this deal . " 1 asked Birnbaum if he knew how representatives of Trujillo got together with Englander . He replied , " Oh , that was Cassini . No question about it . " Next I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public-relations contract with the Truj illo regime . He signed as president of Inter-American . He himself acknowledged this in a recent conversation I had with him , " I have nothing to hide , " he told me . He said that he had got the Dominican account because Cassini " just tossed it my way " and that " I had done a damn good public-relations job for them . " In this respect , Englander added that the Dominican consul in New York at the time , Luis Mercado , was " tickled to death that I was friendly to Cassini. " 33 But when 1 spoke to Mercado , who has taken refuge in suburban Long Island since Trujillo 's downfall , he said that it was only " in recent months " that he had any idea that Englander even knew Cassini , much less that he had been a business associate until May , 1961 . There is another peculiar inconsistency in Englander 's remarks to rne . On the one hand he defiantly declared , " You ca n't find the slightest connection between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found out what kind of questions you were asking . You 're not acting like a reporter ; you 're more like a private detective or a member of the FBI or worse . " On the other hand he said , " If Cassini did anything for Inter-American , it was only at my request . " One point is clear . Paul Englander did not , as the law requires , register as a foreign agent acting on behalf of the Trujillo regime . Despite his complex roles in diplomacy and public relations , Cassini likes to refer to himself as a " newspaperman , " and he takes a certain pride in his achievements . " My function is really that of an observer who comments on the passing parade , " he told me . " If there were an atom bomb dropped and , let 's say , in a thousand years survivors found the columns , they would get sort of an impression of how life  --  a certain part of life  --  was in the United States . I 'm not trying to imply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It describes the activities of celebrities and people with money , not only here but all over the world . " Cassini is especially proud of his various news beats . He related the details of one of them to me : " This was an amusing scoop . Somebody called from Washington one night that they heard Rubirosa was going to marry Barbara Hutton. 1 t seemed fantastic because he was going with Zsa Zsa Gabor . Nobody had heard about Barbara Hutton . I wanted to check it but did n't know how to reach Rubirosa or Hutton . This was in the middle of the night , and I knew I had to break it that night or somebody else would get it if it were true . I tried to trace Zsa Zsa . I called her and got her on the phone and asked to speak to Rubirosa . I caught her unprepared . She said , ' He does n't want to come to the phone . ' I asked her to ask him if he was going to marry Barbara Hutton . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer . I knew if he did n't answer it was true . I had enough facts and I broke the story . " Such is the world of Igor Cassini . Not long ago a scanner of his columns observed , " If you took a year 's supply of them and put them on a pair of old-fashioned scales against a piece of tissue paper , the tissue paper would weigh more . " To a Cassini adherent , any criticism is motivated by " jealousy . " He tends to agree with this . But occasionally a touch of ennui envelops him . " Sometimes I get a little bored by all this , " he told me . " What I 've always wanted to do is write a political column . "                     