@@492134

Today everybody attacks the schools ; they are blamed for everything from our second place in the space race to juvenile fads . Part of the reason for this is that the schools ' job is changing faster than school people are ready or able to admit . Perhaps because there is no other agency that reaches all youth everywhere in the country , the schools are increasingly given the responsibility for everything that happens to kids up to the age of eighteen or so . This trend is speeded by the curtailed place of the family in a child 's world . More and more parents have n't been able . have n't known how or have n't cared enough to give their kids the kind of training , discipline and information they need to get along in the world 's most highly sophisti  --  cated economy . Nor , in many places , have they been will  --  ing to pay the cost of having the schools meet their in  --  creased responsibilities . A few broad-thinking school people have accepted the new responsibilities and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring light into the frustrated and aimless lives of a generation that increasingly feels un  --  wanted . Most have not . Thus the schools ' failure is one of a complex of causes that is leading us to waste a million kids a year . These wasted youngsters are both dropouts and high-school graduates who have learned no skill that any em  --  ployer wants to buy . They are wasted because we neither keep them in school nor give them jobs . One of the weakest links in our educational chain is the failure of present methods to reach about 20 percent of big-city children . They never learn what they could  --  even of the three R 's . Also at fault is our outdated vocational education . Historically , vocational schools have been a kind of dumping ground for students who could n't make it in the academic courses . Historically , too , such schools have been designed around the ancient fifty-fifty formula  --  half the time spent on academic subjects , half in the shops . In most schools the academic half is taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the very methods the trade-school kids did not learn  --  by , which was why they were " dumped " in the first place . Because many of these youngsters ca n't master the academic half , they are denied the shop half they so urgently need . No attempt is made to temper the academic method to the student 's ability ; rather , the method is held inviolate and the student made to conform  --  or quit . So more than half of them quit . In response to their own aspirations and the demands of industry for higher skills , vocational teachers have been seeking higher-and-higher-type students and have been trying to give them higher and higher skills  --  which is fine . But in the process , they have screened out a whole group of youngsters who could profit by the kind of shop train  --  ing that vocational courses offer . Many of the boys who are screened out of vocational courses could spend useful lives in the relatively unskilled services like dry cleaning , shoe repairing , home-appliance repair , or working as countermen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor , the service trades will he needing more and more workers during the next decade . But with very few exceptions trade schools do n't teach these minimal skills . Act ually , I he vocational schools arc in a straitjacket  --  the straitjacket of the law . In order to receive reimbursement under Federal vocational laws  --  the Smith-Hughes and George-Barden acts  --  a state 's program must conform to the fifty-fifty formula and to other provisions of the acts . Too many states slavishly follow the Federal formula even though it does not meet their individual needs . The Federal money amounts to a mere 20 percent of the total spent on vocational education , but the states and com  --  munities feel they must have it . These criticisms are general , and generally true . There are , of course , exceptions to them  --  and also to the spe  --  cific criticisms that follow . The first exception is that all over the country the schools are graduating from their commercial courses girls who can go out and get jobs  --  as file clerks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we are right on the brink of losing thousands of such jobs a year to automation . One company , for instance , has built , but not yet marketed , a machine which types letters from dictation . Already elec  --  tronic billing and payroll machines are performing tasks which formerly employed many thousands of girls . ) Not quite so widespread but almost as effective have been high-school courses in " distributive education " ? salesmanship , merchandising and so on . Much commercial and distributive training is given by what is called work-experience education  --  that is , the student works half time and goes to school half time . Such training requires the cooperation of businessmen in the community and , in most places , gets it . Usually two students share one job , one working while the other goes to school . And usually the dropout rate from this kind of training is negligible  --  eight out of ten graduates remain with the firm that trained them . Three fourths of all students in these courses are girls . Indeed , our whole school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worst indictment that can be made of voca  --  tional schooling is that it often exists in a kind of fairyland that has not much relation to the real world of work . The equipment is often obsolete . New York City has a school to train youngsters to work in restaurants and lunch  --  rooms . The school was recently visited by an official of the Delicatessen and Restaurant Countermen Union , who reported : " The building is close to 100 years old and . . . looks its age . The classrooms do not have the necessary equipment for food training . There is no similarity between the kitchens . . . and an up-to-date ( restaurant ) kitchen except that they all have stoves and sinks . The students are not aware that their training took place in an atmosphere that is entirely different from the real business practices , and as a consequence , having built false confidence , they are actually worse off than before . " One measure of the ineffectiveness of this training is that there are usually about 5000 food-trade jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but no trained workers can be found to fill them . The vocational-training program that receives the most money from the Federal Government  --  one third of the total  --  is agriculture . As a result , some rural high schools offer no other curriculum . Yet so great has been the drop in the farm population that only one boy in ten can expect to get a job on the farm . The other nine will have to go to the city to find jobs they have n't been trained for  --  and join the ranks of the lost million . One New York trade school teaches boys electrical in  --  stallation work . Most jobs in this field are in construction , and in order to get them most youths have to be members of the union . But the local union does n't credit trade-school training toward apprenticeship or accept students into the union upon graduation ; so the graduates ca n't get into construction work . Union restrictions place other obstacles in kids ' way . For example , some of the top-flight trade schools give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes three years . But graduates ca n't get a job in most places unless they join the union , and to become journeymen they have to go through apprenticeship . This takes four to five years , during which they learn all over again what they learned in trade school . Hence it takes eight years to be  --  come a plumber . Often in the trade schools the sequence of training does not tie in with the practical world . As a result , a student who does n't finish the full course ca n't get a job in the same trade at a lower level of skill . For example , New York has a school teaching auto mechanics . In the senior year after students have mastered the most intricate repair jobs , like automatic transmissions , they learn body and paint work , which requires less skill . If body work were given in the first year , boys who ca n't manage the more complex work and drop out would at least have some skill they could sell . As it is , they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there was an immediate need for 140,000 auto mechanics to take care of the nation 's 74,000,000 motor vehicles . Moreoever , if we are to maintain the present ratio of one mechanic for every eight-seven vehicles , we need 40,000 new men each year  --  these in addition to the 140,000 needed to make up the present deficit . Yet the nine New York City vocational schools that train mechanics graduate only 400 per year , and similar schools across the country obviously fail just as badly to meet the need . All these shortcomings of an archaic vocational system result in the shocking fact we mentioned earlier : More than half the kids in our vocational schools drop out before graduation . The national picture is given by Associate Superintend  --  ent of New York City Schools Morris Krugman : Of every 100 youngsters of high-school age , eighty-eight go to high school , and of these , forty-two drop out before graduation . So fifty-four out of every 100 teen-agers do not get a high-school diploma  --  and today this diploma is required for almost every kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trades . Russia does much better than we in letting children from age seven on explore different trades to learn first  --  hand what real work is like . In their regular playtime after school they go to places called Pioneer Houses that are run by the Communist Party or by trade unions . One of the largest , in Leningrad , has a technology section which in  --  cludes a shop for aircraft engines , the study of aero  --  dynamics , gliders and model airplanes ; a transportation section with shops for motors , railroads , shipbuilding and city electric transportation systems ; a communications section for work in radio , telephones and telegraph equip  --  ment ; an electrical-power section with five laboratories ; a photography and motion-picture section with darkrooms ; a machine assembly and construction section ; a laboratory for house-painting techniques ; a machinist , pipe-fitter and installations section ; a graphics and a carpentry section . To run the place , there is a large full-time staff , most of whom are young teachers and scientists getting their graduate degrees . But while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American schools , they do n't do better than all . For there are individuals and communities  --  and even whole school systems  --  that have found answers to parts of this huge , complex problem . if the best of their solutions were adopted by cities and towns everywhere , the whole prob  --  lem would be on its way to solution . Three vocational schools in New York City , for exam  --  ple , have a course in oil heating that shows what can be done when an industry and the schools work together . The boys are taught all about oil-heating equipment and its repair . The industry has a major share in recruiting the teachers , in deciding on the curriculum and on what equip  --  ment will be used to teach the youngsters . When the boys are graduated , they are placed as trainees with oil companies for six months ; at the end of that time they are put on the job , admitted to the union and , other things being equal , are set for life . They are so well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is the kind of organized , logical transition from school to work that could be arranged for the millions of young  --  sters if industry , unions and schools worked together . These boys waste no years in aimless floundering . Two communities on opposite coasts have two different approaches to the problem of vocational training , both good . One is in Rockland County , New York ; the other in Los Angeles . The Rockland system is unique in the country . It is an example of what can he done when a whole community gets together under the leadership of some unusually en  --  lightened school administrators to tackle the problem of putting youngsters on the path to useful work . The training is handled by a separate group , the Board of Cooperative Educational Services . This board contracts with the eight school districts in the county to supply vo  --  cational training. , but there is no central vocational high school . The training is given in seventeen different courses , ranging from landscaping and mechanics to hotel-and  --  restaurant food service . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning , then takes a bus to the school or job which gives his particular voca  --  tional training for the afternoon schedule , then buses back to his own school again for extracurricular activities . In this way the vocational work is not downgraded , and the student retains his feeling of belonging to his own high school . The youngsters are not taught with made-work , or in make-believe situations . The building-trade students build houses . One man put up $16,000 for materials , and in two years the students built for him a house that , with land , was appraised at $36,000 . They have just completed an entire school and clinic for physically handicapped children . For the course in service-station operation there is , as part of Nyack High School , a shop where anyone can take his car to be washed or repaired , provided the work offers a learning experience for the students . The course in beauty culture runs two regular beauty shops where women of the community have their hair done . At the school for the physically handicapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Nvell equipped as that of any restaurant . Thanks partly to this program , only 20 percent of Rockland County students quit high school before gradu  --  ation , approximately half the national average . The success of the program results in part from the cooperation of industry , unions and the county 's leading citizens with the schools . The Cooperative Board is corn-posed of five top-flight business and professional men . Local businessmen have joined in by giving jobs to trainees , by helping place them after graduation , by ad  --  vising on new techniques or trends in their industries . Thus the courses are realistic ; kids are n't trained in skills that nobody needs . Unions in that area , recognizing that the schools can help train the young people their crafts need , have helped with money , work and information and have supplied most of the teachers . The teachers aver  --  age eighteen years of work as journeymen in their trades . The electricians ' union has subsidized the teachers ' salaries ; the carpenters ' union gives two prizes each year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprenticeship training program , cuts the initiation fee from $125 to $20 and gives the graduate credit for one year of apprenticeship . Los Angeles has taken quite a different approach . It has faced the fact that today the place for teen-agers in the world of work is getting narrower and narrower . So it has decided to try to keep them in school . California has established a system of free public colleges  --  mostly two  --  year  --  in which the youngsters get the technical training that prepares them for jobs . The Los Angeles program is based on the idea that every student is entitled to a balanced education , plus sonic introduction to a specialty . In implementing this plan the curricula of the high schools were widened to include six new " major sequences . " These are planned programs which give a student the usual English , social studies , math , science and so forth , and also two or three years of practical shop work . In the high-school industrial-arts sequence , for example , this means two semesters each in three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a different one selected from auto mechanics , electronics , industrial crafts , industrial drafting , graphic arts , metal or wood . This sequence is for boys who want to explore different careers in industry . The five other major sequences are equally broad . Graduates of certain of these sequences have the re  --  quirements to get into college . But school officials recog  --  nize that many youngsters are not going on to college ; hence , the industrial-occupations shop courses in the last two years are advanced enough to give the students a basic groundwork in trade skills . In metal shops , for example , they build their own mechanized barbecue grills , motor scooters and patio furniture . By letting them build things that are valuable to them , Los Angeles keeps them in school until they get a diploma . On graduation some go into apprentice training , which they could n't do without a diploma . The result of this kind of course is that these youngsters are not lost to the trades as they would be in most other cities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child must decide in the ninth grade , at thirteen or fourteen , what kind of course he 's going to take : aca  --  demic , vocational , general . Or have the decision made for him , which is what usually happens with the wasted mil  --  lion . But fourteen is too young to lay out a lifetime career , and Los Angeles has made a provision for this too . School officials believe that youngsters in the seventh , eighth and ninth grades , more than any other age group , need shops for the exploration of their interests . In the seventh grade , boys are required to spend ten weeks in each of the different shops , and they may not go back to one until they 've been in all . The shops are quite complete ; in electricity , for example , boys of twelve build radios for themselves . The students installed and repaired a complete intercom system for one school . None of the work is make-believe ; the kids know what they 're doing is useful ; they see it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal young  --  sters . But what about the 20 percent who do n't learn by our usual methods ? Los Angeles has special schools for them . The school administrators have learned that these youngsters are of two kinds : those who are socially maladjusted and have developed some learning block , and those who have never been reached by usual teaching methods or have back  --  ground problems so severe they can probably never realize their full capacity . They first go to a special class where their trouble is diagnosed and they are given a course of training that is almost like a private tutoring school . When the difficulty is eliminated , they are sent back to the regular classes . Students in the second group go to one of six special high schools , of which Andrew Jackson is typical . Jackson is a campus-type school with buildings grouped around a central lawn on which the students gather at lunchtime . The atmosphere is relaxed , the teaching flexible . Here the boys learn the simple trade skills : In the leather shop they learn to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and market chickens and to handle other farm tasks . Many of these students can hardly read , write or figure . They 're taught these things in relation to their shopwork . A boy in leatherwork , for example , gets practice reading the instructions on a can of shoe polish . Thus the shop teachers help the academic teachers in their job of remedy  --  ing the boys ' learning blocks . A few hundred miles north of Los Angeles , in Rich  --  mond , a plan was started this year that may open a door to a whole new level  --  what the experts call a " track " ? of high-school vocational education . The plan is an attempt to take the average boy , the Drifter who is n't going to college ( described in the first article of this series ) , and make him into one of the highly skilled technicians that our economy needs so badly to back up every engineer . The four-year colleges do n't think it 's their job to sup  --  ply these technicians , said Marvin Feldman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which worked out the plan . But these technicians are needed by the thousands to fit in between the engineer and the skilled craftsman  --  to translate the math and the theory of the former into the concrete terms the latter can handle . Last summer Feldman trained Richmond math and science teachers in exciting new methods which may persuade these average high-school students to go on to the kind of technical schools that train technicians . These new approaches in Los Angeles and Richmond  --  and some imaginative innovations in other California cities help give that state the fifth-lowest dropout rate in the country , 24 percent . But Wisconsin has the lowest of all , with only 7 percent , and one thing that helps is the remarkable school system in the city of Milwaukee . The underlying philosophy of the whole system in that city is that a youngster must not be allowed to fail . This idea is implemented by a whole series of techniques which we have not space enough to describe here . This is es  --  pecially pertinent to the problem of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have in common is fail  --  ure in school . There are many reasons for it : Some youngsters ca n't learn by words but only by touch , sight or body movement ; some never learn to read ; some ca n't under  --  stand the language or the middle-class idioms used by teachers ; some have emotional problems that prevent learning . Most of them start on a pattern of failure in the early grades , are overlooked by too-busy teachers until perhaps the eighth , when they are confirmed in their failure . Still , there are imaginative , understanding people who have found ways in which to salvage the abilities of even these youngsters . One way it can be done is demonstrated by the Washington Trade School in Detroit : The first unex  --  pected thing about this school is that it accepts anyone as a student so long as he 's fifteen or over and wants to learn . It does n't make any difference whether he has a college degree or has flunked out of the eighth grade ; if he wants to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the process they teach him the three R 's too . When a boy enters , he 's treated like an adult ; it is the most serious school we 've ever seen . If a boy has n't gone beyond second-grade arithmetic , he 's given special treat  --  ment and may spend weeks on nothing but arithmetic un  --  til he catches up . All boys are taught more or less in  --  dividually in small classes , and teaching is usually built around the work they 're doing in the shops . There 's a deliberate split between a student 's ability in the academic courses and his skill in the shop . He may be reading at the fourth-grade level but able to keep up with eleventh-graders in the machine shop ; he is treated ac  --  cording to his ability in whichever sphere he 's in . Thus the boy who knows self-contempt because he ca n't read will learn self-esteem because he can machine a bearing within a tolerance of three thousandths of an inch . Most of the teachers have earned their own livings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to teach both shop courses and academic work . The school teaches metal trades at all levels , and the time a boy spends there is flexible . He stays until he achieves his level of skill . Said Ronald Fraser , the princi  --  pal , " We try to make the best mechanic possible out of every boy , but always before he leaves he must have ac  --  quired some salable skill . Moreover , we wo n't teach a trade in which our young men ca n't get a job . " These are only a few of the places in the country where excellent , pioneering work is being done to save the lost million . Yet all of them together reach only a relative handful of youngsters and do not contradict the hard fact that for the nation as a whole we 're still wasting our most precious resource . Next week , in a final article , we shall deal with some of the other underlying causes of this dreary situation and point to some further remedies . 