@@219499

VIOLENCE and disorder continued to flash like early summer lightning across the campuses of the U.S. last week . There were disruptive demonstrations , strikes , sit-ins , clashes with police , confrontations between students and what has now become the ultimate sign of defiance-students standing against authority with firearms in their hands . The dynamics of student discontent have obviously produced an ominous rise in the frequency and intensity of protest . Now there are unmistakable signs that it has also produced something else : a growing feeling throughout the nation that the rebels have at last gone too far . If there was one word that summarized the feelings of much of the U.S. toward the radicals last week , it was : " Enough ! " <P> The depth and danger of campus disorder was brought home to Americans by the photographs a few weeks ago of rifle-carrying black militants at Cornell - an event that may have been the turning point after considerable national tolerance toward the radicals . Those who evolved the technique of confrontation into a frighteningly effective weapon are now themselves confronted-by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of resolute college administrators and even by exasperated fellow students . The crucial question is whether the reaction has come soon enough , and whether it will take the proper form . If it does not , higher education in the U.S. is in trouble , threatened by both the wilder dissenters and by the repressive forces of an enraged government and public . <P> New Barbarians . The President himself set the tone of response last week . Speaking before the U.S. Chamber of Commerce , he declared : " There can be no compromise with lawlessness and no surrender to force if free education is to survive in the U.S. It is time for faculties , boards of trustees and school administrators to have the backbone to stand up against this kind of situation . " In May 1 Law Day speeches , other Administration officials echoed Nixon , calling student rebels " ideological criminals " and " new barbarians . " Said Attorney General John Mitchell : " The time has come for an end to patience . I call for an end to minority tyranny on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace and the protection of individual rights . " <P> <P> Not to be outdone on a politically ripe issue , Senators and Representatives promised congressional investigations of campus disorders . The predominantly white Students for a Democratic Society , which has spearheaded many of the campus upheavals , bore the brunt of the Senate attack . Colorado Senator Gordon Allott accused the S.D.S. of a " national conspiracy " to destroy the " peace and dignity of the academic communities . " At the Republican Governors conference in Lexington , Ky. , House Minority Leader Gerald Ford raised the threat of economic penalties for universities that did not keep order . " If the institutions are not used for the prime purpose of giving higher education , " he said , " the taxpayers as a whole will revolt against expenditures-tax monies-being used for higher education . "                     