@@488158

Paul H. Douglas , the senior United States Senator from Illinois , is having thrust upon him an honor that he 's doing his best to avoid . It is the right to ride the coattails of President Lyndon 13 Johnson , a mode of transportation which most political office seekers admit is hazardous this season . The sponsor of this privilege is Charles H. Percy , the onetime boy wonder of Illinois and national politics who is making an impressive stab at taking from Douglas the Senate seat he has held for eighteen years . Percy no longer qualifies as a boy wonder ; he was 47 on September 27 , and two tragedies ? one personal and the other professional ? have aged him . The more terrible of these was the murder of his 21-year-old daughter , Valerie , on September 18 . Those who know this millionaire industrialist well say his enormous reserve of inner strength will enable him to recover from this senseless tragedy and drive on with renewed purpose in the campaign . The professional tragedy , of less savage importance but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1964 gubernatorial campaign in which he learned a valuable political lesson : organization is what wins campaigns , not being " right . " Percy , like so many other promising Republicans that year , was the victim of another set of coattails , Barry Gold-water 's . He lost his race for the governorship by a little more than 170,000 votes , while President Johnson was literally burying Goldwater . His daughter 's death caused him to halt his campaign temporarily ( Douglas did likewise ) , but until the Percy family went into seclusion to try to find strength from their Christian Science beliefs to carry on , Percy had been doing right all the things that he had done wrong before . And Douglas was feeling the pinch of it He began to attack Percy for his stands on Vietnam and inflation , a tactic the one-time economics professor would normally shun . But the one issue on which the candidates can find little to disagree , except in nsethod , is civil rights and it is therethat Percy is most likely to pick up votes . Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drive of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference . Dr. King has moved his headquarters to Chicago , determined to bring Mayor Richard J. Daley to his knees . Strangely , Percy has made a complete about-face in his stand on the most volatile of the civil rights issues ? open housing . Two years ago , when it was not a key political issue , Percy opposed state-wide open occupancy . This year , when the white backlash has reached immense proportions in Chicago , Percy favors it Douglas , long a friend of the civil rights movement , must count heavily on the Chicago Negro vote , and the polls show Percy cutting into that usually Democratic bloc . At the same time , although he is considerably more liberal than most of the backlashers would like , Percy seems to be the beneficiary of their bitterness : he is running a good 5 per cent ahead of his last campaign in areas where the reaction to the summer 's demonstrations has been strongest . Recently , the race has been further complicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert Subonpan . Mayor of Waukegan . During a two-day riot last August in that northern Illinois city 's Negro district , Subonpan referred to the rioters as " scum " and " winos " While his candidacy carries little hope of victory , politicians view him as a magnet for the white backlash vote , most of which seems to be falling to Percy . Percy has never stopped running for office , any office , since his defeat , and he 's broken the rules of politics by trying to carry out some of his campaign pledges even though he lost . Accordingly , he has been popping into and out of the public eye for nearly eighteen months . One of his major projects has been a literacy program that provides illiterates with the equivalent of a sixth-grade reading and writing ability in eight weeks . Percy saw illiteracy as a major cause of the rising number of unemployables and enlisted the aid of a friend , insurance tycoon W. Clement Stone , to finance it . In one year , more than 500 men and women completed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Illinois Committee , a privately supported war-on-poverty organization that engaged in neighborhood organization , slum-improvement projects , employment programs and similar ventures . In the course of all this work , Percy matured . He retains much of his boyish good looks , but he has found a new toughness and an ease with people , and he 's a lot less naive . Although people still call him Chuck , he shows a lot less of the " gee , whiz " reaction that reduced his stature in 1964 . His advisers , most of whom were amateurs and showed it , are closer to being professionals now . They also learned from the bruises of that year . All of this is telling on Douglas , and reporters covering the 74-year-old Senator 's campaign detect a snappishness that reflects his concern . Recently , while stumping the northwest corner of the state . Douglas discovered that a new aide had neglected to put out an advance text of his speech . " Dammit , man , do n't you realize we 're in a war ? " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Percy has hit upon the issues which he thinks will end Douglas ' public career : Vietnam and inflation , wrapped in the baleful shadow of Lyndon Johnson . Not content with criticizing Douglas , Percy has countered with pi oposals of his own . One such ' idea , the All-Asian PeaCe Conference on Vietnam , has won wide attention , even from the President , and Douglas finds himself nearly alone in his opposition to letting Asians meet by themselves on the Vietnamese problems . The two campaigns provide an interesting enntr'ast . Douglas , although he does not command the grandiose oratory of his Illinois colleague , . Everett McKinley Dirksen , still cuts a fine figure on the podium . He has stuck to set speeches , as his electioneering mainstay . Percy , who talked too much and listened not enough in 1964 , now does little set speaking and a lot of handshaking . The results have been amazing . Those accustomed to seeing him stride aloofly through , a crowd after ' leaving a platform can now watch him munch on picnic fare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or sign autographs . Percy is also trying to make something of his age advantage , but is having only limited success because Douglas shows remarkable vigor . When Percy recently went swimming in a chilly Lake Michigan , Douglas ' press aides put out a release reminding , voteis , that , their Senator takes . a daily one-hour swim for exercise . When Percy did a little chain dance at an Assyrian picnic and got his picture taken kicking his heels , Douglas the next day was photographed kicking a football off a tee to open a political rally . Though silver-haired , Douglas has n't grayed much around the intellect . He is still a master ' campaigner and can talk about John Stuart Mill with a downstate farmer and a university professor and pull off both conversations . Although Percy is not belittling Douglas , he does make it seem as though he were a little sorry for him . " I like to pretend I 'm a Chicago precinct captain , " Percy told a visitor recently . " Why should I go for Paul Douglas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , why remind the voters about Vietnam and the cost of living by bringing up a Lyndon Johnson man when I can stick to the local candin +anT F:e 7 , - . 21 TN evi et en , tion for political independence , which he has had to forgo this time around in favor of closer links with Mayor Daley 's organization . Paul Douglas has been the Democrats ' best vote getter in history . In 1948 , a professor from the University , of Chicago and former Chicago alderman , he was put up with another prominent Illinoisan , Adlai Stevenson , as Democratic . reform candidates for Senator and Governor . The man who engineeiled this coup ? both candidates won sweeping victories ? was Jacob Arvey , the Illinois National Democratic committeeman and Chicago powerhouse . Arvey has since become little more than a figurehead because Daley runs things his own way . There are those who predict that Percy will one day be a national candidate and , knowing the determination of the one-time camera company president , few will take bets against it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first , and he finds it hard to rid himself entirely of that " gee , whiz " image brought on last time by the romantic bewilderment that overpowered his whole campaign team at the thought of big-league politics . Percy is a millionaire now , but there were many days during the depression when his parents had rio money . His father was a bank official who felt a moral responsibility to help repay losses his bank incurred when it failed , even though he had no legal responsibility . Percy worked his way through the University of Chicago and held a number of jobs including one campus-based business that grossed $150,000 a year . He also worked part-375 time for Bell &; Howell , and became a friend of its president . After college he joined the camera firm and became its president at the age of 29 , one of the youngest corporate heads in the United States . In fifteen years , he took the firm from a moderate-income operation to a gigantic business with international operations . During all this time he was active in Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a national level He became good friends with then President Dwight D Eisenhower , a closeness that lasts to this day Percy served in the Navy during World War II . Douglas , although 50 at the time , managed to wangle an enlistment in the Marine Corps , and after pulling more strings saw action in the Pacific . During one of his encounters , he was wounded and lost the use of his left arm . The tempo of Douglas ' junket through northwestern Illinois took a strong upswing when his attractive wife joined the team . She is an extremely effective speaker with the women 's groups and accompanies her husband whenever she can Percy 's campaign has a lot more hooray to it . He frequently travels with the Perquettes , a group of handsome teen-age gals who wear red , white and blue uniforms and pass out campaign literature . And he can be sure that his advance men will turn out a crowd . Even a labor rally in downstate Sparta , which should have been more a Douglas venture , got him 5,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one street-corner appearance by Douglas netted him six people in a Negro neighborhood of Moline , a thriving industrial city on the Illinois-Iowa border . Douglas is stuck with a campaign theme ? " you never had it so good -- that does little to stir up the voters . People , he says , are bringing home fatter pay checks . The economy is booming Opportunities have never been greater . To this Percy counters " People do n't care how big their pay check is They want to know what they can bring home with it and it 's less these days Everybody has sort of a gut feeling that things are n't going right . They want to take it out on President Johnson , and since they ca n't they 'll settle for Paul Douglas . And President Johnson is making it easy because he 's trying to prove to people he 's a good campaign aid whether the candidates want his help or not " The first samples taken by the pollsters seem to show that Percy 's analysis of the campaign so far is right He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chicago , and Douglas is dropping behind previous marks . The polls , as usual , do not yet reflect the power of the Cook County Democratic Committee , which will send its precinct captains out about ten days before election for a blitz No political organization , or to use Percy 's term , machine , works better than Daley 's when things get tough . Another imponderable in this race is the effect of Valerie 's death . The polls have shown little sympathy , but many Democratic politicians expect an appreciable reaction on November 8 . These experts also point out that Percy has done the work necessary within his own party to solidify a state Republican organization that was shattered over the Goldwater issue . In 1964 , Percy set up his own state-wide organization through a citizens ' group . The regular Republican organiza tion , a Goldwater captive , was at best lukewarm to Percy , and he in turn straddled the Goldwater fence , satisfying neither side in that battle This year , Percy is relying on State Central Committeeman Victor Smith to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself . Percy 's campaign manager , Thomas Houser , a suburban political leader , says the campaign is short of funds . Douglas , on the other hand , is said to have a fat bank roll because of union support . Percy can not himself spend more than 525,000 on his own campaign and will probably spend less because he intends only to match the largest contributor , and it is a fact of political life that big donors fight shy of Senatorial campaigns . Governors can pay back through political favors a lot faster than can Senators Paul Douglas is a tough man in a fight , and he has going for him something that is impossible to measure on the political dope sheet ' his reputation for honesty . One suburban shopper expressed it when she said " Chuck Percy is all right but Paul Douglas is the most honest politician in the state It seems a shame to have to turn out a man of his caliber to elect Percy " And some of the big guns in Douglas ' arsenal have yet to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edward Kennedy have on the campaign in a state where passion for the Kennedys iuns high9 The late John F. Kennedy felt that Daley elected him President by squeaking him through in Illinois Can Daley do it again for Paul Douglas9 Republicans doubt that Daley can turn the trick this time And the chorus of GOP hacks who cautioned Percy not to take on Illinois ' most powerful vote getter has stopped its moaning and is beginning to jockey for position . They , smell an upset in the making and want a piece of it But considering Percy 's abhorrence of party hacks , the piece they stand to get will be contemptuously small .                     