@@442210

PRESIDENT Kennedy was discussing one day the problem of revamping the approach to foreign aid . His chief aid planner , George Ball , asked whether he should try to construct a new setup on the basis of what would be most desirable or on the basis of what might be politically feasible . The President 's reply was instant : " You tell me what it ought to be . I want to see the whole dimension of the kind of program the United States ought to have . And then I 'll make the political decision of what can be done . " Of the many stories about the energetic new President current in the Capital , this one tells as much as any about the Kennedy style of running the . executive department . When Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson was called home from Moscow for consultation , he found himself spending a total of seven hours with the President , in contrast to the half-hour calls he used to pay to President Eisenhower . Kennedy discussed the Soviet problem with Thompson and the two other senior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George F. Kennon . Sitting with them and with Secretary of State Rusk and McGeorge Bundy , his assistant for national security affairs , the President let the experienced men talk themselves out without so much as giving a clue to his own feeling , which might have induced some to follow his hint . The decision to bring Keenan back into the government as Ambassador to Yugoslavia was Kennedy 's own , and it is generally rated as a brilliant stroke . Creative tension The President 's system for getting information has been called by one of his aides " creative tension . " He himself has said privately , " I ca n't afford to have just one set of advisers on anything , " and , " The thing I have got to watch is that I 'm not just sitting here at the end of the paper chain from the departments . " One man who sees the President almost daily comments that Kennedy " wants to have a view of the alternatives , a view wider than that available through the departments . " This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucratic setup , often going direct to those handling a specific problem , and why he has made Bundy 's office in the White House itself the center of an interdepartmental planning staff . Franklin Roosevelt 's method was deliberately to create competition among his subordinates . There is an element of this in the Kennedy style , but the difference is that far more people have access to the President now than at any time in White House history since the earliest New Deal days . This very fact has kept to a minimum , thus far , cries by one branch of government that another is poaching on its preserves . Curtailing the N.S.C. One effect of the Kennedy style of operating has been to limit drastically the function of the National Security Council and to eliminate sixteen other administrative bodies established since 1954 . The N.S.C. is a marvelous institution for gathering information and distributing it to the top echelons of government , but it is a poor instrument of decision . Kennedy has , in effect , all but abolished the N.S.C. institution ; he abolished outright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following up on his decisions with the heads of the operating agencies , using his own White House staff members as prodders to the departments . But no system has yet been devised for circulating sufficient information , as used to be done via the N.S.C. , to top policy makers . As a result , Rusk and Bundy , or Bundy and Defense Secretary McNamara , have to catch up now and then by private talks . The Cabinet meetings since the early Truman years have been devoted chiefly to domestic issues . Here Kennedy prefers to meet with the Cabinet members concerned rather than have everyone listen to the problems of the Postmaster General or the Secretary of Agriculture . At the first Cabinet meeting , the President began a nervous finger-drumming when Agriculture Secretary Freeman expounded on exports of dressed poultry . One Cabinet session was devoted almost exclusively to the problem of how to get along with Congress . The narrow five-vote victory in the House on the Rules Committee fight convinced the President that most of his domestic legislation , especially his medical care and education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President advised Cabinet members to handle mail from senators and congressmen personally and to do their best to establish close relations with key members of Congress . The President and the Congress Kennedy is not a man to back away from a fight . He wants , however , to pick the best place and time for the inevitable first big scrap with Congress . A lot of maneuvering is likely before the executive and the legislative branches go to the mat for a decision on a critical issue . Yet Kennedy knows , as he has told some subordinates , that " there will never be a better year than the first one " to draw on his public support . A great deal of his energies have gone into building that public support by use of televised press conferences , speeches , and a mass of messages to Congress , through which he has dominated the news pages . A powerful image is a help at the Capitol for a President . But in itself it is not enough in a Congress as closely divided as this one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every success in lessening world tensions tends to lessen a desire for strong leadership in international affairs . And a rebounding economy , despite millions of unemployed , leaves many unconcerned about domestic problems . To one visitor who urged stronger economic measures , Kennedy replied , " ' There may be 7 per cent unemployed , but there are 93per cent employed . " To another on a similar mission he remarked that " Roosevelt had it easy " in winning his way during his first year in office . As the new Administration begins to come into focus , it is evident that Kennedy has energized the government as far as the executive branch is concerned . ' This of itself is an immense gain and is likely to be increasingly important as time goes on . He has obtained a firm grasp on the reins of the vast bureaucracy he heads ; he is making good use of the remarkable talent he has gathered together . There have been a couple of poor appointments , but they are small in the aggregate . The major problem of how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , remains . That there is a willingness in the public to respond is evident from the reaction to the Peace Corps . But more will have to be done . The President is fully aware of what faces him and has begun by taking steps to put his own house in shape , both for a protracted conflict with the Communist world and to teach the American public the realities of life at home and their relationship to success in that world-wide conflict . The school bill During the presidential campaign , Kennedy showed a keen sensitivity to the words of the Roman Catholic hierarchy , whether in the form of an editorial in L ' 0 sservatore Romano , a pronouncement of the American or the Puerto Rican bishops , or what he heard of the purported private words of such leaders as Francis Cardinal Spellman . From his comments , some of them to newsmen in unguarded moments , it was evident that he thought an influential part of his church 's hierarchy was unhappy at the possibility of his election to the White House . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on federal aid for parochial schools , Kennedy aides have been commenting that the President feels he had the active opposition , though not publicly so , of much of the hierarchy . Twice at his press conferences , Kennedy has asked why there is so much pressure for aid to parochial schools now , whereas there was so little when former President Eisenhower made his proposals for aid to education . The answer quite probably is that today , for the first time , there seems to many , including the Church , a real possibility of enacting such a law in Congress . But Kennedy 's suspicion is that it is being done to embarrass him because he is the first Catholic President . Kennedy has avoided opportunities to express his own view on whether it would be wise public policy to expend federal funds on private elementary and secondary education . He has made his case against it strictly on constitutional grounds , and there he evidently intends to stand as long as possible . The President is keenly aware of the political crevasses embedded in the issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cast for him last November on the strength of his strong assurances on the issue of separation of church and state . Emotions aroused by the school aid issue in Washington are intense ; members of Congress generally feel themselves trapped . It is highly doubtful whether a majority wants to vote for aid to parochial schools at the lower levels , but the Church 's insistence that such aid could pass a court test makes it difficult for them to hide behind a claim that it would be unconstitutional . Among the non-Catholics in the Administration there is considerable feeling against the Catholic hierarchy . They are especially bitter at the hierarchy 's " No aid for the public schools unless we are aided also " attitude . Some defenders of the public schools take the position that this is the critical battle ; that if the parochiA schools are given federal aid at the lower levels there will be a multiplication of church schools of all denominations , and of private secular schools as well , particularly in the South , and that this might destroy the public school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timing of the conflict is highly unfortunate , for it tends to balk his aim of rallying the American public behind both meeting the needs at home and facing up to the larger danger abroad . Mood of the Capital Talk of ultimate weapons and of the last , best chance for East-West negotiation is old stuff in the Capital , but so far there always has appeared some new facet in weaponry and some new device for negotiation . There is considerable hope that at In the past , much of the American pressure , both from within and from without the government , for a test-ban treaty has been based on fears of radioactive fallout and on a belief that an agreement on this issue would open the way to more significant arms-control agreements . This year , the compulsions , fully accepted by such senior statesmen ( of excellent Republican reputation , to boot ) as John J. McCloy and Arthur H. Dean , come from the increasing proliferation and fragmentation of nuclear weapons . It is the belief , accepted by the President , that unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon will be found all over the United States and the Soviet Union on railroad cars , and before many years there will be smaller nuclear weapons on thousands of vehicles the size of jeeps , and eventually , uncounted numbers of them in mortar form . The so-called " hand-held " nuclear weapon is said already to be in the American arsenal in small numbers . Fallout as a health hazard no longer exists as far as the United States , Britain , and the Soviet Union are concerned , since all are now able to test underground . If a treaty can not be negotiated and testing is resumed , the hazard would exist again as soon as Red China began testing . Unless there is a treaty , China and other nations soon will develop their own nuclear capabilities . A treaty would not guarantee an end to further membership in the nuclear club , but it would have an inhibiting effect ? at least , that is the hope . In the case of Red China , it could be the instrument for reopening American-Chinese discussions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , first , that there is a mutual Soviet-American desire to limit the spread of such weapons ; and second , that there is a mutual Soviet-American desire to limit the Cold War to manageable proportions , which would exclude the possibility of accidentally starting a war neither side wants . GAMAL ABDEL NASSER 'S actual objectives in Africa become clearer as the pattern of ever-11s there unfolds . He wants to enlist the new African governments as members of the neutralist bloc . He wants to acquire influence through common bonds of religion and of aversion to " imperialism . " He wants to be the leading Arab spokesman in Africa . The disastrous polarization resulting from the struggle in the Congo has forced on Nasser a choice in favor of Lumumba 's heirs and against the moderates still under Western influence . At the outset of the struggle , Nasser had implicit faith in UN efforts to neutralize the situation until a central government could be established . He backed Secretary Dag Hammarskjiild , urged Patrice Lumumba to trust him , and is also on record as urging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the neutralists still hoped to keep the Cold War out of Africa . Nasser , among them , counted on the United Nations to achieve this . His own experience with the United Nations during the aftermath of the Suez crisis in 1956 had convinced him of its value as a court of appeal and a conciliating agency . This basic confidence has been badly shaken in recent months in the Congo . What shook Nasser and other neutralists was the apparent support for Katanga leader General Mobutu from Western powers , including certain U.S. government agencies , and the belief that such support was at least tolerated at UN headquarters in New York . Having urged moderation and cooperation on the Lumumba forces up to the time of the imprisoned leader 's fateful transfer to Katanga , Nasser decided that he had been betrayed as a participant in the UN forces . This sense of betrayal had been freely expressed by official spokesmen in Cairo long before Nasser attacked the American role late in February . Spokesman for the Arabs These developments explain many recent diplomatic initiatives designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations . One such effort was at Casa-blanca in January . At that session , the previous decision of the participants to withdraw their troops from the UN forces was dramatized . Even on this issue , extremists like Sekou Toure of Guinea could not agree with Nkrumah of Ghana on the withdrawals or on Nasser 's proposal to transfer their forces to the Lumumba side . The only agreements possible were on a nebulous plan for a joint African high command , which would include the chiefs of staff of independent African states , and on a NATO-style African defense organization . Nasser 's one real triumph was to push through a resolution condemning Israel as a tool of imperialism in Africa and France for its nuclear tests in the Sahara . At Casablanca , as at Bandung , Nasser was reasserting his role as spokesman for the Arabs to a new and important audience . Israeli penetration of Africa , in every field from trade to the distribution of bogus Korans , has become a fresh challenge to the Arab world . The argument is simple : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its ventures in new areas , such as Africa , with capital and technical aid must therefore suit its creditors , particularly the United States and France , with which its ties are closest . This proves the " imperialist " motive sufficiently for any Egyptian , Syrian , or Iraqi . When Nasser attacks on this ground , he speaks for all of them . Thus , in his new role in African affairs , he salvages prestige which he has been losing within the Arab states . Israel 's new imperialism The efficiency of Israel 's technical aid missions in such countries as Ghana , Nigeria , and Guinea is characteristic of its centrally planned efforts to win abroad the friends it has failed to make nearby . It has come as a shock to Arab leaders to discover that this Israeli success is a direct result of Israel 's one great gain from the Suez venture . That gain was the opening of the passage through the Gulf of Aqaba , giving Israel access to the East . As a result , Israel 's port of Elath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance and made commerce with Africa and the East possible . The Egyptians are confronted with a threat to their plans for the preeminent role which they assume is their destiny as the guardians of the northeast approach to the continent . They find Israelis in the Congo and in Ethiopia as important government advisers . Somewhere Israel finds a million pounds to lend to Nigeria . An Afro-Asian Institute , established in Israel by the Israel General Confederation of Labor and American trade unions , trains technicians for any African state . Congo . lese officials go to Israel to study administration and agricultural development at Israel 's expense . To Egyptians , none of this looks possible for a client country without support and encouragement of official or unofficial sources abroad . The alarm which Nasser managed to sound at Casablanca about a new Israeli imperialism on behalf of such clients did not , therefore , appear farfetched . To reinforce the argument , the matter of Israel 's atomic developments , with French assistance , helped to strengthen suspicions already aroused by the continuing French tests in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the way from Baghdad to Casablanca . The appeal of Islam The Arab answer to the Israeli challenge in Africa has been to step up plans long on the shelf for closer cultural and business ties with the mass of Muslim populations throughout Africa . Egyptian teachers are already teaching Arabic and Koranic studies in West Africa . More are being mobilized to reach other areas . Nasser sees a chance here to put into effect his belief that being a Muslim involves more than a pilgrimage to Mecca . He has been cautiously on the side of giving Islam a political content and a relationship to modern Arab society , which the reform leaders in the Islamic hierarchy have long advocated . In this movement toward modernization , Cairo has been the leader . Already , young Muslim teachers are spreading the gospel of holy war against European imperialism and Western influence , all the way from Dakar to the Malagasy Republic . At the same time , the number of Africans on scholarships at Islamic universities has been rapidly increasing . The appeal of Islam in Africa is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there have more than doubled in number . It asks few formal acts and does not demand abandonment of traditional mores , such as polygamy . There is none of the color bar which subtly undermines Christian influence in Africa . A new Voice of Islam is to be established in Cairo this year , to spread the gospel as a natural faith for a free Africa . Religious officers are to be added to U.A.R. embassy staffs in Africa and some parts of Asia . They will rank with other attaches and serve as liaison officers with Islamic universities , particularly Al Azhar . To pave the way , the rector of Al Azhar , Sheik Mahmoud Shaltout , made his first good-will tour across Southeast Asia early this year . Following this tour , it was announced that 1400 scholarships at Al Azhar are available to students from Africa , Asia , Europe , and America . In this effort , Egypt has a natural advantage as the center for Islamic studies , which are no longer regarded as solely of academic value but are being designed to develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in technical fields it will not be so easy for a country short of skilled labor to export technical aid . Yet Egypt intends to try to become at least a training center for administration and management techniques for Africans . With Cairo already a center for African propaganda and a refuge for minority political figures , it seems likely that offers of technical education will attract a new element from African countries . Reinforcements for the Arab drive toward Africa are easily available in the field of trade . Delegations of Lebanese and Iraqis have joined the stampede for contacts and new outlets . A new airline between Beirut and Accra has already been established . Arab chambers of commerce are on the southwestward march , hoping to set up joint chambers with African businessmen . Lebanese edi- torials recall that there are 60,000 Lebanese emigrants in West Africa . It is inevitable that more will be on the way , answering the call to greener pastures . Iraqi business delegations appear to be not far behind . It seems significant that , while business groups and individuals make up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but government officials participate from the United Arab Republic . This one example shows the distance traveled in a very few years toward government control of every phase of Egyptian and Syrian life . Whether this will prove a limitation or a necessary phase of a bootstrap economic operation , it is apparent in Egypt today that you do not run a business , a newspaper , a bank , or an export business without government blessing . This alteration in Egyptian economic life has been in the making since Suez , and is now fully established . Tito 's influence To find a parallel effort at conformity and central direction , the plainest example applicable to Egypt is Yugoslavia . In fact , the Yugoslav influence within Egypt is far greater than is generally realized . Nasser 's visits to Tito have not all been concerned with international politics . Some have evidently convinced him that Tito has found the way not only to neutralism but to economic equalization ? the apparent goal of Nasser 's " cooperative socialist " society . In practice , the adoption of the Yugoslav @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those entrepreneurs who built up its markets and internal economy until five years ago . These were the business leaders whose connections in Europe and the United States fostered the cosmopolitan business community and culture which characterized Alexandria and Cairo up to the time of Suez . Following Suez and the taking over of French and British establishments by the government , there arose the problem of management . Here the Nasser gov ernment has evidently come to a decision of basic importance to Egyptian society . It casts a suspicious eye , and often a harshly restraining hand , on the largely Coptic professional and business class . More and more , this element finds itself displaced in favor of more reliable Muslims , dedicated to the revolution and untainted by international contacts . In some tragically perverse way , the old Western line about the inability of anyone but a European or European protege to master the operations of the Suez Canal has been turned around in Egypt today . Now almost no one but a pure Muslim Egyptian can do anything important in Egyptian life . The result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educated and skillful people . Among the unemployed in Cairo today are loyal and brilliant journalists , bankers , diplomats , and businessmen . Some are Copts . Many are Muslims , but simply out of favor . They make up a growing body of talent and energy that is much needed within the country . But so long as the present phase of strict conformity to a blueprint devised on a doctrinaire model prevails , this distinguished idle company seems likely to grow . It is not difficult to understand how Yugoslav influence has come to predominate in Egyptian affairs . Tito has been Nasser 's one friend on the continent of Europe , and his frequent host . He encourages Nasser 's enthusiasm for neutralism and for socialism as the way of salvation for poor countries . What stands out most clearly in Egypt today is the fact that the machinery to run the country is still in the process of being built . There is a serious search for help in administrative techniques , for skilled engineers , and for agricultural experts . Al Ahram recently announced a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thin the U. A.R . This need , plus the desire to create a center for technical education for Africans , may yet help to reverse the trend toward strict political conformity which today inhibits the exuberant energies that have characterized the best of Egyptian life . DURING the last months of the Eisenhower Administration , signs of a critical deterioration in Canadian-American relations were everywhere apparent in Canada . Canadians were simply in a mood to be unimpressed by anything attached to an American label , from the Bomarc missile misfires to the U-2 incident , the uproar over Cuba , and the curtailment of U.S. spending abroad . Yet this cultivated contrariness had almost nothing to do with the political complexion of the American Administration . The greatest boom the country had ever seen was grinding slowly into a recession of major importance and the Canadians were taking out their frustrations on the suppliers of the capital ? American industry . ? Canada 's irritation was expressed in a number of ways . The Canadian government , for example , established a Royal Commission to investigate the ailing automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada by company policies emanating from Detroit was catalogued and criticized . One of the most outspoken critics to appear before the commission was Leslie Frost , Premier of Canada 's richest province , Ontario , in which the auto industry is located . A Royal Commission was also established to investigate the harm done to Canada by the growing practice of publishing Canadian editions of American magazines . The main targets , here , were Time Inc. and Reader 's Digest , publishers of Canadian editions which differ from the U.S. publications only in that they contain small Canadian editorial sections . These spill-over editions together now skim off so much of the advertising cream available to Canadian magazines that the periodical press in Canada is threatened with extinction . During the hearings , the chairman of the commission , Mr. Gratton O'Leary , attracted wide public attention with his blistering comments on the commercial practices of the American publishers in question . The Board of Broadcast Governors , which was set up by the present government to control radio and television in Canada , ordered all stations toestablish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schedules . The order goes into effect at the end of this year . Canadian broadcasters , including the government-owned Canadian Broadcasting Corporation , have been flooding the airwaves with the worst of American television from the private-eye and Western productions of Hollywood . James E. Coyne , governor of the Bank of Canada , is making a series of trenchant public speeches demanding an end to Canadian reliance on the United States for its capital requirements and drastic curtailment of imports of goods and services which can be supplied internally . In Coyne 's view , only the most energetic action will save the country from the disaster that is built into its skyrocketing foreign debt . The Conservative government of Prime Minister John Diefenbaker just before Christmas brought down a " baby budget " in which it made several tax changes aimed directly at American absentee investors and owners of Canadian branch plants . Most important were the imposition of a 15 per cent withholding tax on foreign payments for interest and dividends of future investments and the imposition of this tax on the profits of the branch plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dividends . Each of the above generated its own prolonged public uproar . Coyne 's speeches so scandalized a group of academic economists that nineteen of them petitioned the Minister of Finance , Donald Fleming , to fire Coyne . Whether Fleming has the power to do so is doubtful . But the minister ducked the issue anyway , by refusing either to defend Coyne or silence him . The tax changes in the budget , in any event , indicated that Coyne 's advice is being taken , if only in small doses . Canadian boom That " American " is a dirty word its Canada can not be denied . But it is used completely without animus or rancor , in the sense that " Colorado " is used with potato beetles , " Spanish " is used with influenza , and " German " is used with measles . In Canada , " American " only means where the problem comes from , and it means no more than that . The problem itself is the end product of a series of economic developments of the last ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canada has lived on Cloud Nine for the better part of that period . It borrowed frantically to finance its development . Then it borrowed to pay interest on its foreign debt . It sold off its resources , and it mortgaged its future . But it accomplished an economic expansion and industrial development in ten years that otherwise might have taken thirty or forty years . Throughout its history , the Canadian economy has been based upon exporting large quantities of natural products and importing manufactured goods . Wheat and other farm products , lumber , pulp , and paper , copper , zinc , and nickel exports were the foundation of Canadian trade . King Wheat laid an even heavier hand on Canada than King Cotton once did on the United States . In this century , Canada has been driven by an irresistible urge to break out of this pattern . Slow but steady progress was made before World War II . Since the war , billions have been poured into the expansion of the manufacturing industry of Canada , mainly by American corporations establishing and expanding branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Canadian labor force was in agriculture . Today the number is less than 10 per cent , while white- and blue-collar workers make up 70 per cent of the labor force ? an increase of 50 per cent , relatively . The labor force itself has increased from four to more than six million . Population grew from 10,350,000 to 18,000,000 in the same thirty years . During the early years of the boom , Canada 's gross national product grew at the rate of 4.5 per cent per year , and economists in and out of government assumed a stable rate of growth had been established . However , it slowed to half that rate in 1957 and seems to have s'abilized at around 2,5 per cent . As the bumper crop of war babies hit the labor market , the labor force touched an all-time high . But with the slowing of growth , unemployment rolls have also risen steadily , until in January of 1961 690,000 Canadians , 10.8 per cent of the labor force , were unemployed . The country , hence , has been both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst depression of employment since the middle 1930s . The signs of the boom are everywhere and impressive . Construction valued at $7.2 billion is ahead for 1961 , of which almost $2 billion will be spent in Quebec . Pulp and paper exports are booming and should expand with the decline in the Canadian dollar . Several hundred million is to be spent on natural-gas pipelines and ? processing plants in Alberta . Wages and salaries are near record levels . The signs of recession Unhappily , there are critical pockets of unemployment all over Ontario , Quhhec , the Maritimes , and in the West . The federal government has increased and stretched out unemployment benefits to a point where the unemployment insurance fund faces bankruptcy . Agriculture is still depressed by a 750-millionbushel wheat glut , and despite frantic efforts to expand wheat sales , the glut remains . The automobile , steel , electrical goods , and textile industries and all the ancillary suppliers are in the doldrums . The most serious unemployment is in the secondary manufacturing industry that has undergone the greatest expansion , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . In this atmosphere , it was easy for people being laid off in Canadian secondary industry to find someone to blame . It was the absentee American owners of the Canadian branch plants who made policies to serve their own corporate interests , not those of Canada or their Canadian employees . This belief led to the widespread and prolonged agitation to force the foreign companies to put Canadians in their top Canadian jobs , to permit their Canadian plants to operate their own research departments , and to name Canadians to their boards of directors . In a speech in Calgary , Mr. Coyne summed up the situation in these words : " Our judgment has been clouded and our initiative stunted by the fact that so much of the more advanced sections of Canadian industry is controlled and dominated by foreign enterprise . . . . No country in the world with anything like our relative state of development has ever had such a degree of foreign domination . " By 1956 our whole manufacturing industry was 48 per cent foreign owned and 52 per cent foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign dominance runs from 75 to 100 per cent . . . . Important manage . ment decisions are for the greater part taken outside Canada by foreigners , whether they be American or European , and taken for reasons that have nothing to do with the ' outlook or aspirations of Canadians . In most such companies , Canadians are not encouraged to have new ideas , can not put their ideas to the test , and can not assume the responsibility for proving and carrying out their ideas . " A few weeks later , speaking in Toronto , Mr. Coyne pursued the question down some different avenues . He pointed out that Canada 's external debt had risen from $4 billion to $17 billion in the last decade and that 60 per cent of all dividends paid by Canadian corporations went to nonresidents . Residents of the United States own 76 per cent of all the foreign investment in Canada and control more than 80 per cent of all foreign-controlled companies in Canada . " It is tempting , " said Mr. Coyne , " to speculate how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own country , that is to say , what their feelings would be if the United States had a foreign debt of the order of $250 billion , with the bulk of their most valuable natural resources owned or controlled by foreigners and more than half of their manufacturing industry likewise owned or controlled outside their own country . " American control However , Mr. Coyne 's unpleasant truths are far from sweeping the country . Coyne emphasizes that Canada 's foreign debt is complicated by a whopping deficit in its merchandise trade of $500 million a year . With almost one voice , Canadians react : " So what ? The solution is simple ? increase our exports to balance our imports , and the problem is solved . " But controlled , as it is , in the United States , the bulk of Canadian industry can not export either to the United States or to many other countries because of policy decisions made in the United States . General Motors can hardly permit its Canadian plant to ship Chevrolets to Chicago to crack that market by underselling its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants once exported to the Commonwealth . That trade was shut off by the parent companies when they built new branch plants in the Commonwealth countries . Because Canadian plants are restricted largely to the domestic market , unit production costs are high . This has made it possible for a flood of Japanese goods and Western European cars to come in over the tariff and capture important segments of the Canadian market . The textile industry of Quebec , for example , estimates that imports have cost 30,000 jobs in the textile industry alone . Industry which can not compete in its own protected home market will surely have difficulty against the same competition abroad . Yet this fact has got little attention in Canada . Shutting off American dollars What , then , is the answer ? Will the Canadian economy continue to drift , and will pressure build up until something has to give explosively ? Probably not . Perhaps the most encouraging factor in the situation is the stated determination of Washington to curtail American investment abroad . It has been the tax concessions in the Internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of U.S. investment into Canada and elsewhere . Such things as percentage depletion , the foreign corporation tax exemption , and the Western Hemisphere tax exemption have siphoned billions of dollars in U.S. capital into Canada , South America , and Europe . The removal of any one of these tax advantages , particularly the percentage depletion allowance for oil companies , would dry up much of the capital flow . Beyond nationalism In Canada itself there is every indication that there will be no precipitate action either by the present Diefenbaker government or by the Liberals , if they are returned to power . During the past year , when the government was presented wills a nationalistic solution to its oil surplus problem , it ducked for cover . The facts are these : While Canadian oilfields are capable of producing 1.1 million barrels of oil a day , they have produced about half that amount . The international oil companies , which control 80 per cent of Canadian oil production , have used their Montreal refineries to market oil they produce in Venezuela and the Middle East . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian companies agitated for the construction of a $400 million crude-oil pipeline from Alberta to Montreal , which would add 250,000 barrels a day to Canadian production and cut Canada 's merchandise trade deficit by $250 million a year . But in its recently announced national oil policy , the Diefenbaker government rejected a new pipeline in favor of a voluntary expansion of United States markets , as proposed by the international companies . In making the decision , Mr. Diefenbaker took another giant stride away from nationalism . He sent his Minister of Finance and Minister of Trade and Commerce to Washington to alert the Kennedy Administration about what was being done before the policy was disclosed to Parliament in Ottawa . Unheard of as such a procedure was , it provoked no reaction in the Liberal Party . Neither did the national oil policy . Liberal Party strategy " New Frontiersmen " to beat the economic underbrush are as scarce in the Liberal Party as they are in the government . Last summer , former Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson , in search of some new ideas , arranged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside , as well as inside , the party meet for a week 's seminar at Kingston . The " new " idea that attracted the most attention and enthusiasm was presented by a displaced Canadian professor from the University of Chicago . He proposed a free-trade union with the United States ? a notion last seriously heard in Canada in the election of 1911 . On the other hand , an attempt by Walter Gordon to interest the audience in the problems resulting from American control of Canadian industry never got off the ground . A few months later , the whole performance was repeated at a Liberal Party convention in Ottawa . Dedicated , as it is , to what Coyne has described as " outmoded theories of trade , " the Liberal Party obviously has turned its back on the nationalist vote . Actually , the Liberal strategy is to try to coast back into office on the public disenchantment with Diefenbaker . Despite his efforts , things get slowly worse instead of better . The Liberals are now back in power in Quebec and New Brunswick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a low ebb elsewhere in the country . But Mr. Diefenbaker and his Conservatives are in power at least until 1962 , and probably 1963 . Aside from making nationalistic noises , it is most unlikely that he will do anything to impair relationships between Canada and the United States , politically or economically . Canadian defense policy will still be rigidly welded to American defense , and always will be . A true indication of the attitude of Canada toward the United States was the haste with which Mr. Diefenbaker appeared on President Kennedy 's doorstep after the inauguration . But the first big stride that can be made toward tackling the problem must be made in Washington . ' That will be when the Kennedy Administration takes concrete steps to shut off the tax concessions that are raining American dollars down on the world from a thousand nozzles . 