@@488221

The September 25 overthrow of President Juan Bosch of the Dominican Republic , followed quickly by the military coup against President Ramon Villeda Morales of Honduras and the threat of other army take-overs in Venezuela , Brazil and elsewhere in Central America , presents the United States with the choice of whether it shall use its power to protect constitutional government in these nations or abandon them to their customary alternations ' between civil disorder and military dictatorship . President Wilson 's dictum , issued two years before the 1916-24 U.S. October 26 , 1963 Marine occupation , was part of a plan to end political and financial chaos in the Dominican Republic . It represents what have been our best intentions toward Santo Domingo and the other small , dependent nations of the Caribbean for half a century . Recent events again have raised the question ' of whether the United States shall shyly pretend to remain merely a nation among nations of the hemisphere , or shall further develop its character as an international institution embedded in the life of every republic , a unifying force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic stagnation and at creating new markets for its own production . The curse of Santo ' Domingo ( as well as the curse pf Venezuela , Central America and pre-Castro Cuba ) has always been the unclear division of political and economic sovereignty between the United States and the group that may happen to control the national government at a given time . The'establishment of political democracy in the Dominican Republic during the period between the May , 1961 , assassination of Rafael Leonidas Trujillo and the December , 1962 , election of Bosch and his Partido Revolucionarto Dominican ? ( DRP ) was largely the work of U.S. policy . Not only did AmeriCan diplomats help organize the Trujillo slaying and the CIA supply arms for the assassins ( see my article , " How Trujillo Died , " The New Republic , April 13 , 1963 ) but a show of U.S. diplomatic insistence and military power forced the Trujillo clan to leave the country , making way , for fourteen months of government by a seven-man Provisional State Council , which the U.S. was instrumental in creating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January , 1962 , in a coup led by Echevarria , U S. warships appeared just beyond ' the three-mile limit off Santo Domingo , U S. Consul John Calvin Hill told Echevarria to get out , and the revolution was over . Though the United States gave the seven-month Bosch government vigorous diplomatic support and much technical and financial aid , these were not sufficient to keep it in power . Though U S. Ambassador John Bardow Martin and his aides knew since early July that a coup was in the works , they did not include the threat of force in their persistent efforts to persuade the military and political leaders of the coup not to attempt Bosch 's overthrow . Nor were U.S. diplomats aided by U.S. military attaches ; the latter made no effort to disguise their hostility to the Bosch regime in their conversations with Dominican officers . The threat to withdraw diplomatic recognition and the $86 million in Alliance for Progress aid obviously was not enough to convince after the United States recognized coup-created regimes in Peru , Ecuador , Argentina and Guatemala . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power if on the weekend before the coup , when an anti-government general strike and insurrectionist radio announcers were getting little response , American warships had reappeared off the Dominican coast and Ambassador Martin had made it clear that their presence meant support for Bosch . America 's failure to use sufficient power to preserve constitutional order presumes a degree of national sovereignty in the Dominican Republic that it has exercised very seldom in its ' bloody history of , foreign MterVentions , civil wars and military dictatorships . In the seventy years before the 1916 U.S. Marine intervention , there were forty-three presidents and fifty-six revolutions issuing from constantly shifting configurations of regional military caudillos and their friends and relatives in the commercial and landholding oligarchy . The United States was on the right road with Wilson 's 1914 dictum , which was never sufficiently implemented to protect the Dominican people against the depredations of adventurers like those who ? overthrew Bosch last month . The Dominican Republic 's history as a nation began in 1821 , when a group of creole landlords revolted successfully against Spain and tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1822 , Haitian armies swarmed over the republic and ruled it as a province until 1844 , when they were ousted by the liberation army of Juan Pablo Duarte . In 1861 , fearing another Haitian conquest , ' the Dominicans requested and obtained re-. annexation by Spain . Four years later they revolted , and ' again won their independence . Four years after that , the campaign of Dictator Baez and two American carpetbaggers for annexation by the United States resulted in approval by President Ulysses S. Grant of treaties for annexation and for a 99-year lease on Semana Bay ( which , however , failed of Senate ratification ) . In 1888 , another dictator , Ulises Heil-. reaux , was so hard pressed by foreign creditors holding Dominican bonds that he turned over customs collection to a group of Amsterdam financiers in exchange for purchase of about $475,000 in new bonds . The United States took over Dominican customs collections in 1905 as financial conditions continued to deteriorate , and the customs remained in U.S. hands until the country 's debts were liquidated and the Trujillci-Hull - treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three periods Of relative political stability : the seventeen-year Heurealix dictatorship ( 188299 ) , the eight year U.S. Marine occupation ( 1916-24 ) and the thirty-one-year era of Trujillo ( 1930-61 ) . In the twenty-eight months since TrujilMs assassination there have been Tour Dominican governments and , given the weakness of the puppet three-man council now presiding , there is likelihood of others soon , . Thus it is easy to see why Juan Bosch , upset by the same traditional oligarchy that ran the country for 120 years , could not govern in the Dominican Republic . But there are additional reasons , just as important : ( 1 ) Juan Bosch is lean , moody , handsome . Like Bosch Latin Ameri-can politicians , osch was far more at home in the stratagems of personalism o ? ofblandishments , promises , conspiracies , maneuvers , de- , nunciations  --  than in the launching of successful government . Like many Latin American social democrats , he needed and wanted U.S. backing but was wary of becoming an entreguista ( surrenderer ) of sovereignty . This led him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South Porto Rico Sugar Co. ( which operates a large complex of mills and plantations in Santo Domingo ) , making it much easier for the plotters of the coup to press their phony charges of communism . Like most Latin American presidents , Bosch was the whole show and incapable of delegating authority . He saw too many people and personally arbitrated too many routine questions . He worked sixteen hours a day , yet he wasted much time and energy in spurious political squabbles and so his government showed little movement toward the reforms he promised . ( 2 ) Poverty in the Dominican Republic , which Bosch promised to relieve by democratic social revolution , is so great as to be a danger to a nonmilitary government that does not move quickly and dramatically toward its solution . Although the soil is generally fertile , the average peasant family 's income is less than $1 per day . Seventy per cent of the people live on the land , 60 pdr cent are illiterate , and most suffer from the debilitating parasitical infections that stay the productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run above 30 per cent . Meanwhile , the hemispheric population explosion has reached one of its peak rates in Santo Domingo , with the population growing by 3.6 per cent annually , compared with 2.6 per cent for all Latin America and 3. 8 per cent for the world . During Trujillo 's thirty-one years in power , the Dominican people multiplied by 250 per cent , and population is expected to double again in the next twenty years ' . At the same time , the nation 's 8,000-square-mile mountain watershed area of valuable , pine and mahogany timberland is being denuded rapidly by nomadic farmers . There are 70,000 such nomadic families in the mountains , and if 40,000 are not moved , the republic will be eroded like Haiti within a generation , its highlands stripped of trees and its streams clogged with upland sediment : In the closing years of the Trujillo dictatorship , the dikes burst and the swelling rural population , with nowhere to go but the mountains or the cities , flooded the capital city , causing the population of Santo Domingo to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Santo Domingo majority to Bosch , they remain there , as taxi drivers , peddlers , stevedores , whores , housemaids , and occasional day laborers , in dense , flimsy , rat-infested shanties , waiting . The shacks occupy every square yard of those cancerous acres to be seen in nearly all Latin American cities . A seventeen-year-old girl , suckling an illegitimate child , sits in front of a shelter made of strips of palm bark and dismembered packing cases , as naked boys beg for nickels , as pigs and rats forage for food along the muddy alley , as a neighbor 's husband , father of five children , returns with two dollars from his day 's outing as a vendor of discarded bottles . To virtually every slatternly settlement in the Dominican , countryside , Bosch , in the 1962 election campaign , had come for unannounced fifteen-minute rallies in an old English Ford and , with arching flourishes of his hand , had October 26 , , 1963 launched into promises of new industries , irrigation , farm-to-market roads , schools , hospitals , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and government stores where a poor man could buy rice , beans , plantains and bacalao ( dried codfish ) without being robbed by the merchants . Bosch was preaching social revolution . Right after his inauguration the unemployed lined up before the Presidential Palace looking for jobs . The jobs never came . The poor greeted the September 25 coup with silent , restive confusion . Bosch 's party collapsed . There was but little show of protest during five days of martial law as he and his cabinet remained prisoners in the palace . ( 3 ) " The fall of Trujillo is not the revolution , " Juan Bosch wrote in 1959 toward the end of twenty-four years in exile . " Moreover , it may have nothing to do with revolution . . . . In the near future we can expect the first social warfare in our country . " Bosch 's 1962 landslide election victory , uniting peasants , slum dwellers and the lower middle class , brought class war to the Dominican Republic . The stone wall which blocked the DRP 's proposed social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Establishment . This opposition was joined not on the basis of Bosch 's social program , identical with that of the Alliance for Progress , but on spurious charges of widespread Communist infiltration of the Bosch regime . It is one of those miracles of Latin American politics that a president freely elected with a 62 per cent majority can be tumbled after only seven months in office . The campaign began early . At Bosch 's inauguration members of the defeated conservative opposition whispered to visiting reporters that Bosch had some highly suspicious leftists in his entourage . Two weeks later the leader of a party which gained less than 2 per cent of last December 's votes charged that a " massive Communist indocrination " of the armed forces was being carried on under Bosch 's nose . The bishop of Santiago de los Caballeros , the nation 's second city , declared in a sermon that " communism , with its siren song , is infiltrating the mind and heart of our youth . " Newspaper editorials demanded government action against this infiltration . Hysterical mass demonstrations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many towns of the republic . By July , a group of air force generals and colonels were won to the side of the plotters , led by former Council of State President Rafael F. Bonnelly . All summer long the streets were filled with rumors of an impending coup . Week after week the DRP brought its supporters into the street to demonstrate ' against a coup , while U.S. diplomats tried repeatedly to persuade the plotters to call it off . Downtown merchants added to the tension by jacking up food prices and then closing their stores during the final general strike . At the end the cries of " wolf " were ignored and at 2:30 A.M. on September 25 the wolf struck . Faced with enemies having at their disposal the voice of the Church and of the press and radio and the power of the military and business communities , Bosch quixotically tried to continue governing like an English liberal , challenging the opposition to name names , insisting that he would maintain full civil liberties and rejecting the advice of some of his most trusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Left just to silence his opposition for a while . " They are seeking pretexts , " Bosch scornfully told a radio-television audience in mid-July . " If there were not one Communist in the country , the government would be accused of being Trujillista and surrendering power to the Trujillistas . " He undoubtedly was right , but these protestations do not alone consti-255 tute an energetic defense of democracy for 3 2 million Dominicans against the ideological rationale of its overthrow . The Alliance for Progress , if successful , will mean class war , or at least diehard conservative opposition , in many nations of the Americas . Bosch brought the Dominican peasant into politics for the first time , and filled the DRP-run Congress with types that had never been there before : half-lettered barbers and storekeepers and pharmacists and rural schoolteachers with perhaps a fifth-grade education . This frightened the patrician families that always ran the country before Trujillo . It was the first sign of class militancy ever to arise in the republic , and it was no accident that it occurred during a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the Alliance is ever to be successful , it may find itself fighting two battles in some nations , one against the reds and one against the rich . It needs to develop ideological weapons of its own to combat the bogus anti-communism that has become so effective a tool of conservative revolution in the Dominican Republic . The Dominican Republic had been looked upon as a favorite for intensive Alliance for Progress aid because of its smallness , absence of linguistic minorities , relatively good systems of trunk roads and communications , fertile soil , near-ness to the U S. market and , not least , the amenability of its leadership to U.S. counsel . However , at this writing the United States has withdrawn its ambassador , halted the flow of $86 million in committed Alliance aid , and is withdrawing most of the 300 diplomats , military advisers , Peace Corpsmen and AID technicians who were sent there to guide this poor and beaten people toward a decent life . The Americans are leaving behind the same kind of chaos that preceded Trujillo . Struggling to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , five of which together polled leSs than 6 per cent of the votes in last December 's election . Another power struggle , far more serious , is going on among the generals who ousted Bosch : Brig . Gen. AntOnio Imbert Barreras , a former State Council member , controls the police and is backed by the conservative National Civic Union , the dominant party in the provisional government . He is opposed by Brig . Gen. Elias Wessin y Wessin , who plotted the military take-over . Meanwhile , the 60,000-member revolutionary pro-Castro June 14th Movement , which was leaked arms by Imbert during 1962 and allowed by him to infiltrate the armed forces , is awaiting U.S. recognition of the new conservative junta as a signal for violent agitation All this recalls 1930 , when armed forces commander Gen. Rafael Leonidas Trujillo allowed ' a revolulion against President Horacio Vazquez to succeed by deliberately placing most of the government 's arms in a fort to be surrendered to the enemy . At that time the U.S. Minister to Santo Domingo asked the State Department for permission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headed by Trujillo . He got the following reply : The Department regrets that it can not authorize the issuance of the statement which you suggested . We feel that through scrupulously avoiding even the appearances of interfering in the internal affairs of the Dominican Republic our relations with Santo Domingo have been put on a very sound basis in the six years since the withdrawal of the military occupation . The United ' States deSperately needs a juridical basis for rationalizing the interventions which from time to time it has carried out , and must again carry out , in Latin America to defend its own interest in political legitimacy and curb militarism . This might be done through internationalizing the armed forces of several democratic nations , Or ' by regional collective security agreements among constitutional governments , or , under sufficient urgency , by unilateral action . However , this basis must be found soon or oux ' best hopes for the Alliance will be defeated by the stingy , repressive paternalism which for centuries has kept Latin America a backwater of Western civilization .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        