@@205464

FOR the second time in its history , TIME this week is sending two editions onto newsstands and into subscribers ' mailboxes across the U.S. and Canada . The regular issue , dated Nov. 6 , has Philadelphia City Planner Edmund Bacon on the cover , and features-along with all the other sections-a comprehensive story and eight pages of color pic- tures in MODERN LIVING on the dramatic progress of urban renewal in the U.S. That issue went to press some 60 hours before the polls opened for the presidential election of 1964 and was delivered on the regular schedule . <P> This extra edition , which started coming off the presses the morning after election , follows the precedent established in 1960 when we published an Election Extra with President-elect John F. Kennedy on the cover . For this issue 's cover , Artist Henry Koerner turned political reporter and traveled with President Johnson for several days sketching campaign scenes . His drawings formed a frieze for a characteristic picture of the victory-bound President taken by Staff Photographer Walter Bennett . The whole edition was written , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 140 people working through election night and into Wednesday morning . Key members of that staff were some 30 editors , writers and researchers who interpreted what the voters had said-calling on their background knowledge , press association dispatches , other general sources of information and the special reports of 179 TIME correspondents and stringers spread over all 50 states . <P> While this extra follows the 1960 tradition , it is in some important re- spects quite different . Perhaps the biggest difference is the use of color for the cover and for four pages of illustration inside . The color pages were printed in advance in Chicago and shipped to other plants to be bound with the black-and-white pages at press time . Since we were aiming for greater speed as well as quality , the project called for considerable expansion of our production and delivery system . Normally , all type for TIME is set in Chicago , and film or plates are sent from there to other plants . For this issue , type was set in Washington , Albany and Los Angeles as well . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Canada-Montreal , Chicago , Washington , Albany , Los Angeles and Old Saybrook , Conn. - this issue was printed in San Francisco and also bound in Hartford and Concord , N.H. Massive airlift was used to speed the copies to newsstands and post offices , utilizing both chartered and commercial planes . <P> All of our 2,977,200 subscribers in the U.S. and Canada are getting this issue as a bonus , and more than 600,000 copies were printed for newsstand sale . Readers of the more than 500,000 copies that are distributed overseas are receiving it as a supplement bound into the next regular issue , dated Nov. 13 . It is our hope that both at home and abroad it will contribute to the understanding and appreciation of the U.S. elective system at work in 1964.                     