@@218893

It was college football 's " game of the year . " U.C.L.A. against Southern Cal . The No. 1 team in the nation against No. 3 ( or No. 4 , depending on the poll ) . Passer Gary Beban against Runner O. J. Simpson . At stake : the Pacific Eight title , a Rose Bowl bid and the Heisman Trophy . " Whichever team wins this game should be the national champion , " insisted Southern Cal Coach John McKay . After what happened last Saturday-U.C.L.A. ' s Beban passing for two T.D.s , U.S.C. 's Simpson running for two , Southern Cal winning by the slim margin of a missed extra point , 21-20-few experts disagreed with McKay 's judgment . <P> Except Demosthenes Konstandies Andros-and the entire population ( 30,000 ) of Corvallis , Ore . A former Oklahoma guard , beefy " Dee " Andros , 43 , is head coach of the Oregon State Beavers-if not the best team around , then certainly the most underrated . Five weeks ago , the Beavers scored a 22-14 victory over heavily favored ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ team in the U.S. Three weeks ago , they battled to a 16-16 tie with the U.C.L.A. Bruins , who at that time held the No. 2 spot . Two weeks ago , by a score of 3-0 , they knocked Southern Cal 's Trojans out of the unbeaten ranks and the No. 1 ranking . And how much recognition did those remarkable performances earn them ? Not much . Last week , for the first time all season , Oregon State 's " Spoilers " finally cracked the Top Ten in the wire-service polls-both of which rated them No. 8 . Hardly Flukes . The three games may have been upsets as far as the oddsmakers are concerned , but they were hardly flukes . Against Purdue , the fired-up Beaver defense forced the Boilermakers to fumble three times-and recovered all three . Against U.C.L.A. , Oregon State missed a victory by the margin of two inches , when Fullback Bill Enyart was tackled exactly that far from the Bruins ' goal line on a fourth-down plunge . Against Southern Cal , the Beavers beat the Trojans at their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field goal by Mike Haggard ( U.S.C. missed a 36-yarder that would have tied the score ) , never allowed the Trojans to penetrate past the Oregon State 44 in the last half of the game . <P> Aggressiveness is the key to winning , according to Dee Andros-and he has no shortage of it himself . He wears orange and black shoes ( O.S.U. colors , naturally ) , leads his team 's banzai charge onto the playing field , and growls : " I do n't think it hurts to smile on Fridays-but on Saturdays , my kids do n't even open their mouths . " By next year , those kids may even start smiling on Saturdays . Every member of Oregon State 's starting backfield will still be in school , as will all but three of the defensive platoon that held Southern Cal scoreless.                     