@@494864

That Balanced Budget This is the season when lights burn late at the White House and the Bureau of the Budget as the Presidential messages describing the state of the union , the economy and the budget are readied for Congress in January . The tests of strength within an Administration which determine the final Form of these messages make December one of the most decisive months of any political year , for the President must live through the next session of Congress with the commitments he makes now . What economic line will the President take ? Repeated assurances of a " balanced budget , " and Presidential instructions given to the Cabinet on October 26 about putting all departments on a low-fat diet , suggest that Mr. Kennedy is tending to follow the economic conservatism of his Treasury Department rather than the more professional analysis of his brilliant Council of Economic Advisers , headed by Walter Heller . The notion of a " balanced budget " is a fetish before which the well-creased and custom-made trousers of the country always genuflect . It is so sacrosanct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishable as impiety . Yet it is nothing more than a method of measurement . Indeed , several " budgets " are officially issued by the US Government , calculated in different ways to measure different things . And the degree of " balance " which they show varies markedly : - The traditional administrative budget displays expenditures , receipts and new obligational authority , by departments and agencies ; - The cash budget consolidates figures on the flow of money between the federal government and the public as a whole ; - The national income accounts budget records receipts on an accrual basis , the most accurate system for measuring the impact of spending and taxes on the economy in any one quarter or year . The difference in the " balance " obtained from these various measurements can be illustrated by the fact that for fiscal 1962 , the national income account budget will probably come close to being in balance , while the traditional administrative budget will be some $7 billion in the red , Moreover , if the federal government operated on a capital budget , as nabst businesses do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - the national accounts over the past 15 years would look very good to budget balancers . Conversely , if private business balanced its books as the government does in its conventional budget , very much less economic growth would take place . In the years since 1929 the country has learned to tolerate a deficit in recession periods , understanding that to balance THE NEW REPUBLIC the conventional budget when the economy is on the down grade is to push it down faster . Thus President Eisenhower accepted the largest peacetime deficit in the country 's financial history , $12.4 billion in fiscal 1959 , because the recession forced it upon him . But such a departure is considered politically respectable only when the economy is in trouble . Debts incurred to stimulate economic growth , though common in private enterprise , meet resistance when they occur in public accounts , even though debt ? private and public combined ? has historically grown in almost a constant ratio with the country 's gross national product . If we were to take a long-term view of society , we would measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as percentages of the GNP ? the sum , that is , of all the goods and services that the society turns out . We would also accept the need to divert part of the flow of current savings into large public investments , exactly as savings are tapped by private enterprise for large private investment . In his October 26th call for retrenchment , the President said that " were it not for the necessity to devote so much of the national resources to defense , a strong case could be made " for larger federal participation in the joint federal-state-local effort to meet " the growing problems of community development in cities and towns . " That statement is sound , but it begs the question . Does the country not have adequate resources to do both ? Why should a part of the public 's savings not go into improved education , health , research , community and urban development ? is there any economic justification for such cuts as those Secretary Ribicoff is reported to be ordering in the Public Health Service , the Office of Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vocational Rehabilitation ? When the President appraised the current ( fiscal 1062 ) budget in Terms of the effect of its deficit on the domestic price level and on the US balance of payments , he found no evidence that it presented any serious risk . He also forecast that early next year the impact of government spending will change " from a net stimulative to a net restraining influence on the economy . " If this is so , will not " postponing the initiation of deferrable projects and phasing out any acceleration of spending which was instituted as an anti-recession measure " leave the country in fiscal so63 with fairly high unemployment rates and a considerable gap between actual and potential growth ? Resources of labor and capital may well be in short supply in fiscal 1963 . And if such scarcities should develop , increased taxes would be preferable to retrenchment . In all this discussion of budget balancing , it should be borne in mind too that the United States has just committed itself to the goal of increasing the sum of the gross national products of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by 50 percent over the coming decade , to a total of at least $1.25 trillion at the end of 1970 . That means an annual US growth rate of 4.2 percent , a rate considerably higher than has been maintained in recent years . How is this to be accomplished ? Assurances that the United States intends to maintain a stable currency through careful attention to its international balance of payments , and to the related and also delicate problem of maintaining a stable domestic price level , are all to the good . But assurances that the Administration intends to observe the requirements of the Employment Act of 1946 are likewise all to the good . It is the latter which is in danger of neglect . What Education Needs The Catholic bishops have reiterated their opposition to the Administration 's major school aid bill , on the ground that it would " discriminate against children attending non-public schools . " The bishops have grave doubts about any Federal school bill , but they are apparently prepared to stifle these doubts if doing so will induce the Federal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public money can not be used for church schools . It is doubtful whether the Administration can afford politically to accept the bishops ' conditional support , and it is equally doubtful whether a bill which helped parochial schools could in any event pass . Where does that leave education ? In considering alternative legislation the Administration might well ask itself once again whether the schools in Mississippi would really be so much better if they had as much money as the schools in New York ? Or schools in Brooklyn solve their problems if they had as much money as schools in Scarsdale ? There is a possibility that the main trouble with American education is not niggardly finance but inept control . The American school is run by local businessmen , politicians , and housewives who imagine that the highest purpose of education is to produce alumni like themselves . This theory was sound enough before the Civil War when , as in the Greek polls , school board members were likely to be the finest flower of the nation . But America is no longer a federation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on school boards and city councils , but on the boards of national corporations and in the councils of national government . If the schools are to aim at multiplying the professional classes , they must be dominated by these classes , and for this to happen they must in large measure be controlled nationally rather than locally . The Republican Administration grasped the necessity of Federal control when it pushed through the National Defense Education Act instead of a state-aid program . Declining to pour good money after bad , the NDEA told the schools exactly how Federal money should be spent , and tried to spend it in ways that would reshape the schools in a modern image . The NDEA has many serious deficiencies , of which the asinine oath for college students and the shameful failure to offer incentives for improving instruction in English composition are perhaps the two most glaring examples . But the NDEA was on the right track , and a more generous and comprehensive NDEA is needed today . If Mr. Kennedy comes to Congress in January requesting Si billion a year for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students , research and development of better high school academic programs , special subsidies to keep talented high school science and mathematics teachers from taking industrial jobs , expanded English departments which could make students write something every week , and pilot schools in both urban and rural slums to see if greater investment in these areas would really tap new reservoirs of academic and professional talent . Such a bill would be more likely than state aid to ameliorate the deficiencies of our schools , and it would also be more likely to receive support from the necessary 217 Congressmen . Speaking to the Extremists The President had to decide whether to engage in debate with those who say he is n't " tough " enough with the Communists or to ignore them . His decision , re . flected in a blunt address at the University of Washington on November 16 , was vindicated within 48 hours by the defensive , almost incoherent rebuttal by Barry Goldwater on television . Mr. Kennedy had intended to take on the alarmists and extremists last October @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now he has done it , and the effect has been to reassure those who think the President has not done enough educating , that he has not told the public often enough what he has in mind and why . The Seattle speech was that of a man who is not going to be deflected by either the hot-tempered or the weak-willed . He said , in effect , that a great power can do many things but can not do everything , " that the US is neither omnipotent nor omniscient , that we can not always impose our will on the other 94 percent of mankind , that we can not right every wrong or reverse each adversity , that therefore there can not be an American solution for every world problem . " Essentially , Mr. Kennedy was addressing himself to two sorts of irresponsibility in public thinking about foreign policy . " On one hand , " he said , " are those who urge upon us what I regard to be the pathway to surrender - appeasing our enemies , compromising our honor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailed the world of free choice would be smaller today . " At the other extreme are those who equate negotiations with appeasement and whose chauvinistic blustering would mean war , and war " in more places than one . " " Each of these extreme opposites , " the President noted , resembles the other . Each believes that we have only two choices - appeasement or war , suicide or surrender , humiliation or holocaust , to be either Red or dead . Each side sees only hard and soft nations , hard and soft policies , hard and soft men . Each believes that any departure from its own course inevitably leads to the other - one group believes that any peaceful solution means appeasement ; the other believes that any arms bA.7 !  --  .. 7. means war . One group regards everyone else as warmongers , the other regards everyone else as appeasers . Neither side admits its path will lead to disaster , but neither can tell us how or where to draw the line once we descend the slippery slopes of either appeasement or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the true realists , neither could be more unrealistic . " THE NEW Reeuralc Another Congo in Kenya ? Reginald Maudling , Britain 's new Secretary of State for the Colonies , is in Kenya searching for ways to liquidate colonialism without opening the door to civil war . Like the Congo , Kenya is sharply split . The colony 's two main African parties , the Kenya African National Union ( KANU ) , led by Jomo Kenyatta , and the Kenya African Democratic Union ( KADU ) , led by Ronald Ngala , sharply disagree over the future structure and political institutions of the country . The smaller tribes fear domination by the larger ones ; the 75,000 Asians are resigned to African rule ; the 68,000 Europeans are apprehensive but virtually powerless . The Kikuyu and Luo have traditionally been the most educated , the most aggressive and the most nationalist-minded of Kenya 's many tribes . Mr. Kenyatta is a Kikuyu ; Tom Mboya , one of KANU 's founders , is a Luo . Their party draws its support for the most part from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires a strong central government . KADU , the numerically smaller party , wants regionalism like that suggested in the first months of the Congo 's independence , and has threatened civil war if Mr. Maudling does not impose this solution . To make matters more difficult for Mr. Maudling , there are the Arabs , who live and trade along Kenya 's Indian Ocean coast , and the semi-nomadic Somali , who inhabit a vast arid triangle in the northeastern portion of the colony . Both feel themselves culturally superior to the more powerful black Africans and have no wish to be swallowed up in a centralized state . Moreover , the question of the nomads is complicated by the presence of the Somali Republic on Kenya 's northeast border . The Kenya Somali want union with the Somali or , as a next best alternative , simply to be left alone to graze their sheep and goats in an autonomous area . The Republic has recently said that it would seek to incorporate its Kenya kin , and their grazing lands . To which Mr. Kenyatta and KANU have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whatever the cost . KADU 's answer has been regionalism , the carving up of Kenya and neighboring Tanganyika and Uganda into relatively small tribal units , governed by regional assemblies . In turn a federation of East Africa would assume central responsibilities while leaving to the regions a large but unspecified degree of autonomy . Regionalism has certain attractions for Great Britain - as it once did in the Congo for Belgium . It would please the white settlers . It would permit Britain to feel that it was effectively honoring treaties with tribal chiefs ( which stipulate that land ceded to Queen Victoria must remain British ) and the Sultan of Zanzibar ( who still owns the 150-mile long , io-mile wide coastalstrip ) . Yet there is little doubt that regionalism , even if acceptable to Uganda and Tanganyika , would exacerbate the very tribal strife the West seeks to avoid . Mr. Kenyatta 's platform ( and his recent visit to London was a successful attempt to explain it ) has two parts : on the one hand KANU promises to respect all minority rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be secure and sizable economic development will only be possible if there is a strong , democratically-elected central government . Mr. Kenyatta 's party must now persuade Mr. Maudling that stability in East Africa depends upon uhura na nu* - unity with independence - and , in particular , that a new Constitutional conference should be convened early next year , followed by general elections and the grant of self-government . Leadership in The House When the Majority Leader of the Senate , " Mr. Republican " Robert A. Taft , died in the sixth month of Dwight D. Eisenhower 's first term in the White House , the President of the United States and his wife drove to Georgetown to call on Mrs. Taft . The President took her hands in his and , according to Taft 's biographer , William 5 . White , repeated , " I do n't know what I 'll do without him - I do n't know what I 'll do without him . " President Eisenhower , according to Robert J. Donovan , told his Cabinet that his Administration " would remain on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration officials would refrain even from expressing their personal hopes as to who would succeed Taft . " As a result he got the arbitrary William Knowland , whom Taft had installed as temporary leader during his illness . Now another new President faces the loss of a strong man in a Congress which , like Eisenhower 's , is only narrowly and only sometimes his . Without Rayburn 's firm backing , the bill to relax Rules Committee control over the House would not have passed in the last session ; there were only five votes to spare as it was . Without that change most of the other Kennedy measures that passed would have been bottled up in committee , as they had been before . And what went through the first session of the 87th Congress was the easy part of the Kennedy program . Even if Mr. Ray-burn 's health had held up , the second session outlook would have been grim for the President . Mr. Rayburn himself once remarked that , " you can run the House from the Speaker 's chair or from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chair seems certain to be Rep. John W. McCormack . The only open question - and it is the critical one - is who will succeed Mr. McCormack as Majority Leader . To date , the only avowed candidates are Rep. Carl Albert of Oklahoma and Rep. Richard Bolling of Missouri . Representative Albert is popular , easy-going and has a liberal voting record - with the rather important exception of his having voted against the Civil Rights Act of 1957 . Bolling , on the other hand , is the most forceful and adept strategist the Democrats have in the House . He was Mr. Sam 's most useful legislative lieutenant . With Mr. Sam gone , his skills become indispensable if the winning combinations of votes are to be put together for the White House program in 1962 . Mr. Kennedy , as a Congressman , was inclined to be a traditionalist on procedures , and a strong believer in the principle of divided powers between the Executive and Legislative branches . But since he first became a candidate for President he has emphasized the special responsibility of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that our system of checks and balances , our whole constitutional system , can only operate under a strong President , " he has said . " The Constitution is a very wise document . It permits the President to assume just about as much power as he is capable of handling . If he fails , it is his Fault , not the system 's . " If Mr. Kennedy hesitates to use his power as President to make sure that its most competent men are chosen to lead the House , without respect to tradition , it will , as he says , be his fault , not the system 's . Judges of Obscenity On July 13 , the Chief of Police of Provincetown , Massachusetts , brought a complaint against William V. Ward for publishing a story by Hubert Selby , Jr. , called " Tralala , " in the Provincetown Review , a little magazine recently started by a group of young men with more idealism than dollars . The complaint alleged that the magazine was obscene , indecent and impure , in violation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jury , before Judge Robert A. Welsh of the Provincetown District Court who , after hearing evidence , fined the defendant $1,000 . An appeal was then taken to the Superior Court in nearby Barnstable . " Tralala " is about a prostitute without a heart of gold vicious , cruel and dehumanized by inheritance and environment . The moral is an old one - the wages of sin are death . Since it is told through the medium of Tralala 's myopic vision and limited vocabulary the language largely consists of four-letter words . Mr. Reuben Goodman , of Boston , who represented the defendant , and Professor Mark Howe , of the Harvard Law School , shortly after the judgment of the Provincetown Court , reported the case to Edward J. McCormack , Attorney General of Massachusetts . Mr. McCormack , after personally reading the story and reading the transcript of the trial , ordered that the complaint be dismissed . It was the Attorney General 's opinion that " Tralala " was not obscene within the criteria established by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in its most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . What is interesting about the case is not merely that the action of Attorney General McCormack foreshadows a more common sense approach to censorship by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts . It may be even more relevant to note the questions raised by the testimony in Provincetown with respect to who is competent to draw the line between art and pornography . The four experts testifying for the defense - Stanley Kunitz and Allen Tate as creative writers and critics , Jason Epstein , Vice President of Random House , as a publisher , and Norman Podhoretz , the editor-inchief of Commentary - believed that the tale was a work of literary merit and moral power and therefore not obscene . But , Mr. Tate went on , " Tralala " raises an issue that history has not been able Finally to settle - " Is a literary work of high merit to be condemned because it presents odious language ? " It is the same question that was raised by James Joyce 's Ulysses , and recently by the republication of Lady Ckatterley 's Lover . In Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a democratic society may protect the immature mind from the corrupting influence of salacious literature must be established by an authority which can be accepted as reasonable and superior to individual prejudice . " That policemen and politicians are rarely qualified to exercise th 's authority was shown again several weeks ago in Maryland , when County Manager Mason A. Butcher ordered Henry Miller 's Tropic of Cancer removed from the Montgomery County public libraries . Mr. Butcher had not read the book , though he " saw quite a few pages . " And on that basis he Felt competent to classify the novel as " obscene . " Mr. Hogan 's Decision New York is a city of marvels . Its Mayor bites the hands of the bosses who made him Mayor in the first place , and is rewarded by being re-elected as an insurgent . And now its District Attorney has decided to " abide by " the law . The two events are unconnected . The point is merely that the second no less than the first was front-page news . District ' Attorney Frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wiretap evidence in prosecutions conducted by his office , because tapping telephone wires is forbidden by federal law ; it is , indeed , a federal crime . His was a difficult decision , the THE NEW REPUBLIC New York Times allowed editorially , " but we think a correct one . " Mr. Hogan did not announce that officers subject to his jurisdiction would stop tapping wires as well as ceasing to use the product of the tap in court ; that would be going too far . Yet the Federal Communications Act which forbids tapping , has been on the books for 27 years . The Supreme Court first held that tapping by federal law enforcement officers was illegal as long ago as 1937 . It declared unanimously in 1957 what seemed to follow not unnaturally , namely , that tapping was equally illegal under the same statute when done by state law enforcement officers . This has proved to be sufficiently explicit for Mr. Hogan , but it took him five years to reach the " **30;1796;TOOLONG " conclusion that he ought to accept it . The Plague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see something on the horizon it was too late . General de Gaulle again has said - this time on his tour of Corsica , flanked by a small army of some 4,000 security guards - that he sees the end of the eight-year war in Algeria . And the new Algerian Foreign Minister , Sa'ad Dahlab , is conducting himself in a manner which suggests that serious secret negotiations are making some progress - despite the latest obstacle in the form of a hunger strike by the Algerian rebel leader , Mohammed Ben Bella , who has been in French hands since 1956 . But whatever the result of the negotiations , the terrorism and counter-terrorism in Algeria and in France hat ; produced a moral plague which the late Albert Camus , who was born in Algeria and used his native soil as the setting for his novel , The Plague , did not foresee . The fanatics of the so-called Secret Army Organization , officered mostly by Frenchmen but manned in large part by adventurers and mercenaries of German , Spanish , Italian , Maltese , Greek , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of a French Algeria . And the Parisian police , presumably struggling to uphold law and order against the secret conspirators of the French military , repress an entirely peaceful demonstration by Moslem Algerians in Paris who were protesting a racist curfew . The participants in this mass demonstration carried no weapons and took no aggressive step - unless their mere presence in orderly formations is taken as aggression . Yet in the streets , in hallways , in back alleys , in metro stations , and in the Palais des Sports where many of them were herded , the cold-blooded brutality of the police toward them was worse than the comparable treatment of Jews in Paris under Nazi rule . Days afterward maimed bodies still were being found in the Seineand in woods around the city . Some Frenchmen protested , but most seemed indifferent , as if such conduct were now a matter of course . Marshal Petain who condoned such things by silence was senile . De Gat.11e , at 71 , is not . Once Upon a Network Radio Pacifica 's listener-supported New York FM radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Which Way America ? " in which Lawrence Dennis advocated some form of fascism , Norman Thomas supported socialism , A. J. Muste spoke for Communism , and Raymond Moley for democracy . The spirit animating the discussion was summed up by Moley , who said : " I was talking to a very high official in the city of Washington the other day , and 1 said , ' Why ca n't we have in the Wagner Bill real democratic collective bargaining by proportional representation ? " , and he said , ' The leaders of the American Federation of Labor say that if there 's a democratic means of selecting the delegates in an industry to bargain , we 'll get some Communists . ' And I said , ' I do n't believe in that . If there are to percent of Communists in a plant and they demand a right to be represented , then they have the right to have a o percent of the delegates . ' " I think I 'm more democratic than the American Federation of Labor ; and I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In offering this program to its listeners , WBAI rightly felt that it had taken a courageous stand for free speech . But when " Which Way America " was first broadcast , z6 years ago , it was a regular part of the " Town Meeting of the Air " series and carried by the NBC network . Brother Robert on Tour Quiet official explorations are reportedly being made in major capitals of Europe and in Teheran in preparation for the as yet unannounced January foreign tour of Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy . It is said that the foreign offices of the governments concerned , not the legal departments , are being informed , and that the President 's brother is expected to confer with chiefs of state on world issues . Some months ago , it will be recalled , when the word got out that the Attorney General had received Soviet Ambassador Menshikov , Rep. John Lindsay of New York wrote a letter demanding to know of Dean Rusk who was running US foreign policy . The answer then was that the initiative had been the Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffice this time . 