@@488120

The candidacy of Shirley Temple Black for Congress from San Mateo County in California has generated a considerable amount of news , comment and confusion all over the country . Coming on the heels of successful adventures by two other entertainment figures , George Murphy and Ronald Reagan , her decision to run for Congress raises an interesting question : has California led the way to a new curiosity , a politics of entertainment ? One may say , of course , that all successful politicians have at least a touch of the entertainer in their make-ups . Churchill , Roosevelt , La Guardia ? a host of great performers comes to mind . But there is more to it than that . Americans pride themselves on having " escaped from history , " on having developed native philosophies and a distinctive character . If we are ahistorical why should n't we also be apolitical ? And what could be more apolitical than having actors play at governing the land ? They 'll help you smile your troubles away . It may be that a new kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " traditional , " " rational-legal " and " charismatic " we can add " entertaining , " the perfect leader for an entertainment culture , a culture of spectators at the rites of love , war , the World Series  --  and now politics . One can suggest several reasons why the player-candidate has arisen at just this time . Our sanitized , somewhat sterile environment , whose architecture and planning act to preclude human relationships  --  the deadening quality of life itself  --  make amusement an essential substitute for experience , and suggested entertainment candidates as part of the strategy of maximum thrill . Also , we Americans fear politics as something dirty . The word has negative connotations in a country where a major distinction is made between the morality of private relationships and the politics of public affairs . People seldom consider that public responsibility only reflects private morality , and that when politicians are " bought , " someone does the buying . Given the view that politics is by nature dirty and corrupting , the entertainment candidate who presents himself as innocent , idealistic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This has long been so : in 1828 , John Quincy Adams , basing his campaign upon his experience and the complexity of politics , was trounced by " nature 's nobleman , " Andrew Jackson  --  himself an entertainer of note . The same thing happened to Pat Brown in 1966 ; he failed to reckon with the element of ritual cleansing in the art of voting . The people absolve themselves of guilt in a ceremony of redemption , whereby an " innocent " leader ENTERTAINMENT takes upon himself the burden of history and everything that is part of it  --  riots , discrimination and the University of California . When Brown campaigned on the basis of his experience and the involved nature of the issues , he implicated all Californians in the problems of the state . He spread the guilt ( for Watts and other inequities ) , whereas Reagan promised to relieve the people of guilt because he would show that nothing was really wrong . A little common sense and lower taxes would fix the state as good as new . Shirley Temple Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is how it will appear on the ballot . It will help evoke memories of On the Good Ship Lollipop , Little Miss Marker and the joys of childhood which seemed lost but now can be recaptured Will the fact that she was a child star hurt her ' ) It is doubtful , since children are seen as innocent , and innocence is the quality we seem to be looking for in politicians . For those who did n't see her thirty years ago , Shirley Temple film festivals are popping up , as promoters take advantage of the publicity generated by her campaign . Shirley Temple dolls are also to be marketed again . All of this will help her , since her problem with the voters is less to create an image than to recall one . She also plugs away at morality , an issue that generally brings out a large women 's vote . ( Morality and nostalgia are a combination hard to beat . ) When she walked out on the San Francisco Film Festival because of the alleged " pornography for profit " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearts of many well-to-do matrons of San Mateo County , who will no doubt find her combination of effulgent moralism and political conservatism delectable . San Mateo has the reputation of being the Orange County of Northern California , and reactionary politics is almost always swathed in fundamentalist moralism . Shirley Temple 's campaign is based on Kalleeklatsches , where she appears among her constituents-to-be in homey intimacy . Her political beliefs are standard stuff . eliminate " wasteful " spending , vocational education for the underprivileged ( Booker T. Washington would have approved ) , and local control of everything . She thinks we can end the war in Vietnam quickly by mining Haiphong harbor . She gets her information and arrives at her views by reading the newspapers and U.S. News &; World Report . She also claims to have had " briefings " and to have many " sources " in Washington . However , the main thrust of Mrs. Black 's campaign is not political : she promises to provide inspirational leadership , to see things from the perspective of the housewife , which is how she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morality is thought to be the province of the female and , indeed , to be somewhat effeminate . Now that Shirley has joined George and Ronald 0 on the " larger stage , " a discernible pattern is beginning to emerge and the role of entertainment in politics is changing . It was almost always necessary for even the most iron-faced of politicians to be able to tell a few jokes , tug a few heartstrings , wear a few bizarre hats , but that was only part of the job . Now , being able to entertain seems not only necessary but also sufficient . Politics , which addresses itself to ordering life and solving problems , has ii given way to entertainment , which allows us to pretend the order and escape the problems . As our sense of community withers and institutions which traditionally have held society together atrophy , entertainment becomes the new cohesive force . Not only does it give people " images " to shape their identity and a particular sense of reality , it also gives them a politics America is a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being shaped , is full of newcomers , trying to escape the past in the promised land Half a million people pour into the state every year , and those already there move around with abandon . There is little sense of community in California , so its people grasp at anything that can give them a sense of belonging . The easiest " group " to belong to is the television audience , with other entertainment media playing supporting roles . In that environment the entertainment figure has a trump card : people not only recognize his name ; they may even identify him with his roles . How , then , does one combat the entertainment candidate ? This , perhaps , is the most significant question raised by Shirley Temple Black 's run for Congress . It is obvious that we ca n't point to lack of experience : the less experience a candidate has the better . Only in business are experts needed ; elsewhere a kind of " natural wisdom " enjoyed by all good , ordinary Americans is enough . So if you ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entertainment figure . This strategy is being seriously considered in California ( though no entertainment candidate is opposing Mrs. Black ) and a number of actors contemplate political flings . Why not ? They have everything needed to succeed in politics  --  money , a name , the capacity to amuse , and docility . The great virtue of the entertainer candidate is that in the judgment of the party professionals , by and large he does what he is told . An actor is someone who pretends to be what he is not , says what he is told to say , and succeeds to the extent that he can make his performance credible . Thus , when he turns to public affairs he can also be more easily manipulated by the power interests who back him than can the politician , who may display an inconvenient sense of independence A political candidate could , of course , try to outentertain the entertainment candidate and probably in a number of cases he might succeed  --  which does n't speak well for either politics or entertainment . In either case  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is away from politics . The philosopher-king as model for the ideal ruler has been eclipsed by the entertainer-star , and with that we have erased several thousand years of history . The image of the king grew out of that of the magician , so our electronic gadgetry is taking us backward , to the primitive village , where politics was dominated by other " entertainment figures . " But have we really abandoned the political state for the euphoric state and the trance induced by the hypnotic spell of the one-eyed baby sitter ' It is still too soon to say so in final despair . Both the Murphy and the Reagan victories were somewhat exceptional cases , involving white backlash and the pitting of all-out conservatives against good-natured and perhaps too easygoing liberals . Salinger and Brown were , for various reasons , vulnerable , and their defeats may prove in the end significant of a trend . Brown 's loss was certainly significant as far as the lives of Californians are concerned . The Reagan administration , though it promised to cut taxes , has raised them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Reagan has attacked all welfare services and will soon impose fees on the state colleges and university system ( whose president , Clark Kerr , he fired , and replaced with an accountant ) . Recent polls show that his popularity is beginning to drop as the initial good will accorded to all successful candidates starts ebbing . Perhaps the honeymoon is over . Whether Reagan can parlay Orange County and his famous " sincerity " into a Republican nomination on the national ticket remains to be seen , especially after the cold reception he suffered recently at Eureka . California 's political climate is as exceptional as its weather ( Goldwater found this out ) , and the entertainer in politics may be only a local phenomenon . But there can be no doubt that Reagan represents the most important penetration of politics by an entertainer to this date . Though he has made a " four-year contract " with the people of California , few think he would refuse the nation 's call if it came his way . Once you get used to playing the knight on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 