@@478976

Is the Negro an American or an African , heir of a separate culture , or the most indigenous of citizens ? Is his experience significant for its uniqueness or its universality ? Is he anything but a white man , incomplete ? The answers are crucial ; in , finding them we had better stay away from the old clich ? s . The rush is on . Come and get it : Afro-Americanism. black studies , the Negro heritage . From Harvard to Ocean Hill , from Duke to Madison Avenue , they are trying , as they say , to restore the Negro to his rightful place in American history and culture ; black ( and white ) intellectuals , scholars , teachers , politicians , hustlers busy with black restoration . The spirit is upon them , the writers and publishers , the polemicists and pushers , and the implications are enormous . But the richest soil is education , the schools and colleges , and the processes of growing up in which they 're involved . The academy is an obvious mark because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tends to be guilt-ridden anyway , and because it has apparently failed black children not only in its practice but in its mythology . The school was supposed to offer ? had claimed it could offer ? equality , democracy , and opportunity . Instead what it provided was selectivity ; it selected people in , and selected them out . By and large , black people were selected out , not because the school was independently discriminatory , but because it offered and gave what the society asked . When finally we looked inside the little black box ? the mystique of education and advancement , the mystique of academic standards and professionalism -- it turnedout to he empty . If teachers and schools knew anything about teaching anybody ( which is an open question ) they plainly knew little about teaching people who did not already belong to the middle class or who refused to conform to its culture . Black restoration was not invented inside the schools , but the intellectuals have taken it up , the students are promoting it , and the academics are debating it . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to every amateur . The line between history and mythology is indefinite , but where the first is at least theoretically subject to disciplinary standards , the latter is not . Any number can play . Black studies can have just as much legitimacy as anything else ; if Harvard has a program on East Asia or Latin America , why not Africa ? If American Negro experience has been left out of American history courses ? as it has ? then surely it should be restored . But the significance of black restoration ? even aside from its separatist extremities ( the establishment of an independent black state in America , for example ) ? has greater and more ambiguous implications . Is the American Negro , by whatever name , an American or an African , the heir of a separate culture , or the most indigenous of citizens ? Is fiction or music produced by American Negroes uniquely a product of black experience or of an " African heritage , " Malcolm X is an appropriate figure for public-school commemoration . In the past decade , perception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one hand , it has become pop sociology ; on the other , it has been incorporated into a new mythology . The first is the rhetoric of the matriarchal family , the lack of father figures , the passion for a " relevant curriculum " ; the second , the growth of a world of African culture , black pride , and black power . Preston Wilcox , who has been an intellectual spokesman for the black school movement ( and is now chairman of the . Association of Afro-American Educators ) , recently declared : The surge to restore the Black community in intellectual , psychological , physical , social , economic , and political terms is taking place in the form of a cultural revolution at the doorstep of the traditional Little Red Schoolhouse from which Black Americans have been planfully excluded , This culturally radical effort forces one to view the Black Restoration Movement as a nation-building activity ? a process designed to build into the instinct and habit systems of Black people a need to view the many pieces of the struggle as a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people away from their African heritage ? and their historic charge to figuratively return to Africa to join in the liberation struggle of Black people around the world . Examine the language : Black Restoration , nation-building activity , the figurative return to Africa . With the exception of Marcus Garvey and his African nationalists , no American has ever talked this way before . Black Americans are not to invent an identity , or to regard themselves as complete Americans and fight for a place within the prevailing culture , they are to restore , to return , to reclaim the things that America has taken away . The compelling central figure in this drama is not the bourgeois manager negotiating with the Establishment for more jobs or for a civil-rights law , nor even a Christian martyr , but a street fighter , a hustler , a high-style liver who masters the adversities on his own terms , the man who synthesizes new meaning from familiar experience . Martin Luther King still wins the polls as " a great Negro leader , " but it is the gut fighters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preacher , the man who used traditional materials ? the cadences of the prayer meeting , the imperatives of the Christian witness , the moral confrontation ? and improvised a new Peter Schrag is editor of " Change , " a new magazine devoted to problems of higher education . He is the author of " Village School Downtown , " and writes frequently on education and other social issues . style . Suffering promised salvation even to the oppressor . His style was Baptist , Southern , and rural . The new figures are urban . They begin as compromised individuals , men who have not simply been victimized as Negroes , but who have , often joyously , participated in the underworld of the ghetto . Men like Eldridge Cleaver . Claude Brown , and Malcolm X may never become mythic heroes , but their experiences on the city streets , however untypical , are now closer to home than those of the Southern plantation . ( For certain intellectuals , black and white , they may also be a way of identifying with ? and romanticizing ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man who solved the riddle of blackness , and ? apparentlygrew up . Other Americans had come from the depths of the common black experience , had been corrupted by the white culture , and had risen above it . Malcolm did not invent the new cosmology ? black power , black is beautiful , think black ? or the mystique of Africanism . As he tells it in the Autobiography , it was all revealed to him , first in prison , and later on a visit to Mecca . But it was Malcolm who delivered it to the world , who spread the gospel : " You do n't even know who you are , " Reginald his brother had said . " You do n't even know , the white devil has hidden it from you , that you are of a race of people of ancient civilizations . and riches in gold and kings . You do n't even know your true family name , you would n't recognize your true language if you heard it . You have been cut off by the devil white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You have been a victim of the evil of the devil white man ever since he murdered and raped and stole from your native land in the seeds of your forefathers .... " All these revelations amounted to a religious experience , a transformation that he likened to the experience of St. Paul hearing the voice of Christ on the road to Damascus . What Malcolm heard was a coherent legend ? a myth of plunder and conspiracy ? that matched any classic tale of creation . The story came from Elijah Muhammad , the patriarch of the Muslims , whose servant Malcolm later became . According to the story , which runs for three pages in Malcolm 's Autobiography , the first humans were black , among them the tribe of Shabazz from " which America 's Negroes , so-called , descend . " Among them was born a mad scientist named Mr. Yacub who was exiled with his followers . In his hatred toward Allah , Mr. Yacub created a white devil race which enslaved black men and turned what " had been a peaceful heaven on earth into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prophesied that this race would rule the earth for six thousand years and would then destroy itself . At that time the non-41 be taught is to ask a luxury that few people ? white or black ? can afford . This is not to say that the search for the black past and for the legitimate recognition of the black present is worthless . It means only that it is misdirected and still too much subject to the implications of white supremacy . What the nationalists want to do with the schools is simply to replace white boredom with black . They have , of course , every right to ask for it . It is no more damaging to fall asleep over Benjamin Banneker , Crispus Attucks , and the kingdoms of the Nile than it is over Thomas Edison , Sam Adams , and the tariff of 1820 . But in doing it the nationalists are confusing symbol and substance and aping those forms and styles that constitute the weakest elements of the existing system . In one breath they have declared the prevailing American myth a sham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it black , and labeled it good . Scratch African nationalism just a little bit , and it conies out American : puritanical , messianic , and bourgeois . Deep inside him , Malcolm was a cross between the Ben Franklin of hard work and thrift , the George 10 . Babbitt who knew that it paid to advertise , and the Calvinistic moralist decrying the decline in values . Without knowing it , Malcolm , too , was a bastard of the West . A school run largely on his ultimate premises ? and there are not likely to be many ? would make any Yankee schoolmaster proud . Which is not to denigrate the idea of black power , only to redefine and liberate it from the pursuit of a false ethnic model . A disproportionate number of Negro intellectuals ? and black militants ? are bemused by Jews . Because the entire mythology of urban education and ethnic cohesiveness is saturated with Jewish examples , and because in New York the schools are predominantly Jewish , that bemusement is understandable . The Jews used the schools , why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why should n't the Negroes have Africa ? If the Jews relied on their ofd-world culture to propel them into the mainstream of America , why not the Negroes ? The American Negro , in other words , is supposed to turn himself into an African so that he can become a Jew and thereby transform himself into a WASP . It may well be true that the Jews were more successful than most ethnic groups in using the schools to gain advancement . Yet clearly that success ? of whatever degree ? was based on the character of the cultural content of Jewish tradition and not simply the existence of a culture . To the extent that they succeeded in the public schools , the Jews ? and especially the European Jews ? were superbly matched to the demands and style of their teachers and curriculum . The tradition of education , and the respect for teachers and learning was , in most instances , reinforced by the sense of mercantile values . Both coincided with the values and aspirations of the schools . The Jews were qualified bourgeois clients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be Protestant ? with " nondenominational " prayers and hymns and Protestant teachers ? merely reinforced ethnic and religious cohesiveness and provided enough discrimination to motivate the recruits . Most other immigrant groups did not use the schools for advancement into the mainstream . Irish or Italian power was exercised through the Church , the political ward , and a vast array of semi- or non-skilled political or commercial occupations , some of them of doubtful legality . Neither the Italians nor the Irish brought any great passion for intellectual attainment . Most of the Italians were southern villagers among whom there was no ideology of change . " Intellectual curiosity and originality were ridiculed or suppressed , " wrote Nathan Glazer in Beyond the Melting Pot , " ' Do not make your child better than you are , ' runs a south Italian proverb . " And while the Irish dutifully sent their children to school ( often to parochial school I , they rarely expected the school to do much more than enforce standards of discipline , order , and morality . The historical precedents for black power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pride and cohesiveness manifested themselves in                     