@@485509

OF ALL THE domestic casualties resulting from our efforts to achieve " internal security , " none seems to me more unnecessary or more fraught with irony than the case of prisoner No. 28398-NE at Lewisburg penitentiary . His name is Junius Irving Scales . He surrendered on October 2 , 1961 , to begin serving a six-year sentence for having once held a faith which he held no longer  --  a faith which he had abandoned , in disgust and disillusion , four and one-half years previously . Scales was the guinea pig in the test case in which the Department of Justice established , by a bare 5-to4 margin in the ' Supreme Court , the Constitutionality of that section of the Smith Act which makes it a crime merely to be a member of an organization , " knowing " that it advocates the overthrow of the government by force and violence . He was not charged with having advocated the forbidden doctrine himself , much less with committing any acts designed to put it into effect , Indeed , at least four of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of any act of violence committed by himself , or that he himself urged anyone to commit any acts of violence against the government . " He was charged merely with having been a member of the Communist Party with knowledge that it " advocated " violent revolution . I should say at once that I do not approach the Scales case as a disinterested and impartial observer . I knew Scales in Chapel Hill , North Carolina , in the years 1947-50 and have seen him occasionally since . In my opinion , no competent casting office would have given him a moment 's consideration for the role to which the mysterious processes of justice ' have assigned him . Junius is a sixth-generation Amer-. ican , of Anglo-Saxon , Protestant ancestry , and a scion of one of North Carolina 's distinguished families . His great-uncle ' had been governor of the state . No one who knows him could associate him with any threat of violence . Yet he publicly announced himself to be a member of the Com munist Party and . became its State Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stereotypes as to what a Communist should be . CHAPEL HILL in the late ' forties was quite a different world from that which eventually condemned Scales to prison for his party membership . As always , it is difficult to evoke the reality of one world for those who live in another . Chapel Hill is a university town which has been outstanding , especially for - the South , in its liberalism and in its tolerance for skepticism and dissent . In those days ? Frank Graham was still President of the university  --  it was even more so . In the latter half of the forties , it was filled with veterans who were returning to college under the GI Bill . To many of these , fascism had always been the main enemy . The United States and the USSR had fought it side by side and so had Coriamunist and non-Communist Americans . The effect of this had scarcely begun to wear off and the rumblings of the cold war and its domestic counterparts were just beginning . A few among these veterans  --  chiefly graduate students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which seemed to take the place of the faiths they had lost , and which required no belief in the supernatural . They were Marxists in their interpretation of what it was all about , and where it would come out in the end ; but they differed little from liberal democrats in their views as to what ought to , be done in the immediate future . They were believers in an impending revolution , but they also believed that revolutions are caused only by deep-rooted historical forces which ' they could neither call into being nor prevent . They would no more have thought of themselves as " advocating " violence than a Darwinian would think of himself as " advocating " the slaughter of the weak and defenseless . For these , and for others who were interested in communism but not committed to it , the center was Junius Scales 's home in the nearby mill village of , Carboro . Scales was himself a veteran with a record of honorable service in World War II . Junius had come to the faith in a The NATION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mid-thirties . Faith in capitalism , still clambering painfully out of the Great Depression , and still leaving scandalous numbers of people unemployed , was at low ebb . To readers of five-year plans , it could easily seem that socialism was making great strides forward while capitalism stood relatively still or drifted toward fascism , Horror of Nazism and sympathy for embattled Republican Spain had created an atmosphere in which the Communist appeal of that time for a united front against fascism was well received . Junius came out of college a convinced Communist . And so , instead of accepting the comfortable and privileged life which his family background and education made possible , he went to work in a cotton mill and moved in with a family of mill workers . JUDGING from the Scales I knew a decade later , his attempted selfbolshevization was never a huge success . He was poorer than many proletarians , but still the incurable egghead . In his modest home , which had evidently been designed to rent to mill workers , every available inch of wall space had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records , but there was still a considerable overflow which had to be stacked along the floor in the hall . It was a wide-ranging , tasteful and interesting library , by no means limited to Marxism , though that topic was heavily represented . His collection of classical records , astonishing considering the times and his meager resources , was full of fascinating and unexpected bypaths . Many of those who frequented the Scales residence were drawn more by their host 's books and records than by his political message . He seemed a man whom nature had obviously , designed to be some sort of archivist , librarian or curator , and whose natural bent kept reasserting itself , despite his conscientious efforts to make himself an organizer and a political activist . Junius ' faith in communism was strong , but it was not of the type which destroys everything in its path , like that of the reckless zealot or the self-righteous persecutor . He December 30 , 1961 was not arrogant , or callous , or unaware of the humanity of those who disagreed with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare gentleness , as well as deep integrity , True , it was a blind faith , but when was faith or love anything else ? WHEN Khrushchev in 1956 confirmed the reports of Stalinist terror which Scales had loyally disbelieved , his world was jarred off its foundations . His doubts were ended by Hungary but , with John Gates and others , he tried for a few months to reform the Communist Party from within . Then in February , 1957 , he gave up and quit . But long before this break he had been indicted under the Smith Act , and the wheels thus set in motion ground on regardless . If anything further was needed to complete his re-education , it was supplied by the discovery that the Communist Party does not give or encourage aid to defectors , even when they are being sent to prison for " knowing " membership in the party . Before he began serving his six-year sentence in Lewisburg , Scales served seven in the limbo to which this country presently condemns its political deviates . So did his rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his daughter , now ten years old . Only the most menial types of employment were permanently open to him . Most of the time he worked at night as a copyholder . Repeatedly he obtained more desirable jobs only to be released as soon as his identity was discovered . Just as it seemed that he was becoming settled in a thoroughly obscure , harmless and apolitical existence , the Supreme Court finally handed down its decision holding the Smith Act membership clause Constitutional and affirming his conviction . The ironies of the Scales case do not end here . The same day it affirmed his case , the Supreme Court reversed for insufficient evidence a conviction under the same clause of a man reportedly still active in the party . About six weeks after Scales went to prison , the Department of Justice dropped its membership-clause prosecution against a third man who also reportedly had not defected . Scales 's six-year sentence is apparently the most severe which has ever been awarded under the Smith Act . There has been much complaint about Communists ' concealing their views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singled out for the harshest treatment . The judge refused to reduce the sentence , despite letters from manyprominent members of the North Carolina bar , a North Carolina judge and four members of the convicting jury , urging that he do so . Yet it is generally believed that Scales could have gotten a drastically reduced sentence if he had been willing to play the informer against former associates ; indeed , one of the United States Attorneys urged his failure to do so as a principal argument against any reduction of sentence . With the trial judge 's refusal to reduce the sentence and the Supreme Court 's affirmance of the conviction , there is no recourse left except an appeal to President /Kennedy for executive clemency . THE Supreme Court 's decision upholding the membership clause of the Smith Act is a logical extension of the doctrines and attitudes which have produced a general decline of our civil liberties during the past fifteen years , but it marks a further stage in that decline . The principle of guilt by association has become painfully familiar in loyalty-security proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long step further to make it the basis of severe criminal penalties . Yet that is what we do when we permit a person to be sent to prison , not for any acts or statements of his own , but solely for his membership in an organization . Specifying " knowing " membership does not make the matter any different , since such 529 " knowledge " is ' merely an inference which ' tile : jury is permitted to ' draw from the fact of association , , And , as Justice Douglas noted in his dissent-. ing Not one single illegal act is charged to petitioner Scales . That is why the essence of the crime covered by the- indictment is merely belief  --  belief ef n the proletarian revolution , belief in the Communist creed . In - this case , by an - extraordinary quirk , a man is in prison fora belief which he long ' . ago abandoned . But this must not cause us to lose sight of the fact that , in a country which took seriously the principles we profess to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' other kind would not be punished . New York Post Editor James A. Wechsler wrote his paper : There will be those who say the troubles of the Scales family are only an incident when contrasted with the widespread human uprootings in East Germany and " elsewhere . I disagree . It is exactly in a time when so many millions-are being capriciously ? pushed around in the world that a free society should be proclaiming its compassion and its sanity . There has been neither in the Scales case . 