@@494866

Why Castro Ca n't Be Neutral by Ernst Halperin Until 1955 both American and Soviet foreign policy were dominated by Stalin 's view of the " two camps " locked in mortal combat . A Latin American country which wanted political or economic support from Russia as an alternative to the United States would unquestionably have had to join the Communist bloc and subordinate itself to Moscow 's orders . Given only this alternative , Latin American leaders inevitably preferred to remain tied to the United States . When Khrushchev began to gain control over Soviet foreign policy , however , a new flexibility appeared . He not only sought a rapprochement with Tito but also began to encourage " Titoism " within the bourgeois camp , notably through the arms deal with Nasser . The state visit to India and Burma and the peace treaty for Austria , also made 1955 a critical year in the evolution of neutralism . In 1956 Khrushchev sought to legitimize his new policy of encouraging " non-alignment . " He attacked Stalin and his doctrine of the " two camps " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a third neutral " Camp of Peace . " In Latin America , as elsewhere , many moderate non-Communists hoped that this dogma would inaugurate a new era in international relations , during which underdeveloped countries could turn to both East and West for assistance , without accepting the economic or political hegemony of either . Cuba was the first real test case . If Premier Khrushchev was prepared to support a neutral Popular Front regime under Castro , many statesmen anticipated that America would also do so . If this had happened , many Latin American liberals would eventually have followed Castro 's course . We know that Khrushchev hoped for such an outcome . More than once during 196o he urged Castro to moderate his anti-Americanism and avoid a complete break . When militants within the Partido Socialista Popular , like Blas Roca , sought to unite Castro 's " 26th of July " movement with their Communist party , turning Cuba into an orthodox Bolshevik dictatorship , the Russians were appalled . Khrushchev knew that this would convince the great majority of other Latin American leaders that real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspected that if Latin Americans were confronted only with a stark choice between domination by Moscow or Washington , most would stick with Washington . So he tacitly backed a moderate splinter group within the Cuban Communist Party which urged a Popular Front , headed by Castro and including not only the Communists but other parties . But this splinter group was defeated , and Blas Roca 's merger was eventually forced on the unorganized " 26th of July " party . In order to understand why Khrushchev 's hopes were not fulfilled , it is necessary to realize that unlike Stalin he has never enjoyed absolute control over Communist Parties outside the USSR , such as the Partido Socialista Popular . Nor has his pro-neutralist policy been warmly received by these foreign parties . Like liberals in backward countries who feel betrayed when America , backs an anti-Russian dictatorship instead of a middle-class revolution , most Communists in backward countries feel betrayed when Khrushchev backs an anti-American nationalist instead of a proletarian revolution . Egyptian Communists admit , for example , that Nasser is a thorn in the side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marxist propaganda and puts Communists in jail . Few Egyptian Communists want to postpone making their own revolution just to help the Soviet Union in her maneuvers against the West . As one neutralist leader after another cracked down on local Communist revolutionaries , the chorus of opposition to Khrushchev 's policies swelled . The Iraqui Party was put out because Khrushchev sent arms to Qassem , propping up the very regime local Communists were trying to overthrow . The Indian Communists , having been pushed out of Kerala by the " neutral " Nehru , were inevitably annoyed when Khrushchev continued to extend a friendly hand to the Indian Prime Minister . Perhaps most important of all , the Chinese Communists were appalled by Khrushchev 's temporizing . Mao and his colleagues undoubtedly saw the parallel between Stalin 's support for Chiang Kai-shek against them in 1927 and Khrushchev 's support for Nehru and Nasser in 1955 , and they evidently suspected the USSR of a penchant for backing " bourgeois nationalists " who start well but finish last . By 1958 Peking had definitely committed itself to backing militant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had begun to cornpete with Moscow for influence over Communist Parties in the backward countries . The result was that at the 21st Party Congress in 1960 Khrushchev backed down , agreeing to support only those neutralists who were on good terms with the local Communist Party . Had he not done so his leadership of the international movement would have been seriously threatened . Translating the Party Congress Debate The Sino-Soviet dialogue was , as always , conducted almost exclusively in the language of Marxist-Leninist dialectic . This language has no words for the specific and the particular . Every matter of practical politics , down to the most sordid border squabble , has to be discussed in terms of abstract principles . This so irritates many Anglo-Saxons that they dismiss all Communist ideological discussions as mere claptrap ? and thus remain totally ignorant of the conflicting tendencies within the Communist alliance . Other Westerners , intrigued by the idea that their opponents not only make but listen to six-hour speeches , leap to the conclusion that Communist policy is actually dictated by theoretical consideration . The fact is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical considerations , but unlike capitalist policy , is discussed in theoretical terms . If the layman learns to translate Marxist-Leninist terminology into everyday Western language , he can follow the dispute quite closely . A Western diplomat might , for example , express his attitude toward Nasser this way : " We do n't like him and we do n't like his system , but for the time being it is expedient and in our national interest to support him . " Khrushchev is certainly not above such homely thoughts , and he may even express them to his close friends . But he does not dare put his policy this way at a big Party Congress , for to trained Communist ears such a statement contains two serious heresies : opportunism ( " it is expedient " ) and nationalism ( " in our national interest " ) . So instead Khrushchev says , " In the present stage of historical development bourgeois nationalism in the colonial and newly-liberated countries plays a progressive role . " This sounds odd to Western ears , but to anyone familiar with Marxist-Leninist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support Nasser ? and Nehru too . Similarly , another Western diplomat might say of Nasser , " We do n't like him and we do n't like his system . He seemed all right when he was out of power , attacking the old feudal system which obviously had to go , but now he 's in he 's become impossible . He jams our radio broadcasts , he arrests our friends and agents , and he intrigues against us internationally . Furthermore he demands foreign aid from the Great Powerswhich we could use to good advantage in our own country . " This is exactly what the Chinese Communists probably say to one another , but it is not what they say at the Party Congress . They answer Khrushchev in Marxist-Leninist language , announcing that " Bourgeois nationalism no longer plays a progressive role once it has come to power in the newly-liberated countries , for it then tends to compromise with the imperialists and become reactionary in domestic policy . " Note that this formulation leaves the Chinese free to support bourgeois revolutions such as Algeria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once it has come to power . A nation on the make like China does not want international stability of any sort ? yet . Those who believe that Communist policy is really determined by ideological considerations would assume that if the Chinese opposed bourgeois nationalism in Egypt and India they would also have to oppose it in Guinea and Cuba . But the Chinese approve of Sekou Toure and Castro , for they listen attentively to Peking as well as Moscow , and allow Chinese agents freedom to intrigue . Still , supporting a non-Communist regime merely as a propaganda base ? and therefore denying the local proletariat the revolution for which it presumably yearns ? would clearly be callous opportunism , and backing a government merely because it respects the Chinese as much as the Russians would obviously be vulgarly nationalistic . So , one might think , Toure and Castro must be denounced . Yet there is another possibility . These two leaders have , after all , carried out drastic nationalization and agrarian reform . They do allow full freedom for " progressive forces . " Perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Perhaps they are really " national democrats . " And perhaps , say the Chinese , " national democracy " still plays a progressive role at this stage of historical development . When the Party Congress declared in November , 1960 , for " national democracy " and against " bourgeois nationalism , " most Western observers regarded the declaration as just another exercise in Marxist-Leninist metaphysics . But Castro was probably not so na ? ve . For the statement implicitly condemned all those neutral regimes which Khrushchev had assiduously cultivated ( i.e. Iraq , Egypt , India ) , and supported those of no strategic importance to him ( i.e. Guinea and Cuba ) . This shift , taken in conjunction with Khrushchev 's failure to impose a moderate Popular Front policy on the Cuban Communist Party , must have suggested to Castro that the wind was currently blowing from Peking . Under such circumstances neutralism seemed increasingly impractical . He knew that the Americans were helping prepare an invasion of Cuba , and that as a neutralist , even a nationally democratic neutralist , he was as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the short run his main hope therefore lay with Blas Roca 's well-organized local Communist Party , which was pressing him to establish a party dictatorship by merging his " 26th of July " movement with the Communist Party . In the long run his hope lay with the militant Chinese , who seemed willing to risk war with America , rather than with the cautious Khrushchev who was mainly interested in expanding his sphere of influence in neighboring countries . Just before the invasion last April Castro finally abandoned neutralism , declaring his a " socialist " revolution . In the language of Marxism-Leninism this was tantamount to a formal declaration of adherence to the Communist bloc , and it was followed by the integration of Castro 's amorphous 26th of July movement with Blas Roca 's Communist Party . By July , when Castro finally announced that such a union was " imminent , " it had already been completed . Pending official recognition at the 21st Party Congress the merger was called the " Integrated Revolutionary Organizations " ( ORI ) . It was this body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates to Moscow last month . Khrushchev 's refusal to recognize Cuba as a full-fledged member of the Communist bloc at this year 's Party Conference may be attributed to a variety of causes . Perhaps he was reluctant to destroy the last vestiges of the myth that fidelismo is merely ' a Latin American equivalent of Nasserism , and thus destroy whatever appeal the Cuban example still has to Latin American neutralists . Perhaps he was simply bitter about the fact that the Cubans had not handled their revolution as he wanted them to for the sake of his own diplomatic machinations . Perhaps he was reluctant to make too outspoken a commitment to an experiment in Communism which is neither economically viable nor militarily defensible . But no matter what his reasoning , there can be little doubt that the outcome of the Cuban revolution was a bitter setback , not only for his hopes of neutralizing the rest of South America , but for his hopes of keeping the Chinese Communists in their place . 