@@213820

" Nuclear stalemate " is a phrase frequently used to describe the equation of the U.S. and Soviet Russia . The fact is that it is not truly a stalemate but a competition . To curb that competition and to establish an agreed-upon balance of destructive power have long been elusive hopes . In his Inaugural Address in January , the President declared : " With those who are willing to join , let us cooperate to reduce the burden of arms . " For a long time , it seemed , the right people were not willing . After confidently predicting that U.S.-Soviet talks to limit arms would begin in August , the Administration heard mostly a series of hints , evasions and half-promises from Moscow . Finally , last week , Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin paid a secret visit to the White House and informed Nixon that Moscow was ready to open preliminary discussions Nov. 17 in Helsinki . <P> The negotiations are bound to popularize yet another weird acronym - SALT , for Strategic Arms Limitation Talks . The first round of sessions , lasting perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues but primarily on setting an agenda and other preliminaries . If neither side makes unreasonable demands , substantive bargaining could begin soon afterward . Despite the belated Russian response , Secretary of State William Rogers terms the Soviets " serious " in their desire to negotiate . There is reason to hope , then , that the tedium of setting up ground rules will be kept to a minimum and that the Helsinki talks really signal what Rogers calls " possibly the most important negotiations that we will be involved in . " Even partial success could yield a more significant Soviet-American agreement than the 1963 limited ban on nuclear testing . <P> Verification Problem . The fundamental purpose of SALT , of course , is for the U.S. and Russia to agree on a freeze or even a reduction in such enormously expensive weapons systems as anti-ballistic missiles ( ABM ) and new , multiheaded offensive missiles ( MIRV ) . The necessity for both sides to verify mutually agreed cuts or halts in weapons production will involve discussion of tremendous technical problems . What each side will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its society . For both of these reasons , progress in SALT is not likely to pour out quickly . <P> The one practical cause for hope is the desire on both sides to cut military weapons expenditures . Billions for new nuclear armaments not only divert funds from other needs , but are soon vitiated as each side keeps pace with the other . As the talks open , both Russia and the U.S. are mid-course in the development of ABM and MIRV - and the hardest , most suspicion-ridden bargaining of the sessions will center on them . The defensive ABM complex , which is already operational around Moscow , is due to be installed in twelve widely scattered U.S. sites . MIRV ( for multiple individually targeted re-entry vehicle ) permits a single launcher to deliver separate nuclear warheads on various targets . This device could be operational in the U.S. in about a year , probably ahead of the Russian version .                     