@@478387

A distinguished Virginian reports on the burgeoning educational opportunities which Northern students too often ignore ? perhaps out of sheer provincial blindness . Forty years ago , I am told , most students in the North who went South to college did so because they wanted a pleasure dome more redolent of magnolia and moonshine than of learning . Today the situation is strikingly different . With the problem of " getting in " growing more agonizing every year , high-school students and their parents all over the United States are beginning to take a more respectful look at the quality of education that is available in many Southern institutions . For the cultural and academic level there is rising with the business index . True , anyone who listened to some of the embarrassing Southern politicians with the treacleand-grits accents who graced the airwaves during the national party conventions of 1964 , might have concluded that reports of the region 's cultural renaissance are exaggerated . Nevertheless the reports are correct . Before the Civil War , the South had a much larger college enrollment per capita @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the numbers of young Southerners who could afford to attend college , and weakened the entire educational system . For two or three generations after Appomattox Southern colleges and universitieswere distinctly inferior . Admittedly , they are still unable to compete in overall excellence with Harvard or California , and far too many of them are what the late Dr. Edwin A. Alderman called " monohippic " institutions . But the regional gap is narrowing . Faculty salaries are rising , entrance requirements are on the upgrade , libraries and laboratories are improving , every Southern state has at least one institution which awards the Ph.D . degree ? whereas a quarter of a century ago there were four states which had none ? and all but two of the states have one or more university presses . Over against these evidences of progress there is the stubborn fact that the eleven states which formed the Confederacy do not have a single one of the top ten American universities , and the majority of knowledgeable observers also agree that no Southern institution quite manages to squeeze into the first twenty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in my opinion , be made without serious risk of mayhem . As recently as 1961 , Dr. Alexander Heard , now Chancellor of Vanderbilt University , found that a public declaration to this effect was repercussive . " I thought I could get away with it , " said Dr. Heard , who was Dean of the University of North Carolina Graduate School at the time . " But horrors , no . I am accustomed to hearing from the boys in the back row . Few things , however , have ever provoked an outburst from the bleachers like saying this simple thing we all know to be true . . . . I discovered some of my fellow cititens who , it seemed to me , weighed too heavily the educational value of dogwood blossoms and the Carolina moon . " Such defensive attitudes , which have been a drag on the progress of the South for decades , are less prevalent today than at any time since the Civil War . And chiefly because of this increasing realism , I believe that the region stands on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Southern institutions which give greatest promise are the six whose graduate and other programs have won them admission to the charmed circle of the thirty-nine U. S. members of the Association of American Universities . These are Duke , North Carolina . Virginia , Vanderbilt , Tulane , and Texas . I shall give some detailed information on these six later in this article . Poor Mouths , Low Spirits In addition to the drag caused by its brooding over defeat , the South has suffered educationally from its bondage to the race problem and its poverty . As recently as the late ' thirties , a Presidential commission termed the South accurately " Economic Problem No. 1 " ; now the forward march of industry and a better balanced agriculture have put cash in Southern pockets and lifted the despair which made the people of the South unwilling to be judged by national standards . Now , too , the furor over the race problem is fading in the leading colleges and universities so that it becomes possible for state legislatures and boards of trustees to turn their attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities . I am fully aware that the race issue made it difficult until recently for Southern institutions to get and keep the best-qualified faculty . Teachers felt a few years ago that their freedom to speak on this and other subjects might be limited . Light on this problem was shed in 1960 by Professor Russell Middleton of Florida State . He sent a questionnaire to 045 doctoral candidates at leading universities from coast to coast , to learn their attitudes toward teaching in the various sections of the United States . In response to the question , " In which region of the country would you most like to teach ? " , the embryo professors put the South at the bottom of the list . Answers to various other questions showed clearly that the South 's low rating was largely due to its racial attitudes . Since then , the interracial climate of the South has become more peaceful . In every state Negroes now have been admitted to state and private institutions of higher learning , and to public schools . I do not suggest that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not ? but they have , by and large , made the necessary adjustment . Furthermore , interracial disorders in the North have grown worse , and to 88 THE GOOD SOUTHERN UNIVERSITIES the South it has become apparent that the race problem is more acute there than below the Mason and Dixon line . In some areas , such as Mississippi , of course , the racial controversy continues to create tensions and to interfere with academic freedom . Primarily for this reason , some fifty professors at the University of Mississippi have departed in the past couple of years . However , it should be noted in the institution 's favor that Professor James W. Silver has been permitted to remain , despite his open and repeated criticism of the racial policies both of the university and of the state government . Now that the race problem is yielding in most . states , more attention can be paid to closing the gaps in secondary education . Lack of funds , coupled with a failure , at times , to appreciate the importance of public schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied with performance well below that of the North and West . This was notably true in the schools provided for Negroes . While the South 's system of elementary and secondary education still is often worse than it should be for both races , especially in rural regions , the progress made of late is impressive . Another reason for optimism is to be found , I believe , in the preponderantly hopeful report of the Commission on Goals for Higher Education in the South which appeared late in 1961 . It was sponsored by the excellent Southern Regional Education Board of Atlanta , and the Commission chairman was Colgate W. Darden , Jr. , president emeritus of the University of Virginia , The commission found substantial grounds for its conviction that educational progress sufficient to place the South alongside the North and West is now within reach . Among other things , the commission 's report stressed the essential importance of academic freedom . Ironically , in 1963 , the North Carolina legislature passed a pernicious law making it illegal for any of its state-supported institutions of higher learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist party or anyone who has taken the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions concerning such membership . No less ironically , however , it has been the University of California at Berkeley Virginius Dabney , editor of the Richmond " Times-Dispatch " since 1936 , is a B.A. and M.A. of the University of Virginia . He has won the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing , lectured at Princeton and Cambridge University , and written two books about the South . that has experienced the most prolonged and dangerous rioting ostensibly over the same issue of free speech . While the overall educational prognosis for the South is good , there are other dismaying facts . For example , no Southern university faculty has produced a Nobel Prize winner ? William Faulkner of Mississippi did not become a University of Virginia lecturer until after he won the prize ? and the South has a mere 4.3 per cent of the members of the National Academy of Sciences . Where Dollars Work Hard In our time , the great foundations and the federal government have discovered the educational and research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preference to established leaders , these all-important dispensers of aid have become aware that the South , too , has the know-how to assure value for dollars spent ; moreover , it has been starved for so long and is so eager to go forward that largess bestowed there can return even greater dividends than elsewhere . Significantly , this winter when the Ford Foundation granted $750,000 to set up a translation center ? something quite new in the study and publication of foreign literature ? it chose the University of Texas to house the administrative headquarters . Two of the Texas faculty 's talented scholars , Roger Shattuck in Romance languages and William Arrowsmith in classics , are board members . In science , federal expenditures on higher education have had an enormous impact in the South . For example , the Virginia Associated Research Center at Newport News operates in connection with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 's nearby $13 million cyclotron and its radiation-effects laboratory . This center of graduate science is a cooperative venture of the University of Virginia , Virginia Polytechnic Institute , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions resources which otherwise would be entirely beyond their reach . Another federal project , the multimillion-dollar National Environmental Health Center , will eventually be located in North Carolina , in the " Research Triangle " in the Durham-Chapel Hill area . Within a few miles are the University of North Carolina , Duke , and North Carolina State . The Center may eventually cost $78 million and will employ " upwards of 1,000 persons . " Similarly , the Graduate Research Center of the Southwest near Dallas includes eight Texas institutions . Well financed by both government and private funds , it has 150 scientists on its rolls from all over the world , doing pure scientific research under the direction of Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner . The Center aids participating institutions in their graduate programs , but has disavowed any intention of producing Ph.D.s of its own . In another important area , that of library development . the South 's progress has been exceptional . The library is the throbbing heart of any great educational institution , and the number of volumes in the collections of the leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last quarter of a century . Duke and Texas universities have more than 1.5 million volumes each . while the Universities of North Carolina , Florida , and Virginia have more than a million , as does Louisiana State . ( However , Harvard has seven million books in its library , Yale has nearly five million , and California nearly three million , so the South still has some distance to go . ) Leading Southern centers of learning are those with the great libraries . For example . the University of Texas has assembled in the past five years manuscripts , papers , and published works of a score of well-known British and American authors , collections said to be unequaled anywhere in the world . Among the authors are D. H. Lawrence , Somerset Maugham . Edith and Sacheverell Sitwell , and Christopher Morley . The university also has acquired massive libraries for research on Kipling , Yeats , Joyce , Eliot , and various others . Leaders for Good Reasons Research facilities and libraries are measurable indicators of competence in a university . More subtle ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who run the institutions . At the moment , the South seems to be blessed with a remarkably talented young group , several of whom have caught the region 's rising vision of educational greatness . Among the South 's ablest leaders are the heads of the six universities mentioned above as promising the most spectacular progress . Four of these men are in their early or middle forties ? Douglas M. Knight at Duke , William C. Friday at North Carolina , Alexander Heard at Vanderbilt , and Edgar F. Shannon Jr . at Virginia . The other two ? in their fifties ? are Harry H. Ransom at Texas and Herbert E. Longenecker at Tulane . It is significant , too , that faculty salaries in these institutions ( as described by James Cass and Max Birnbaum ) are equal to or better than the national average , and at Duke are close to the top national scale . Half to two-thirds of the teachers have the doctor 's degree . Any one of these six universities could be the subject of a critical profile , but I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each . Basic facts about each institution appear in the chart on page 87 . The University of Texas Some impartial observers believe that the University of Texas already deserves a place among the nation 's top twenty universities . Unusually rich for a state university , it has an endowment of around $435 million , second only to that of Harvard . However , much of this is in oil wells and land ; a third of the income from it goes to Texas A &; M , and the state legislature 's support wavers . The campus at Austin , the state capital , is metropolitan , dominated by a twenty-nine-story tower . Nevertheless , the atmosphere is informal , in keeping with the unconventional traditions of the Southwest , and coats and ties for male students are not de rigueur . The girls , on the other hand , are generally well-dressed , as happens at most coeducational institutions . Texas easily leads the South in faculty membership in the National Academy of Sciences . It is also distinguished in its English department , partly because of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the classics and publishes the sophisticated and unconventional Arlon : A Journal of Classical Studies . The University of Texas Press is outstanding for its specialty of books interpreting the Southwest and Latin America . The teaching staff is unique in the South in having two Negro members . There are also no fewer than ten football coaches . Although the gridiron threatens at times to preempt the center of the stage , the University of Texas is showing great academic ? lan . Like the state itself , as one of its graduates has said the university is in painful and hopeful transition . " Tulane University The premier center of learning on the Gulf Coast is Tulane University , a private institution which is relatively expensive and selective academically . Situated in New Orleans , with its live oaks and hanging moss , its French and Spanish overtones , and its Bourbon Street jazz palaces , Tulane 's milieu is almost theatrical . The University publishes the ' ratans Drama Review , which has a national readership , and it plans to open an Archive of New Orleans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide area of the lower South and also to Central and South America . The excellent Medical School offers the only degree in tropical medicine available in the United States , and operates an International Center for Medical Research and Training in Colombia . In anthropology , the Middle American Research Institute has sponsored numerous expeditions and published dozens of volumes . At present it is excavating and restoring the ancient Mayan city of Dzibilchaltun in Yucatan , " by far the largest , and probably the longest-inhabited pre-Columbian site ever discovered in the Americas . " The Tulane Law School maintains the emphasis on Latin America also ? Louisiana is the only one of the fifty states having a legal system based on the Napoleonic Code and the civil law tradition followed in the countries of Central and South America . The Institute of Comparative Law publishes The Inter-American Law Review in both English and Spanish . Vanderbilt University One of several institutions of higher education at Nashville , the state capital in the rolling country of central Tennessee , Vanderbilt is located two miles from downtown . Campus activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clock in the tower strikes the hours . One feature of the academic curriculum which aims toward an increasingly cosmopolitan appeal is the " Vanderbilt in France " study-abroad program . The English Department has been notable for many years , with such graduates as John Crowe Ransom , Donald Davidson , Allen Tate , Robert Penn Warren , and Andrew Nelson Lytle , all onetime leaders in the talented faculty group known as the " Nashville Agrarians . " Jesse Stuart , Randall Jarrell , and Elizabeth Spencer also are distinguished products of this department . The Vanderbilt School of Divinity has been authoritatively termed one of the nation 's " six standard-setting theological institutions . " Also highly rated are the Medical School and the Graduate Program in Economic Development , which in the last eight years has enrolled 320 students from fifty countries . The Race Relations Law Reporter , published by the Vanderbilt Law School , is an unusual quarterly journal presenting impartially the legal aspects of the civil-rights controversy . Duke University At Durham , North Carolina , is Duke University , whose entering students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the six Southern leaders . Duke 's figures are 626 on the verbal portion and 652 on the mathematical , only some twenty points below the averages for the country 's foremost centers of learning , and far above the national average of around 500 . ( Vanderbilt 's scores , next highest among the six , are 603 and 635 . ) Duke 's Woman 's College ranks second only to Radcliffe , both in freshman scores on College Boards and in the number of National Merit Scholars enrolled . Duke was established as recently as 1924 , when James Buchanan ( " Buck " ) Duke endowed old Trinity College , a Methodist affiliate , with some $40 million of his tobacco fortune . The university has leaped forward both academically and financially . The endowment has grown to $100 million , and the university enjoys the income from about $125 million more . Thus in actual money and securities it is the wealthiest university in the South , since Texas has sn large a percentage of its endowment in land and oil . The quadrangle of English Gothic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is one of the handsomest in the land . The main campus spreads over 8,000 acres on the edge of Durham . Duke 's faculty salary scale is the highest in the South , fifteenth in the entire country for 1963-64 in average salaries paid . ( The University of Virginia has the next highest scale among Southern universities , and the sixth-highest among all state universities . ) The Graduate School , with access to the great Duke library , includes strong departments in economics , political science , and botany . The university 's Marine Laboratory has just put into service a $1.2-million oceanographic research vessel , the first built in the United States specifically fur biological research . And the Medical School has broken new ground in various ways ? for example , in establishing the nation 's first Regional Center for the Study of the Aging . The University of North Carolina Only ten miles from Duke , the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has a campus that is exceptionally democratic . Founded in 1789 , it is not only the oldest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U. S. Returning graduates like to gather near the early-nineteenth-century well and the nearby Davie poplar , named for the founder , and sing on festive occasions .                     