@@267652

As President Eisenhower 's jet took off from Ramey Air Force Base in Puerto Rico last week , it left a stream of political smoke behind . With Ike in the big , orange-trimmed plane for a friendly chat en route to Washington went Luis Ferr , 56 , the millionaire industrialist , accomplished pianist and M.I.T. honor graduate who is running for Governor on the Statehood Republican Party ticket in the November elections . The trip got big Page One headlines in Puerto Rican newspapers , and Candidate Ferr beamed : " We talked as one Republican to another . " <P> Ferr 's opposition is durable Governor Luis Muoz Marn , 62 , architect of Puerto Rico 's commonwealth status and the Popular Democratic Party 's unannounced candidate for a fourth term . Trying to counter the presidential boost for Ferr , Muoz declared that Eisenhower on his visit had " recognized the great value of commonwealth and the great economic and social progress registered under the present government of Puerto Rico . " Some Muoz followers , taking a different tack , grumped that Ike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics . Replied Press Secretary James Hagerty : " Can you imagine the President being against a recognized candidate of his own party ? " <P> On the major issue of the campaign , commonwealth v. statehood , Ike was less helpful . Though Ferr argued hard on the trip for a Republican plank endorsing statehood , Eisenhower replied : " I think you 'd have a better chance , Luis , if you could give the platform committee some indication of public opinion on statehood in Puerto Rico . " Ferr found that Republican leaders in Washington generally favor keeping some form of the 1956 plank , endorsing the " fundamental principle of self-determination " of the Puerto Rican people . In his political campaign , Ferr will try to prove that self-determination means statehood sooner or later . <P> A Roman Catholic bishop in predominantly Catholic Puerto Rico last week jumped broadly into the statehood v. commonwealth debate . In a letter to the New York Times , James McManus , the Brooklyn-born Bishop of Ponce , charged that Muoz Marn , by saying repeatedly that Puerto Rico is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the U.S. by her own choice , " is eloquently ignoring the hard historical fact . The 1952 law that established the commonwealth , McManus pointed out , did not free Puerto Rico , but merely changed it from a " nonautonomous territory " to an " autonomous territory . " In fact , said the bishop , citing the law , one of the necessary conditions for congressional acceptance of the 1952 law was the retention of federal relations originally established in 1917 . <P> Concluded the bishop : " The people of our colonies should be given a fair opportunity to choose between independence or statehood . The present condition in Puerto Rico is that Governor Muoz Marn is , by his own will , imposing upon the people of Puerto Rico and on the Congress of the United States an independence which was never granted , and a ' voluntary association ' which is absurd unless independence has been granted . "                     