@@488128

Mr. Parks is chairman of the department of political science , 1 Middle Tennessee State University . He has been an editorial writer on the Nashville Tennessean , and is the author of many articles on Southern politics and U S foreign policy The American Telephone and Telegraph Company is the world 's mightiest economic empire , but it is a private business , not a political sovereignty , and there is little doubt that it should be regulated in the public interest . What is in doubt is whether it can be regulated , at least within the traditional public utility concepts that have evolved in this country since the first federal commission was established in 1887 . Considering how fragmentary is the knowledge about the " innards " of this empire outside the system itself , and considering the poor record to date of all federal regulatory commissions , the urgency of this question is widely felt . Remedies are suggested : The Federal Communications Commission should be remolded from its quasi-judicial structure into an executive body with an openly political approach . Western Electric should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself should he broken up into a score or more of independent operating companies . Bell should be resolutely confined to voice telephone service , the newer areas of communication being reserved to other enterprises Or can the Federal Communications Commission , without any radical break with its current philosophy or methods , actually bring the giant to heel ' ) The FCC is now holding hearings on AT &T; but few can feel that any substantial progress was made toward such a goal with the close of the first phase of the investigation , and the first FCC " finding and order " ever issued to the monopoly in thirty-three years of telephone regulation . The recent order rolled hack interstate telephone rates by $120 million , effective September 1 , cut out $750 million of fat from the capital base on which the rate structure is set , and transferred an additional $85 million in capital from the intrastate to the interstate rate base Though this order , issued by a unanimous vote of the commission , sounds massive enough , its regulatory effectiveness was questioned by Commissioners Nicholas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a substantial question in my mind whether the David-FCC is capable of regulating the Goliath-Bell in anything other than the most superficial terms . " It is ominous that a doubt so basic should be so candidly expressed by members of the commission after a yearlong hearing and a formal finding that stung the company into an angered protest and request for reconsideration . But judging from the investigation thus far , as well as from the long history of FCC 's informal " surveillance " of AT &T's; behavior , and the stir which a few years ago produced the antitrust consent decree ending Western Electric 's role in the competitive market , there is solid THE NATtoN/October 23 , 1967 justification for doubt . Moreover , if the FCC has failed to develop the conventional tools of utility regulation or fostered collaboration with the Anti-Trust Division for effective supervision of interstate and foreign communication activities of the Bell system , the plight of the state commissions which attempt to regulate almost three-fourths of Bell 's business is even worse . There are several possible reasons for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insufficient budget , and AT &T; influence in the lobbies of Congress has been a factor in keeping it that way But a more important problem is the prison which the FCC has constructed for itself as a regulatory commission . The act of 1934 is broadly drawn . There is nothing in it to prohibit the FCC from recognizing that the communications issues which come before it in its rule-making function are political in nature and require political solutions on a broad socio-economic scale . The act does not require the commission to reach decisions based solely on court criteria Nor does it bar effective collaboration with the executive branch or forbid recourse to forceful and direct executive methods . It is true that the " role " of commissions had hardened before the FCC was established , but that body chose to submit to this tradition from its start . Yet the field of communications , evolving and expanding at a dizzy pace , required not a court-type regulation but an imaginative management which could initiate new policies and anticipate problems . In its condition of arrested development , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to the newer areas of communication which AT &T; has marked out for itself . Now at the crisis stage , the commission will attempt to deal with this problem according to traditional utilities criteria in the second phase of the current hearings . Only after rumblings from Congress and the entrance of the Bell system into competitive areas of communications on a big scale did the FCC act to initiate its first formal hearing in October , 1965 Since its establishment in 1934 , the FCC had dealt with AT &T; on an in-391 formal basis of " continuous surveillance , " a policy which delighted the company and drew a kindly veil over FCC 's ineptitudes . Describing this policy as it was pursued during his seven years with the commission , Clifford Durr recently observed that it was neither " continuous " nor " surveillance . " Though several sporadic efforts at supervision were made , he said , the agency simply did not have the will , the budget , the legal staff , or the research manpower to regulate the telephone Goliath . Informal supervision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $100 million to the interstate rate base and resulted in modest but inadequate reductions in intrastate rates for most jurisdictions . The FCC can not be blamed because state commissions failed to exploit fully this opportunity for lower rates . Hearings in Phase I of the current investigation proceeded along familiar lines on such issues as the rate base , rate of return and separation of plant between interstate and intrastate jurisdictions . As a result , some issues relating significantly to the rate base never came up during the inquiry , and totally lacking was any suggestion that a national communications policy is essential to meaningful regulation Commissioner Johnson lamented the failure to look into such matters as : forces encouraging and retarding technological innovation , the appropriate rate for putting new equipment into service ; the effect of different price scales for telephone service on national communications behavior ; the expansion to excess capacity through satellites , lasers and micro-wave ; the place for competition in telephone service ; and the institutional means and procedures for translating both consumer and shareholder interests into national policy . Though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulatory criteria appropriate to the era when it was established , AT &T; management envisions for the corporation a role far more dynamic than being sole master of the telephone industry The whole field of communications is seen as the appropriate preserve of a future Bell entity whose size and power would stagger the imagination . A facet of this self-image emerged in the testimony of Dr. Paul McCracken , at one time an economist in the Department of Commerce and later a member of the Council of Economic Advisers , who warned the FCC that the health of the nation is now identified with the health of the Bell system , and that the declared national objectives of economic policy " require that the Bell profits must be set in the upper end " of the zone of reasonableness . " We do n't want to be known just as a telephone company , " an impatient junior executive recently observed as he pictured the Bell system pioneering in the newer frontiers of communications Lacking a long-range national policy within which to fit the communications revolution , the FCC can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the stockholder from profit attrition . As a positive force it will remain insignificant . Under the best of circumstances the problem of regulating AT &T; would be overwhelming . In the first place , there is its size  --  a $32 to $35 billion entity which dwarfs all other corporate combines . One of its opera-ting subsidiaries , Western Electric , is second only to the United States Government itself as a purchaser of goods and materials in-this country . AT &T; owns the world 's largest fleet of highway vehicles . It could generate as much as $4.2 billion for plant investment in a single year ( 1966 ) without recourse to the public money market . For several years its budget for new capital has not fallen below a minimum of $125 million a month . The Sherman Act was passed to prevent or break up precisely this kind of concentration of monopoly power . But except for one largely ineffective gesture against Western Electric , the Sherman Act has been an unloaded blunderbuss , as far as AT &T; is concerned . Indeed , government contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributed enormously to the corporation 's growing power , and no effective thought has been given to coordinating federally financed research and contracts with communications regulations and antitrust measures . The FCC has not explored the advisability of breaking up AT &T; into manageable entities , with the resulting problems of raising capital and promoting technological innovation . Equally deplorable has been the lack of any serious plan in the federal government to assist the states with their regulation problems . The effort of the FCC to cooperate with the association of state missions ( NARUC ) has not yielded significantly . However , it would be unfair to heap scorn on the FCC for its shortcomings . It lacks the budgetary and manpower resources to meet on an equal basis with this giant of giants , which can bring to hearings an unlimited amount of research resources and expert testimony , and charge off the whole cost to the telephone users . Only about 11 per cent of FCC staff manpower is devoted to telephone utilities , the remainder being absorbed by the radio and TV industries If the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would produce the " correct " results for both the Bell system and the consuming public , the task would nevertheless be a heavy burden for so small a group But there is no one correct formula . There is not even a " yardstick , " as might be supplied by a competing public agency like the TVA or the Bonneville Power Administration , to measure the performance of the telephone monopoly . Certainly the demands of what economist John Kenneth Galbraith calls " the industrial state " for new socio-political engineering along a new administrative front appears beyond FCC 's present grasp . The regulation of the Bell system is further complicated by our federal system . the company acts as a single entity but responsibility for its regulation is divided among approximately fifty jurisdictions , not to mention sub-jurisdictions like city regulatory agencies . Perhaps no more than 25 per cent of the system is directly subject to FCC regulations . The Communications Act of 1934 does give the commission considerable indirect regulatory influence within state jurisdictions by enabling it to establish accounting procedures and to allocate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intrastate service . Regrettably , however , numerous jurisdictions fail to exploit the opportunity for lower intrastate rates which the FCC from time to time makes possible by shifting costs from intrastate to interstate jurisdiction . The net effect has often been to keep toll services up without corresponding reductions m the cost of local calls . However , no state jurisdiction can deal effectively with the telephone leviathan , notwithstanding California 's rather rough handling of Pacific Bell two years ago . Former Tennessee Commissioner Leon Jourolmon describes state regulation as " an exercise in futility . " The reputation of most state regulatory bodies for being " soft " was enhanced by the behavior of the group of state commissioners who at the FCC 's invitation sat as representatives of NARUC in the recent hearings . Well before the FCC completed its interim decision , these commissioners rushed into print with their own recommendations on matters that belong largely or exclusively to the FCC . This tub-thumping document , apparently calculated to influence the FCC decision , supported the company goals on every point . It was taken up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most state commissions have been over the years is revealed in the bound volumes of the Public Utility Reports . Included there are numerous findings , ostensibly written by the commissions , but actually the work of Bell officials These decisions show careful preparation ; they analyze all of the state operations of the company and make elaborate and judicial-sounding findings that point by point sustain the claims of the company with respect to revenue , expense , depreciation , cost of money and rate of return Once issued , such decisions are promptly and successfully pressed upon other commissions as precedents . Less compliant commissions could find themselves inundated with briefs , exhibits and supporting data At one state hearing the commission was confronted with data weighing in excess of 8 tons ! Others have been faced with a take-it-or-else offer . An example is the recent effort of the understaffed and poorly prepared Tennessee Commission to get a reduction in its intrastate rates . The late Stanley J. White , acting in the role of consultant , reported that the company earnings in 1965 , if projected into 1966 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked Southern Bell to cut back its revenues by $5 million for 1967 . Wally Bunn , the able young Bell manager for Tennessee , told the commission that the company would give it $2 million , but not a penny more . If they insisted on the original request , he said flatly . Bell would demand a full-scale hearing Not a commission employee , down to the greenest secretary , believed that the commission 's legal counsel could mount even a passable adversary peiformance . The regulation of telephone rates was under the direct supervision of a 24-year-old accountant barely out of college The commission . of course , took what was offered As the Florida Public Service Commission put it , " the public provides public utilities , through rates , with such experts as the public utilities may requue to protect the utilities ' rights ; but the public , through taxes , does not provide adequate funds for its own protection " Few state commissioners deal with a Bell " associated company " whose area of operation coincides with their nrE NA-rioN/Oetober 23 , 1967 own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over ten states . Not even the most conscientious and able regulatory agency among the ten gets more than a partial view of the operations of the company . Costs , depreciation and investments are handled centrally and allocated on the basis of company judgment  --  there is room , in short , for bookkeeping adjustment between " tough " and " soft " states , and some regulators have expressed suspicion that that is what happens . At any rate , company officials who know the whole picture have an inherent advantage over the commissioners of state jurisdictions . Speaking of his eleven years of experience as a Tennessee commissioner , during which time he became known as one of the most able and fearless rate experts in the nation , Jourolmon declared : " I do not believe it is possible to regulate an enterprise with as much economic strength as the telephone monopoly . I do not think any commission has ever been set up with sufficient resources ... to enable it to cope with all the different parts of the telephone system on a state-wide basis .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Tennessee commission I never once saw a rate case in which the results were fair to the consuming public . " Inability to determine the rate base ( cost of plant ) and operating costs is the rock on which state regulation founders . Seven states , including Texas , make no attempt at all to regulate utilities . Thirteen states , including six in the South , base rates on " fair value , " an uncertain standard which takes into consideration present reproduction costs , " attrition " of plant and other intangibles . The remaining jurisdictions theoretically follow " depreciated original cost , " but the difference between a fair-value state like Alabama and an original-cost state like Ohio is far less than that between a tough-commission state like California and the numerous weak-commission states . In the area of regulations , the FCC is the only body that can exercise any serious restraint on the telephone monopoly , not merely by fixing interstate rates but also by establishing firmly the criteria for regulation which the state commissions could follow and which state courts would he slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the FCC 's decision to institute its first formal investigation produced a bitter and explosive reaction from AT &T.; The company charged the commission with attempting an adversary proceeding , with upsetting long-established policies of regulation , and with unnecessary , unfair and unreasonable proceedings The part played by the Common Carrier Bureau in aiding the investigation and later in advising the FCC on its substantive findings was castigated as illegal and unconstitutional . Though a stockholders ' movement to resist the hearing was formally disCM ned , company officials noted with satisfaction that the commissioners " got the message " The then chairman of the FCC , E William Henry , released a placating statement reterring to the " good health " of AT &T; and denying that the investigation carried any threat . 393                     