@@488089

DEAR SIRS : In the last two years you have published a number of fine articles and editorials about Greece , and this is something that few American publications have done . An example is the article " Greece : A Chance for Democracy " by W G Forrest , as well as your editorial " NATO 's Missing Link " both Sept. 22 . Allow me , however , to observe that the editorial considers Greece a " missing link , " because of the purges that took place in the armed forces It seems to me that the morale of the people is also of importance I do n't think that the average soldier would fight only to preseive the junta , even if the officers had not been purged Mr. Forrest 's article , despite its many valid points , makes some astonishing statements . He says . . . that Greece had been all this time poor and underdeveloped . This is not so In the 1860s industrialization had advanced quite a bit , but then retrogressed with the policies of the Danish King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big Western powers throughout the Balkans , the Near East and Africa A most serious error is that there was no democracy in Greece before the Metaxas dictatorship ( 1936 ) or that of Papadopoulos ( 1967 ) . Title , there was an imperfect democracy , which needed profound reforms But . . the truth of the matter is that in the 140 years of Greece 's independence the country has enjoyed more parliamentary democracy than most countries of Europe , including such countries as France , Germany , Italy , to say nothing of Eastern Europe and the Middle East Also , I found galling the completely unfounded allegation that Greek politicians were corrupt After two and a half years of monotonous repetition of charges of corruption by the junta , no scandals have been uncovered , even against the most ardent opponents of the military . Where is the corruption/ Spyridon Granitsas bon voyage Pacific Grove , Calif . DEAR SIRS ' Agonizing over Vietnam , Nixon , the military-industrial complex , racism , and all such matters , is irrelevant and academic . The fact is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already been irremediably distorted and poisoned , and that within some twenty to forty years only a few tough human mutants will be around . The atmosphere is dying , losing its oxygen ; the waters are already so full of pesticides that the organisms at the top of the food chain are vanishing , the earth is pervaded with radioactive wastes and CBW discards . In short , we 've had it , so let 's enjoy the time that 's left When you book passage on the 7 ' tonic , why go steerage ? Arthur Porges Reagan 's razor Sacramento , Calif . DEAR SIRS ' While I disagree with several points made by Ross Y. Koen in " Higher Learning in California : The Education of Ronald Reagan " The Nation , Sept. 29 , on the whole I found it to be a well-documented study of the Governor 's manipulation of California higher education for his political benefit I think it is important to remember that the Governor 's ( Continued on page 381 ) EDITORIALS The Wrong Place To Cut " What a Bedlamite is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was , long before the term acquired its modern meaning , what would he say if he could see funds for biological and medical research being slashed while billions are poured into weapons of mass destruction ? Happily , total insanity in politics is almost as rare as total sanity , and Rep. Richard D. McCarthy has injected his customary note of reason by publishing in the Congressional Record ( September 16 ) some of the protests against the 20 per cent cuts in biological and medical research grants proposed by the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) . The protests have not been muted . On September 9 , the American Chemical Society and the New York Academy of Sciences held meetings to bring this threat to research in the life sciences and medical technology to public attention . Dr. Philip Handler , the new president of the National Academy of Sciences and himself a biologist , said at the ACS meeting that the proposed cuts would bring " panic " to many research institutes He warned that denying funds to young scientists and doctors is " selling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cry without reason . He was supported by Dr. George Wald , who received the Nobel Prize for his work in the chemistry of vision . Dr Wald reiterated his appeals to scientists to cease working on " the technology of death and destruction " and the Pentagon 's " chemical chamber of horrors " ? napalm , chemical and biological weapons , defoliants and herbicides . According to The Washington Post ( September 11 ) , most of the predominantly middle-aged audience rose and applauded him wildly . At the New York Academy of Sciences meeting , Dr. Albert Szent-GyOrgyi , who received the Nobel Prize in medicine for his discovery of Vitamin C , likewise blamed huge military spending and military control over the economy for the plight of basic research , not only in the life sciences and medicine but in the physical sciences generally . A physician and the director of the Institute for Muscle Research at Woods Hole , Mass. , Szent-Gyiirgyi would like to do cancer research . Since the research cuts have been put into effect the NIH no longer supports his project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he puts it , to work with his two hands . Unfortunately , that is not how cancer research is done , and Szent-Gybrgyi must regretfully refuse the applications of young scientists who want to work with him and who might turn up something significant . Obviously , barring the way to young men and women who wish to start careers in the physical , biological or medical fields is ruinous . There are signs , in fact , that the United States is slipping from its leading position in the life sciences and will continue to lose ground as long as it gives priority to killing rather than healing . A parallel piece of folly is the reported intention of the National Cancer Institute to kill 380 monkeys because of a shortage of funds . These are not ordinary laboratory animals . Five years ago , in infancy , they were inoculated with tissue from human cancers suspected of being caused by viruses They are now to be killed before the results of the experiment can be known . Since it costs $3 a day to support one of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But then , who gets what in budget allocation depends more on interest-group pressures than on good sense , and the most powerful pressure group is the military-industrial complex . In the case of the grants for young scientists , the protests appear to be having some effect . Science ( September 19 ) reports that NIH has reduced its projected cuts from the 20 to the 5 to 10 per cent range . This is contingent , however , and the entire situation is in flux . The partial restoration ( which is by no means assured ) has been made possible by the Nixon Administration 's decision to treat the Medicare and Medicaid programs separately , thus relieving some of the pressure on research appropriations . Inflation , caused in large part by military spending , is also a factor , it is blamed specifically for the proposed closing of nineteen of the ninety-three clinical research centers  --  miniature hospitals affiliated with medical schools and research-oriented hospitals , and financed by NIH . Whatever its form , the budgetary pressure on both current and future medical study comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manpower Unless the misnamed " defense " budget can be drastically reduced , funding of medical and biological research will remain precarious . Willy Brandt Looks Ahead Bonn In the sixth national election since the West German Federal Republic was founded twenty years ago , Chancellor Kurt Kiesinger 's Christian Democratic Union ( CDU ) won a narrow victory of 46.1 per cent over the 42 7 of Foreign Minister Willy Brandt 's Social Democrats ( SPD ) . But as of this writing , Mr Brandt appears to be negotiating a successful alliance with the small Free Democratic Party ( FDP ) , the battered remnant of the old Liberal Party , whose 5.8 per cent of the votes would give the coalition control of the Bundestag , permit the Foreign Minister to form a government and throw the Christian Democrats into the opposition for the first time since 1949 , when Konrad Adenauer led them to victory and what has come to look like permanent rule . Close to 87 per cent of the 38 6 million registered voters turned out at the polls on September 28 ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the election was satisfactory in other ways . Most conspicuously , Adolf von Thadden 's ultra-rightist National Democratic Party drew only 4 3 per cent of the votes and will be banished from Parliament under a rule that excludes any party falling below 5 per cent The National Democrats remain a provincial aberration Further , if Brandt manages to form a government , it will attempt to thaw out the Central European political glacier This implies no radical change in West German policy , and believers in coexistence should not become overexcited by the prospect . Brandt and his presumptive Foreign Minister , Free Democratic Party leader Waite ' Scheel , differ from the CDU only in the warmth with which they approach the subject . All three parties remain throttled by the Adenauer principle that only a general European peace treaty can solve the border , refugee and restitution problems . It takes two to make a bargain , and at present the Communist approach is to skirt the issue of a peace treaty and press for some umbrella formula of accord based on its proposed European Security Conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting reading for the future of West Germany . For the first time , the SPD broke through the magic 40 per cent barrier , the party registering gains almost everywhere except in a few strongly Catholic-Conservative areas of lower Bavaria . Significantly , its gains came less from its traditional working-class base than from segments where the party has not previously been particularly successful . They include both Catholic and middle-class voter groups , and early analyses indicate that the swing in these key blocs was at the expense of the CDU . Kiesinger 's party did well in Protestant areas , picking up from the FDP ( whose percentage dropped from 9.5 to the perilously narrow 5.8 , which is nevertheless now so important to Willy Brandt ) enough votes to compensate for the inroads made by the SPD . Overall , the elections showed a continuing trend toward a two-party system . German voters receive two ballots : on one they vote directly for candidates to the Bundestag ; on the other they pick a , party slate , by states , and Bundestag seats are then allotted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time , the SPD won more direct mandates than did the CDU and its Bavarian sister party , the Christian Democrats . This should encourage advocates of electoral reform in the SPD who , like members of the CDU , would prefer direct Parliamentary election . The gains of the SPD are the fruit of the party 's struggle for respectability . Ten years ago , it formally abandoned Marxism and set out to win the support of the bourgeoisie . In 1966 , it entered a governing coalition with the CDU , and has since shown its ability on the ministerial level . The CDU , on the other hand , conducted an unenterprising campaign , confirming popular feeling that after twenty years in office it had gone stale and had nothing new or progressive to offer . Kiesinger , clinging hard to Adenauer 's mantle , harped on cold-war problems . It was probably a mistake : like the menace of Red China , the cold war has become a bore to the public . which in any case knows itself helpless to deal with confrontations at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ JR . Ramming Through the SST No one with the slightest knowledge of the aerospace branch of the military-industrial complex , and of President Nixon 's basic economic stance , could have doubted that he would approve further development of the supersonic transport . His attitude toward opponents of the SST is essentially the same as his attitude toward critics of the Vietnamese Wax . To the latter he said bluntly that 64 under no circumstances whatever would he be affected by their opposition . Toward the SST critics he is less arrogant , but their arguments might as well be voiced in a vacuum . As one headline puts it , the " controversial project moves inexorably ahead . " Whence comes this foreordination ? The Russian TU144 and the British-French Concorde have already made test flights , the latter , briefly , at supersonic speeds . Thus , if only for reasons of prestige , we must have a bigger and faster SST -- the only meaningful question , according to the President , being whether " the people of the world will be flying in American supersonic transports or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SST is a commercially sound venture , then why does the aerospace industry refuse to contribute more than 10 per cent of the development cost , forcing the taxpayers to risk billions on a dubious venture ? The truth is that in the Presidency Mr Nixon is what he has always been  --  the guardian of the profits of big business . Boeing 's prosperity takes precedence over mass transport on the ground , medical research , and all the other unfilled needs with which the country is plagued . The National Institutes of Health closes down clinical research centers that would cost $6.5 million a year , while $1.2 billion in government funds has already been disbursed or committed for the SST , with no one able to forecast the ultimate cost . Finally , if the priorities are to be limited to aviation , would it not make more sense to put larger amounts into airport radar , anti-collision devices , rapid transit facilities between cities and airports ( which will also serve local public transportation needs ) and similar necessities , rather than into aircraft that have only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conspiracy in Chicago The real conspiracy in Chicago is not the one with which the government has charged the eight defendants , but its own action in securing their indictment . The decision of Attorney General John Mitchell to seek the indictments ( his predecessor , Ramsey Clark , had no enthusiasm for the project ) might be regarded as the " overt " act . The intent of the government 's " conspiracy " was to discourage opposition to the war in Vietnam . A glance at the backgrounds of the defendants makes evident the intention to indict persons who represent principal elements of the anti-war movement : David Dellinger ( old Left , pacifist ) ; Rennie Davis ( New Left ) ; Tom Hayden ( radical-revolutionary ) ; Bobby Seale ( Black Panthers ) ; Abbie Hoffman ( hippies ) ; Jerry Rubin ( Yippies ) ; John R. Froines , assistant professor of chemistry at the University of Oregon , and Lee Weiner , doctoral candidate in sociology at Northwestern University ( campus intellectuals ) . Despite the clear motive of the prosecution , the public at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , only a day or so before Judge Julius Hoffman ordered the summary arrest of four young defense lawyers , Rennie Davis had complained that demonstrations in aid of the defense THE NATIoNI October 13 , 1969 had been disappointing . " We somehow have to tell the country what this trial is about so that people will know . " He need worry no longer ; Judge Hoffman 's bizarre con-. duct on the bench has made obvious what the prosecution is about . Three of the four young lawyers had been retained for the limited purpose of preparing pretrial motions  --  a practice not uncommon in political trials . The fourth was originally supposed to be a member of the trial team , but withdrew to work on the defense of twenty-one Black Panthers in New York . Judge Hoffman tried to justify the arrests on the ground that the four had no right to withdraw by telegram . But they were not in Chicago  --  they live elsewhere  --  and they had the permission of their clients to withdraw . More to the point , Judge Hoffman tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendants to proceed without their chief trial counsel , Charles Garry , who was about to undergo a gall bladder operation in San Francisco . Judge Hoffman denies that he made the dropping of charges against the four lawyers conditional on the defendants ' assertion that they were content to go to trial with the counsel immediately available , but his intention is evident from the record . When he realized that his action had aroused a storm of protest ? from thirteen members of the faculty of the Harvard Law School , from civil liberties organizations , and from a group of 150 lawyers resident in all parts of the country , who hurried to Chicago to express their sense of outrage  --  he vacated the contempt proceedings . By then the damage had been done and he should have declared a mistrial . Now this unhappy prosecution , which should never have been initiated , will drag on for months ; but it will probably have the effect of breathing new life into the anti-war movement which it was supposed to arrest . Judge Hoffman will see to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon referred scathingly to President Johnson 's habit of making a big splurge with one innovation after another ? " showboating " Mr. Nixon called it . He had a case , but now his Administration is engaging in the same practice , only splashier . Mr. Johnson 's ingenuity never hit on anything as foolish , or as violative of good order and the rights of law-abiding citizens , as the current federal drive to prevent the import of marijuana from Mexico . Nothing like it has been seen since Prohibition ; actually , in some respects , this saturnalia in the guise of law enforcement is more invasive of common decency than anything Prohibition ever spawned . Billed as " the biggest smuggling crackdown in history , " " Operation Intercept " is the result of seven months of planning by Attorney General Mitchell and his deputy , Richard Kleindienst . It involves a veritable mobilization of federal agencies and the use of aircraft ( both fixed-wing and helicopter ) , patrol boats , radar , esoteric instruments such as people-sniffers and manjtvana-sniffers and , above all , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began on September 21 with a media-shaking bang , and is proceeding crash by crash ; it takes THE NATION/October 13 , 1969 no prescience to forecast that it will end with a whimper . The locations where the drive is most arrogant in the application of federal power are at the border crossings between Mexico and the United States . Normally , at the sixteen customs gates between Tijuana , Mexico , and San Ysidro , Calif. , below San Diego , the border guards pass the cars through with a glance at the occupants and a wave of the hand . On September 21 , a Sunday , the crackdown began at 2:30 in the afternoon , just before the peak of Sunday shoppers , weekend tourists and bullfight and Caliente race track crowds began re-entering the United States . All cars were halted for a search of the interior , the engine compartment , trunk and , with the aid of long-handled mirrors , the underside of the chassis . On a hit-or-miss basis , or for reasons known only to the men who manned the gates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to half an hour . Very soon , cars were backed up into the Tijuana streets and then for 3.5 miles to the race track . Delays of four hours and more were reported . Women 's handbags and children 's lunch boxes , teddy bears and the like were searched Some women were required to unbutton blouses ; men were forced to take off jackets and vests and loosen clothing . The temperature was very high and cars began to overheat . Many had to be pushed through the gates for tow-car service on the American side . Tempers grew short and there were fist fights among drivers . At intervals , hundreds of drivers blew their horns in concerted indignation . These scenes , duplicated at other major border crossings , disrupted normal intercourse between adjacent towns in the United States and Mexico . There were outcries from chambers of commerce , shopkeepers and hotel men , and one diplomatic incident when the Mexican consul general in El Paso was pulled from his oar and " violently " searched . The Mexican Embassy sent a note of protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of drugs seized , were unimpressive , but the discovery of such contraband was not the main purpose . The objective , according to Mr. Kleindienst , is to deter smugglers , so that the price of marijuana will rise and an estimated 30 million young Americans will be obliged to forsake the weed for lack of funds At least the more impecunious of them will undergo a money cure . Some , of course , may turn to heroin or other addictive , dangerous drugs . If the price of heroin is also jacked up , the addicts will have to steal more to get their daily fix . ( The notion that drug addicts mug and rob people appears to be fallacious ; mostly they steal , because they are too uncoordinated for crimes of violence ) It is more likely , according to Southern California authorities , that African hashish , cheaper and more potent than Mexican marijuana , will take over most of the market . The Nixon Administration 's primary motive in these theatricals appears to be to put on a big splurge for the edification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college students , and that far from inconsiderable number whose political attitudes are largely determined by fears and hostilities The Administration , up to its ears in problems which are insoluble by its quack techniques , is ever on the lookout for diversionary melodrama . From 365- this viewpoint , Operation Intercept is a beauty . Actually , it is aimed less at the smugglers than at the Mexican authorities , who are to be blackmailed into getting tough with marijuana growers and dealers on their side of the border . The probable degree of success may be gauged from the history of Prohibition . The most absurd part of the whole performance is that there is no authoritative information on the harmfulness of marijuana , or on what measures may be justified to curb its use . Rep. Edward I. Koch has introduced a bill , H.R. 10019 , closely paralleling Sen. Frank E. Moss 's S.2590 , to establish a Presidential Commission on Marijuana . The purpose would be to conduct a multi-disciplinary , authoritative study of the legal , social and medical ramifications of marijuana use and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Often the appointment of a commission adds little to public enlightenment , but in this case confusion is so widespread , and the opportunities for political charlatanry so great , that such a step seems eminently desirable The Green Beret Scandal When Mendel Rivers announced in the House of Representatives that the Army 's murder case against eight men of the Special Forces ( Green Berets ) had been dropped , some members rose and cheered . They might better have wept . No doubt the damage to the Army , the Green Berets and the Central Intelligence Agency was less than if military justice had been allowed to take its course , but all three came out with grievous injury to their reputations , already considerably debased by the inherent vice of the Vietnamese War . The Green Berets ' image has been tarnished , although the returning officers will no doubt be greeted as heroes in John Wayne quarters . However irrelevant considerations of morality in war may be in the eyes of the Green Beret officer corps and many civilians , some Americans retain the quaint notion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gangster fashion . Indeed , Secretary of the Army Stanley R. Resor , in announcing the conclusion of the proceedings , reiterated that " the acts which were charged , but not proved , represent a fundamental violation of Army regulations , orders and principles . " His wording could be construed as implying that such violations had in fact occurred but that the manner and circumstances precluded a successful prosecution . In the issue of September 8 The Nation said editorially that it was most unlikely that any of the Green Berets would be court-martialed or , if tried , that they could be convicted . The crucial question was why , assuming they were guilty as charged , they should be punished for the murder of an obscure South Vietnamese alleged to be a double agent . Why this sudden squeamishness ' ? To be sure , a case could be made out against the accused on the basis of the Nuremberg principle of individual responsibility , but in organizations like the Green Berets this is hardly more applicable than it was in the Nazi SS The background for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Green Berets and the Army headquarters m Vietnam have been at one another 's throats . Once the 366 charge of murder was in the open , the CIA even took the unprecedented step of trying to exculpate itself by holding a press conference at which it presented its side of the story , naturally on a no-ascription basis . Accusations and counter-accusations flew all over the place , presenting a picture of the participants which belied the traditional patriotic portrait of the military as honest , disciplined guardians of the national security . As just one sidelight , William Beecher wrote in The New York Tunes ( September 28 ) that on June 21 Gen. Creighton W. Abrams , commander of all American forces in Vietnam , was in touch with Col. Robert B. Rheault , commander of the Green Berets in the area where the alleged double agent disappeared . The General asked for a status report on the case and reportedly was told that the man was on a dangerous mission , when supposedly he had been killed the day previously . Beecher continues , " Why he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Still without the protective " it is alleged , " " it is said , " etc. , Beecher writes that Sgt. Alvin L. Smith , Jr. , told his story of the killing to the CIA a few days later ( in other accounts Smith is said to have been in fear of his life at the hands of his comrades in the Green Berets ) " causing , among other things , General Abrams to become furious at being lied to and to order a no-holds-barred investigation . " The lawyers for the accused then proceeded to try the case in the newspapers and in Congress , and the scandal mounted . After first denying , for two days , that the President had approved the decision of the director of the CIA not to permit its personnel to testify  --  because of " national security " of course  --  the White House finally admitted that Mr. Nixon had endorsed , if indeed he had not ordered , the CIA refusal The affair thus takes its place as an inglorious episode in an inglorious war . Prop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? esident 's proposals to Congress that he has no intention of correcting the two basic evils of the draft system . The lottery and the induction of 19-year-olds first would isolate those affected by the draft , and Mr. Nixon hopes this would reduce dissent . But men will continue to kill and die against their wills in a war they despise , and Congress will still be unable to control manpower levels . Until Congress regains the purse and until the draft is ended , there will be no progress toward restoring the powers of war and peace to the people . Unfortunately many liberals have been taken in by the attempt to make a thoroughly unjust system more efficient . Senators Kennedy and Javits have offered the Congress similar bills , which assume that it is somehow fairer to take first those who can not even vote . Why not follow Dr. Ralph Abernathy 's suggestion that the 65-year-old decision makers lead the parade ? Those who urge the reforms often infer that some kind of draft should be mamtamed in order to keep anti-war pressure high and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the draft may have angered thousands of middle-class parents , but it has effectively militarized millions of young conscipts and their families , both by propaganda in TM NATION/ October 13 , 1969 training and by the old reaction of vested interest . It is expressed as , " We can not have served ( died ) in vain , " or " If 1 had to go , then everyone must go . " Outright repeal of the draft is now necessary because of the seriousness of our present crisis . Few liberals are able to face the tact that the problems causing dissent are so deep that only two solutions seem likely . Either we will retain compulsion in institutions like the draft , go on feeding an economy which , despite patchwork poverty programs , enriches the rich and penalizes the poor  --  and then arm to the teeth for a final blood bath  --  or we will recognise the decay of the nation-state , end compulsion , lower military commitment , put heavy controls on the military and the bureaucracy , increase citizen participation , redistribute wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supranational and subnational forms . The draft is a basic prop for the illegitimate warfare state . To reform it or temporarily suspend it will only prolong its negative effect on our whole society The war and the draft are rightly at the center of an unparalleled protest movement that shakes our nation . Political Amnesia A neglected aspect of the American electorate 's penchant for " instant remedies " ? and its disdain of remedies that do not work miracles on the second  --  is its chronic forgetfulness . What it once knew , it soon forgets . Consider , for example , the current spate of criticism about the extraordinary confusion over intelligence operations in Vietnam , which no doubt reflects a similar confusion in other areas A survey made by The New York Times ( October 1 ) yielded " a general picture of an elaborate , often inefficient intelligence community " What has been forgotten is that the Central Intelligence Agency was set up in the first instance as the sovereign remedy for precisely the condition that by all accounts continues to exist and may actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happened to those numerous pronouncements that , at long last , the super-spy agency would be closely and thoroughly supervised by Congress ? Actually the " forgetfulness factor " should not be charged directly or solely to the electorate ; it reflects a failure of political leadership . No one in Congress has raised the issue that the CIA has failed to end confusion , duplication and conflict in the nation 's intelligence community . Cloaked in mystery , a law unto itself , America 's super-dagger agency has failed in its basic job . That Memorial The dead have no need of memorials ; like funerals , memorials are for the living . A memorial reminds us that greatness implicit in human nature has become explicit in an individual , and so affects the lives of millions . Martin Luther King was an individual of this rare and indispensable type ; a memorial to him is fitting and indeed necessary , unless it has become true that man lives by bread alone . But apparently the Nixon Administration does not see it that way . At first , Mr. Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Freedom Memorial Park in the downtown Atlanta area that contains Dr. King 's birthplace , his grave , and the Ebenezer Baptist Church where he preached . It would have been odd if Mr. Nixon had not responded warmly , for the proposed memorial offered him an opportunity to make a start , at least , toward overcoming the distrust in which , as he has admitted , the majority of Negroes hold him . He was so taken with the idea that he sent Robert H. Finch , his Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , to see Mrs. King . It is safe to assume that Mr. Finch was genuinely in favor of the project , then and later . But it all came to naught . Leonard Garment , designated by Mr. Nixon to negotiate with the memorial foundation , turned out to be , if not the " killer of the dream , " at least the conveyor of the bad news The foundation wanted White House sponsorship of a bill to provide fat acquisition of a site and construction of a building . On August @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support such legislation Coupled with this turn-down there was a vague offer of help if the foundation sought private money . By now Mr. Nixon 's " Southern strategy " for 1970 and 1972 has become well defined . John N. Mitchell , his 1968 campaign manager , now Attorney General and the strong man of the Administration , is reportedly prepared to write off Negroes , Jews and Establishment liberals  --  in fact , the entire Northeast , if necessary  --  and concentrate on the South , West and Midwest for votes And it is easy to see that white Southern votes are not going to be garnered with a King memorial in Atlanta . Interviewed by Henry Raymont of The New York Times , Mr. Garment said that the memorial proposal posed a number of technical , legal and financial problems . Asked if political problems were not also involved , he replied , " Well , they 're all sort of tied together . " It is a waste of time to discuss any Nixon action or inaction except in political terms ; all else is irrelevant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had more to lose than to gain . The King memorial proposal will proceed , but it is revealing that even in a matter of this sort Mr. Nixon put polities first .                     