@@494489

FBI on the Trail of the Hunger-Mongers by Robert Cole and Harry Huge The poor and hungry may be bothered , but generally speaking there is no reason for them to bother the rest of us , particularly since we are the comfortable majority . Yet from time to time something wo n't let go of us : a war that is n't easily won ; or at home , evidence that all those so-called poor are not just at the bottom of the ladder ( someone has to be there ) or at times in sore straits , but in significant numbers ? that is , by the many thousands and all over the greatest nation of the 2oth century ? very sick and very hungry and at times literally with less food than most of our dogs get . So , we notice that the sky is indeed overcast . And then we read that a committee of the United States Senate had received reports that children , American children , are hungry , malnourished , badly sick , yet never seen by doctors . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw and heard ? in field trips and in hearings , during which not only testimony but photographs were offered . On television we see a documentary like Hunger in America , and then we read a report called Hunger , U.S.A. , the result of months and months of study and public hearings ? done by a group of leading American citizens , by us in fact : lawyers and clergymen and doctors and labor leaders and businessmen . Letters kart going to Washington , to Senators and Congressmen , to the President , and to the Secretary of Agriculture , who in the past year has received hundreds and hundreds of them , and has had to have a form letter of " concern " printed up . And some people even begin to suggest changes , radical changes . Why not guarantee every child three square meals a day ? Why not insist that no one has to drink polluted water , or live in a cabin that lacks electricity ? Why not , if it has to come down to that , forsake the moon and missiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food that American children need ? How long , exactly how long can those questions , that kind of thinking , go on without , in the words of the Pentagon , a " response ? " The answer , we fear , is : not very long . Recently in San Antonio , one of us talked to a Catholic priest who had rather boldly and perhaps foolishly agreed to work with the Citizens Board of Inquiry into Hunger and Malnutrition in the U.S.A. ; and rather na ? vely agreed to point out instances of near starvation , just that , to cameramen from CBS News for its documentary on hunger . In the autumn of 1968 , it did not take long for Washington to reply . The priest and others have been approached by agents of the FBI and the FCC and the Agriculture Appropriations Committee of the Congress ? for what reason ? Why , " to determine the real extent of hunger in the country , " says Rep. Jamie L. Whitten , from Mississippi who heads that House committee . But what the priest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ US Commission on Civil Rights at hearings held in Texas , was this : " My name is Ralph Ruiz . I am a Catholic priest of the Archdiocese of San Antonio . I am Director of Inner City Apostolate on the near west side of San Antonio . I would like to believe that in our hungry , that they are poor , that they must depend upon a paternalistic and inadequate system for their daily bread . It is very hard for these people to tell their story of deprivation and hunger . They have told it often here ? to the Citizens ' Board of Inquiry , to the CBS-TV crews and , therefore , to the nation , and to me and those who work here every day . They should n't be forced to tell it again to federal agents , to agents of the FBI . " Agents of the FBI and of Mr. Whitten 's committee , such as Joseph Scully and Nicholas Wultich and Carl Bennett , have been all over , as have investigators from the Federal Communications Commission , like Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia and to Dr. Donald Gatch in South Carolina and to photographer Al Clayton in Nashville and to nurses and hospital administrators in San Antonio . They have tried twice to contact . Dr. Raymond Wheeler , a white physician in Charlotte who chairman of the executive committee of the Southern Regional Council , and who was one of the six physicians who wrote " Hungry Children , " a report on conditions in Mississippi issued by the Council . They asked a nurse in the Robert B. Green Hospital in San Antonio whether the CBS cameramen " behaved themselves . " They asked Dr. Gatc'h whether he actually saw hungry children as part of his practice . They wanted to know from Al Clayton " where my pictures were from . " They closely examined Sister Mary Rachel , a nun who works with the poor in San Antonio ? and afterward ; in indignation , she wrote to Rep. George Mahon of Texas to " emphasize " that from " eleven to fifteen days out of every month . . . some people go hungry or are in need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare . . . . " She also insisted that the commodity food program was not " sufficiently varied , " nor did it provide " enough to last for the time indicated or needed . " As for the food stamp program , in rural areas many people ca n't get them " because of the distance " ? away ' from county offices , which in Jamie Whitten 's Mississippi or in parts of Texas or Appalachia are not notoriously friendly to poor blacks or poor Mexican-Americans or poor whites . In addition , all sorts of people in the federal gOvernment were interrogated , people who might have a thing or two to do with poverty programs , with programs designed for children ; and anonymously , anxiously , they talked to one of us about their fears . What does this mean , and worse , portend ? Well , of course , their fears are groundless . In New Orleans on December 9th , almost the instant that Father Ruiz was telling his story to the Civil Rights Commission in San Antonio , our new Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon be , in his image , doctors to the poor , who are now to be con-sidered patients . Yet , Mr. Agnew may find that he ca n't always rely upon some of those professionals , who ordinarily can be counted on to propose nothing very radical , who knows where the money for their food comes from , who clothe the most obvious common sense in all sorts of garish mumbo-jumbo talk . One " professional , " very well trained indeed , is Dr. Herbert Pollack , a nutritionist who works for the Institute for Defense Analysis . On December loth Dr. Pollack was to testify before officers of the Food and Drug Administration , which is holding hearings on the regulations that govern special dietary foods . Recently Dr. Pollack severely criticized the accuracy of the report , Hunger , U.S.A. , and in the hearings a number of attorneys were prepared to question him about his views on hunger in America . As a beginning he was asked questions about his work ? in 1934 he did a nutritional survey among the urban poor ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ malnutrition . No , he did n't want to do that . He asked for a recess . Then he angrily walked out of the hearing . Fifteen minutes later a government attorney announced that " this concludes the availability of Dr. Pollack . " It is virtually unprecedented for a witness before such a hearing to behave like that ? and the FDA Hearing Examiner , David Harris , remarked that , " If I had the power to hold Dr. Pollack in contempt , he might be held in contempt . " Yet , if some of Mr. Agnew 's " trained professionals " turn and run under fire , others are far stronger . Mr. J. Edgar Hoover chooses former lawyers and accountants for his agents . All of us , Mr. Agnew and our malnourished poor included , can thus rest assured that if anyone is plotting to feed hungry American citizens , the heart of the conspiracy will be exposed by the well-trained and patriotic men who work for the Federal Bureau of Investigation . 