@@478149

If the partial test-ban treaty is the first crack in the glacier we call the Cold War , it should serve to remind us of how massive and prolonged a thaw is yet required before the danger of nuclear disaster finally melts away . In the years immediately ahead , the treaty in no sense diminishes the importance of our defensive alliances , chief among which is NATO . Yet NATO is now drifting into a deepening crisis that our European allies seem either unwilling or unable to counteract . Everyone agrees , on both sides of the Atlantic , as to the fact that a crisis exists . Paradoxically , it is the very success of NATO in accomplishing its original objectives which has led to the present impasse . NATO was originally established to prevent Western Europe , the heartland of our common civilization , from falling under Russian rule . For over fourteen years , NATO 's shield has included large numbers of American troops , whose presence in Europe has been proof of the American commitment to invoke her nuclear power , as NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . American arms of both conventional and nuclear character were required to make NATO work , that is , to keep the Russians at bay while the countries of Western Europe , batteredand broken in the aftermath of the war , were regaining their health and strength . I do not believe that either the American people or the Senate of the United States , which ratified the treaty establishing NATO , regarded our entry as an arrangement for stationing American forces permanently in Europe . Firemen are welcomed into a household threatened by fire , but they are nut expected to remain inside indefinitely as residents . So it ought not to be surprising ? in view of the remarkable recovery in Western Europe which has since occurred ? that some Europeans should begin to ask , " How much longer are the Americans to stay ? " or that some Americans should begin to inquire , " How much longer will we be welcome ? " We have come to the end of the era for which NATO was created . The circumstances have changed . We must remold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within it will grow . NATO can not remain static and stay relevant ; it must be transformed or abandoned ; it will adapt to the new era as a useful instrument to serve the objectives we hold in common with our allies , or it will come apart from the stress of mounting internal pressures . So we must clearly identify those changes in circumstances which have rendered NATO , as originally conceived , obsolete . To begin with , there has been a change in the relative strength , and hence in the credibility , of the American nuclear deterrent . This change has taken place in three phases . In the first phase , only the United States possessed massive strike ea-pability with nuclear weapons . The Soviet Union could oppose us with conventional land power alone . Our deterrent was believable , and therefore effective , so long as the Soviets in fact understood that it would be used to prevent , or to punish intolerably , a march by them on the West . In the second phase , the Soviets , too , possessed weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and damage the American continent were few in number , and vulnerable to neutralization by the enormously superior and diversified nuclear weapons system which we had by then developed . While the risks to the United States had been greatly increased , there was room to suppose that we could , if necessary , obliterate Soviet power without suffering mortal damage in return . Now in the third and present phase , this assumption can no longer be made . Each nuclear giant possesses weapons sufficient in number , in diversification , in concealment , or in invulnerability , to ensure that it could withstand a first strike by its adversary and thereafter inflict nearly total destruction upon him . The consequence of this third phase is that Europeans must ask themselves ? for the first time ? if it is really believable that the American nation would suffer immolation in their defense . And the question is not whether we , the Americans , believe that we would do this , or whether the Europeans believe we would do it . For it is evident that a deterrent has failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from this that it is only the Russian belief about the conditions under which it would be used ? not our belief or that of our allies , or even the objective fact itself ? which is ultimately determinative . I know of no way to remove , absolutely , the doubts which some Europeans have raised about the answer to this question . The cornerstone of American policy has been , and remains , that the defense of the West is indivisible . Our President has recently reaffirmed , in Germany , that our forces will remain so long as they are wanted and needed ; that we will put our cities to the hazard in defense of theirs . He spoke with absolute sincerity and conviction , and with the support of the American people . Still , the proposition itself is without precedent in human history . It can not be tested or proved in advance . While it may be convincing to the Soviets , it evidently is no longer convincing to all Europeans , for , if it were , there would clearly be no need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create , at great difficulty and expense , a separate national nuclear capability . This brings me to the second fundamental change in circumstances which accounts for the crisis in NATO . It is that Europe now has , for the first time , the capacity to create for itself an alternative to reliance upon American power . I make a distinction here between nuclear capability of modest dimensions , useful chiefly as a means of augmenting the prestige or bargaining power of its possessor ? perhaps having the potential of invoking , under some conditions , the use of American power ? and a genuine nuclear deterrent , capable of massive or controlled response in a variety of strategic situations . It is the latter which free Europe now has the population , the economic base , the technological resources , and the developing political institutions to create and command , if it chooses . In most of these categories , Western Europe now surpasses the Soviet Union itself . If Europe determines that . the effort is necessary or desirable , it can in due course equip itself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for rocket . It would then , of course , be free from dependence upon a nuclear deterrent provided and controlled by the United States . The present drift in free Europe points toward the eventual development of separate national nuclear systems , even though this course represents the most unstable , costly , and inefficient method for achieving nuclear self-sufficiency . Perhaps this is inevitable , as long as Western Europe remains a loose association of wholly sovereign states . The possession of nuclear weapons can not be separated from the sovereign power to command them , for they represent in today 's world the instruments of life or death ? for the country which has them , for its adversaries , and quite probably for its allies . What I have thus far said carries the implication that there is an inherent incompatibility in this new state of affairs between sovereignty , if that sovereignty involves possession and control of nuclear weapons , and alliance . I think this is the case , and that this single concept summarizes and explains the reasons for the crisis in NATO . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control will expose the United States to intolerable risks , so long as our troops are there , and so long as we are committed to regard any attack upon our European allies as an attack upon ourselves . In these circumstances , every additional national finger upon the nuclear trigger means one more country other than the United States with power to decide what Americans will die for . While the risks involved in sharing this fateful power with a single independent European state , or with a suitable command structure representing all of Western Europe , might be acceptable , it is too much to ask that we share it with every European country stocking a nuclear arsenal of its own , each with its own sense of destiny and order of priorities . In short , the present drift toward proliferation in the control of nuclear weapons , unless it is checked , will eventually force the United States to withdraw from Europe . Time is running out on the NATO alliance . The 1960s will tell the tale . What then of the future ? How are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which now plague the alliance ? I think we must begin by recognizing that no device or technical arrangement designed to gloss over the differences , without really changing anything , will suffice . As strongly as de Gaulle feels that France must have its own deterrent , we feel just as strongly that we must retain control over the risks to which we are exposed ? so long as American forces are committed in Europe and we supply the nuclear means for meeting or preventing an attack against it . It . is possible to share a master plan for programing and targeting , but the core decisions about the use of American nuclear weapons must be made by Americans . I think there are , however , alternative solutions to the problem . The first is for Europe ? not France or Germany or even Great Britain , but Western Europe ? to undertake a unified effort to arm itself with a genuine nuclear-deterrent capability . To do this would require an integrated program , not merely because of the expense , but chiefly because it would he necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to invoke the use of its nuclear weapons in the defense of Wesi - ern Europe . It seems to me that it would be in the interest of the United States to encourage and assist Europeans to make this effort . We could then withdraw OUT forces from the Continent in an orderly fashion , leaving Europe with its own defense , and both Europe and America could thus minimize the risks inherent in the proliferation of separate national defenses . This course need not involve , as might be first supposed , a return to isolationism on the part of the United States . On the contrary , the creation of a European entity capable of assembling and commanding a unified European nuclear deterrent could contribute to a stronger partnership , spanning the Atlantic , for the defense and development of our common civilization . I say it could contribute , because partnership is illusory if one partner is in a position to dominate the others . Just as there can be no authentic European entity under the hegemony of France , so there can be no equal partnership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and balance the unified power of the United States . In addition to this advantage , there would be others incidental to Europe 's assuming full responsibility for its own defense . The American adverse balance-of-payments problem would then lend itself to ready solution . It is entirely possible , also , that the vexing problems resulting from the artificial division of Europe between East and West , which do not seem amenable to negotiations between Washington and the Kremlin , could he approached from new perspectives by Europeans negotiating with Europeans . If the problem of attaining a sovereign , integrated European Nuclear Defense Command proves to be insuperable , and this further step toward a more perfect union among the countries of Western Europe is not taken , there is the other alternative : Let Europe forgo nuclear armament and continue , so long as the Cold War makes it necessary , to rely upon the United States to furnish the nuclear deterrent against a Soviet attack upon the Continent . From our national point of view , this alternative is to be preferred ; but I think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stationed there for indefinite duty , then we have a right to ask our allies for fairer arrangements . Let it be understood that we are there as invited guests , not as intruders ; that our presence in Europe is no longer a rescue mission . extended by the strong to the weak , but simply a division of responsibility , as between rich equals , for mutual advantage . If we furnish our nuclear deterrent for the defense of Europe , as well as our physical presence to make this deterrent convincing to the Soviets , then Europe must make fair exchange , including at least two ele-ments : ( 1 ) No further diffusion of nuclear arms , for this will involve intolerable risks , both to us and to Europe itself . If we are to have the responsibility for holding at bay the weapons of mass destruction which might otherwise be used to smash or blackmail our NATO allies , we must ask that they rely on us to honor that trust in our common interest , come what may . ( 2 ) Equitable financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance-of-payments problem . In this connection , it is notable that our military disbursements abroad contribute five times as much to the drain on our dollar resources as do all of our foreign-aid programs . There is no good reason why the force levels of American troops quartered in Europe should not be reduced , and the difference made up by an added commitment of European troops to the NATO Command . It is essential , ton , that European trade barriers against American agricultural and industrial products be reduced or removed as speedily as possible . Finally , we have a right to ask that Europe assume an increased share of the cost of aiding the underdeveloped countries of the world in those needy regions of Africa , Asia , and Latin America where the struggle with communism is yet to be won . There are heavy burdens and responsibilities , for Europeans as well as for Americans , whichever alternative is chosen . And the choice , after all , is Europe 's . Either course would seem acceptable to the United States . What is not acceptable is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Atlantic alliance , leaving a vacuum of policy and power , with diminished security for all . These thoughts were largely the substance of an address I delivered this June at the Evangelical Academy in Tutzing . Bavaria , before a gathering of lay leaders representing various professional , business , and labor groups . The conference was attended by numerous German political leaders , including Chancellor Adenauer and Berlin Mayor Brandt . Although I spoke only my personal views at Tutzing , the reaction to my speech caused me to feel that the United States ought to acknowledge openly that Europeans have their choices to make . If nuclear parity for Western Europe becomes their chosen course , then it can be realized only through the creation of a genuine European deterrent . This would be a great step toward European union , even if it had to be undertaken initially without de Gaulle . An empty chair could always be left for France to occupy eventually . We most never forget that the most critical test of a deterrent is its credibility . A substantial nuclear retaliatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aggressor ? commanded by Europeans ? is the most believable deterrent that can be posed against any future threat to attack Europe . Its existence would minimize the risk that the Soviets might someday mistake our intention or our will to defend Europe as our own homeland , and thus reduce the chance of war . Further , the establishment of such a force in Europe would enable us to restore normalcy to our relationship with the Continent . History has a way of abhorring anomalies . It is as unnatural for American troops and weapons to be stationed indefinitely on European soil , as it would be for French , British , or German soldiers to be permanently billeted here in the United States . Finally , the deliberate substitution of a European nuclear force would permit the orderly withdrawal of American power from Western Europe , under conditions of our own choosing , without impairment of Europe 's security or our own . must report , however , that German reaction seemed heavily to favor the second of the alternatives I suggested ? a confining reliance on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the apparent German belief that Europe is not yet prepared to form a single nuclear command , it seems all the more important to me to confront the Europeans with the fact that they do have such an alternative within their reach and that this choice is theirs . Our failure to do just this is helping to widen the gulf between the developing attitudes in Washington and the capitals of Western Europe . As James Reston recently observed in his column in the New York Times : The leaders in London and Bonn increasingly talk as if they were spectators rather than participants in the conflict between the giant nations . Britons see nothing odd in the fact that America should conscript its men to defend Europe while Britain has not only abandoned conscription but is hoping to bring its army back from Germany . The widely held assumption in West Europe is that Europe can be both protectionist and prosperous , self-sufficient economically and dependent on the United States militarily , and that Washington will go on putting 11 per cent of its gross national product into defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than half as much proportionately . How this attitude of mind developed in Europe is clear enough . In the early postwar years of poverty and reconstruction , Western Europe not only came to rely on the United States but gradually accepted the idea that power in the modern world had become proportional to mass , and therefore that only gross material size ( population , area , and raw materials ) could be effective in world politics . There is now less evidence of poverty and unemployment anywhere in Western Europe than in many parts of the United States but this attitude persists and , what is more disturbing , seems to be growing . Once the Europeans realize that we are not imposing our presence upon them for purposes of our own defense , and that their continued reliance upon our nuclear power is the result of their own decision , then they will see the justice in assuming an increased burden in conventional arms , as their share of the common effort , and in helping us to solve some of our financial problems which are directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , for Europeans to make this choice consciously will reduce the appeal of de Gaulle 's resistance to American leadership on the Continent , and render more acceptable our insistence that other European nations must forgo separate nuclear armaments of their own . After I had spoken at Tutzing , one of the Germans in the audience said to rne , " Senator , you have made a hard speech , but an honest one . To us , this is the best evidence of real friendship . " Another said , " As I see it , you have told us we will have to pay more . I think you are right . "                     