@@494826

Trade Bargains In putting forward its new trade program , the Kennedy Administration must pacify two sorts of doubters : those special interest groups in Hamtramck or Sioux City who wonder whether the US could compete successfully within a broad Atlantic trade community embracing the Common Market ; and the ambitious elites of Brasilia or Lagos or New Delhi who fear their countries will be squeezed between Communist China and the Soviet bloc on the one hand and the US-Common Market phalanx on the other . White House attention has initially been given to the coming Congressional debate over the President 's expected request next spring for broad new tariff bargaining powers . Mr. Kennedy 's NAM and AFL-CIO speeches were the first salvos in what will be a concerted battle to win over domestic public opinion . But in two significant statements during the past week , key officials have gone on to address themselves to listeners in Asia , Africa , the Middle East and Latin America . Testifying before the Joint Economic Committee on December 12 , Undersecretary of State George Ball pronounced it as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " exclusive trade arrangements " with Western Europe . On the contrary , " we hope to break down the discriminatory practices of the Common Market for all countries . " And in particular , " whatever we gain from bargaining in Europe must also be available to Japan and Latin America . " His remarks were reinforced two days later when Peter Jones , Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce , disclosed that Sino-Soviet trade with less-developed nations has tripled since 1958 and now runs to an annual volume of $2.3 billion . The necessity for the US to take an unambiguous stand between those in Europe who are seeking a tightly defensive economic bloc and others looking to a looser but more comprehensive global community of free nations is highlighted by the negotiations between London and the Six over British membership in the Common Market . For when the Market was first set up , the overseas territories of the European member states ? mainly French colonies in Africa ? were given a special associate status under which they enjoyed substantial tariff preferences in the Common Market over rival producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own industries against European competition . Part Four of the Rome Treaty which defines the status of such an Associated Overseas Territory must be renewed or revised by the end of next year , and the Six have been meeting representatives of the Territories in Paris to discuss their future . Naturally , the French African states want to preserve their special advantages inside the Common Market and do not want to share them with the African states of the British Commonwealth which are their main competitors . France supports their stand in order to retain her political influence among them . Britain on the other hand has already asked that her African partners be given the same preferential treatment , if they wish it ; and that African states like Ghana , which reject association with the Common Market , should receive special consideration in the form either of the right of continued free entry of goods to Britain alone , or the abolition of the Common Market external tariff on their products . If Britain 's request is refused such states might leave the Commonwealth , since their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports in the case of Nigeria to 82 percent in Mauritius . West Germany and the Netherlands sympathize with Britain 's position . On the whole , however , they would prefer to drop the tariff protection now given the Territories in favor of arrangements for long term economic aid . For they both have important trading interests in parts of the world ? notably Latin America and Southeast Asia ? which might punish Bonn and the Hague commercially if faced with continuing discrimination by the Common Market . The US too takes the Dutch and German view , holding much the same conception of a special responsibility with respect to Latin America that Britain does towards the Commonwealth . But though Undersecretary Ball has pressed eloquently in the recent GATT conferences and elsewhere for the world-wide abolition of tariffs on tropical products to help all the less-developed areas , Europe is disinclined to follow his advice so long as the controversy over US trade policy is unresolved . Thus a Common Market decision to cut key tariffs by zo percent is suspended pending assurance of US reciprocation ; and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiating powers he needs from Congress until at least autumn . The British are in an awkward position . If the Common Market offered the same protection to the African Commonwealth members as the Terrorities now receive , Britain would gladly accept it . But in this case it would then be in her interest to oppose any moves later made by the US to abolish that hard-won protection in favor of world free trade in tropical products . In this as in other respects , if Britain gets into the Common Market before President Kennedy has the power to negotiate for free trade throughout the free world , she might find herself adopting towards the US the same obstructive attitude now shown by the French towards Britain . If , on the other hand , her negotiations for entry to the Common Market show no real sign of being successful by the middle of next year , she might find it more in her own interest and that of the Commonwealth to concentrate on joining the United States , West Germany and the Netherlands in putting maximum pressure on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external tariff . In the long run , the assurance of " reasonable access " to European markets which the US seeks to promote will not suffice to encourage stable economic growth in the developing countries . As a little-noticed recent report published by the Joint Economic Committee has stressed , the industrially advanced powers may in their own long-term interest have to accept a " double standard " in trade relations so long as so many countries are in the first stages of industrialization . " The principle of reciprocity , " said a staff study by two University of Oregon economists , " which requires that the United States receive concessions from other countries as a condition for liberalizing our import policies , should not be applied to developing countries . " But this is the great debate of 1970 or 1975 . First , Britain and the US and the Six must work out a satisfactory accommodation . And the pace of integration within the Common Market itself may be seriously delayed if , as some are prophesying , the rivalry of farm lobbies in France , West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of negotiations scheduled to begin next week in Brussels . Aggression by India In most parts of India , the refusal of Portugal to follow the French example and relinquish her colonial enclaves on the Indian subcontinent has been a relatively minor irritant . On and off for the 13 years during which the Nehru Government has made its periodic diplomatic protests and inspired assorted publicity stunts ( notably the 1956 march of passive resisters into Goa ) , the public has shown some concern ; but Goa has been a live issue mainly in the nearby city of Bombay . This happens to be where Defense Minister V. K. Krishna Menon , who has forced the issue to a military showdown , faces an uncertain contest for re-election to Parliament in the North Bombay constituency . Ejection of the Portuguese would give Menon a certain nationalist aura and might serve to relieve some of the frustrations engendered in India by Chinese insolence and minor alleged Pakistan border incursions . There are a variety of other explanations , however , for Mr. Nehru 's decision to go ahead with the removal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of Krishna Menon 's candidacy and his own obvious desire to divert attention from the China issue . One is pressure from African nationalists who link Goa with Angola . Another is his hope of keeping the issue out of opposition parties ' . hands in the election . It would be oversimplifying matters to put too much emphasis on the cash value of the modernized port facilities at Marmagoa or its iron ore and manganese mines ( which may soon earn as much as $3o million annually in foreign exchange ) , but it would be na ? ve to discount this entirely . Whatever the motivations , the Indian Government will have to pay a high price for its action in international disrepute and in the mockery of critics who can properly point to this instance of disparity in New Delhi between preachment and practice . Birth of a Nation Now fully independent , Tanganyika becomes the newest Western hope in Africa . Power has been transferred surprisingly swiftly . Only in 1954 , when Julius Nyerere returned home from Edinburgh University , where he received his degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tanganyika . Nyerere rapidly welded 8.6 million Africans into a responsive political body and calmed the fears of 20,000 whites and 103,000 Asians . Though an undeviating nationalist , he has appeared reasonable and moderate throughout ; his politics were , and are , the politics of possibility . Democratic institutions seem respected , even though there is no significant opposition to Nyerere 's dominant Tanganyika African National Union ( TANU ) . The new nation is poor . Germany , when she occupied it from 1884-1916 , was more interested in immediate profit than long-range development . The British , who administered Tanganyika , first as a Mandate under the old League of Nations and then as a Trust Territory under the UN , invested considerable sums in economic projects ; but Tanganyika is still mainly de- , . pendent upon the vagaries of world demand for sisal , coffee and cotton . Prime Minister Nyerere has not sought to mislead his constituents ; he has assured them that economic progress depends on the coupling of freedom and hard work ? uhuru na kazi . It depends too on foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Britain reneged on a promised developmental loan . Had the money not appeared he would have found it elsewhere ; for the Prime Minister of the youngest African nation knows that some of his impatient colleagues would dearly love a good excuse to link arms with Nkrumah and Nasser , and thumb their noses at the West . Partly to placate these younger enthusiasts , Nyerere has already moved to establish diplomatic relations with Peking . Mindszenty and Kadar The Hungarian Government has hinted in recent weeks that it would pardon Cardinal Mindszenty if the US were willing to resume normal diplomatic contacts ( the skeleton legation in Budapest has only a charge d'affaires ) . But since normalizing relations in response to a Hungarian governmental initiative would amount to a diplomatic triumph for the Kadar regime , the US can hardly be expected to jump at the opportunity . Looking to the future , the policy of snubbing Kadar needs to be re-examined . The basic assumption seems to be that American nonrecognition is a kind of moral beacon for Hungarian patriots in the night of national oppression . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morale would collapse if we were to establish normal diplomatic and trade relations . Actually , American recognition or nonrecognition has no such significance in Hungarian eyes . The Hungarians had expected military help from Washington in October , 1956 , or failing that , at least a stiff diplomatic protest in Moscow . To believe that Hungarian patriots in 1961 are still looking to America for moral sustenance is self-deception . At this stage , most of them , according to authoritative observers , could n't care less whether America speaks to ' Liar or not . The fact that the US maintains normal relations both with the Soviet Union and with the other satellites ( acclaiming Soviet ballerinas , while barring Hungarian performers ) completely devalues the boycott as a moral gesture . Hopes for freedom still are flickering in Hungary , but not because we frown on Kadar . There is great exhilaration in Budapest at Khrushchev 's anti-Stalin line . People go so far as to make comparisons between the present goings-on in Moscow and the pre-revolutionary situation in Hungary in the summer of ' 56 when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Once more , the Communist " right , " Nagy 's followers , see the official leadership discredited and themselves vindicated . Kadar is alarmed at this . In a recent speech , he denounced the " right " for trying to make capital of the latest revelations about Stalin 's misdeeds . There can be no amnesty , he said , for those who toppled Stalin 's statue : they did it not because Stalin was beastly to the Party , but because they did n't like Communism . The " rightist " danger was such that the Hungarian regime could not go along with all the resolutions of the 22nd Congress ; some went too far to be safely applied in Hungary . Kadar , in other words , took a position slightly to the " left " of Khrushchev . His discomfiture suggests that he could at this point use a diplomatic success . Of course , the US is reluctant to give him one . Nonetheless , Washington can take little satisfaction from prolonging its ineffectual boycott . Who May Sit Down ? Under the Fourteenth Amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may segregate facilities which are governmentally-owned or operated . The prohibition extends to administrative and judicial as well as to legislative action , and applies to everything , from schools to golf courses . It even forbade a state to impose a policy of segregation on privately-owned and operated facilities . The Fourteenth does not , however , bar segregation policies voluntarily adopted by individuals or groups on home , business or club premises . Such private segregation can , however , only remain effective so long as it has the sanction and authority of the local government . To say that the Fourteenth Amendment forbids only segregation by State action and not " private " discriminations is therefore to oversimplify the issue . The question is really which places and activities are so private that the state must enforce voluntarily-adopted policies of segregation even though these policies are not in the public interest ( just as it enforces other privately-made policies and protects the enjoyment of other personal liberties , even when they are in some respects reprehensible ) . Every sit-in case , including the Garner , Briscoe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raises this question . These three cases concerned peaceful , indeed virtually soundless and motionless , sit-ins at lunch-counters in Baton Rouge , Louisiana . In all three , the Court unanimously reversed the convictions for breach of the peace . It did not , however , enunciate a general principle to guide future sit-in decisions . A concurring opinion by Mr. Justice Douglas argued that while restaurants are privately-owned and managed , they are still public places , licensed by the state , and may not be segregated . Mr. Justice Harlan , in another concurrence , analogized peaceful sit-ins to peaceful picketing , and argued that the First Amendment protected sitters-in , like strikers , from indiscriminate police interference . But neither the opinion of the Court written by Chief Justice Warren , nor a concurrence by Mr. Justice Frankfurter , went this far . The majority reversed the convictions on idiosyncratic procedural grounds , without making any explicit statement on the general principles at issue . The Louisiana statute under which these sit-in demonstrators were convicted defines a breach of the peace as ( among other things ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public . " Since there was no specific evidence in the records of these cases that the public was being disturbed or alarmed , the Court reversed the convictions . Still , no lawyer could fail to see in this ruling an implicit inclination toward , and perhaps even adoption of , the conclusions reached by Justices Douglas and Harlan . Suppose a man had walked into Carnegie Hall , sat in the front row , and refused either to leave or to show the usher a ticket . It is hard to believe the Court would have struck down a law which called this a breach of the peace , just because there was no specific evidence that the public was unreasonably disturbed by his presence . Such evidence was , however , demanded in the sit-in case . The sit-in problem . is new , as is the legal question whether states may permit and abet segregation in privately-operated but quasi-public facilities . One of the Court 's oldest deliberate policies is to let such a problem simmer for a while , and to let a mounting number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as on public opinion ) before attempting to enunciate a guiding principle . In the meantime , the Court must , as it did last week , try to protect the immediate victims of various incidents , and reflect aloud , as it were , about approaches to an enduring solution . Subsidizing the Arts From the picture pages of newspapers and magazines , it is easy to gain the impression that music in America is largely supported by the rich as it once was by princes . But as Secretary Goldberg , announcing the results of his arbitration of the Metropolitan Opera 's labor dispute , took the opportunity of saying , it is n't . It is supported mostly by musicians in the form of totally inadequate wages . The problem of " moonlighting " has only in recent years become of concern to industrial management as factory workers have been discovered to have second jobs on the side . But " moonlighting " has been a way of life to serious American musicians for as long as living memory extends . The personal job scheduling built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tour performances rivals in complexity if not scope the logistics involved in landing a striking force on a hostile shore . One thing especially is to be hoped for in any possible impending government help for the arts . This is that they will , at long last , be recognized as things good in themselves , things vital to the life of any people . In Mr. Goldberg 's list of ways in which several government agencies can help the arts , such recognition is slightly clouded by the notion , quite true , that the arts can offer specific benefits to the government . Thus , while our government would not turn a finger to help a Gershwin compose a Porgy and Bess , it has found ways to send that work touring . Such quid pro quo support by statecraft is necessary , but not enough . It is also subject to backfire , as witness the report that what Latin Americans really want from us , culturally , is the circus at popular , subsidized prices . 