@@215316

In a generally thin time for fiction one of the most refreshing recent developments has been a vigorous new growth of satiric talent . It comes from a promising , if often provoking new group of U.S. novelists who were unpublished or all but unnoticed a few years ago These writers demand attention with a maverick , inventive , acidulously adult outlook that delights in salting the sores and needling the niceties of the megaton-megalopolis age . They deserve notice because their brand of comedy is so clearly not the saccharine hilarity packaged by commercial laff merchants not the bad-boy snigger of contemporary bedroom farce . Nor does it necessarily appeal even to sophisticated tastes ; it is for those who prefer mountain brooks to mainstreams . But it is strong , dark laughter , echoing-if not equaling-the bitter merriment to which other ages moved Juvenal , Rabelais and Swift . <P> Black Is the Color . None of these new writers has yet stamped a unique signature on the times . They are rogue talents , unpredictable , disturbing and powerfully individual . Thus they form no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of late have taken to calling them " black humorists , " which is probably as good a tag as any . Among them are such comic writers as Bruce Jay Friedman and Joseph Heller , both of whose first novels were bestsellers . They also include such gifted but less widely read novelists as John Barth and James Purdy ; they are perhaps best known for names like Terry Southern , Warren Miller and J. P. Donleavy . <P> In large measure , they share the same targets . Only bad writers literally hold nothing sacred ; the best of the black humorists hold some things too sacred to be bleared with hypocrisy or smeared with prurience . So they mock with a cleansing mirth every emotionally supersudsed subject from sex and death to religion , patriotism , family pieties money , mom , war and the Bomb . They are as well aware as any conventional morahzer that the times are out of joint , but they choose to greet the dislocation with a jeer rather than a jeremiad . <P> Walk Out in Anger . Their novels reflect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas besides fiction . Dr. Strangelove , treating the hydrogen bomb as a colossal banana peel on which the world slips to annihilation , is a black-humor movie , even though it becomes so incredible that it kills its own joke . Satirical cabaret groups , such as Chicago 's Second City or Britain 's The Establishment , have offered some of the liveliest black humor , though they can hardly meet Drama Critic Kenneth Tynan 's criterion that such satire is successful only if at least a third of the audience stalks out in anger . Dick Gregory of course is the black black humorist . Lenny Bruce , the sick , beat comic who is currently appealing his conviction in New York City for obscene monologues , is still admired by some black humorists as a symbol of " total commitment , " though in recent years his commitment to satire has seemed to degenerate into a monotonous self-destructive scatology.                     