@@206763

I THINK I draw him as a monument , a statue which walks and speaks , something mythical and historical . " So says the cartoonist who drew this week 's cover of France 's President Charles de Gaulle-43-year-old Louis Mitelberg , who calls himself " TIM " simply because an editor once put that name on a cartoon he had neglected to sign . He is France 's leading political cartoonist . <P> The fact that TIM does not always draw De Gaulle with pen and acid is a conversation piece in French journalism and politics . For TIM works for L'Express , a newspaper that views De Gaulle through beady eyes from the left . It is said that one of TIM 's fellow workers has refused to shake his hand ever since the cartoonist shook le grand Charles 's hand at a reception . " I think I 'm the only one who draws him as if he were seeing himself , " says TIM . " If there 's humor in it , it 's probably due to the complicity of the reader . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myself in his skin . Indeed , there 's so much complicity between us that there may even be a certain tenderness . " Why draw De Gaulle as a conductor ? The fact is that TIM has always been fascinated by the gestures of conductors : How much is musician and how much is actor ? He thinks De Gaulle would have made " a terrific orchestra conductor . " And why have him leading musicians in his image ? " The new Deputies , " says TIM , " have no program except fidelity to De Gaulle . They struck me as resembling an orchestra which follows every movement of the conductor 's baton-to the very tenth of a second . Formerly the National Assembly was a platform for soloists . There were first violins doing their act-all kinds of virtuosos performing . Now we have arrived at an age which has a real conductor and an ensemble following his baton . " PULLING together the story for De Gaulle 's seventh appearance on the cover ( the first was Aug. 4 , 1941 ) , TIME 'S Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well . Bureau Chief Curtis Prendergast and Correspondent Judson Gooding concentrated on French politics and De Gaulle the man . Israel Shenker dealt with the French economic picture , Godfrey Blunden with the feeling and spirit of France , Jeremy Main with French foreign policy and the country 's place in NATO . Common Market Correspondent Jason McManus reported on France 's stake in the Market . In New York , their reports provided the basic material for the cover story written by Michael Demarest and edited by Edward Hughes , taking studied measure of Charles de Gaulle 's triumph .                     