@@211842

Teen-age girls and Teddy boys in tight pants , neatly dressed middle-class merchants and shoeless old men in tattered togas last week formed civil defense groups in besieged Biafra , the secessionist Nigerian state that is under attack from federal forces . Largely Ibo tribesmen , they joined together to resist an invading army that was made up mainly of the rival Hausa tribe , whose members last year slaughtered thousands of Ibos in Northern Nigeria . The Biafran volunteers searched automobiles at roadblocks , practiced grenade throwing and ambushing . At a Port Harcourt automotive assembly plant , Biafran engineers rolled out their first homemade tanks-trucks plated with armor . Mechanics in the railroad repair shop at Enugu , Biafra 's capital , were busy making bombs for Biafra 's lone B-26 bomber out of casings filled with nails , broken bottles and kerosene . <P> Grudging Concession . While this activity went on behind the lines , the fate of troops at the front was still shrouded in a mist of claims and counterclaims . First , the federal troops of Major General Yakubu Gowon announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wooded northwestern plateau of Biafra , after days of shelling it with heavy mortars and howitzers . Radio Biafra grudgingly conceded the federal victory but accused the federals of using " white mercenaries who were painted black " - though no unprejudiced observer has spotted any such creatures . Then , next day , it proclaimed that Nsukka had been recaptured , a claim that the federals denied . <P> The truth seemed to be that the fighting had moved some 15 or 20 miles beyond Nsukka deeper into Biafra , and that the federal troops had simply moved through the city without bothering at first to garrison it . It was probably largely deserted anyway , since thousands of Nsukkans had fled the federal attack in trucks , taxis and mammy wagons , joined in the first retreat by large numbers of Biafra 's inexperienced soldiers . The Biafran army consisted at secession of about 7,000 men , only 2,500 of them trained in the federal army-and those chiefly in supporting service roles rather than in combat . They are for the most part equipped only with rifles . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major Chukwama Nzeogwu , 30 , a hero of the 1966 coup that toppled Nigeria 's civilian government and briefly installed Ibos in power ( before a second revolt by Gowon 's supporters that fueled the slaughter of Ibos ) , rushed to the front . " This is a war we must fight to win , " he told the Biafran soldiers . " Anyone who runs away will be shot . You are better than the Northerners , all of you . " To aid the Ibo regulars , more than 50,000 of the civil defense volunteers poured in from all over Biafra to fight at the front . Among these were the warrior Abam people , whose rites of manhood included until recently the acquisition of at least one human head-and whose only complaint was that they were not issued bags to hold the federal heads they hope to take .                     