@@488207

The historic conflict between DuBois and Washington as to how the cause of Negro Americans should be advanced remains embedded , in the movement more than sixty years after the two leaders first clashed . Washington held that Negroes could reach the , Promised Land by a conatober carted attack on the overwhelming , oppressive poverty that was their lot . They should adopt the Protestant Ethic . After having become petit bourgeois in living style and values , they would inevitably be accepted as equal participants in the American democracy . DuBois , in contrast , insisted that Negroes must first have their common humanity recognized . Only then , when the " emasculating effects of caste dis ? Unctions " had been removed , could they expect to claim a share of American affluence . Education should free the spirit " to soar in the dim blue air above the smoke . " Negro leaders , DuBois said , should work for the development , of men confident of their equality and hence liberated . To put this another Everett C. Ladd , Jr. , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the author of the forthcoming ' Negro Political Leadership in the South ( Cornell University Press ) . 243 way , Washington was insisting on the primacy of welfare goals , and DuBois of status goals . The structure of American race relations has changed since 1900 , but the movement is still debating the merits of these two positions . Welfare goals involve " gut " needs : More jobs and higher incomes , more and better schools , better medical care , more political repT resentation , safe travel for children to and from school . These are things , goods and services , and relate to the standard of living of the group . They , are compelling for Americans in general , but particularly for an underprivileged group like the Negro Americans who do not benefit adequately from the riches of the society Status goals seek the integration of Negroes into all phases of community life . They involve in the first instance , the " social prestige " of the group and from this the individual member 's image of himself . Demands for integration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various other services and facilities are the attempt of a group branded inferior by white America to gain full partnership . Welfare and status goals are certainly not always mutually exclusive ; in many instances some of both benefits can be obtained . Nei-244 ther are the compartments watertight . Better jobs confer higher status , and the integration of swimmmg pools is one means of improving the quality of recreational facilities open to Negroes For Rev Milton A. Galamison and the City-Wide Committee for Integrated Schools , improvement of the education of Negro children in New York City and the full integration of the schools in the face of residential segregation are inseparable . " You just ca n't lump together 800 children who . differ from national norms and standards in almost every way and manufacture a graduating class that matches national or city-wide norms , " Mr , Galamison - has said . The low expectations of both teacher and student necessarily mean poor education in the ghetto school Still , neither Negroes nor whites have difficulty distinguishing between the ' central thrust of welfare and status . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the construction of additional low-cost public housing and the integration of all-white housing units or neighborhoods . And on many issues Negro leaders must , as a matter of practical strategy , choose between the two kinds of goals Most of them recognize that the problems of Negro Americans will not be solved until both status and welfare are attained ; hence in a sense they all want the same thing But that " thing " is so general as to be of little ' help in choosing among competing objectives on the ' day-to-day level Washington and DuBois both saw that a decision to emphasize welfare or status carried with it broad implications for the whole race movement So do Negro leaders in the 1960s To understand the gravity of these implications , one must observe the reactions of whites and Negroes to the two kinds of advancement , and the inner tension of the goals themselves . White America is more hostile to status objectives of the Negro revolt than to its welfare goals . And that is nothing new . In An American Dilemma , Gunnar Myrdal compiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance white Southerners attached to the various types At the bottom  --  discrtminations to which the white South was , not strongly attached and which , presumably , it would give up most readily -- were those that involved " securing land . credit . lobs , or other means ' of earning a living , and discrimination in public relief and other social welfare activities " This is the province of welfare At the top . and second only to sexual relations between Negro men and white women , were " the barriers against dancing , bathing , eating , drinking together and social intercourse generally ? ? " The recent William Brink-Louis Harris study , The Negro Revolution in America ( Simon &; Schuster ) shows the same pattern There is ' substantial evidence that whites will accede to welfare claims quite sweeping in their impact , while rejecting status goals the effects of which are marginal . In August , 1963 , for example , a newly elected Statesville , N C , city council , under pressure from the Negro community , passed a resolution asking the recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At issue were the city 's two swimming pools , one for whites , one for Negroes . Irate whites forced a recall election , the first ever held in North Carolina , and the six councilmen were defeated . The challengers had promised during the recall campaign that , if victorious , they would submit the question of using taxes for integrated pools to a vote , The refThe NATION erenchim would have resulted in the closing of both pools  --  other cities through the South have dispensed with public swimming pools rather than operate them on an integrated basis . Greenville , S C. , for example , turned its Cleveland Park swimming pool into a home for sea lions , and now enjoys the distinction of being the only city in the South that has public swimming for sea lions but not for human beings . But in ' Statesville , after some litigation , Negroes backed away from their integration demands . Rev. Robert Woods , president of the Statesville NAACP branch , and other local Negro leaders went to the new , " anti-Negro " city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect : " Meet some of our welfare needs and we will forget about integrating the pools " Mayor J. Gamer Bagnal said , " To us , this made an awful lot of sense " Negroes also agreed to stop picketing and other forms of demonstrating In return , they received about 300 additional industrial jobs , some retail sales positions and some job training The Reverend Woods was satisfied " We feel that the program has worked well . . . The progress that has been made is evidence that the program is working . We are especially pleased with the progress in job opportunities .. . " Statesville has been a " tough " city for Negroes and the above accomplishments are important . But there has been opposition to the Negro-White " pact . " Another prominent Negro clergyman , Rev. Wilson Lee , criticized it strongly , state and national NAACP officials have had grave misgivings . Statesville Negroes , after all , endorsed a plan that labels all 4,000 of them unfit for immersion with skins of lighter hue . They assented to a stamp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare gain . While the wisdom of Negro participation in the Statesville pact is thus open to question , there is no doubt that ' the whites acceded to welfare ' objectives more readily than they ever would have to status goals Why ? Perhaps it is sexual fear , as Myrdal and many other observers have suggested . The achievement of status is seen as promoting social contact between white females and Negro males , and that is undesirable , indeed unthinkable , because October 19 , . 1964 the Negro male is either sexually dangerous ( rape ) or dangerously sexual ( irresistible appeal ) . Variations on the sexual theme are frequently heard when white opposition to integration is expressed . " Negroes are oversexed . " " They 're wild " " They ' carry razors , knives , and rape women . " " God made the bluebird and the blackbird , and you never see them in the same nest . " And , - of course , there is that old American favorite , " Would you want your daughter to marry one ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insecurity of many egalitarian Americans  --  first noted by Alexis de TOcqUeville 130 years ago  --  is partly responsible The overwhelming hostility in 1959 of Deerfield , Ill. , residents to the decision of Modem Community Developers to build an integrated housing subdivision in that Chicago suburb ( fourteen homes at $35,000 each , to be sold to Negroes ) seems explicable only in status terms . ' Would someone who had " really arrived " live next door to a Negro ? But whatever the explanation , the greater white hostility to ' status goals is a basic assumption among Negro leaders It must always be considered when the movement is selecting ' its goals . In parallel with this white position , almost every survey that has been published indicates that Negroes believe their most pressing needs tO be in the welfare area  --  principally more and better jobs and better housing . It might seem , then , that ' a neat congruence of white and Negro interests is at hand . But the difference between a relatively detached interview situation and the front line of race relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by competing welfare and status goals , the appeal of the latter frequently proves irresistible Those who would sacrifice status for welfare find themselves labeled " Toms " . and worse Furthermore , status objectives are probably most important to ' the politically active Negro , and though he is in a minority , his voice is ' heard and his opinions count . Activists , typically , have escaped the most severe economic deprivations , but greater economic security and a taste of social mobility have left them the more exposed to the brutal status , denials of American race relations . More important , in actual social situations status goals ' seem to offer a more immediate emancipation from the damning , pervasive stamp of inferiority . Integration of eating establishments , m the last three years a major status objective in the South , has a greater immediacy and reality than do employment advances ? the accomplishment can immediately be seen The type of racial confrontation involved in direct-action demonstrations gives participants a sense of personal commitment ? they directly challenge long-standing wrongs ? and direct action is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally , since whites are more strongly opposed to status , these goals maximize the dynamic content of race . They polarize the two communities , heighten , racial consciousness . Twisting " whitey 's " tail is good politics , and because whites react violently to changes of status their tail is the more vulnerable to twisting . The Negro revolt will continue to go in directions toward which white America does not want it to go , in part ( and , of course , only in part ) precisely because white America does not want it to go in those directions . Negro Americans are not united , however , on the primacy of status goals , and the division is largely between militants and moderates . A characteristic of militant leadership is its preoccupation with status objectives ; of moderate leadership , an emphasis on welfare . Recently , militant leaders in a North Carolina city integrated previously all-white swimming pools , and ' then found themselves under great pressure to use the " white " ' pools only on a token basis . Otherwise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pools ( including ' the " Negro " pools ) might prove too strong . One militant summed up his colleagues ' ( response to this : " Close them up ! Close them all up if necessary ! I will never agree to any compromise where we in effect stop using the pools . If they are closed , the whites suffer too . If they are left open , but segregated , only we suffer . " But the moderates gauged the issue differently . " We must see to it that the pools remain open , ( so that all our young people will have this recreation . This is the main point . Keep the pools open ! " Negro leaders in Greenville , S.C. , were asked in 1963 whether they favored petitioning the state legislature for a state-supported Negro college in the area ( there is n't ' a Negro college within 100 ? miles of the city ) . Greenville militants rejected the proposal out of hand . Negroes must be integrated into the existing system of higher education , and creating a college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted that there would continue to be a heed for existing Negro colleges . Still , they asked incredulously , " Would you really expect , us to ask for segregation ? " Moderates , however , spoke of the importance of getting more educational facilities for Negroes . They insisted that a new Negro college would not affect integration , but would simply expand educational opportunities . This division occurs again and again . The conflict , , between status and welfar ' e becomes particularly acute and perplexing in those frequent instances where the nature of the goals is such that each carries within itself a denial ' of the other . Negroes of Winston . ' Salem , N.C. , faced this dilemma in 1959 when the local white leadership , decided to seek voter approval of a bond issue to build a new public hospital . An expanding population had produced serious overcrowding in Winston-Salem hospitals . But despite the need for a new hospital , it was ' opposed by many ' who were reluctant to assent to a sharp - increase in the county 's bonded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pro-hospital leaders began a major campaign to win voter , approval . In this campaign the substantial Negro electorate ( almost 20 per cent of the county total ) was not forgotten . There would have been little difficulty in gaining Negro support had the pro-hospital leadership been willing to state that the new plant would be open to all . But it would not do so . Some simply did not want Negroes in the new hospital ; others Welfare or Status ( Con tivued from page 246 ) felt that any suggestion of integration would lose too many white votes . So a plan was devised to offer Negroes the old white city hospital , City Memorial , with funds for renovation , in exchange for Negro support for the new ( white ) county hospital The choice was not ' an easy one for Negroes . If they voted for the , plan they would in effect be voting to continue segregation of hospital facilities Whites were saying : " We wo n't need City Memorial Hospital after we get a shiny new one . So we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , City Memorial , even as it stood , was clearly superior to the Kate Bitting Reynolds Memorial ' Hospital , the city 's Negro facility . The " Katy B " had been built as a Negro hospital , winch means that it was not built well . The shortage of facilities was appalling ; for example , only one bathroom on each floor With substantial renovation City Memorial would be incbmparably better . More important , voting for the hospital plan would in no way prevent Negroes from contesting to gain admittance to the new hospital later . The outcome of legal action was not in question since the new hospital was to be built with public monies , as a public facility . But this was not a tempest in a teapot . Support of the hospital plan required sacrifice of the status objective : recognition as full and equal participants in the life of the community . But to insist on the status objective ' by ' voting against the hospital plan might well deprive Negroes in the short run of much-needed hospital facilities . Again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the need for better facilities was too pressing One moderate put it this way . " I did n't like the idea of ' your people ' trying to put a deal like this over , ' but we were in desperate need of more and better hospital facilities . Anyway , we knew that so much public money was going into the new one that Negroes would be in it when it opened " These leaders thought they could have both worlds . But the militants did not . They vigorously opposed the hospital plan . " I will never ' vote segregation on myself ! " The fact that Ne- , groes later could contest to gain admittance to the hospital was im material . The very suggestion that segregation could provide a legitimate or tenable solution had ' to be repudiated . What happened ? Negro voters were sharply divided , with a majority voting against the hospital plan . But the plan still carried . When the new hospital ' opened its doors earlier this year , it opened them to all who could afford the rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build a new hospital in East Winston , the , Negro section of the city . Not all cases of welfare-status conflict end this happily New public swimming pools simply are n't being ' built in the South  --  or for that matter in parts of the North  --  because white voters wo n't let tax money be spent for integrated pools . And very few Negro . children have access to the private community pools that are going up everywhere . The recreation director of a Southern city told me that in a few years it may be impossible to get support for public pools in many cities , however racial problems are resolved . Too many children will have access to private facilities . The poor in general and Negroes in particular suffer in this situation But should Negroes generally do as Statesville Negroes did and consent to continued pool ' segregation in the interest of welfare objectives ? The larger question is not , of course , whether Negroes should try " separate but equal " again ; but whether , and if so when . one set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other . In time , the tension generated by the conflicting demands of welfare and ' status should diminish . The gross exclusion barriers are falling , ' and as they fall the two aspects of the struggle for equality should become less distinct . There is already some evidence that the alternatives are blurring But as long as the welfare and , status needs of Negro Americans retain the urgency they now possess  --  and I fear that that will be a long time  --  choices will have to be made , Unfortunately , there is no formula for balancing the oibjectives ' as the revolution moves on . But it might help if we keep in mind that only strategy is involved . The American democracy will not have fulfilled its promise to Negro Americans until both the welf are and the status claims have been - met.                     