@@478057

Her economic recovery has dazzled the world . . and now she is trying ( with a shiver ) to build the Orient 's first " modern " society . A PAN was almost overrun last year by Western economists , bankers , and industrialists who had come to study the " Japanese economic miracle . " Arthur Burns , Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Eisenhower , was there in the spring ; he was so impressed , according to Washington reports , that he strongly recommended that President Kennedy adopt some of Japan 's tax and money policies to spur our laggard economy . A little later the London Economist sent a senior editor on a three months ' tour ; the result was two supplements in the magazine last September , the first of which was called " The Most Exciting Example . " Dozens of Wall Street analysts poked around Japan looking for " growth " stocks to recommend to American investors who were disenchanted with their own market . And there were industrialists from all over ? from Germany , Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australia ? searching for products to buy , for Japanese partners for joint ventures , or for Japanese markets . The only people who did not talk about the " Japanese economic miracle " were the Japanese themselves . Their businessmen , economists , labor leaders , and government people fretted instead about the threat to Japan 's exports and about " excessive competition " at home . They talked about the need to retrench and they complained about the growing " flood of American imports " that , they said , was about to drive entire Japanese industries to the wall . Most of this was just talking-poor , of course . Any competition in the home market is likely to he considered " excessive " in Japan , where for thirty years goods hadbeen scarce . Now , however , with four out of five Japanese families having TV sets , customers no longer stand in line , money in hand , to buy whatever the manufacturers turn out . But poor-talk or not , Japan has fundamental decisions to make on the character and structure of its economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? precisely because its economic success has made it the only modern nation outside the West . The last decade in Japan has proved that the methods , tools , and policies of a free economy can generate very fast economic development on non-Western soil . It has also proved that with a free economy a non-Western nation can achieve an educated population and a high and rising standard of living , In the next few years , however , Japan will have to demonstrate that the social and political values of a free society ( I ) can generate effective and well-organized political forces , and ( 2 ) can resolve the inherited social conflicts of a non-Western culture and tradition . Already a technically advanced and highly educated Great Power ? the only non-Western nation to attain this position ? Japan now has to prove that it can become the first society to be both truly modern and fundamentally non-European . CAUSE FOR CONFIDENCE wHAT has happened in Japan since the end of the American Occupation in April 1952 is the most extraordinary success story in all economic history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regained her sovereignty , she had just barely worked her way back to her prewar levels of production and income . This was far above any level that could be called " underdeveloped " ? as winless Japan 's industrial output and technical performance in World War 11 . But the Japan of 1952 , like that of 1941 , still rated only as a minor industrial country , perhaps twelfth to fifteenth among the industrial nations . Her dominant industries were those that typify the early stages of industrialization , for instance textiles . Her food shortages were chronic and apparently incurable ; the two staples , rice and wheat , were still rationed in the spring of 1952 . Even such recovery as Japan had made depended on American orders for the Korean War , and these orders were rapidly drying up . Inflation had been rampant and labor unrest that came close to armed insurrection was endemic . Joseph Dodge , the Detroit banker who had been the Occupation 's economic adviser , said what nearly all the experts thought when he predicted in his final report that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten years later , Japan ranks fourth among all nations in total industrial production . Only the United States , the Soviet Union , and West Germany are ahead of het , and she may actually be on the point of overtaking the Germans . Since 1952 her national income has tripled and her industrial production and industrial exports are five times what they were . This means that Japan has achieved an annual average growth rate of 9 per cent for national income and almost 20 per cent for industrial production and exports . No nation in recorded economic history has ever done this before . To accomplish this astonishing feat Japan has in a decade managed to make massive breakthroughs on five different and distinct fronts ? in new investment , in mass marketing , in agriculture , in education , and in health . Briefly , this is what she has accomplished : First : Year after year the Japanese have put more than a quarter of their national income into new investment . It has been this , primarily , that has made possible the rapid spurt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time the Japanese have created the first genuine mass consumer market outside the Western World . Last summer , for example , the Japanese discovered to their amazement that only the United States has more consumer appliances per family than they have ; they are better supplied with TV sets , refrigerators , and washing machines than the British or the West Germans ( though the automotive revolution is only just beginning ) . What is more , along with her mass consumer market , Japan has created a mass stock market , a phenomenon known otherwise only in the United States . In prewar Japan only banks and big industrialistsowned shares in industrial companies ; today every tenth Japanese family owns some common shares . ( That is not to say that the SEC would approve of the methods by which these shares are sold . ) Third is the breakthrough in agriculture . Ten years ago half the Japanese population worked on the land , but Japan could not feed herself . Today only a third of the population is still on the land . But though the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they did a decade ago , they are about to acquire that fashionable national disease , an unmanageable farm surplus . The fourth breakthrough has been in education . Only the United States and Israel have a larger proportion of their young people in higher education than Japan . Every third or fourth young man of twenty is now in college ; this stands in marked contrast to Europe where the " educational revolution " is yet to come . And , finally , in one short decade , life expectancy in Japan has risen from less than fifty years ( which was high for a non-Western country ) to seventy ( which is equal to that of the most advanced countries of the West ) . Furthermore , Japan has managed to cut its birth rate to the Western level so that alone of all non-Western countries , Japan is not being overwhelmed by a " population explosion . " One would expect these achievements to be expensive , but while the Japanese were forging ahead on all these fronts their tax burden has not gone up . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year ahead , figure out what it will mean in higher revenues , and then cut tax rates enough to hold the tax burden down . ( It was this , apparently , that so impressed Dr. Arthur Burns . ) One might expect such a tax policy to create inflation , but there has been less inflation in Japan than there has been in Europe or America . Even more surprising , perhaps , the tremendous economic growth in Japan has been accomplished with very little money from abroad . Since the Marshall Plan began in 1948 , America Last summer , Peter F. Drucker received an honorary doctorate from Nihon University in Tokyo , " in recognition of his contributions to Japan 's economy and culture . " He is the third American to he thus honored , the other two being President Eisenhower and Attorney General Robert Kennedy , Mr. Drucker is the author of " Landmarks of Tomorrow " and other hooks , and he teaches in the Graduate School of Business of NY U. 74 JAPAN 'S SECOND MIRACLE has sent 125 billion in aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 95 million people , or one-third the population of all Europe including Great Britain ) got at most one billion . Furthermore , Japan has been extremely wary of foreign investment and there has , consequently , been almost none ? a marked contrast to Europe where the five to eight billion dollars of direct American investment have provided much of the fuel for the boom of the last few years . In 1961 the growth rate in Japan actually hit 15 per cent . The government , afraid of inflation , stepped on the brakes ? hard ? and forced a slowdown . But a Japanese " slowdown " would be a gallop anywhere else ? the economy grew by 5 per cent in 1962 despite credit restrictions and officially decreed " austerity . " ( The U. S. growth goal is a rate of 31/2 to 4 per cent a year ! ) In 1959 the Japanese government predicted that the economy would double again in the ten years between 1960 and 1970 . Last September the Ministry of Finance cut the period back to seven years ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent to the 1959 economic level . Japan , of course , has one very special advantage ? a very low defense burden . Though growing steadily , the budget for the Japanese " Self-defense Forces " still takes less than 2 per cent of the country 's national income ? as against a defense burden of 10 per cent of national income in the U. S. ( japan ; Ind West Germany should be a convincing answer , by the way , to fears of the economic effects of disarmament . ) But even after making lull allowance for this and a great deal of luck , the Japanese economic achievement is still a real " economic miracle . " This sort of accomplishment ought to make the Japanese smug . On the contrary , they are deeply worried . A good many sane and unexcitable Japanese talk seriously today about what they call " a crisis of self-confidence . " Why ? . . . AND CAUSE FOR JITTERS T H E immediate cause of Japan 's jitters is that in her own self-interest she has to open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Europe and the United States . Since 1900 when Japan first began to export manufactured goods in quantity , she has been a tough , aggressive competitor in international markets . But her home market has always been insulated ? and neither economically nor socially is Japan prepared for competition in it . Japan is thoroughly mercantilist . It is , indeed , the one example of successful mercantilismwhich combines governmental direction with entrepreneurial vigor , and aggressive competition abroad with protectionism and imposed price stability at home . To do away with this protectionism at home is going to mean changing drastically both the entire system of industrial hiring and firing , and the long-entrenched but extremely expensive system of distributing goods . Then why should Japan now , after her economic success , have to let the foreigners come into her domestic . market ? Japan 's entire postwar expansion has been in the new " advanced " industries ? in machinery , synthetic fibers , and plastics ; electronics , optics , and ph arm aceuticikls ; trucks and household appliances . The " traditional " industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the domestic economy today . Japan depends , for instance , less on cotton-mill employment than does our own Old South . But of her exports almost half are still in " traditional " goods ? textiles , toys , footwear . On these exports depends Japan 's ability to buy abroad the raw materials ? above all , petroleum and iron ore ? without which the " advanced " industries could not keep going for one day . And exports of " traditional " goods are shrinking ? fast and inexorably . Japan is already outproduced and undersold in the " traditional " goods by such new , truly low-low-wage areas as Hong Kong , Singapore , the Philippines , or Pakistan . Within a very few years Japan will have to replace " traditional-goods " exports by " advanced-goods " exports . And the only possible buyers of these additional " advanced-goods " exports are the big malice 's of the European Common Market and of Great Britain , where Japan n today sells practically nothing . The problem of the " traditional " exports would have arisen anyhow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The emergence of the European Common Market as a great economic power , however , brought it to a head a full decade before Japan was ready to face it . Suddenly last year , the Japanese realized ? as we and the British did ? that they must get into the European market fast or risk being out forever . There is no economic reason why Japan 's " advanced " products should not sell as well in Europe as they have been selling in the much tougher and much more competitive U.S. market . But the Japanese can not even ask for access to Europe unless they offer the Europeans access on equal terms to their own lush domestic market of 95 million prosperous customers ? which , after the U.S. and Western Europe , is the world 's third-richest market . This , however , means that the Japanese for the first time will have to be able to meet industrial competition on their own home grounds . To Westerners , who have been used to stories of " Japanese low costs , " Japan would seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to believe , for instance , that Italian or Swiss silks could undersell the Japanese product . Yet Tokyo 's largest silk store last summer offered beautiful European silks 30 per cent or so below the price of comparable Japanese fabrics , despite a fat Japanese customs duty on such imports . For Japan 's is a high-cost economy , except in its most advanced industries , and especially in its advanced export industries . Labor costs run two or three times as high on almost any manufactured item as they do in the West . And the Japanese customer pays almost twice as much for distribution as we pay here despite our vast distances and high transportation costs . These are costs demanded by the social structure rather than by economic inefficiency and accordingly require social remedies with all their potential political dangers . KEPT ON TO DO NOTHING I E T me explain . The Japanese worker is as 4 productive as any worker in the world . He is better educated and better trained than almost any other worker , and he works cheerfully , hard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories it takes six times as many employees to produce the same amount of the same goods as in a comparable American factory . The reason is Japan 's traditional system of " lifetime employment " with layoffs or dismissals only for very serious misconduct . As a result most of Japanese industry is grossly overstaffed , and thousands of people for whom there are no jobs are kept on doing almost nothing in the plant or office . Very few Japanese employers know ( just as very few American employers know ) that it costs three to five times a man 's salary to have him on a job ? in supervision , in space , in paper work and record keeping , in heat and light , in materials , and so on . " Lifetime employment , " in turn , means that a Japanese over thirty as a rule can not change jobs . He is paid by his age rather than by the demands of the job he performs . He is assigned , however , to a job on the basis of length of service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be given only beginner 's work ? and would get twice the starting wage . It is small wonder thatno one will hire him . But then no one fires a man over thirty ; the firm just keeps him on the payroll and invents work for him . As a result , older industries and businesses bear the heaviest burden of overstaffing ; and the coal mines and railroads , as they are everywhere else . are in the worst shape of all . New industries and new businesses also have high costs because an artificially created " labor shortage " steadily pushes up the wages that beginners can , and do , demand . Starting wages for school graduates have doubled in the last three years . The younger managerial and professional people in Japan are beginning to move from job to job in increasing numbers , though still only if their original employers permit them to do so . And many different ways to make the manual worker mobile are now being explored . Some companies are introducing the Western system of paying for the job itself rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea of splitting between the old and the new employer the wage cost of any worker who changes jobs . The new employer would pay the base wage for the transferring employee ; the old employer would pay the difference between that and the wage appropriate to the man 's age . The Japanese are beginning to understand that industry has to separate the guarantee of a worker 's income ? which ought to be maintained ? from the stranglehold the job has on him . ' he worker ought to be freed from the restrictions that penalize him and make it impossible for him to move into a better-paying job in an expanding industry . But lifetime employment is much more than a matter of money . Until World War II it was almost entirely restricted to white-collar workers . Manual workers did n't achieve it until after the war and then only through bitter labor struggles . To them it represents , therefore , status and acceptance by society . An emotional issue anywhere ( as witness our steel strike of 1959 over " featherbedding " or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment security is pure dynamite in Japan . The longest and most violent strike in Japanese labor history was settled only two years ago . after virtually a whole county had stayed out for eighteen bitter months in protest against a management decision to retire with a generous severance allowance two thousand coal miners in an exhausted pit . Yet , according to a recent government study , there are another 60,000 coal miners ? one third of the total ? For whom there is no real work , though they alI have " full-time jobs . " 76 JAPAN 'S SECOND MIRACLE The problem of distribution costs is just as serious , and it too is as much a social as an economic problem . The distributive system of Japan is essentially what it was a hundred years ago ? it is still a multitude of small middlemen who live on a pittance but who when laid end to end represent a staggering waste . What adds difficulty to problems of employment security and distribution is the position of these issues on the Japanese political map . On the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Left ? indeed almost its only domestic issue with mass appeal . On the other hand , the millions of small wholesalers and retailers , who constitute the distribution system , are the solid voting core of the conservative government in power . Yet these concrete social issues , as full of explosives as they are , frighten the Japanese less than the impact of foreign competition at home on their traditional mercantilism ? which has all the force of an unwritten constitution . Opening the home market would surely upset the subtle three-way partnership among government , large business , and small business on which Japan 's entire economic development has been based . It would force Japan to abandon the policy under which government prods industries to be productive and competitive for export , while it protects inefficiency on the home market . It would break up the peculiarly Japanese arrangement under which the large producers are hot and hard-hitting rivals yet maintain a priceumbrella for the small fellow . Above all it would force Japan to let the market decide what should be produced and how it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerations . OLD SLOGANS AND A NEW GENERATION M ANY Japanese leaders believe that their economy must become an integrated part of the world economy anyhow , and fast . They maintain that Japanese industry badly needs the challenge of competition . The costs of automobile production ? and with it car prices ? would drop a full third , for instance , if Japan 's " Toyopet " had to compete with the English Ford , the French Renault , the German Volkswagen , and i he American compact car . ( Japanese heavy trucks and motorcycles ? both export products ? are already competitive . ) These Japanese believe that their mercantilist economic policy , their employment practices , and their distributive sys tern not only have been made completely obsolete by Japan 's economic growth but are fast becoming serious obstacles to further growth . They are convinced that Japan would immediately benefit from economic integration with the West as much as Europe has already benefited from the Common Market . And in all probability they are right . Unless Japan wants to choke off her economic growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy . But if she does , tremendous political pressures will build up that will challenge political courage , vision , and leadership . There are precedents for political leadership of rare ability in Japan 's modern history . One occurred in the late nineteenth century when , in one generation , a ruling class of warriornoblemen voluntarily abdicated , abolished a tribal feudalism a thousand years old , and turned the country into a modern state . No such leadership emerged between 1890 and 1940 . But after World War II Shigeru Yoshida , Japan 's prime minister from 1947 to T957 , again provided leadership of high courage and vision . But whether similar leadership emerges now or not , the shape of Japanese politics will inevitably change . The defeat of World War II created new institutions and new slogans , but few new values . Even those values of the past that were neither nationalist nor militarist were discredited . The great majority of Japanese found comfort instead in work and its discipline . As in Germany , the job of rebuilding the country became for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority , needing absolute beliefs and commitments , took refuge in the only available orthodoxy , which was Marxism . It is no accident that the very same groups that had been the most fanatical nationalists under the old regime ? especially students and professors ? became the most dedicated Marxists under the new . Today , the Liberal-Democrats ( as the conservative party is called ) win every election with a.monotonous two-thirds majority . But the static positions bequeathed by the defeat and the Occupation show every sign of breaking up . Japan today gropes for new political values and new political directions . This is true on the Right as well as on the Left . Now the job of rebuilding the country has been done . While the great majority wants more worldly goods ( and especially wants to be able to buy and drive an automobile ) economic recovery is no longer the great national task . And the Marxists in Japan may be where our own American Marxists were in the late 1940s , after the Henry Wallace campaign for President . Their god has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zengakuren ? Japan 's Left-wing and fellow-traveling student federation , which staged the riots against President Eisenhower 's visit in 1960 ? returned last August from a " Peace Rally " in Moscow with an amazing tale . The Moscow police , he said , took him and a number of his colleagues behind the Tomb of Lenin on Red Square , gave them a severe beating , and then hung them upside down for half-an-hour or so . All this for daring to stage a - ban- the- bomb " rally .. lt is hard to believe that even Communist police could be quite so stupid . But it is even harder to believe that Japanese students could be so na ? ve as to think that Russia would encourage a demonstration against nuclear testing which condemned indiscriminately U.S. and Soviet tests . Yet . this is what Japan 's Marxists ( except for their very small core of hardened professionals ) really did believe . And this belief is crumbling rapidly under the impact of the ideological conflict between Moscow and Peking which , seen from Tokyo , is hot , bitter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese Left will cease to be anti-American . Indeed the less dependent on Moscow ( or Peking ) it is , the more dangerous it may become . It is its subservience to the Communists ? and especially to the Russians ? which , more than anything else , has kept the Left from gaining a majority of the national vote . Should the Left O'er become genuinely " neutral . ' it may well get into power and the consequences for U. S. strategy and foreign policy in the Far East may be serious . But if a split opened in the ranks of the governing conservative party ? caused , for instance , by a fight over the future of the small retailer ? it could be equally serious for us . IN SEARCH OF CERTAINTY R IGHT and Left may , however , look quite different in tomorrow 's Japan . The most remarkable political phenomena in Japan today are not political parties or politicians but two religious sects , both of a strong fundamentalist cast : Ten Rikyo , a kind of Japanese Seventh-day Adventists , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of both the Mormons and Father Divine . When the American Occupation took a religious inventory in the late ' forties , neither sect was even an independent , let alone a major group . Today each has millions of fanatical members . Ten Rikyo is nod directly active in politics , though its members are expected to " vote for what is right . " But Soka Gakkai polled our million votes in the Senate elections last July . Both sects fully accept modern industrial civilization and are , in general . for progress " : both are strongly anti-Communist and professedly anti-nationalist . But they arc concerned less with issues than with the ethical , moral , spiritual values of politics , and attack all existing parties as unprincipled . Indeed . " Soka Gakkai " means " creation of values . " All experience with such movements in other countries would indicate that these two will come to grid as soon as they get into the practical and grubby business of politics ? which is probably why Ten Rikyo carefully sidesteps any political responsibility . But such movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attract members from all classes ? students , for instance , and unskilled recent immigrants From the countryside into the big cities , the maids , chauffeurs. and laundresses ? attest both to the yearning for values , for commitments , and to disenchantment with today 's politics and parties . To meet this real need and opportunity for responsible political leadership in Japan , there is an entirely new generation grown to manhood since the war . But there is also real danger . If Japan fails to integrate herself into the Free World economy ? no matter whether it is the West or her own social problems that keep her out ? she will be pushed toward close economic ties with Soviet Russia . Especially in Siberia , the Soviet Union has an insatiable appetite for the " advanced " products Japan has to sell . from chemicals and turbines to railway rolling stock , trucks , and transistors . The only trouble from Japan 's point of view is that Russia does not have anything to sell back to Japan but wants long-term credits which Japan simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wall , the Japanese might begin to buy raw material from Russia even though the prices would be high and the supply quite unreliable . Or Russia might use her gold stock to pay Japan , Trading with Russia would not require that the Japanese sacrifice any of their traditional politico-economic- practices : they would not have to admit manufactured foreign goods to the home market , or change their methods of employment or reform their distribution system . It would wally strengthen Japan 's mercantilist policy . For these reasons conservative groups , determined anti-Communists at home , send trade 78 JAPAN 'S SECOND MIRACLE mission after trade mission to Moscow , in the hope of finding an " Eastern alternative " to economic integration with the West , which they fear as a threat to their traditional practices and institutions . They are willing to admit that trade with Russia would stop Japan 's further economic growth , but they may regard this as a lesser evil , Such a shift in Japan 's economic alignment , even if totally without effect on her foreign and military policies ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be a major catastrophe for Japan but an even greater one for the Free World . The balance of economic power ? now heavily with the West ? would shift sharply toward the Soviet bloc . Worse still would be the psychological impact of such a shift . Japan , as the only non-Western country that has actually accomplished economic development , is the test case for others . If even Japan can not achieve membership as an equal in the Free World economy , what chance is there for the poorer and far less developed countries ranging from Yugoslavia and Peru to Nigeria and Malaya ? DO WE REALLY MEAN IT ? T HERE is much the West ? and especially the United States ? can do to help Japan make the decisions that are right both for her And for the Free World . We can prevent stupidity and racial prejudice ( especially of the unconscious and therefore doubly dangerous kind that is so common in Europe ) from pushing Japan against her own economic self-interest away from the Free World . If we do not , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of widespread ignorance of Japan and of her economic strength , will exclude her . Even more important is that we recognize Japan 's importance to the West . Perhaps because postwar Japan has not been a " problem " our policy-makers have not paid much attention to her ? less for instance than to India or to the new African nations . We have seen Japan primarily in the light of our own strategy ? as a permanent American military base and as a potential military ally . We tend to forget that Japan is also a great power , an ancient culture , and a prime symbol of " economic development " to hundreds of millions of non-Europeans . " The individual American who shows an interest in Japan ? her history , her economy , her arts , her universities , her religion ? may do more to tie us to the Free World than all the policies of your government , " remarked a prominent Japanese banker , inclined , as a rule , to shrug off such " intangibles . " Finally we need to realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither can nor should try to become one . Every responsible Japanese gets the shivers when someone in Bonn , London , or Washington talks of the " Atlantic Community " ; he knows that no semantic sleight of hand can make Japan border on the Atlantic or trace her culture back to the " Judeo-Christian heritage " of our college catalogues . No matter how Westernized her economy , how technically educated her people , how advanced her physicians and scientists ? her roots of culture and history , art and religion , script , literature , and language are not European but Asian . A viable modern society in Japan must embrace both her ' Western civilization and her Asian culture . There are signs that the Japanese begin to understand this ? the appeal of the two religions sects discussed earlier lies largely in the stress they place on both ancient religion and ethics and modern economics , industry , technology , and science . There are signs that Japan can synthesize F.ast and West . At least in painting ? Japan 's most representative and most truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now " abstractionists " in the Western sense and yet unmistakably " Japanese " : " calligraphers " in the best Japanese tradition and yet , unmistakably , schooled in Braque , Matisse , or Jackson Pollock . There are other signs of this breakthrough ? in the movies , in ceramics , in architecture . The West has never before had to accept a non-European culture and country as an equal . let alone as a leader . We do , of course , pay lip service to such equality ? hut Japan waits to find out whether we really mean it . The big job from now on , however , will have to be done by the Japanese themselves . Of course , their success will depend on an expanding world economy which tends toward being more rather than less liberal . But more important will be Japan 's courage and vision in the management of its own domestic affairs ? in government , in politics , and in business . Most important : Japan must solve her problems in a manner both " modern " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the job is probably neither as big nor as difficult as what Japan has already accomplished since 1952 . But it will not only he Japan that will be put to the test in the next ten years . Above all , it will be the West and its values that will be on trial in this new " postWestern " world of ours . Modern Japan is both leader and criterion . 