@@494776

THE NEW REPUBLIC The Silence of ' Flanders Flemish painting of the 15th Century begins in a dream and ends in a nightmare . There does n't seem to be much transition . Most of the great men of that great century painted dreams . In the works of Jan van Eyck , Roger van der Weyden , Petrus Christus , Dieric , Bouts , Hans Memlinc and Hugo van Flanders in the Fifteenth Century The Detroit Institute of Arts der Goes , as in that of their contemporaries still identified only by the work ? the Master of Flemalle , the Master of the Lucy Legend , the Master of the Saint Ursula Legend and others ? individual qualities are more than sufficient to justify the bootstrap creation of identities for the latter and the agreed upon body of largely unsigned works of the former , yet there is also one common characteristic . Even more distinctive than the often minute realism shared by these painters is the air of entrancement that hovers over everything and every person in the world of their works . Typically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on her lap , receiving the donor of the painting . The donor is usually accompanied by a patron saint or a guardian angel , but all the characters seem caught up in some kind of dream emanating from the deep meditation of the Virgin . The back of the box-like room opens on to a balcony , where , perhaps , a man and girl , totally unrelated narratively to the scene within , lean upon a balustrade , backs to the viewer but manifestly held in the same trance as the main characters . Beyond the balustrade stretches a bit of harbor or a snatch of city , with recognizable roofs and steeples of churches still standing and the scenic background , too , is steeped in the atmosphere of dream . If you take the profound introspection of the Virgin as the source or the goal of the Flemish dream , you can interpret the whole phenomenon as a direct expression of religious meditation . The dream atmosphere , however , casts its strange silence not only over Passions and particularly brutal martyrdoms , such as that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attached to his arms and legs , as depicted by Bouts and van der Goes , but also over aristocratic portraits and over purely secular scenes , such as the Gerard David Justice of Cambyses . Then , at the end of the century , with no particular warning , the dream became nightmare in the spectacular visions of Hieronymus Bosch . Yet the dream atmosphere of silence does persist throughout Bosch 's schoolboy sadism and Fun-House infernos . The Boschian nightmare is attributed to such disparate causes as the painter 's presumed membership in a sect of nudists and his employment as costume-maker and stage designer for carnivals in Flanders , but there is n't much speculation about the entranced silence of all these pictures . The silence is present for questioning in the brilliant exhibition , Flanders in the Fifteenth Century : Art and Civilization , now at its only American showing , in the Detroit Institute of Arts . The show includes all the painters and paintings already mentioned , plus many more from American museums and Belgian museums , cities and churches . As the title implies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that more probably carries higher value for the average American viewer even than the astonishing assemblage of Flemish masterpieces hitherto available , even in Flanders , only one or a few at a time . The show has tapestries , vestments , jewelry , reliquaries , domestic utensils , arms and armor , stained glass , town seals , navigational instruments and illuminated manuscripts . Above all , there is sculpture , in great profusion , chiefly of carved oak , but also of limestone and of metals , including gold and silver . The magnificent run of paintings forms , no doubt , the heart of the show , but they maintain , appropriately , their silence about the stillness in Flemish paintings . The sculpture , indirectly , provides at least a guess . The guess is that that dream quality comes very largely from the medium , for there is no equivalent of it in the sculpture . The real wonder of the paintings is not the dream silence itself , but the combination of that quality with the closely observed realism with which all details are painted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but somehow there it combines with the pulse of active life . The trance is broken . It 's broken with ribald chuckles in four figures from choirstalls known as " Misericords , " from their use as semi-seats for chanting monks as services grew interminable . It 's broken in courtly pomp in a reliquary of gold and enamel showing Charles the Bold , kneeling with the relic , as he is presented by the similarly armored figure of St. George . It 's broken in the very human grief of individual figures from Passion groups , silence forgotten in the crashing shock of the Crucifixion . Figure after figure of the sculpture is extraordinary in conception and execution . There is a cast brass Mary Magdalene , about two feet high , from a paschal candelabrum - crucifix - lectern . The saint 's face gazes upward in something like the lost reverie of the paintings ; but her arms are thrown aloft in agony , her body slumps at the knees , her torso strains through the cloth and the drapery itself swirls downward in a flow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There 's a Bad Thief , carved of walnut , in which the angled limbs on the simple tau-cross and the chiseled facets of the flesh memorably unite the despair of the moment , the hard edge of carving and the gnarled piece of wood the carver must have started with . There are polychromed angels that express the transfixing grief and the quality of becoming that you get from Giotto 's angels at the Deposition . The polychrome in general is remarkable in every way . Most of it , including the gilt , is not contemporary with the carving , having been freshened up through the centuries ; yet there is no feeling of addition to the carving . What we conventionally regard as two arts are completely one . There is n't a whisper of the garishness common to Latin American and even Spanish painted sculpture . There 's perfect integration , as we accept that there was in Greece before time and weather gave a false classical clue to the Renaissance , one which , oddly enough , even the most anti-Renaissance sculptors have followed ever since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 15th Century comes precisely from its position of great technical advance over the Middle Ages combined with independence of vision from the flowering Italian Renaissance . Nowhere does this appear more forcefully than in the colored sculpture at Detroit . 