@@491575

The False Images of Science By GEIMLD HOLTON f the influences that shape man 's actions , none is more powerful than the images we carry in our heads . Ev- ery subject is apt to invoke in our minds a specific image , made up of concrete information , misinformation , folklore , desire and prejudice . Thus , how people see themselves as a nation determines to a large extent how they will respond to any new challenge . The roles we play in our family life , particularly with respect to our children , depend greatly on what roles we assign ourselves in the society around us . In the same way , our images of science vastly affect the relationship between science and society . Practically , these images determine the level and the sources of financial support , the quality and quantity of instruction offered , and the development of new scientists . The effects on professional morale and the goals scientists set for themselves  --  in short , on the scientists ' image of their own work  --  are also considerable . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deciding thisurgent question : Can scientific activity be an integrated part of our culture , or will it be forced to develop independently ? Right or wrong , ideas are powerful . Therein lies the chief danger of false images . Like bad grammar , bad images become dominant when they gain wide currency , and so undermine communication among thoughtful people . It is high time , therefore , to consider the prevailing public images of the role of science , using the most straightforward language possible . PURE THOUGHT AND PRACTICAL POWER . Each person 's image of science is different from the next , but all are composed of seven main elements . The first goes hack to Plato and portrays science as a tonic with double benefits  --  science as pure thought helps the mind find truth , and science as power provides the tools for effective action . The main flaw in this image is that it omits a third vital aspect . Pure science allows us to understand the physical world and , through its applications , allows us to control and change that world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s , , - potiic function that . is , it gene I ? it important part of Our symbolic . , I , u-lary and provides some of the MOOphysical b. , ? sd philosophical orientations of Oil ' logy . As a cons. queue , the methods of argument of science , its conceptions and its models , permeate first the intellectual life of the time , then the tenets and usages of everyday life . Our language of ideas , for example , owes a debt to the sciences of statics and hydraulics and the model of the solar system . These have furnished powerful analogies in many fields of study . Guiding ideas  --  such as conditions of equilibrium , centrifugal forces , conservation laws and the balance of energy or power , feedback , invariance or complement:way  --  enrich the general arsenal of imaginative tools of thought . AU philosophies share with science the need to work with concepts such as space , time , quantity , matter , order , law , causality , verification , reality . A sound image of science must , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those referring to pure understanding and to practical applications . HEM-ever , more usually , only one of the three is recognized . For example . folklore sometimes depicts the life of the scientist as lonely , isolated , divorced from life and beneficent action in the larger sense . ICONOCLASM . A second image of long standing is that of the scientist as iconoclast . Indeed . almost every major scientific advance , from the Copernican theory to the postulation of universal gravitation , from the discovery of the circulation of blood to the perfection of anesthesia and vaccination , has been interpreted as a blow against religion . To some extent science sv as pushed into this position by the ancient but dangerous tendency of some philosophers to prose the existence of God by pointing to problems which science could not solve at the time . Newton himself , who was deeply interested in theology , wrote , " It is not to be conceived that mere mechanical causes could give birth to so many regular motions in the solar systems . . . . This most beautiful system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the counsel and dominion of an intelligent and powerful Being . " The same attitude governed thought concerning the earth 's formation before the theory of geological evolution , the descent of man before the theory of biological evolution , and the origin of our galaxy before modern cosmology . This aspect of the conflict between science and religion results largely from a misunderstanding of both science and religion . To base one 's religious belief on an estimate of what science can not do is as foolhardy as it is blasphemous . The reverse , the deification of the discoveries of science , is equally precarious , for scientific knowledge continually grows , superseding its older formulations . The only secure foundation for religious belief , as all great religious leaders have taught , is neither the capacity nor the failure of ' man 's imaginative mind , neither the powers nor the limits of his science  --  but faith . Today political overtones make a wider understanding of this problem both more urgent and more difficult . " Religious propaganda , " a recent dispatch in Iron Curtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda " distributed by local societies " for the dissemination of political and scientific knowledge. - The iconoclastic image of science has , however , other components not ascrib able to an elementary misunderstanding of its functions . For example , the historian Arnold Toynbee charges science and technology with usurping the place of Christianity as the main source of our new symbols . Nco-orthodos theologians call science the " self-estrangement " of man because it leads him into Calms where no ultimate  --  that is , religious  --  concerns prevail . But this image fails to recognize the multitude of influences that shape a culture  --  or a person . Neither to Christianity nor to science can one properly assign more than a limited part in the interplay between man 's psychological and biological factors on one hand , and the opportunities and accidents of his history on the other . Moreover , to set science and religion at odds , to view them as nonin tersecting paths , is to neglect the valuable possibilities of synthesis . As Alfred North Whitehead wrote in Science and ale Modern II arid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart from the mere impulses of the various senses , which influence man .... On their relationship depends the future course of history . " Whitehead held that " the force of our religious intuitions , and the force of our impulse to accurate observation and deduction , " are complementary rather than conflicting . The way many scientists and theologians state the issue today makes it seem as if we must choose between two normal and powerful drives . This is like forcing a child to choose between his father and his mother because they disagree on some matters . ETHICAL PERVERSION . The next image of science sees it as a force which can invade , possess , pervert and destroy man . The stereotype is Anthime in Andre Gide 's novel , Lafcadio 's Adventures , the naturalist turned unbeliever . Anthime snarls at his niece who dares speak to him piously of religion , and retires angrily to his laboratory , where he weighs a group of starved rats , half of them partly blinded , the rest fully blinded , to find out which are dying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil scientist is the mad researcher of science fiction , or the nuclear destroyer  --  immoral if he develops the weapons he is asked to develop , traitorous if he refuses , According to this view , scientific morality is inherently negative . It causes the arts to languish , it blights culture and , when applied to human affairs , leads to regimentation and to the impoverishment of life . In short , science is the serpent seducing us into eating the fruit of the tree of knowledge  --  thereby dooming us . The fear behind this attitude is genuine , but not confined to science . It is also directed against writers , artists , philosophers . theologians  --  in fact , against all thinkers and innovators . Plato condemned the work of Homer for conducing to impiety and immorality , and the same charge still greets many an original work . Society has always found it hard to deal with creativity , innovation and new knowledge . And since science assures a particularly rapid , and therefore particularly disturbing , turnover of ideas , it remains a prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this suspicion . Progress in basic scientific knowledge , being confined to a minority of specialists , can not by itself directly disturb society . But the discoveries of " pure " science now readily lend themselves to widespread exploitation through technology . Applications spread swiftly and widely . Thus we are in an inescapable dilemma  --  irresistibly tempted to reach for the fruits of science , yet deep inside aware that our biological and psychological metabolism may not be able to cope with this ever-increasing appetite . Probably the dilemma can no longer be resolved , and this increases the anxiety and confusion concerning science . A current symptom is the popular identification of science with the technology of super-weapons . The missile is taking the place of the microscope as a symbol of modern science . All efforts to convince people that science itself can only give man knowledge about himself and his environment , and occasionally a choice of actions , have been unavailing . The scientist as Ncientisr can take little credit or responsibility either for the facts he discovers  --  for he did not create them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for he generally is neither permitted nor specially fitted to make these decisions . They are controlled by considerations of ethics , economics , or politics , and therefore shaped by the values , fears and historical circumstances of the whole society . THE SORCERER 'S APPRENTICE . The last two views held that man is inherently good and science evil . Now we come to an image based on the opposite assumption ; it expresses the fear that man can not be trusted with scientific knowledge . He has survived despite his wickedness only because he lacked sufficiently destructive weapons ; now he can immolate his world . Science , indirectly responsible for this new power , is here considered ethically neutral . But , like the sorcerer 's apprentice , man can neither understand this tool nor control it . Unavoidably he will bring upon himself catastrophe , partly through his natural sinfulness and partly through his lust for power , of which the pursuit of knowledge is a manifestation . The fear inspired by this image also motivates the repeated demand for a moratorium on the pursuit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop of Ripon at a meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science . We should all be better off , he contended , if every physical and chemical laboratory were closed for ten years , and the energy now directing them were turned to establishing the brotherhood of man . This suggestion is based on two misunderstandings . First , science is not an occupation that one can pursue or change at short notice , like working on an assets . bly line . The creative scientist does not have a free choice of action . He does not advance toward his new knowledge ; rather knowledge advances toward him and overwhelms him . Even a superficial glance at the work of a Kepler , a Darwin or a Pasteur shows that the driving power of creativity is as strong and as sacred for the scientist as for the artist . Secondly , salvation can not be consid ? cred a reward for ignorance . To survive and progress , man can not know too much about his environment . The real price of new knowledge is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ourselves . It may yet turn out , paradoxically , that science will help to compel us at last to curb the aggressions that in the past were condoned and even glorified . Organized warfare and genocide are practices as old as recorded history . The exploitation of science now has so sharpened the knife edge on which civilization has always balanced that the ma in antagonists themselves recognize the enormity of the threat . Never before have even the war lords on both sides openly expressed fear of war . If man is inherently evil , Judgment Day is surely near . But if good exists in him , one can be more optimistic . The alternatives are so extreme and so obvious as to allow hope that the instinct of self-preservation will reinforce good sense and moral strength . Mankind has come to its experimenuan cruces . ECOLOGICAL DISASTER . A change in the average temperature of a pond or in the salinity of an ocean may cause a large number of plants and animals to die . One calls this a change in the ecological balance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither science nor man may be inherently evil , the rise of science happened , as if by accident , to initiate an ecological change that now corrodes the only conceivable basis for a stable society . In the words of theologian Jacques Maritain , the " deadly disease " science set off in society is " the denial of eternal truth and absolute values . " How did this change come about ? The main steps are usually presented in this way . Before modern science , man thought of himself as the ultimate purpose and the earth as the center of creation . Then science showed our planetary system to be heliocentric , and man toppled from his throne . Science replaced purposive creation with blind evolution , and discovered that such absolutes as space , time and certainty are meaningless . All a priori axioms , like those of Euclidean geometry , were discovered one by one to be convenient but arbitrary . Modern psychology and anthropology have led to an acceptance of cultural relativism . Truth itself seems to have dissolved into probabilistic and indeterministic statements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has affected all areas of life , particularly ethical values . Drawing largely upon analogy with the sciences , liberal philosophers have become increasingly relativistic , denying either the necessity or the possibility of postulating immutable verities , and so have undermined the old foundations of moral and social authority . For though doubt and skepticism may be useful as stimulants to scientific investigation , society can not thrive in an atmosphere of change for its own sake . Worst of all , the argument concludes , though science can not help us distinguish between good and evil , it nevertheless claims to be the only reliable guide for making decisions and solving problems of all kinds . Having destroyed absolute standards , it puts nothing in their place . In short , although science has exploded Smile fallacious traditional beliefs and increased our material comforts , it has also cut us adrift from our only secure moorings . It should be noted in passing that most applications of scientific concepts outside science merely reveal ignorance about science . For example , relativism in nonscientific fields is based on farfetched analogies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhe Murderer Mind , " For the general public . Einstein was not merely the tribal magician of our time he was the man who stood for relativity ; for the notion that things looked different to observers at different places at different times , that truth depends on the point of view of the seeker of truth , that a man moving at one rate of speed sees everything quite differently from a man moving at another rate . that , in short , there is no absolute Truth , but only relative truths . " This is precisely how the general public understands Einsteinian relativity . But physics did not find that everything is relative . On the contrary , relativity theory reformulated the laws of physics so that they would hold good for every observer , no ma tterhowhe moves orwhere he stands . Not everything depends on one 's point of view ; rather , the most valued truths are wholly independent of the point of view . Ignorance of science is also the only excuse for adopting rapid changes within science as models for antitraditional attitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more conservative than science ; each change necessarily encompasses previous knots ledge . Science grows like a tree , ring by ring . Einstein did not prove the work of Newton wrong ; he provided a larger setting within which some contradictions and discontinuities of the older physics disappeared . But the image of science as an ecological disaster can be subjected to a moresevere Critique . Regardless of science 's part in the corrosion of absolute values , have those values really given us a safe anchor ? A priori absolutes abound all over the globe in completely contradictory varieties . Most of lie horrors of history have been carried out under the banner of some absolutistic philosophy , from the Aztec mass sacrifices to the auto da fe of the Spanish Inquisition , from the massacre of the Huguenots to the Nazi gas chambers . It is at best an optical illusion which makes the fourteenth century look so serene and desirable to modern critics of the recent , " scientific " periods , just as the life of the " noble savage , " so esteemed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be based largely on dread and misery . If , therefore , some of the new philosophies , inspired rightly or wrongly by science , reject earlier bases of authority as faulty  --  as the founders of this nation did  --  if they point Out that " absolutes " change and contradict one another , science can not be blamed . The faults were there all the time . In looking for a new and sounder basis on which to build a stable world , we shall find science indispensable . We can hope to match the resources and structure of society to the needs and potentialities of people only if we know more about the inner workings of man . Already science has much to say that is valuable and important about human relationships and problems . One must not be obsessed with the picture of bombs and missiles ; from psychiatry to dietetics , from immunology to meteorology , from city planning to agricultural research , by far the largest part of our total scientific and technical effort today is concerned with man , his needs . relationships , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sciwee is necessarily the road to suicide have forgotten about this aspect of science . They do not believe , as f do , that man has been given his mind in order that he may hod out where he is , what he is , and who he is . Sr'MENT ism . The last four images implied a revulsion from science . We might describe the next one as addiction to science . Scientism divides all thought into two categories  --  up-to-date scientific knowledge , and nonsense . Some scientists subscribe to this view , but most of its adherents are outside ( he laboratories . Among the social studies , for example , there are some victims of the seductive idea that the mathematical sciences offer the only permissible models for successfully employing the mind . . A. far more significant symptom of scientism is the growing identification of science with technology , to which I referred earlier . This trend is not difficult to understand . Nearly half of all the men and women trained as scientists are now working in industry or Government laboratories . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half of all scientific work . Of the huge sums spent annually on science and technology  --  about 510,000,090,000 this year in the United States  --  less than 8 per cent is devoted to really basic research . Not long ago the typical scientist worked alone or with a few students and colleagues and built his own equipment with " love , string and sealing wax . " Today he usually belongs to a group working under a contract with a sizable annual budget . In the research institute of one university more than 1500 scientists and technicians are grouped around a set of multimillion-dollar machines ; the money comes from Government agencies whose ultimate aim is national defense.7 Everywhere the overlapping interests of university science , industry and the military establishment have been merged in a way satisfactory to all three . Science has thereby become a large-scale operation with a potential for immediate and worldwide effects . It is not frivolous to call physics the liveliest political science today . If for some reason all physicists in the United States heeded a call for a moratorium , nobody would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department . These are merely indications that we are passing through a revolutionary change in the nature of science . The effective cause was the perfection and dissemination of the methods of basic research by teams of specialists with widely different training and interests . The result is a splendid increase in scientific knowledge , but the side effects are analogous to those of sudden and rapid urbanization  --  a strain on communication facilities , the rise of an administrative bureaucracy , the depersonalization of some human relationships . To a large degree , all this is unavoidable . The new scientific revolution will justify itself by the flow of results and the material benefits that will no doubt follow . The danger , the point where scientism enters , is that the fascination with the mechanism of scientific research may change society and the scientist himself . The new science requires a new kind of scientist . The unorthodox , withdrawn individualist , on whom most great scientific advances have depended in the past , does not fit well into the new system . We must keep a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolize our commitment to science itself rather than to the new machinery . Society , on the other hand , will also have to hold out against the seductive urge of scientism to adopt generally the pattern of organization of the new sciettet ; this pattern can only he justified by the quality of creative results in a specialized profession . MAQIC . Few nonscientists would be likely to suspect a hoax if it were suddenly announced that a stable element lighter than hydrogen had been syn ( hewed , or that the United States had beaten Russia in a secret race to establish a manned observation platform at the surface of the sun . Apparently anything can happen these days ; science has no inherent limitations . Thus . the seventh image depicts science as magic . the scientist as a wizard . Depending on our orientation , we tend either to fear him or to accept his opinions about everything . Like the other false images of science , this one is partly an educational problem . All our voracious consumption of technical devices . all our talk about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not hide that most of us are content to remain completely ignorant of science . In a recent national &; survey , nearly . 40 per cent of those a ho had attended college confessed they took not a single course in physical or biological science . Those a ho did denoted generally less than 10 per cent of their courses to these sciences . Moreover , in science class they miss all too often the kind of teacher who can impart to the average student a wider appreciation of both the inherent powers and the inherent limitations of science , a ho can show how to distinguish challenging from iris cal problems , how to detect the inconspicuous hind leg of the solution by which to drag it forth . THE ROOT OF THE FAILURE . To e , the falsity of the current images of is not enough , any more than is tiaadat symptoms rather than the disease itself . The inadequate scientific education the general student receives at all levels helps to eaplain the distortions , but only in part . When we try to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with too little know ledge about science , we discover Illat the major share of the blame does not lie with the ordinary citi/en . In this matter he is only taking his cue from the intellectuals  --  the writers , scholars , lawyers , politicians , scientists and all others who deal professionally in ideas . Among the scientists themselves . busy with exciting work , the majority feel no strong responsibility for taking part in the necessary educational efforts ; many has e forgotten that , especially at a tune of rapid t. , p , InsiOn of knowledge , they have NA extra obligation to the general public , it ' only because it must foot the bill and furnish the next crop of young scientists . Among the rest of the intellectuals the case is worse . The wrong images , which they share w Ith the common man , prevail because they are anchored in two kinds of ignorance . One kind is basic and factualw'hat biology says about life , what chemistry and physics say about matter , what astronomy says about the structure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways of understanding nature hate become obsolete The ground trembles under his feet ; gone are the simple interpretations of solidity , permanence , reality : he Flounders among four-dimensional continua , probability amplitudes , undecidable identities , indeterminacies . About the basic concepts of modern science that define the physical part of reality , he knows only that he can not grasp them and never will . On the second level of ignorance , the contemporary- intellectual fails to understand how the different sciences fit together with one another and with the humanities as different aspects of one cosmos . He has left behind those great syntheses which once comprised our intellectual and moral home  --  the cosmic view of the book of Genesis , Homer , Dante , Milton , Goethe  --  and now finds himself blindfolded in a maze without exit . The brutal fact is that , by losing contact with even the elementary facts of modern science , our intellectuals , for the first time in history , are losing their hold on understanding the world . Of all the evils arising from the separation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most terrifying . Indeed , it is amazing to me that the intellectuals have not attacked science , the source of the apparent threats to their common-sense sanity , much more fiercely , that the dissociation has not produced an even graver cultural psychosis . This , I am convinced , is likely to occur , for there is at present no mechanism at work in our society for dealing effectively with the situation . What remedies suggest themselves ? At the least , science must again be made a natural part of every intelligent man 's common literacy  --  not because science is more important than other fields , hut because it is an important part of the whole jigsaw puzzle of knowledge . This would require sound , thorough work at every level of education  --  for example , a good part of a person 's college work , as used to be the rule in good colleges fifty years ago . It would demand imaginative new curricula , strengthened standards of achievement , more recognition of excellence whether exhibited by instructors or by students . Adult education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of science through mass media , is another obvious measure meriting the support and participation of our best minds . Here and there , to be sure , some efforts are being made in the right direction , but the total is pitifully small . Virtually nobody has been courageous enough to face the magnitude of the problem squarely , so large is the range and amount of knowledge needed before one can " know science " in any real sense . The converse need  --  namely , the humanistic education of scientists  --  is also urgent ; but at least in principle it can be served with existing methods of instruction . The tools of humanistic study are still in touch with our sensibilities . This , unhappily , is no longer so in science . Every great age has been shaped by intellectuals such as Jefferson and Franklin , who would have been horrified by the idea of cultivated men and women turning their backs on science . That tradition has been broken . Few intellectuals are now equipped to act as informed mediators . And meanwhile science advances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science and culture . To restore them to some kind of reciprocal contact within the concerns of most men  --  to bring science into an orbit about us instead of letting it escape from the field of our common culture  --  that is the great challenge before intellectuals today . And nothing better illustrates the urgency and difficulty of this task than the false images prevailing about science .                     