@@248501

THE morals of the British have always intrigued and baffled foreigners . For centuries , Europeans visiting that cold , controlled country have discovered to their amazement-and frequent envy-that the abundance , subtlety and variety of sexual sport in London 's demimonde make continental capitals seem parochial . Until recent years , it was impossible to go to dinner at London 's most fashionable clubs or private houses without passing swarms of well-turned-out and sometimes handsome streetwalkers standing guard on the sidewalk . Like many another foreign analyst of Anglo-Saxon attitudes , French Diarist Hippolyte Taine , visiting London in the mid 19th century , could not comprehend how the English could sustain the " vehemence and pungency of their passions " against " the harsh , though silent , grinding of their moral machinery . " <P> There is a widespread feeling that Britain 's moral machinery is not grinding as harshly as it used to . Much in English life today suggests decadence and dissolution . Since the girls were driven off the streets four years ago , they have taken to advertising their services in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " or " French teachers . " London 's booming striptease parlors offer some of the crudest live pornography to be seen publicly in Europe . Its parks in summer are pre-empted by couples who are n't just necking . One third of all teen-age brides in Britain are already pregnant . Innumerable scandals preceding the Profumo case suggest considerable promiscuity , along with sexual arrangements infinitely more complex than the old-fashioned triangle . And , as everyone knows , homosexuality is " the English vice . " Psychologist G. M. Carstairs commented recently : " Popular morality is now a wasteland , littered with the debris of broken conventions . Concepts such as honor , or even honesty , have an old-fashioned sound , but nothing has taken their place . " <P> Getting Caught . This harsh judgment may overlook the fact that Britain was never the sort of place Victorian morality pretended it was . If London today resembles Babylon-on-Thames , it is little more than a de luxe model of the brutal , carnal 18th century city whose brothels , boudoirs and gin shops ( " Drunk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were pictured by Hogarth , Richardson and Fielding . <P> Says Malcolm Muggeridge : " There 's always been a lot of high-grade whoring in this country , " and there is a lot of past evidence to prove him right . George IV had his queen tried publicly for infidelity ; in the early 18th century , an Archbishop of York maintained a harem at his palace . The 18th century Christine Keeler was a Miss Chudleigh , who had been the mistress of three peers when George II spotted her at a costume ball , cunningly disguised in a transparent gown . Her Georgian era came between two noble marriages ( one bigamous ) . In the 18th century phrase , borrowed from nautical terminology , Miss Chudleigh had " bottom , " or what it takes .                     