@@96012

AMERICAN LEAGUE As if following a Rube Goldberg blueprint , BALTIMORE used scraps of good pitching , chunks of clutch hitting , a dab of luck and a dash of trickery to build the best record ( 5-2 ) of the week . Robin Roberts ( seepage 60 ) and Milt Pap-pas pitched shutouts , and Rookie Wally Bunker won his fifth game without a loss . The winning run in Bunker 's 2-1 victory scored on what seemed to be bad base running by Dick Brown . In fact , Brown planned it that way . He took a wide turn around second base as he advanced on a single by Bob Johnson , so wide that the Tigers cut off the throw from the outfield . While they tried to catch Brown off base , Jerry Adair ran home with the winning run . That was one of three one-run triumphs for the second-place Orioles , LOS ANGELES ( 2-6 ) also had three one-run games , all losses . There was little for Manager Bill Rigney to smile about , for his team hit just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Second Baseman Bobby Knoop , who specializes in going deep behind the bag , pivoting in mid-air and then throwing , cheered Rigney . One of the few bright spots for KANSAS CITY ( 2-4 ) , which had just two home runs instead of its average of six , was the fielding of its rookie second baseman , Dick Green . Green gave much of the credit to a glove given him by Shortstop Wayne Causey , adding that " the least I can do is buy Causey a steak . " First Baseman Dick Stuart of BOSTON ( 4-3 ) , whose fielding is strictly hamburger , atoned for one costly error with a flurry of six homers and 13 RBIs . Last year 's batting champion , Carl Yastrzemski , hit into a double play for the 13th time ( one more than last year ) and had a .243 BA for the year . Al Kaline of DETROIT ( 3-3 ) , runner-up in hitting a year ago , slumped to .230 . Superb relief pitching by Ed Rakow earned him and the Tigers two wins . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ games , but despite the slugging of Jim King , who hit for the cycle in a 3-2 loss , and Chuck Hinton ( .462 ) the Senators won just three . For CLEVELAND ( 1-4 ) it was a black week . As the team bus bounced through New York after a second straight loss to the Yankees , Pitcher Dick Donovan tried to lighten the atmosphere . Eyeing the half-demolished Polo Grounds , Donovan said , " Boy , they must have had a helluva game there last night . " For league-leading CHICAGO ( 4-2 ) , happiness was a sudden dose of extra-base hits that included eight homers , three by Pete Ward . This offset some uncommonly bad fielding ( 10 errors ) . Poor fielding also hampered MINNESOTA ( 5-3 ) , but tight pitching and Harmon Killebrew 's clutch singles as well as home runs ( three ) enabled the Twins to win three one-run games . Good pitching by Steve Hamilton and Whitey Ford , plus three home runs by Clete Boyer , put NEW YORK ( 4-2 ) in third place . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) looked at the scoreboard and saw two things . He saw that the score was tied . He also saw a face , the face of Pirate Relief Pitcher ElRoy Face . Mauch did not accuse Face of stealing signs from the Pirate scoreboard , but he did play the game under protest , which is approximately the same thing . But spied on or not , the Phillies took the league lead , Art Mahaffey pitching a shutout and Cookie Rojas hitting .611 . Joe Moeller picked up a pair of wins , one of them with relief help from Sandy Koufax , as LOS ANGELES won three of five games and moved up to seventh . Still inconsistent at the plate , the Dodgers scored two runs in 26 innings , then won 10-3 . SAN FRANCISCO ( 2-4 ) was consistent , if not productive , scoring two runs in four straight games . The Giants won two of those games 2-1 , but for the week they batted an anemic .176 . CHICAGO ( 4-4 ) Manager Bob Kennedy was mad at his pitchers , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Slaughter . He should have gotten mad sooner , for Slaughter , with help from Lindy McDaniel , shut out the Braves on one hit . Billy Williams batted .480 to boost his average for the season over .400 , but even he could not help the day the NEW YORK METS ( 3-3 ) whipped the Cubs 19-1 . That day Casey Stengel played his strategy to the hilt , inserting rookie John Stephenson in the outfield in the ninth for " defensive purposes . " ST . LOUIS ( 2-4 ) got hitting from Dick Groat ( .385 ) and Curt Flood ( .440 ) and seven RBIs from Ken Boyer , but the rest of the club hit only .180 . HOUSTON made up for what it lacked in hitting by coming through with fine pitching from three of the league 's winningest pitchers . Bob Bruce ( 6-1 ) shut out the Mets , and Dick Farrell ( 7-1 ) and Ken Johnson ( 5-4 ) each beat the Braves 4-2 . In all , MILWAUKEE ( 4-4 ) lost three 4-2 games . Out in center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who does a spirited dance whenever a Brave homers . Last week he was underworked . There were just four home runs in five home games , three by Joe Torre . Manager Bobby Bragan , though , felt like dancing when youngsters Denny Lemaster and Hank Fischer pitched shutouts . Joe Nuxhall of CINCINNATI ( 4-2 ) beat the Dodgers 1-0 , the Reds ' fourth win in a row . Then they stayed up all night playing a 17-inning 2-2 tie with the Dodgers , traveled to St. Louis and lost twice to the Cardinals . It looked as if the PITTSBURGH ( 4-3 ) pitching staff had finally settled down . Bob Veale shut out the Giants and Catcher Smoky Burgess said that Vern Law " is just as good as he ever was . " Then Veale was hit hard by the Phillies , and the Dodgers slugged Law . And ElRoy Face was back in the bullpen instead of the scoreboard.                     