@@492071

WE MUST FACE THE DANGER It is not too late for the United States to save itself-and the free world . By taking measures clearly within our reach , we can avert an all-out nuclear war . Having achieved that much , we can build a permanent world peace . In making these dreams come true , we can discard two present policies : the threat of massive retaliation that would respond to limited aggression by devastating Russia with nuclear missiles , and mutual deterrence under which we and they stand poised like Wild West gunfighters to " shoot it out- at a moment 's notice with enormous nuclear arsenals . There are other measures hick , in combination , will maintain peace far better . What I offer here are suggestions that might become stepping-stones to world peace . Four measures are essential . If taken now , these will very nearly guarantee our national safety and future : 1 . Develop an adequate passive defense in the form of shelters , civil-defense organizations , and means of rehabilitating the nation after attack . A nuclear attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we must not only imagine it  --  we must prepare for it . An unpre ? ? pared nation invites attack . Properly prepared , we can survive . 2 . Having survived an attack , he able to strike the second blow . We have barely begun to build a strong second-strike nuclear force . This is different from our older concept of massive retaliation . In making certain that we could absorb and return an all-out nuclear attack , we attain a major but limited objective : our survival as an organized society with an organized industrial complex and an advancing civilization . If Russia knows that we can survive and counterattack , she will never directly attack us. 3 . Prepare for limited warfare  --  limited in scope , area , objectives , but not in weapons . Whenever Russia 's ambiguous aggression degenerates into an outright attack on our allies , a localized , limited nuclear war should be our answer . It ? vill be the alternative to an all-out , disastrous , nuclear world war . To prepare for a limited war , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons and fighting men . Today we are incapable of waging a limited nuclear var . We are unprepared politically , diplomatically , militarily and psychologically. 4 . Having fully attained a passive defense , a second-strike nuclear force and a limited- ? arfare potential , we must realize that these three steps have bought us nothing but time . We must use that time to establish a lawful community of nations to ensure lasting peace . Our goal can be nothing less than a world government based upon the principles of freedom and democracy . Each of these four points is indispensable to our survival . Because we have refused to think and plan , our preparedness is so lax that this country could not now survive and return an atomic attack . Even if we could , the Russians could seize the world , for we are not prepared to halt . them with limited nuclearwarfare . Without attacking us directly , Communists could engulf the other free nations either by ambiguous aggression or by open assault , leaving the United States a desolate island in an unfriendly Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolute destruction by an absolute weapon . The atomic bomb , with the destructive load of a thousand blockbusters , at first was the absolute weapon . Then the hydrogen bomb , carrying the power ( ) fa thousand atomic bombs , became the absolute vieapon . Now the intercontinental ballistic missile , which can deliver a hydrogen bomb anywhere on earth in twenty minutes , seems to be the absolute among absolutes . Actually , an absolute weapon does not exist . A method of destroying ICBM 's and rockets , a discriminating tactical nuclear weapons system , an adequate network of bomb shelters could upset any calculation based on absolutes . The only absolute likely to defeat us is fear , the persuasion that we can not escape . But even fear can be defeated by rational , planned action . Many of us have yielded to our fears to such an extent in recent years that a single novel had a deep and frightening influence upon the minds of men . This particular novel , On the Beach , by Nevil Shute , was built around an old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which men would face universal annihilation . Considered coldly , Shute 's story had no relation to any possible future event . The cobalt bombs that he described do not , in fact , exist and would have no military usefulness if they did exist . In many other ways Shute disregarded the facts of life . Radioactive contamination is treated as a contagion . An exposed person  --  who actually could be decontaminated  --  is left to perish as though he had the plague . However , this work of fiction has convinced multitudes that defense is nearly useless in the atomic age . Although unrealistic , Shute 's rejection of an attempt to stir Ile is alarming because it corresponds N ith the attitude or most of our people . Yet man 's ? III to survive actually is very strong indeed . I can not help asking , as Shute 's reviewer in the Soviet publication Pravda asked : What manner of men will accept the end without resistance ' ? These conjured-up nightmares about a radioactive doomsday can be safely ignored . If some maniac wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human life , he would have to explode enough of our present bombs to equal at least 1000 tons of TNT for every human being on the earth . He would have to explode a bomb of more than Hiroshima strength on each square mile of the earth . What man , what nation would carry out a gigantic plan which has for its aim not defense , not victory , not power , but universal suicide ? We can forget about a doomsday war , but we can not discount the possibility of a nuclear war . Such a war would not mead the end of the human race , but it might he the end of our Western civilization , with its ideals of human dignity and freedom . The United States today is not properly defended . We invite attack because our potential enemies know that the United States today could not survive a big thermonuclear attack . Instead of trying to save ourselves , we adopt the same fatalistic outlook as the last survivors in Nevil Shute 's book . Two defeatist arguments have convinced the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of our people managed to survive a sudden attack . according to one argument , the world after a nuclear war would not be fit for humans : The atmosphere would be poisoned for years ; food could not be eaten safely ; our factories would be destroyed ; there would be no creature comforts ; survivors ? la nuclear attack would die of starvation , loneliness or sorrow . Another argument , widely accepted because of its simplicity , holds that survival simply is impossible , that rapid development of nuclear weapons will make today 's civil-defense preparations inadequate for tomorrow . that our adversaries will devise bombs to destroy any civil-defense shelters that we can build . No prophecy about a future war can be completely reliable . But this much is certain : Properly defended , we can survive a nuclear attack ; we can dig out of the ruins ; we can recover from the catastrophe . The shelters we need for our defense . properly constructed , will not be made obsolete by the develop- mentr 11 . T112 ? k weapons . The strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The shelter depth required to withstand a direct hit by these bigger weapons has increased less than tenfold . As a nation , we shall survive , and our democratic ideals and institutions will survive with us , if we are willing to make adequate preparations for survival now . Mere survival , however , is not the only compelling reason for civil defense . There is another reason that is even more important : peace . If we are adequately prepared , if we can not he defeated even by the most sudden and savage attack , then the main motivation for a nuclear attack upon our nation will have vanished . Our Communist enemies are determined and dangerous . But they are not foolish . They are dedicated to the single goal of world domination . They certainly would prefer to achieve this goal without the horrors of an all-out thermonuclear war . There are , I believe , only two circumstances at all likely to prompt the Communists to mount an all-out thermonuclear attack against the United States . They will do it in self-defense . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrible means could they achieve their goal of world domination . It is our established policy that we never will deliberately provoke a nuclear world war by striking the first blo , v. Because of this policy , the Communists know they never will need to strike us in self-defense . But as long as the United States is unprepared to absorb and survive an all-out attack , the Communists have a temptation that might prove irresistible : a quick nuclear victory over the nation most elfectively thwarting their aspirations for world domination . A civil-defense system protecting all the people of our nation obviously will he a tremendous undertaking , but it must he undertaken . We literally must start from scratch , because this peaceful , nonaggressive guaranty of peace has been neglected for so long . What must be done ? An adequate defense demands that we have early warning of attack , shelters , organization , cleanup equipment and a plan of reconstruction . We must have as much warning as possible because ourchances ofsurvival would be measured in minutes . A rocket 's travel time from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States would be only about twenty minutes . Fired from a Russian submarine , a rocket could strike a target in the United States even quicker . Without a fast and accurate warning system , an enemy rocket could obliterate a large American city even before we knew we were being attacked . The United States fortunately has established a complex and effective warning system . We have developed and arc relining ways of detecting launchings from any part of the world as soon as the rockets rise into the air . Even curlier warning of an attack would save millions of lives , and more warning might he possible . In a sudden nuclear attack upon our nation there can he no doubt that millions of Americans would die . But eve ? - the brief warning we would have ? 11 such an attack came tomorrow ? would he enough to save perhaps 90 percent Of our people if they knew what to do in case or attack and had the means to protect themselves . The present warning system would not save the majority of our people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sur ? al . If we continue to neglect civilian defense , a nuclear attack on the United States could kill well over I 00,1 ) 00,0 ( 0 people . And the fate of the SUfV11ors would be no better than that of those who had perished in nuclear attack . Our most urgent need is a nationwide system of public and private shelters . Perhaps two thirds of our people live in uncongested areas . Far from prime targets , people in these areas can he protected most easily . They probably would not be subjected to the devastation of a direct nuclear attack . They very wcil might , however , be endangered by radioactive fallout of a great intensity . Survival of people outside our prime-target areas would he favored by two circumstances : There would he more time to seek shelter , and protection against fallout is comparatively simple and easy . Time would he required for fallout to float downwind from the actual point or attack . In addition to the initial twenty-minute warning of an impending attack . these people could count on another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after attack before they would be endangered by fallout . This would give most residents time to protect themselves . Effects of fallout often can be decreas:d simply by going indoors or taking . shelter in a conventional basement . Fallout protection almost always is sufficient in a shelter built with thick but not necessarily strong walls and equipped with a filtered air system or properly designed ventilation . A reasonable measure or protection , in some remote areas , can be offered by simple shelters for individual families . These might resemble the storm cellars already built as tornado protection by many families in our Central Plains - States . The best protection , however , would he in community shelters . All the people in a small town probably would have time to reach a community shelter specifically designed to protect them against fallout . Unlike country people who may have up to an hour to take shelter from fallout , city people should be able to reach protection in a live-minute walk . This obviously makes city defense far more difficult . Civilian shelters in cities must withstand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective shelters in the cities will he built underground . People down only ten to twenty feet would have reasonable protection from a thermonuclear bomb exploding only a few miles away . Immediate changes in our architecture on new structures could prove a boon . Skyscrapers could be built around a windowless , rigid core ? Iconcrete sturdy enough to withstand a blast after the shock had been dissipated by outer offices and corridors . Garage cores already have been built into the Redick Tower in Omaha . Nebraska . and the Calritz Building in Washington , D.C. To serve as shelter cores , such internal structures need only he made stronger in future construction . Dozens of types of major buildings could be constructed underground to serve dual purposes , housing normal functions in peace and doubling as community shelters in war . We could make mass shelters of underground theaters and auditoriums , supermarkets , parking garages , warehouses . hospitals and other large structures such as post offices and courthouses . It might even be advisable to contemplate building schools , with modern lighting and air conditioning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there would he no problem of getting the children from classroom to shelter after an alert . The cost of all such functional underground construction would be reduced by the normal cost of such public buildings . Even so . the question will he asked : Who is to pay for it ? I do n't know the answer . But an ansaver must be found soon . The full hill would not come due in any one year . It probably would require three to four years to build the kind of nationwide shelter network that we need . Costs might he divided among Federal , state and local governments . Private individuals and firms could he encouraged by Government subsidies to incorporate shelters in future construction . New warehouses , howling alleys , theaters , parking garages and supermarkets might find it advantageous to build underground if given real-estate tax exemptions . As shelter needs differ from place to place , details could be settled at local levels in conformity with a nationwide plan . On a nationwide scale , adequate shelters might cost $20,000,000,000 ? about half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than one purpose , the cost might he cut greatly . Community shelters offering , reasonable protection can be constructed for little less than $200 a person . I n case of attack , how long would we occupy our shelters ? In areas of heavyradioactive contamination of both air and ground , approximately two weeks at most . But where buildings have been destroyed , shelters might have to serve as homes for months . The ideal underground shelter should have many things : a filter system to remove radioactivity from contaminated outside air : enough oxygen to last through a possible lire storm : ample food supply ; independent sources of power , water and chemicals for hygiene : radio communications ; several exits , and dig-out equipment in case debris blocks all exits . Radioactive contamination or the air is a relatively minor worry . It will pass over a given point in half an hour . Within three days after a nuclear attack all of the radioactive contamination would be hl own away from the entire continental United States . Radioactive poisons , however , can settle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack might he radioactive . In any case radiation decays within two weeks or so . After one day only 3 percent as much will remain on the ground as there was an hour alter the explosion . While the majority of our people can be saved from an all-out nuclear assault , we can not hope to save most of our industry and possessions . Fortunately much of our industrial strength is in our know-how and our organization . Our gross national product , the value of all we produce , is more than $500,000,000,000 a year . But the total value of all our belongings is more than $1,500,000,000,000 . This means that our present industrial complex , if replaced , could reproduce all we have in about three years . Survivors of a nuclear attack , working with dedication , could replace this great industrial complex in five years . Survivors , however , would need food and machines . Luckily we have a handy solution on food : our agricultural surpluses . The Government is storing enough food to last the survivors perhaps two years . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be distributed in safekeeping locations throughout the United States , and partly processed in advance as much as possible . Likewise , the Government has stockpiled machine tools and strategic raw materials . It also has mothballed billions of dollars of World War 11 and Korean War equipment . All of this material should be carefully studied . Whatever can be put to work after a nuclear attack should be dispersed over the nation for safe storage . Machines which private industry replaces with more up-to-date ones should be stockpiled , not junked . The United States today is fat where Russia is lean . We have surpluses : they do not . Judicious stockpiling during the next few years would make it completely clear to the Communists that we could recover faster and better after an all-out nuclear war than Russia . Thus the United States would remain by far the strongest nation in the world  --  and every trace of Communist motivation for an attack on the United States would vanish . To make this plan of passive defense fully effective , survivors would need organizations , above all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bleak , cheerless world . Our standard of living , from being the highest in history , certainly would be near zero for a time . In such a world , teamwork would be essential . We must plan now a postwar organization akin to the Armed Forces in one respect : Those in it submit to rigid discipline , yielding many individual rights : but they do so with the assurance that this is temporary and that their rights will be restored . Our almost total lack of civil defense is the weakest link in our national security . It is our greatest danger to peace . We have done practically nothing . Russia , on the other hand , has done much . An estimated 50,000,000 Russians participate in some phase of the Soviet 's civil-defense program . In the 1950 's we spent for civil defense less than a tenth of a cent of every tax dollar . Fortunately our civil-defense effort is no longer completely paralyzed by despair . President Kennedy proposed last May to triple its budget . The will to survive has begun to reassert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retaliatory force were dispersed , mobile and protected , we would never need to fear a direct attack by Russia . We certainly never should strike first . Even if we had excellent evidence that a Communist attack against us was imminent , we should send our people into shelters , put our strategic force into readiness  --  and then wait . Our preparedness would give our enemies the most potent reason not to attack . If they still did attack , our country would he able to strike back . An all-out war would be dreadful , but in the end we certainly could win . To follow this policy of never striking first under any circumstance , our strategic retaliatory force must be able to survive and function as a true second-strike force . Today we are negligent in building such a force . Whatever peace-propaganda advantage we may have obtained from our three-year moratorium on nuclear tests in 1958-61 , it was at the sacrifice of developing our second-strike force . Even with full priority , it will not be easy now . Much depends upon future technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said : Development of lightweight , mobile retaliatory missiles would improve our retaliatory power . Some could be maintained in motion , as in airplanes , small nuclear submarines , trucks and railroad cars , which an enemy could pinpoint and destroy only with great difficulty . Others should be located in solidly built , well-defended bases that are strategically situated . The Korean War implanted a grave misconception in the minds of most Americans . At a time when we had a clear-cut atomic advantage over the enemy , military men were eager to use their most effective weapons to shorten the war . But President Truman , who had taken full responsibility for the surprise nuclear devastation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki , stubbornly forbade the use of nuclear weapons in Korea . Mr. Truman 's stand gave birth to an idea which , although generally accepted , is invalid : that the moment either side employs nuclear weapons , nothing can prevent a limited war from expanding into a horrible all-out world-wide catastrophe . This mistaken idea has led us to prepare with large standing armies and fleets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with success . Russia would have three overwhelming advantages in a conventional war : massive , concentrated manpower , a central strategic location and an initiative devoid of moral considerations . In such a nonnuclear war Russia almost certainly has the manpower to win . If a localized , brush-fire war should break out anywhere in the world , the United States , to overcome Russia 's advantages , would have to use every means that technology can give us . Nuclear arms , because of their light weight and unmatched power , would give us the high degree of mobility needed to stop Communist aggression anywhere in the world . Why then has the United States not planned and prepared to use nuclear weapons in limited warfare ? Four powerful objections have convinced most of our people that they should not be used . I. OBJECTiON : Limited nuclear warfare would provoke all-out Communist nuclear retaliation , ANSWER : That would be the unlikeliest time for any form of Communist aggression , as the United States would be most ! alert and least likely to be caught of balance while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nuclear explosions would totally ruin the country we wished to defend . ANSWER : The type of nuclear weapons used in limited war damage the face of a nation no more than conventional ones , and possibly less . Their size can be adjusted to their purpose and may yield no more than a few tons of TNT equivalent . 3 . OBJECTION : With nuclear arms available to both sides , we could not hope to neutralize the Soviet 's other advantages with ours . ANSWER : Our nuclear weapons would enable us to fight limited wars on our terms and to disperse concentrated enemy manpower . Our ultimate success would depend on having the people of the country on our side . 4 . OBJECTION : The United States can not fight a limited nuclear war because we are not prepared for one . ANSWER : This final objection is valid . As a first step toward preparedness , the United States must develop small , " clean " nuclear arms for limited conflicts and train its forces for that kind of conflict . Until we do so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear war and this fact most certainly increases the likelihood of such a war . All military measures earn us only time in which to work for a permanent peace . People often ask which should have priority , weapons or peace programs ? It is like asking whether food or sleep should have priority . We can not survive unless we have both . Many thoughtful Americans want a democratic world government  --  a partnership by mutual consent as equals under a world law . What can we do ? Above all , we should aid others and establish understanding between nations . The Peace Corps is a magnificent demonstration in the right direction . To help it succeed , we should exempt from the draft the high-quality individuals willing to spend their early years in hard , adventurous , dangerous work abroad . We also should consider sending our children abroad not to lead but to learn . If we could send a million college-age people to other countries and bring a million students from non-Western lands into our universities and colleges each year , we might build a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic union of the free democracies might be another step , starting with the European Common Market . We might gradually adopt a common currency , a customs union , disappearing tariffs . These moves could raise the living standard of the free world , even if our own in the United States goes no higher . Most people in the world are starving and have few comforts , but we have increased our own well-being by almost 50 percent in less than two decades . The choices before us are not easy . We can not progress toward a stable world without sacrifices . These may have to be national or governmental as well as individual . World stability in the long run demands a supranational authority . For example , if one of our allies is attacked today , the question could arise whether the United States is committed to nuclear retaliation in its defense . There could be no such harassing question if we and our allies were one . An outright union of the free democracies under one higher government would very greatly minimize the chances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and an ability to wage limited nuclear conflicts , we could work as one free people toward the lofty goal of everlasting world peace . 