@@490677

REFLECTIONS SOURCES OF 1HE PUBLIC UNHAPPINESS AL political movements are efforts to redistribute power . That 's all politics can do . It ca n't create wealth or bestow happiness . It can , however , grant to people and institutions the power to decide public issues that can affect our economic welfare , the physical setting of our lives , and even our personal contentment . The character of men chosen to hold office , the nature of the office , and the limits placed on the range of the officeholders ' public actions often determine the substance of those decisions . That 's why politics is important . The United States government has been unusually stable partly because political issues have rarely been discussed in terms of power . Candidates promise to help the poor or suppress them , to end wars or escalate them , to reduce spending or rebuild cities , and sometimes to do all these things at once . Rarely do they challenge the distribution of power directly , even though their policies may compel large shifts . ( For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took much of the power of economic decision away from scattered private centers . ) This observation yields at least one useful dividing line between the blending concepts of evolution and revolution . Evolution occurs when power shifts in the course of an attack on particular problems . A revolution is a direct and explicit assault on those people or institutions that hold power in favor of those that want it . ( Of course , particular grievances help trigger revolutions , as , in our own , opposition to British taxation became opposition to British rule . ) The temperament we brought from Britain , combined with extraordinary resources taken from nature and the Indians , has made us a rational and pragmatic people  --  the creators of an evolutionary nation . ( That is not the whole story , of course , since it is possible to be rational and pragmatic in pursuit of foolish or monstrous goals , but one source of values is an acute sense of possibility . ) Generally , we become aware of a problem , decide to solve it , and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the structure of power . We may set up a new government bureau or pass a law . Today , however , we are in one of those rare periods in our history marked by a large and serious revolutionary movement . There is serious discontent not only with what we as a nation are doing but with who is doing it . There is a challenge to the " power structure " itself , which means simply the methods , institutions , and people by which decisions affecting the public are made . ? Ve see this explicitly in the recent pronouncements by George Wallace , the manifestos of the New Left , and the demands of black militants . However , it is also a principal focus for the new politics of the middle class , as the response to Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy revealed . Although this " movement " takes its tone and its issues from the nature of modern life , it returns us to the seminal debate between the forces of Alexander Hamilton and those of Thomas Jefferson . That , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative merits of Jefferson 's agrarianism and Hamilton 's capitalism  --  both largely irrelevant  --  one side of the argument called for the centralization of power , in the interests of order and the economy , and the other , Jefferson 's side , demanded the diffusion of power and the right of the citizen to participate in decisions , even at the price of economic efficiency . ( Today 's conservatives arc trapped in the insoluble dilemma of demanding more order , even on a world scale , and less power for government , but when a choice is forced , they invariably prefer order ; this is why the new conservatives , like Goldwater , are rejected by the old conservatives , like George Aiken , of Vermont  --  one lives by fear and the other by trust . ) For years , textbooks have routinely praised Jefferson 's idealism while asserting that-Hamilton 's view was the wave of the future , bound to dominate American development for all time to come ; Jefferson was a wonderful romantic , and Hamilton was the realist , and in proof of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which aggrandized the nation . Whatever modern revisionists do to this traditional analysis , it appears that Jefferson 's day may yet come . Much that he said , if it were stripped of eighteenth-century stateliness and equipped with one or two four-letter words , could he incorporated into an S.D.S. manifesto or shouted at a Yippie rally . For example , he warned , " Were we directed from Washington when to sow , and when to reap , we should soon want bread , " and " When all government . . . shall be drawn to Washington as the centre of all power , it . . will become as venal and oppressive as the government from which we separated , " and " If ever this vast country is brought tinder a single government , it will he one of the most extensive corruption , indifferent and incapable of a wholesome care . " And he stated his general principle of government by asserting , " It is not by the consolidation , or concentration of powers , but by their distribution , that good government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emerson added the advice to " do your thing " to this political theory , which also contained warnings against a military establishment , foreign involvements , and any use of coercive power . ) Today , these Jeffersonian ideas have a greater vitality than at any other time since they were written . If anything , their relevance has been increased by modern technology , for it has stripped us of the protections of distance and time , which once compelled a certain diffusion of power . The issue of power who shall have it and how it shall he exercised  --  is the overwhelming political issue of modern times . In fact , it is far more than a po.  - -  litical issue ; it penetrates our social , economic , and personal life . Nor is it simply an American problem ; it plagues the entire affluent West . And if it is different in the developing countries , that is only because they are preoccupied with urgent difficulties of poverty and oppression which we have largely overcome . Thus , their politics reflect more traditional clashes between economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other , explains the appeal and the ascendancy of Senator McCarthy and , more ominously , the attraction of George Wallace . It is now a source of enormous turbulence , but it can become the cement of a new style of national unity . The year 1968 , with its monstrous dislocations , has forced this issue to awareness . The campaign against President Johnson was one of the currents that helped bare the roots of public unrest . At the beginning of 1968 , the country , although far from quiet , seemed set in a relatively conventional political pattern . The President would run for reelection , stressing his domestic accomplishments and defending the war in Vietnam . To those then in power and to expert outside observers , Senator McCarthy 's campaign seemed a trivial and somewhat puzzling annoyance . The Senator himself said at first that his purpose was only to give people a chance to make a " reasoned judgment " about the war , to conduct a sort of " referendum " on Vietnam -- and ultimately his campaign illuminated and reinforced an overwhelming public discontent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , it became apparent that the public unhappiness far transcended the war . If Senator McCarthy had campaigned on that issue alone , it is doubtful if he would have received more than twenty per cent of the vote . But other issues began to emerge . People were unhappy about our leadership , about the threetitm of our society , and about President Johnson personally . They gradually became engaged and then excited by-the possibility , however remote at the time of the New Hampshire primary , that it was within their power to bring about change . McCarthy 's campaign rapidly shifted to embrace these larger issues , placing less and less emphasis on the war itself . In the final two days before the vote in New Hampshire , his campaign repeated a single radio spot every half hour on every station : a voice simply urged , " Think how you would feel to wake up Wednesday morning to find out that Gene McCarthy had won the New Hampshire primary  --  to find that New Hampshire had changed the course of American politics . " By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who stopped to think would quickly realize that such an outcome would delight them . For the campaigners had uncovered the " gut " issue of 1968 in its most generalized and explicit form : the desire for change , and its mirror image of discontent with the present . Equally unanticipated , but inevitable in retrospect , was the arrival of students , first by the hundred and then in numbers so large that busloads were intercepted on the roads to New Hampshire because the campaign organization could not handle them all . They came because they opposed the war and the President , but they also came because they had an opportunity to share in the political process , to personally affect important issues They participated for the sake of their convictions , but they also participated for the sake of participating . As his campaign progressed , McCarthy introduced a new kind of dis course . He talked about the war and the cities and many of the classic political staples , such as taxes and inflation , but , in addition , he said that the rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organize them , that the Presidency had assumed too great power , and that we were threatened by an arrogant and powerful military establishment . These were very abstract ideas for politics , and perhaps it was as much the manner and style of the man as anything else that conveyed the message . He did not use the traditional rhetoric of the politician , and he did not feel compelled to present a program or an answer for every ill . But he seemed to be saying that our welfare and our lives did not have to he at the mercy of forces we did not understand and institutions and men we could not control . In so doing , he touched the most sensitive nerve in the American consciousness : the individual 's desire for mastery over his own life and environment . At first , people talked almost exclusively about McCarthy 's appeal to the young , and today it seems we have come hack to that misunderstanding by focussing on youthful protesters . However , much of McCarthy 's support and most of his votes did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liberals . His strength was among the members of the great middle class , the inhabitants of suburban America , who are  --  more than any other gro up  --  our rebels without a cause . The students and the urban poor do have a cause , or a multiplicity of causes : war and injustice and poverty . It is the middle class whose discontent and uneasiness lack aim , and some of whose members found through McCarthy a hope that purpose and value could be restored . How different this is from the usual political dogmas . For these supporters were not asking to be promised better schools or lower taxes , although they want them . They were looking for some way in which they could regain control of and play a real part in the enterprises of society . It was this same nerve that Robert Kennedy touched in two other groups  --  the blacks and the poor whites -- when he talked of the need for community control and local power . No one was more surprised than Kennedy himself when he found that , next to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response were a call for decentralizing the government  --  a term so ponderous that a skilled speechwriter would use it only when he was too tired to think of anything else . It would he hard to overstate the extent to which the malaise of powerlessness has eaten its way into our society , evoking around whom so much of the surface debate about local control and Black Power now revolves . Their grievances arc , for the most part , closer to the classic ills that the New Deal was designed to solve . They want jobs and decent homes , a higher standard of living , and freedom from the welfare bureaucracy . If a beneficent government were to provide these rudimentary components of the just life , it would meet most of the present demands of the black community . Of course , even among America 's poor , questions of power are more important than they were thirty years ago . For the poor of today are inevitably caught up in the main currents of our society and partake of the general atmosphere of helplessness and drift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black Americans toward a kind of separatism as an alternative to the assimilation that was their initial goal . However , these questions can be seen most acutely among those who arc neither poor nor black  --  the American middle class , or the American majority . Their psychological plight is both worse and more dangerous than that of the black militant leading a slum riot . For he at least has a cause and a purpose , an enemy , and comrades in the struggle . No such outlets and no human con nections so satisfying are available to the man who lives in a middle-class suburb or a lower-income city apartment . And his discontents , unlike those of the poor , have real political weight . It is impossible to provide an accurate and uniform description of a group of people as large and varied as non-poor Americans . For the most part , such an American commutes to a job that he may like or hate but is most probably indifferent to  --  indifferent not to the income or status it provides but to the products of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the refrigerators or vacuum tubes he produces . He would he among a minority if he felt that his work made an improving difference to the life of his country or his neighbors . At home , he can either sit amid his many purchases or get back into his car and drive to visit friends . There is probably no place for him to talk , and , almost certainly , no neighborhood gathering place where he can meet with friends , discuss the day 's events , and share in the satisfactions and concerns of community . If he stays home , he probably watches television , wishing both that he had something better to do and that he could buy the goods that float alluringly across the screen . It is this increasingly atomized and insulated existence that we have created with our wealth . And if this is the suburban man 's life , how much less exciting is that of his wife , Perhaps she has gone to college . Yet she does not have a job , nor are there mane outlets for her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home , care for children , and shop and clean house , even though hospitals and schools and many other vital services are deteriorating for want of the skills she could provide . What an incredible monster women 's education has become , We spend decades instilling the same values of competition and achievement in girls as in boys , even though we can clearly foresee an ultimate collision with the socially imposed responsibilities of housewife and mother and with the mythic compulsions of lover and servant-helpmate . Some of the most ambitious women in the world hasten to confide that they have an " Oriental " streak , as well they may have . The society that sets up this clash of desires provides neither daycare centers for children nor opportunities for the use and development by women of their wasted skills . The frustrations thus generated arc aggravated by the absence , especially in our better suburbs , of any communal park or neighborhood center where women can naturally meet and share experiences . The life of the lower-income urban white shares many characteristics with that of the suburban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a no man 's land between black poverty and what he sees or imagines of middle-class affluence . He has the advantage of being able to express many of his wants in traditional economic terms . However , his discontent is fed both by envy of the more prosperous and by anger at the blacks  --  not just because he fears the blacks but also because their problems , and not his , seem to be the focus of national concern . That is why it was possible for many members of this group to support Wallace after having supported Robert Kennedy : both men , in very different ways , could be identified with their wants , and both conveyed a deeply emotional sympathy with the importance of their fears and their plight . The unexciting and envy-producing tone of the non-poor citizen 's private life is heightened by the growing remoteness of public life . The air around him is poisoned , parkland disappears under relentless bulldozers , traffic stalls and jams , airplanes can not /and , and even his own streets are unsafe and , increasingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having decided that these things should happen , or even having wished them . He has no sense that there is anything he can do to arrest the tide . He does not know whom to blame . Somehow , the crucial aspects of his environment seem in the grip of forces that are too huge and impersonal to attack . You can not vote them out of office or shout them down . Even the speeches of mayors and governors are filled with exculpatory claims that the problems are too big , that there is not enough power or enough money to cope with them , and our commentators sympathize , readily agreeing that this city or that state is really ungovernable . Even when a source of authority , can be identified , it seems hopelessly detached from the desires or actions of individual citizens . Thus , the citizens of Boston woke up one day not very long ago to read that two hundred million dollars ' worth of antimissile missiles were scheduled to replace hundreds of acres of nearby woodland . And who could say no ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we find ourselves in a major war , and our young people shipped off to battle , without any formal expression of consent or support , even by the members of Congress . And we are also aware , in some dim psychic recess , that our President , along with a few people whose names we ca n't remember , can blow us all up . This powerlessness , in large measure a product of the complexity and the sheer size of modern society , is a problem in itself . It is a problem in the same way that lack of money or of useful work is a problem . For individuals have a fundamental , instinctive need for a degree of personal mastery over their lives and their environment . The sense of powerlessness is , moreover , greatly aggravated by the failure of our institutions and our social proEesses to respond to more specific ills . If we were providing good schools , inspiring cities , and safe streets , the degree of public discontent would he far less . If the quality of individual life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we had little share in the process . But that is not the case . The desire to increase our national wealth and distribute it more broadly  --  a desire that was idealistic in origin and welcome in its consequences led us to create machinery for both stimulating and regulating the economy . It is not simply that power was withdrawn from private centers and brought to Washington . It is that the use of that power was judged in terms of economic growth , which meant that construction , technology , and expansion were made into self-sufficient virtues . Build a better mousetrap or a bigger housing development and you not only made money , you were a hero of the Republic . Added to this were the exigencies of the Cold War , which persuaded us of the necessity of a large standing army . This was a historic decision , constituting the first irrevocable departure from almost two centuries of compliance with the warning of the founding fathers that such a military force would be a danger to democracy . The military-budget cutting of President Truman marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the farewell speech of President Eisenhower was an echo of those early warnings . The half peace of the past twenty years has made military forces essential , yet we are victims of some of the consequences against which we were warned . The military establishment has assumed a fife of its own , developing more weapons and new ones , often unrelated to rational considerations of security , and , more subtly , leading policymakers to look at diplomatic problems in terms of force . After all , if you are the strongest kid on the block , any passionate argument is hound to evoke at least the passing thought that you could end it with a couple of blows . Unfortunately , the policies and the institutions we evolved to make ourselves wealthy are not appropriate to the needs of a society in which lack of wealth is not the problem either for the country as a whole or for most of the people . It is not simply that we need new values but that our institutions are facing demands they were never shaped to meet . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were designed to stimulate construction and avoid a postwar depression , and which have failed miserably under the pressure of social demands for slum clearance and the creation of livable neighborhoods . These programs can do a job , but it is not the job we now need done . Moreover , many of our institutions , including our political parties themselves , are led by men who developed their ideas in response to earlier demands , and are therefore unable to understand or cope with a newer set of problems . The worst of these men no longer care for anything except the power and influence they have won , and the best of them are angry because their beneficent and humane intentions are not appreciated . The occasional violence of their response to opposition shows their unawareness that time and change , not particular individuals , have been their remorseless critics . Asking many of today 's institutions to respond to new needs is a little like putting a man on a windowsill and asking him to fly . Not only was he not built for flight but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punch you in the nose . When institutions and leaders are faced with demands they barely understand , their reaction is often to become rigid and defensive , and even angry . Perhaps the ultimate symbol of this reaction was the contorted fury of Mayor Daley at the Chicago Democratic Convention , lashing out at a group whose values and aims were totally alien to his experience . It is precisely this phenomenon that led Thomas Jefferson to assert the necessity of periodic rebellion . It seems almost inevitable that the repositories of power and control will react to changing circumstances and a changing environment by hardening their attitudes , narrowing the avenues of access for new ideas and men , and losing the flexibility that gave them their initial glow and effectiveness . What is even more ominous , beliefs that were once tentative and responsive to changes in circumstance tend to stiffen into dogma when confronted by conceptual challenge . When this happened in the nineteen-thirties , we were fortunate enough to get Franklin Roosevelt and a peaceful revolution . When it happened in the eighteen-fifties  --  a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in civil war . Unfortunately , the profound nature of modern change resembles the eighteen-fifties more than it does the nineteen-thirties , and there is no Roosevelt in sight . The same stiffening of established patterns invades the relationship be-tween private institutions and the public interest . The basic pattern of govern-ment regulation of business has hardly changed for decades , although much of it is irrelevant , some is oppressive , and many new abuses arc unrestrained . The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 , despite its grotesque inequities -- some of which are actually harmful to wealth and business  --  appears to he engraved in marble . We can not Stop incredibly wasteful subsidies to groups like the shipbuilders and large-scale farmers , even though their political power has almost evaporated , while at the same time it is extraordinarily difficult to sup-plement the income of more needy and numerous groups . No demonology of power and wealth can explain a rigid-ity that is part of a general resistance to new assertions of what is desirable and good . When we understand the fact that what now seems wrong may once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the defense . Another example of this proc-ess in action is the Democratic Party itself . It has clung to the ideas and attitudes that made it the country 's leading party , and its leaders , once ensconced , have clung to positions of con-trol , often closing the dour be-hind them . The result is that the governors of eight out of the ten largest states are Re-publican , and much of the vigorous new talent in the Congress is Republican . In-creasingly , " new Democrats " are corning from underpopu-lated states like Idaho , South Dakota , and Iowa , where they do not run up against rigidified Party structures . More harmful in the long run is the shift in the locus of in-tellectual debate . It seems that almost all the ideological fer-ment and the passionate clash of new ideas come either from the alienated left or from the alienated right . The once fer-tile soil of liberal and Demo-cratic thought finds it difficult to produce new concepts or institutions , and its Presiden-tial candidate could only  --  and with the best of intentionspoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same . This phenomenon is not just political . In almost every aspect of life , men arc confronted by institutions and processes that seem unresponsive to their needs . There is , for example , no way in which the citizen can even begin to create a community  --  a place where he can both work and play in some kind of shared fellowship with neighbors . Our society is simply not equipped to deal with such a demand , and our political leaders are not even able to articulate it , since it transcends their own professional assumptions . Powerlessness is made more acute by the seeming opposite of rigidity  --  by the swirling inconstancies of modern life . We are like boats tied to a riverbank with the rapid waters constantly seething beneath us while rope after rope breaks away . It is now commonplace to observe the weakening of the tics of family and community . However , it is not merely that we are being deprived of important values . These institutions , and others , gave us a resting spot , an association within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value and place regardless of our fate in the world outside . In a more subtle and profound way , the increasing incredibility of religious doctrines and the complexities of science , which have made it impossible to understand the natural world , have deprived us of anchors against the storm of events . Even our physical environment has betrayed our memories . The other day , I drove through Harvard Square , where I had gone to school ten years before . There were new buildings , shops , and roads . The familiar place of law-school days had changed beyond recognition . In fact , it did not exist : There was no place for the past , and the present , one knew , would also fade- Yet man has nearly always anchored his sense of reality , his sense of himself , to a fixed place , amid familiar landmarks . Our world has become nomadic as the scenery of our life is constantly shifted . It is small wonder if we sometimes feel as unreal as actors moving from part to part . To all this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inventions and spaceships . One day we are informed that we must fear a man called Castro , on the next day that our security requires the end of strife in the Congo , and on the next that de Gaulle menaces the grandeur of our nation . And we pass through all this tumult , great and small , seated before the inexorableshadows of a television set  --  certainly the greatest psychic disturber ever created by man . Only it is capable of producing unrest , fear , and unbridled envy , and , at the same time , of numbing us to the human reality of that which disturbs us . A people suffering from institutions that ca n't respond , problems that are virtually left untouched , and the myri-ad uncertainties of their own private and public existence must inevitably rise in protest . That is just what is happen-ing in America . Frustration breeds an-ger , and anger has increasingly become a feature of our national life . Even people on the streets and in stores seem more easily provoked and more sullen . The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an increasing dislike and contempt for those responsible for the pres-ent . Few people can be expected to have any clear idea of the di-rection that change should take . The problems are too Far-reaching and profound . So they look for leadership . And precisely at this point in cur his-tory we lack the necessary leadership . For a while , in the early nineteen-sixties , it seemed as if President Kennedy were moving toward new responses as the old dogmas of the Cold War and of New Deal economics gradually lost ground . Oswald prevented us from ever knowing how far and in what direction that movement would have continued . The assassin 's bullet unlocked chaos , and thus his act became the most important historical event of our time . In the beginning of the Johnson Administration , it seemed as if this barely articulated movement would continue , but then the poison of Vietnam paralyzed act and attitude . Of course , the war can not bear the responsibility for all our other ills . It has contributed to them by draining off resources and energies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of moral purpose . But to a large extent it has only catalyzed an awareness of more profound problems and intensified a protest that reaches far beyond Vietnam . We can almost say of ourselves what Lord Radcliffe said of the Athens of Plato : " Failure abroad had led to failure of spirit at home and a democracy , so recently united , self-confident , and proud of its leaders , had turned to a rout of little men more anxious to blame others than to take responsibility upon themselves . " THERE is no more foreboding fact than the absence of leadership that combines insight and forcefulness . A people increasingly beset by restless discontent and uncertainty need leaders who can point out to them some exit from their malaise . Much of our present uneasiness has specific causes : the war in Vietnam and racial strife . However , much of it flows from the deeper causes I have discussed , and even the widespread discontent with the war and with Negroes and hippies is enormously magnified by broader dislocations . These objects of passion serve as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man troubled by the general failure of his ambitions might turn on his family or his coworkers or his neighbor . The aimless and chaotic nature of the present unrest has profound political consequences , for it is basically non-ideological ; it does not respond to traditional notions of right and left . It is often oblivious of the shibboleths and dogmas that encrust politicians who came to maturity in an earlier era . Thus , Eugene McCarthy called for the recognition of Red China , attacked the military establishment , and promised to fire J. Edgar Hoover without causing a discernible ripple of adverse reaction in his moderate , suburban constituency . Still , many who favored him voted for Richard Nixon , or even for George Wallace . Even more dramatically , many of the lower-income whites who voted for Robert Kennedy in the Indiana primary and would have supported him for President voted for George Wallace . Yet one was the black man 's champion and the other is his enemy , and race is supposed to he the most important issue in Lake County . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a desire to move to the right or the left , to the extent that those terms are relevant at all . It is manifesting itself as a demand for men who offer a sense of direction and purpose , who appear to possess guiding values and a philosophical insight into the nature of our problems . The majority of people have little interest in the customary catalogue of programs and promises . Indeed , they no longer believe in them . They do want someone who seems to know why we are in tremble and where we should go . This explains a large part of George Wallace 's appeal . He analyzed issues with a simple clarity and proposed answers that were certain . In this respect , he was a leader . The one overwhelming consensus is in rejection of the present , and that was the decisive asset of 11/1r . Nixon 's candidac ) . In fact , many people are prepared to rebel against the entire system that has brought us to our present state of affairs . Part of McCarthy 's appeal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men appeared to stand outside the system . They did not talk in the increasingly hollow and banal rhetoric of most politicians . They spoke with candor , discussed new issues , offered fresh approaches . In different ways , each of them defied the traditional party structure , ignored the customary political rites , and incurred the hostility of part ) regulars . In McCarthy 's case , his manner and language , although often abstract , conveyed a hope of beneficial change . Robert Kennedy 's strength also derived not from his specific programs but from his manner , which radiated a passionate commitment to change . For the United States is prepared to move , and rather rapidly , either to the right or to the left . Or , in terms better suited to our time , it is prepared to move either toward repression or toward liberation . Tragically , both the leaders who promised most forcefully to take us toward liberation were removed -- one by a bullet and the other by the Democratic Party . Now the President-elect , unless he is to prove only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of serious change . This is because you can not simply soothe the discontent of today with traditional remedies . It is not only that many problems  --  the black ghettos , for example  --  will require immense efforts toward solution but that the forces that disrupt the mental peace of the more affluent have deep roots in our in-stitutional structure and 0 Ur historical circumstances . Race and Vietnam contribute , but we see a similar unrest all across the affluent West , in countries neither at war nor in the midst of racial conflict . In outlining some of the more subtle causes , I compared our present condition to that of the eighteen-fifties . The United States was then turning away from expansionist goals and responsibilities ; the conquest of the continent was complete , and , for almost the First time in our history , we had no significant external ambitions or threats . In our time , we are similarly turning away from Cold War glohalism , and , if we are lucky , Vietnam may prove the last , convulsive gasp of that policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more intently than before . Far more important in the eighteen-fifties was that , underlying all the crises and the violent turmoil , a new industrial age was making its glacial advance on the values of an earlier period , uprooting fixed ways of life , traditional institutions , and customary expectations . America was never to be the same again  --  a change that was not caused 111 the Civil War but , rather , was undoubtedly productive of the rigidity of leadership and the human uncertainty that led to that war . In our time , also , a new type of society is tearing into the now settled patterns of the industrial age . It has not been given a name , for that is the historian 's job . However , economic and population growth and changing technology and beliefs are creating a different kind of world , whether it is called the computer age , the atomic age , the media age , or simply the post-industrial age . This is a dislocation of a kind that is common to all periods of history but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular society . It is a rhetorical cliche to point out that our world has grown small . That is obviously true in a technical sense . Vie can travel rapidly and communicate instantly . It is also true in terms of the concerns of foreign policy , although much of our feeling that we must necessarily be affected by events in every corner of every continent is surely a product of the simple fact that we know what is happening there , rather than of any ideological preconception or any concrete national interest . Yet for the individual the opposite is true . Our world is too big  --  too crowded , too abstract , too remote . Everywhere we go , the crowd of strangers goes with us , clogging our streets and our parks . Cities spread , computers perform their mysteries , world leaders cast their shadows and disappear . The comforting walls that set off a host of little worlds have been broken open , exposing to us a limitless and kaleidoscopic vista  --  one that is reflected in our fragmentary and horderless art and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turning inward to escape or make sense of a turbulent environment simply recreate external disorder , almost as if our time were now beyond intellectual grasp ? That feeling in itself contribute , to powerlessness . For understanding is a form of control , if often illusory , and when we can not understand how things work or why they happen  --  whether laws of nature or the tele vision pictures that are corrupting us ? we feel helpless . Perhaps one can no longer understand the world  --  only experience it . If that is true , politics can offer no real answer . And we must also face the possibility that there are too many people that onl ) through organization , and its counterpart , coercion , can we maintain civilized order among so vast a throng . Such philosophical reflections , however , are irrelevant to politics , which must assume that problems can he dealt with , and also , in our own national context , that individual liberty can he maintained . If the forces feeding discontent are as profound and powerful as I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy must move toward an entirely new dimension . The last time the American establishment thought seriously about national goals was during the late Eisenhower and early Kennedy years . The formulations from this period of the more enlightened and liberal politicians are already out of date . A strong domestic defense establishment , economic growth , NATO , and so nn , though they arc still with us , barely touch the principal sources of our dissatisfaction . Other goals of that very recent time  --  such as the frantic desire to measure every national program , from education to overseas propaganda , in terms of competition with the Russians  --  are now irrelevant , and some are forgotten . Yet almost all our political leaders seem rooted in the old rhetoric , even if it is clothed in new facts and circumstances , and thus have lost their hold on the popular sensibilities . The material nut of which relevant national objectives can he shaped is at hand in the work of some social critics and a few economists , and even in the insights of a few of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must focus not only on solving " problems " as defined in the usual sense  --  education , pollution , and the rest  --  but also on the ways in which we solve them . This is a familiar idea within a democratic tradition that has , for example , valued many individual liberties above the alluring , if often illusory , efficiency of coercive techniques . WE have always placed certain abstract values  --  those which can not be measured or weighed --  above economic , logical , or physically tangible goals . Confronted with the overwhelming and uncertain complexities of modern life , and informed by a greatly increased awareness of our limited ability to predict or control the forces loosed by our obsessive industry and invention , we must add to the list of such values . They have traditionally included not only the rights mentioned in the Bill of Rights and allied civil liberties but equality of opportunity , the freedom to develop individual talent , and , more recently , freedom from starvation and destitution . And all these , imperfectly realized though they may he , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shape our political rhetoric and policy . I have no wish to coin a new set of slogans , but certainly the individual must also have the freedom to share in those public decisions which affect his private life beyond merely casting a vote in periodic elections . This does not mean a plebiscite on every problem but , rather , a distinct prejudice in favor of community and neighborhood control . We should also be guided by a desire to preserve freedom from isolation , which means , at least , that environmental decisions should he shaped to re-create the possibilities of community and neighborhood life . It is equally important that the individual be given freedom to participate in the important enterprises of our society , from working in the underdeveloped world to improving the life of the ghettos . If citizens are to find a purpose beyond their daily lives , it will come from having a personal share in important public causes , and the causes must be large and worthy enough to tap moral will and energy . Only in this way can we combat the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our society . Much of this resolves itself into a widening of one of the oldest staples of political language : freedom of choice . For all the talk about our permissive society , that freedom has steadily narrowed . In fact , much of the release of inhibitions on private behavior is surely a reaction to the confinements imposed by our ideology and social structure . ( Successful revolutions tend to he puritanical . ) When a young man sees no alternative to spending his youth in a classroom and his manhood in a modern suburb , he may want to assert himself by growing a heard . Conversely , the students who turned out to work for McCarthy cut their hair and shaved not because of adult dictates but through self-organization and self-discipline . They were involved in something more important than this kind of assertion . These are trivial things , but they are tokens of the fact that much frantic liberation of private behavior is a futile effort to alter or escape the hardening mold that envelops social man . We virtually demand , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond , if he is to have a job that uses his abilities . At one time , a boy could go to sea or go West or start working in a factory and still aspire to success in a wide range of demanding tasks . The fact is that a lot of young men would develop more fully outside the regular educational system . The answer is not simply providing more and better schools but making alternative institutions , training , and experience available , and making them acceptable to those who guard the gates to achievement . Similarly , by huddling industry , commerce , and even intellectual life together in great urban areas we have seriously limited the kinds of places in which a man can live . Much of this is a product of the obsessive urge toward system and order , and of the fact that as systems grow larger they swiftly outpace the individual imagination or intelligence and assume a conforming life of their own . It is almost as if our society were afflicted with some kind of compulsive neatness , which it equated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that organizational neat-ness and central control not only limit human scope but are often inefficient . Government programs break down or prove inadequate not merely because they are badly conceived but because the problems they seek to deal with are far too large for the limited abilities of a few administrators . Even a genius philosopher-king equipped by I.B.M . could not hope to deal with the varied complexities of dozens of American cities . Central direction is inefficient in a more profound way , too . Given human nature in the context of our society , such oppressive structures are bound to breed discontent . This discontent necessarily impairs our ability to solve problems and maintain traditional values . Restless and unhappy people can not easily be persuaded to join in enterprises of high purpose , especially those involving sacrifice . Unless we are to move toward repression , the political platform of the future must contain words still alien to serious public dialogue  --  words such as " community , " " power , " and " purpose . " This does not mean we will no longer worry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements of our population , economic questions are still critical , although they are increasingly fused with other desires . However , since poverty or a low standard of living is not the root of much of our unhappiness , wealth and its distribution do not point the way toward a solution . Words like " community , " " power , " and " purpose " seem rather abstract and vague , but then so do more traditional goals , such as " liberty " and " opportunity . " And , like these more familiar terms , they can he given concrete content , yielding specific and tangible programs . Effective government action toward these ends will respond to the demands of the subject matter , and not to any master plan for their attainment , just as devotion to liberty does not tell you what kind of speech can be restricted or whether the State Department can limit travel to Cuba . Without trying to anticipate a report by a future Presidential task force , I would like to discuss some specific examples , simply to show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-create community will concern the physical environment , although the power to act as a community and the consequent sense of shared purpose are also critical . This will require that we concentrate not on the quantity of construction but on assembling the components of daily living within an area that a man can comprehend and easily traverse . Along with housing should go hospitals and government services , recreation and meeting centers , parks , and , to the extent that this is possible , places of work . This does not mean breaking up our cities but restoring the concept of neighborhood under modern conditions a place where a man can live with other men . Some of this is happening by itself under pressures of growth , as shopping centers move to the suburbs and industry seeks sites outside the city . This beginning can proliferate and expand through programs ranging from tax incentives for businesses resettling in residential areas to the construction of new satellite cities . Much can be done , for example , simply by changing and enforcing zoning ordinances , building codes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a lot more to community than this . Its roots go into the powerful cementing emotions of pride , belonging , friendship , and shared concern , yet these , in turn , depend on the physical possibilities . Not only is it within our power to create those possibilities but it is probably a more practical course than our present unthinking and hopelessly scattered mixture of government programs And private enterprise . Increasing the individual 's power over the conditions of his life involves the blended methods of transferring authority , creating it where it does not exist , and lessening the coercive weight of the state . At other times , I have discussed the need for decentralizing the operations of government  --  allowing communities , private groups , cities , and states to make public decisions that are now vested in the central government . Although the Constitution contains a prescriptive mandate for a federal system , the actual distribution of authority and responsibility has been worked out over two centuries and is constantly changing . Today , for example , the federal government exerts a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few decades ago . Decentralization is another remodelling of the federal sy stem , and to achieve it will require a. patient pragmatism . The state may he the logical unit for dealing with river pollution , the metropolitan area for transportation programs , the neighborhood for schools and even post offices . The general guide should be to transfer power to the smallest unit consistent with the scale of the problem . Many conservatives have welcomed the idea of decentralization , hearing in it comforting echoes of old battle cries about states ' rights . They arc mistaken , for decentralization , if it is to work , will require even larger public programs and even more money for public needs . Otherwise , the momentum on which local interest and involvement depend will he lost . Nor does decentralization mean the absence of rigorous national standards for the use of national revenues . For example , money given for education must in fact he used for education open to all . Such standards arc necessary to protect citizens against unresponsive government , and local government against the pressures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most people will not actually make decisions . Still , those who do make them will be within reach of their fellow-residents of the community , and thus will be far more familiar and readily accessible than federal officials . This , in itself , will yield at least the potential of influence and effective protest , which may he as close as we can come to the ideal of the town meeting . Power is conferred in other ways : by a government that feels compelled to explain its policies and intentions with candor , that seeks the counsel of informed private groups and citizens , and that adheres to an honorable ob servance of the separation of powers . It will also he yielded by increased citizen control over the private insti- tutions and processes that often deter- mine the quality of our private lives . It is incredible , for example , that pri- vate builders , acting out of purely eco- nomic considerations , should be allowed to determine the shape of our urban environment  --  that individuals unre-sponsive to the public will should decide how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery of secret po-lice , investigation , bugging , and wire-tapping must he halted and dismantled . Fear and suspicion are the most para- ly zing agents of all , and the most like- ly to provoke unrest . The use of power is also an expres-sion of purpose . All acts have their in-tention . But you can share in purpose without sharing in power . As a mem-ber of a society , the individual 's pride and sense of well-being are inevitably enhanced or diminished by the purpose of his nation  --  what it stands for and where it is going . If money and power , self-indulgence and self-protection are the goals of our society , they will be-come the goals of its citizens , with dam-aging consequences . Nothing would do more for our national health than a feeling that we were engaged in enterprises touched with some kind of no-bility and grandeur . It is this feeling that enriches the life of social man . Even the most pessi-mistic and critical literature written in other countries during their periods of greatness is infused with a sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or even fierce opposition to , its contemporary acts . This sense of a noble destiny infused our country from the beginning , and in terms of our potential not only as a home for freedom and opportunity but as a guid-ing force in world affairs . Jefferson looked upon the United States as an example that would undermine despot-ism and monarchy ; some of our other early leaders took a more direct hand by helping South American revolu-tionaries . This does not mean we must succumb to the na  --  ve belief that it is possible to create a Great Society or a New Deal-style democracy among the varied cultures of the world , or that we should actively intervene to impose values bred of the American experience . However , our wealth and military power give us an unavoidable weight in world affairs . Therefore , it is unnecessary to decide the critical questions surrounding the wisdom of intervention in order to recognize that our acts are important to others . For example , when a military dictatorship takes over in an allied country , we can recognize it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trading or interrupt it . There is no way to avoid decision , since failure to act will have its own meaning . The issue is whether we base our policies on unthinking reflex and an immediate mixture of attitudes and interests or whether our acts are consistent with a long-range purpose . We may decide to adopt a less active and ambitious foreign policy , but we can not do without any policy at all . And a foreign policy actively devoted to social justice , increased liberty , and the institutionalization of peace on a worldwide scale can enlist the best impulses of the American people . Such a policy often collides with the thinking of global " realists , " who led us into Santo Domingo and Vietnam ; who failed to maintain a constructive common purpose among the Atlantic nations while contriving such monstrosities as the Multilateral Force ; who allowed the United Nations to become trivialized ; who supported Batista and ended up with Castro ; and who have been unable to bring about the control of nuclear arms , which is clearly in the interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " policy now seems to have become no policy at all , aside from maintaining the territorial status quo with the Soviet Union and China , and hoping that Israel will survive . It is a policy virtually without long-range goals or any clear perception of the social and political forces at work on other continents , and  --  what is more dangerous  --  without any guiding concept of the kind of world community in which we will be safest and most comfortable . This is the ultimate romanticism of the ostrich . Without elaborating particular issues , and while recognizing the need for protection against force , we can assert that the most powerful global social force is the drive for recognition and fulfillment of popular needs and desires . This is a force fully consistent with our national values , and , therefore , one that we should support . This is what President Kennedy was trying to accomplish when , for example , he refused recognition to military takeovers in Peru and Honduras . It was believed not that our disapproval would change governments but that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build a stronger and more congenial hemispheric community . This policy was later dropped in favor of dealing with the " fact " of military rule , which meant ignoring the first principle of good politics : Do n't spend yourself on those who have nowhere else to go . We elected to play it safe even though we were already safe . This change in policy helps illuminate the truth that the basic obstacle to a foreign policy shaped by long-range purposes and resting on national values is not malevolence or a hidden imperialism but timidity or lack of confidence . It is far easier to move from crisis to crisis than to act when events do not demand action . For decision and action create responsibility , and only men with some confidence in their own perception and judgment are willing to take such responsibility . Because our professional foreign-policy structure has been designed to discourage , and even to punish , those who disrupt the illusion of tranquillity , only a President can compel a different course . Yet such inaction is fraught with danger . Many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent purpose during periods of relative calm . By allowing our relations with Arab leaders to deteriorate , we forfeited whatever influence we might have had to prevent war in the Middle East . In Santo Domingo , we failed in our responsibility to help improve the economic and social welfare of a people whose dictator we had helped remove . And if the siren announcing Armageddon ever sounds , it will probably interrupt some official as Ile explains to a crowded room why an arms-control agreement is too risky this year . A foreign policy founded on traditional American values not only is wise but is essential to our domestic wellbeing , since shared purpose is the only enduring cement of national unity . In it lies our only hope of finding a moral equivalent of war  --  or , in this case , a partial alternative to domestic unrest and division . Of course , there is much within our own borders to capture the imagination and inspire worthy effort , but only for some , and , even then , probably not on a sufficiently large or lasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of our role in world affairs must pervade every man 's sense of himself as a citizen . John Kennedy 's appeals to greatness and sacrifice evoked so strong a response not because they were expressions of a self-deceptive idealism but because they led toward the only realistic path for maintaining individual pride . There arc , of course , grave problems that do not fit easily into the rubric of power and purpose . One can add little to the interminable discussion of the race problem except to observe that politically there is no black problem at all  --  only a white problem . We can easily command the resources to meet the immediate needs and demands of black Americans . But we can not do this until white Americans arc persuaded of their responsibility to act . That will require more than public education and Presidential speeches . Unless we move to remedy the afflictions and grievances of white Americans , they will never consent to a concentrated effort in the ghettos . This is particularly true of the lower-income whites , who feel trapped in a relatively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Chicago policeman said , pointing to the hippies in Grant Park , " I bad to work for a living , and so did my mother , and look at those kids . They do nothing and they got an education . " Then he joined the charge . ) It is little wonder that this group turns its wrath impartially on Negroes and college students  --  a perfect combination for the Wallace appeal . Its members feel scorned by the upper middle class , and , at the same time , they are deeply envious . Meanwhile , the Negro is a constant object of national discussion and attention , and a recipient of special pro-grains . Racial feelings are very resistant , but many obstacles would fall before a national policy directed at enriching the life of all our citizens . Without it , the harriers will continue to rise . Another problem specific to our age is the incursion of a large military establishment into public life . This is not because generals are especially power-hungry or malevolent but because size and importance , especially when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men from Jefferson to Eisenhower have warned us ahout the perils of a large standing military . And now we have one . Nothing better illuminates the hazards of the systematic and efficient mind than the experience of the last several years . Robert McNamara not only enlarged our armed forces but rationalized them . Over the resistance of officers with little imagination , he unified the operations of the services , eliminated many old rivalries , and instituted the deceptive techniques of modern computer management . As a result , the military has more influence on public policy than ever before in our history . The power that was once held in check by rivalries and folk wisdom is now exerted as a single , fused force on the civilian economy and its decision-makers . Independent-minded and freewheeling officers were moved into the background , lest they publicly challenge civilian leaders . The result was a group of limited and conforming men at the top who could envisage no solution to any problem other than the accretion and use of military strength . The trouble with yes-men is that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with limited men is that they are likely to lack the imagination to see their limitations , or even to disbelieve their computers . And this is the first group of generals to come to leadership during our reign as a great military power . The Eisenhowers and MacArthurs and Ridgeways , in their early days , always had to contend with severely ' limited resources , and therefore had to consider what they could do only with allies and what they could not do at all . The new group is accustomed to ever-increasing largesse and to having the power to bring about unlimited destruction at the touch of a button . The monstrous system created during the McNamara regime now has a life of its own . Civilians will make the it/di/late policy judgments , but the sheer size and momentum of our military structure , the enormous investment it represents , and the needs of the industries dependent on it inevitably affect national decisions . Thus , we continue to build new weapons and new systems constructed on the basis of the most rational considerations of cost efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McNamara himself was finally trapped when he was compelled , against his own judgment , to go ahead with an anti-ballistic-missile system . Yet the " Whiz Kids " laid the groundwork . Moreover , the very importance of our military machine means that generals no longer sit outside the door of our highest council ready to respond to technical questions . Rather , they share in policy discussions for which they have no qualification or experience . In doing so , they breach the oldest and most rigorous ethic of the American soldier . The Joint Chiefs of Staff advised that the Bay of Pigs might work , even though any hope of success obviously depended on the degree of political unrest within Cuba . More disastrously , we depended heavily on military men to tell us what it might take to " win " in Vietnam , though such calculations should have been based on cultural , political , and human factors as well . Of course , civilian officials should not have listened . Yet it is very hard to avoid attributing some wisdom to those who control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American consciousness in recent years , and who , moreover , can speak with precision of their capacities in so uncertain and chaotic a world . The temptation to heed those with answers is strong , and can subtly infect the most skeptical of minds . The hazards of a large standing military ramify into many arras . It represents a constituency against arms control , not because generals want war or oppose disarmament on principle but because their necessary professional caution demands that they overestimate every advantage of a potential opponent and underestimate their own capacities . In narrowly professional terms , it is inevitable to estimate that any agreement is risky , even if the only reason for doing so is an assumption that the Other parties to it would not agree unless agreeing gave them an edge . Also , the availability of force is a constant temptation to use it . Part of the reason we sent the Marines into the Dominican Republic was that we had the capacity for moving large numbers of combat troops with great speed . The buildup of our conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for reasons involving the Soviet Union , many of which arc now irrelevant  --  have made it more likely that we will use force . In view of our nuclear deterrent and our capacity for rapid mobilization , recent history lends strength to the belief that it may he riskier to have such forces than to go without . Here again , however , we have a conclusion that depends on admitting the human weaknesses of policymakers  --  a calculation that , because of its vagueness , can not be used by rational-system builders . Thus , we can consider discarding the wisdom of our history because it ca n't be fed into the computers . We can not yet escape the need for military forces , but it will require leadership and authority of the most determined and enlightened kind to keep those forces in rational relationship to our need while we work toward arms control , spurred by the urgent awareness dint men can not be trusted with the power to destroy themselves . And that effort is obstructed not simply by cautious policy-makers but also by a deeply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nuclear weapons . Any observer must be struck h ' , the difficulty of stimulating public support for arms control , or even of provoking widespread public discussion of nuclear weapons . One could attribute this to an indifference bred of acceptance if it were not for the force of the reaction that seems to await any political figure who touches the nuclear nerve . The day Curtis LeMay verbal ) toyed with nuclear possibilities , George Wallace 's fortunes began to wane . Nixon 's speech advocating nuclear superiority was certainly among the factors precipitating his near-fatal decline . Goldwater had to spend his entire 1964 campaign explaining that he would not drop atomic bombs . When President Kennedy advocated fallout shelters , he set off a popular reaction that had every Democratic leader on the phone to the White House and that ultimate ) caused cancellation of the program and he was greatly surprised at the enthusiasm evoked by mention of the test-ban treaty during his 1963 trip through the Western states . Perhaps we can understand these reactions by recalling the late nineteen-forties and the early fifties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ topic . Almost everyone must at least once have been struck with sudden apprehension at the sound of an airplane , or gone 0 ) sleep with the thought that all could he over before morning . One of the young girls who worked for McCarthy during his campaign told an interviewer of the air-raid drills in her grammar school , and how for a while she was afraid every time she heard a plane . Thus , the atomic age has been a personal emotional experience for many Americans , and even , perhaps , for most . After a while , such feelings are put away or repressed , but they are never eliminated . They lie under the surface of reason and memory , evoking hostility toward any who may touch them . Although such fears help keep the peace , they are also a harrier to the reminder implicit in mobilizing public support for arms control . However , despite the seeming lack of concern , any political leader can be sure that real achievement in reducing danger will be rewarded by warm and grateful relief . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies is that strange American contraption the political party . My own repository of hopes for change is the Democratic Party , for the Republicans seem unlikely to discard their historical role as defenders of things as they are . Since Nixon 's victory , political men have begun to discuss the future of the Democratic Party . Such discussion must come to grips with one essential fact : There is no Democratic Party . There is the party of Daley in Illinois and the party of the county leaders in New York . There is the fragile alliance of liberals and leaders in California , and there is Kennedy in Massachusetts . In the South , there is almost nothing left at all . It is a truism to state that American political parties are not ideological in nature , since they embrace many diverse groups . Still , in the past most elements of the Democratic Party agreed on certain broad goals and assumptions . There was , with some dissent , general agreement on the economic goals of the New Deal . It was broadly assumed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great interests , and that it stood for alliance and tolerance in world affairs . There was , in other words , a base of generally accepted belief and emotional attitude . That this has largely dissolved becomes clear when we compare the parties of Daley , Meany , McCarthy , and Kennedy . The cause of the dissolution is that the issues of the past thirty years have lost their vitality . The consequence is that the Democratic Party is little more than an institutional mechanism through which individuals hope to acquire public office . If the Democratic Party has a future , it will come not by raising more money or by hiring better advertising agencies but by developing a purpose and a program . I have outlined some of the possible elements of purpose and policy in support of which it might be possible to create a new , progressive coalition to replace the alliance of minorities , labor , and the South which has now fragmented and dissolved . The South has left ; labor no longer exists as a coherent electoral force , having divided into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often at each other 's throat . A new coalition will have to be made up of the populations of the inner cities , including some lower-income whites , and of the new suburbs inhabited by those who work in offices , electronics factories , and so on . This is the coalition that both Kennedy and McCarthy were trying to build , with McCarthy moving inward from the suburbs and Kennedy outward from the inner city . Neither quite got across the bridge , but the fact that their divergent constituencies responded to men who stood for enlightened and progressive change is evidence that the possibilities of coalition are there . However , the issues that will unite these groups are not only traditional economic concerns  --  although there are specific economic problems that must be met  --  but issues of the type I have set forth . For example , both in the ghettos and in the suburbs there is a desire for increased control and power over local affairs and public policy . If I am right in the belief that such desires respond to deeply felt national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave public-spirited men with no alternative but to try to form a new party to combat the forces of repression . Finally , a few words of unsolicited advice to the next President . Since we need fundamental changes in public policy , it would be a serious mistake to begin the work of the next Administration in the traditional way : preparing budgets and policies for programs neatly tailored to old categories such as health , housing , and conservation . For the assumption of fundamental change is that the old categories and ways of looking at problems are no longer valid and that the structure of government itself is the threshold harrier to new approaches and policies . The powers of the Department of Housing and Urban Development , for example , are fashioned and limited in such a way that the Department can not hope to deal with the problems of the city , however vigorous its leadership . The first task of a new Administration should he to construct institutions with authority and jurisdiction adapted to the policies they are to administer , and to concern itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Roosevelt 's success was his willingness to ignore or dismantle existing structures and to set up new ones , shaped to his purposes . Freud said that " anatomy is destiny . " In government , structure is policy . If the existing structure of government is accepted , then serious change rapidly becomes impossible as bureaucracies , administrators , and ongoing programs begin to generate their inevitable and almost irresistible drive for survival . It is important to make structural changes early , and not only because a President is far more likely to have the necessary power at the beginning of his administration . The appointment of Cabinet officers , administrators , and even task forces immediately creates powerful vested interests . When a man becomes the chief of a large department , he assumes a new constituency of workers and bureaus , authority and appropriations . His natural urge , reinforced by the need to keep the loyalty of his subordinates , is to maintain his domain relatively intact and to minimize disruption and controversy . Thus , the Department of Labor under President Johnson fought against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it felt that it was the proper repository of such an effort . Examples could he multiplied.It would he a great mistake to misjudge the rapidity with which new men develop lovalties to old patterns , or the ability of an established bureaucracy to frustrate the most determined of Presidential designs . That is why the fundamentals of structure must he determined before operations begin if there is he a serious and effective effort chart new directions for public policy . This is little more than counsel to " think big , " not in terms of huge ex-. penditures or sweeping new programs but in terms of the hardest kind of innovation : liberating the public imagination from old categories , concepts , and structures . Our present inclination to look upon every national ill as a subject for federal action within the framework of existing departments is Iike trying to devise a way to go to the moon by putting a man in an automobile . We need nut only new institutions but a fresh sense of which matters are appropriate to public action , and of where , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vested . BEYOND such concrete and practical acts , there is a need to explore the deeper causes of our discontent . Again , as in the eighteen-fifties , we can sense that we are at the beginning of a new age  --  or , rather , a new way of living  --  which is forcing its values and demands on a society not equipped to cope with them . This kind of dislocadon , this gap between realities and custom , is characteristic of revolutionary historical periods . To pursue this analogy , the insulation and barrenness of the modern suburb are counterparts of the misery that enveloped the mid-nineteenth-century factory , and Mayor Daley is at one with the Southern agrarian in defending a system that history will find not to have been an unmixed evil . Without judging the efforts of men like Marshall McLuhan to abstract a single , seminal cause from the complexities of social change , we can agree with many that the ascendancy of technology is a principal feature of modern society . To that we must add growth , both of population and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and roads . The problem , however , is not technological but ideological . We are threatened not by our creations but by our beliefs . In another place , I have written , " All nations ... are governed on the basis of ideas and values ... which are not derived either from the necessities of nature or the command of God . If a man snatches his hand from a hot stove , that is not ideological . If he then decrees there shall be no more hot stoves in order to prevent burning , he has imposed an ideology ( and one wholly alien to our own ) . " There is , for example , nothing in the development of the automobile which makes the clogging of our cities and the poisoning of our air logically inevitable . It is simply that we have preferred these consequences  --  perhaps without anticipating them  --  to restrictions on the use of automobiles . No one has more bluntly stated the inward passion of the time than Lewis Strauss , who summed up the faith of two centuries when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself . " No , " he answered . " I would not wipe out any part of it , not the bomb nor any other part of it , if I could . I believe everything man discovers , however he discovers it , is welcome and good for his future . In me this is the sort of belief that people go to the stake for . " This is not a reasoned formula but an affirmation of an ideological belief verging on the mystical . Guided by such a belief , our society has developed virtually no mechanism for weighing technological change against the social consequences and enforcing its judgment . Only the great religious institutions engage in a similar process , and then , as in the case of Pope Paul and the pill , they are condemned because the values they seek to defend have lost their hold on men . This is not the place to pursue such philosophical abstractions . Yet they are at the heart of the problem . In political terms , we arc barred from much effective action because we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil liberty , and prosperity  --  as appropriate objects of public protection . This reluctance to allow government to become concerned with the quality of individual life has its historical roots in a healthy fear of the state and a desire to insure secular liberty . It now works against us , having been outdistanced by our material circumstances . Thus , traditional principles of private enterprise join with modern construction technology to create suburban blight . But there is no inherent reason a builder should not be under as much compulsion to provide open spaces , parks , and community centers as he is to provide safe wiring and sound structures . We can also maintain that clear air and freedom of movement arc as important to us as the economic advantages of urban concentration . On a broader scale , we need to reexamine all our institutions in order to determine whether what they do for people is worth what they do to them . This is not an easy job , especially since we must often match abstract or felt values against the formulations of logic and numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instinctive revulsion against the idea of a national computer center to store all the available information about every citizen , except to say that neatness and system and organization can be oppressive in themselves , and to draw upon our experience of human weakness to assert that increasing the capacity for control will increase the likelihood of control ? This kind of ideological reformation will not be easy for a people as little inclined to theory as our own . It will come , if it does come , in the context of relieving particular afflictions . Still , there is no other way that we can guide ourselves between the twin perils of uncontrollable turbulence and repression . We will be strengthened by the fact that such change corresponds to deeply felt human wants , many of Which are manifesting themselves in our present disorders . 