@@488192

I left the United States in the early fifties . ' Senator McCarthy was on the rampage , the Korean War was distorting the political and literary judgment of the people , writers were jailed under the pretext of being in contempt of Congress , the black list was ' the essential tool of the motion picture , radio and publishing industries . My position as a naturalized citizen made me particularly vulnerable to persecution ; my exodus had been preceded by that of Charles Chaplin , Thomas Mann , Bertolt Brecht . I probably could have gotten along by compromising . No one was forcing me to continue to write the kind of books that had previously brushed against the neuralgic points of the Establishment . The Crusaders , while stressing the democratic effort of World War II , illustrated the big-business , Fascist angle built into the American power apparatus , besides putting the finger on the coining alliance with the very forces which had created the German concentration-camp regime ; The Eyes of Reason stated the historical justification of the Communist take-over of power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ novels , the most recent of which are The Eyes of Reason ( Little , Brown ) , Gdldsborough ( Blue Heron Press ) and The Lenz Papers ( Cassell 's , London ) . borough demonstrated the conspiracy of business , government and corrupt union officials against the Pennsylvania miners during the 1949-50 coal strike . But here lay the conflicts which interested me . The clash of class against class , whichever way it manifested itself , made for the dramatic element which I felt the big novel needed The social texture of a character 's background , determines and forms the character 's psyche . So I had to depict the social texture ; and if I did this as I saw it , I had to deal with class conflicts , themes which were poison to publisher and critic  --  at least in the United States of the fifties I could n't compromise my work I did n't want to ' compromise my political integrity . Jail and pOssible deportation , ? the logical follow-up of a tilt with Mr. Roy Cohn of the McCarthy committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My income depended on the sale of the books I wrote . If they no longer sold , I would have had to accept an unskilled laborer 's job , which would have precluded all writing . So I left . I was born in that part of , Germany which is now the German Democratic Republic . And though I never was an organized Communist and still do not belong to any party , my political sympathies tended there rather than toward the West German regime . As a United States Army officer , editing some of the first newspapers published in the U.S. occupation zone , I had been in on the beginning of that regime and knew what was behind the trappings . Settling in the German Democratic Republic , I was aware that I had n't come to a land of milk and honey . At that time , the place was rife with ruins ; food was rationed , two sets of prices gave the economy a crazy-quilt pattern ; above all , the minds of the people , as in Western Germany , were warped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dream of the German LIbermensclz . But in Eastern Germany one thing had been done by the Soviet army and by the German Socialists and Communists who had trickled into administrative positions ? one thing never seriously attempted by the American Army : power had been wrested from those who were responsible for Nazism and war . The landed estates had been expropriated and divided among small farmers and farm hands ; the banks , the mines , the big plants no longer belonged to the capitalists . This was new This had never before been done in Germany where the workers , in 1918 and 1923 , had bungled their chance to come to power . To the writer , this was a highly interesting , new situation , a field untapped , pure gold if you only could dig it up . The writer himself was placed in a new position . He was becoming a social force , his word a factor in public discussion , his work " a weapon in the struggle . " I do n't say that the writer is not being taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troubled to put a dozen or so behind bars proves my point . But literature in the West is generally understood and taken as entertainment ; it is not expected that the writer will help to mold and change people 's minds ; the emphasis on his function differs in the West and East . I have always sought contact with the people . I have lectured in America , I have lectured in East Germany . I feel that the intelligence level of the audiences is the same ; but the attitudes are different . Here , the questions put to me emphasized the fact that the people somehow wanted to apply the lessons of a book to their own lives ; the questions went beyond the literary and came from audiences which only recently had begun to acquire books  --  questions by people who were seeking . This kind of contact stimulates the writer . Or at least it did me . But it also puts a responsibility upon him which in the West he need not necessarily shoulder . Sartre , recently in Prague , said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolution  --  the social or the national revolution , whichever is on the agenda He must be disciplined . He must criticize The two latter duties conflict with each other , the solution of this conflict , Sartre said , is the writer 's daily task . This certainly applies to the writer in a Socialist country . Settling in the German Democratic Republic , I had to decide whether I wanted to continue writing in English . I am bilingual , as are a number of writers from the former colonial countries who write in their native language as well as in English or French . I decided to stick to English  --  but not as a secret protest against the government of the German Democratic Republic and its cultural ? policies , as was stated in The Atlantic Monthly not long ago . Were I moved to protest , I know more efficient ways to express my opinion than to boycott a language . I write in English because its strict rules of sentence structure require clear thought . German lends itself to muddleheadedness , as Mark - Twain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are written for the day , the English sentences shaping up in the back of my mind help me to avoid the roundabout formulations of the German My Soviet publishers have urged that I state whether I consider myself a German or an American writer . The question is of some importance to them because their paper allotment for my books depends on whether they can take it from their " German " or their " American " quota . For myself , I do n't trouble over the problem . I believe that my literary roots lie in American and English literature more than in German . Hemingway , Twain ; Dickens have been my teachers rather than Thomas Mann or Fontane . A writer grounded in both the capitalist and the Socialist worlds has an obvious advantage over one who knows only the former or the latter . It is easier to find your way around in capitalism ; it 's been the same track for centuries . Socialism is new , untried , even forty-five years of it is n't much in the eyes , of history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people who are making it and at the time it is being made ; or you can arrive there by train , as I did . In either case , you set your foot on uncharted territory which , if that 's what you like , can be quite exciting . From theories and books , from reports and brief preceding visits East , I had tried to chart ' at least a provisional course . Its main feature was the idea that the revolution having done away with the power of the bourgeoisie , the classic conflict of class versus class , which had been underlying the themes of my books , no longer applied . Of course there were the remnants , pretty big remnants , of the old classes and the old conflicts , but they were remnants , I believed , and on the whole the new ' society was over the hump and on a pretty straight course toward condi'tions in which the only conflicts to concern the writer were boy-meets-girl , or two-boys-meet-one-girl , or vice versa . It did n't take long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third day in East Berlin I ran into a man I had known for years as a staunch Communist , a founding member of that party in . Germany , who told me he had been removed from membership . I tried to say something of an administrative error ; he did n't even answer that one . Then came June 17 , 1953 , in Berlin : workers striking against a workers ' government , workers ' tanks rumbling through workers ' streets . I threw myself into newspaper work , ran a weekly column in Berlin 's largest paper , stayed close ' to people , received thousands of letters , visited plants , lived anonymously in refugee barracks , was in touch with men from the chief of state to shipyard and building workers , students , farmers , clergymen . And I began to see that there were conflicts ? new conflicts ? of which there was no mention in the Marxist classics , a few hints , perhaps , in Lenin , and strangely enough in the early Stalin ; hints , but nothing more These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bourgeoisie versus working class ; although in a divided country like Germany , two-thirds capitalist , one-third Socialist , you could not rule out past patterns of collision . At any rate , in the Socialist sector an earthquake had taken place , what was down had come up , what was up had fallen , but the new mountains had by no means settled into place . The revelations of the Twentieth Congress of the Soviet Communist Party threw a glaring light on some of the crevices ; yet even the IChrushchey speech posed new questions rather than furnished answers Observing these new conflicts and taking part in them , defining the new questions and searching for answers to them by using the resources of fiction is a thrilling challenge The writer may have a tough time of it ; his findings may not agree with official requirements , he may even touch a neuralgic point  --  this does not change the writer 's duty nor detract from the fascination of the job . I know that up to now relatively little of this has been reflected in novels , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Stalin and post-Stalin , is entirely to blame for the situation , While the unexplored conflicts have shaken up people for years , their outline , their component parts , their roots have only lately come into focus , and we still do n't know too much about them . What about discipline , party and otherwise ? What about democracy under socialism ? What about the power structure , what checks and balances must be found ? What about freedom ? What about art , its role , its function under socialism ? Such questions quicken the pulse of the writer These questions and conflicts are not the theoretical matters restricted to the ideological commissions of the party apparatus or its cultural committees . They are bread-and-butter questions . When people are no longer subject to big-business rule and their minds no longer shaped by big-business policies , art and philosophy enter daily living ; the correct or incorrect - interpretation of scientific theories means space flight or ' not , a man 's thought and his word translate ' themselves directly into a moving force . I feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now embarked on a tremendous spiritual venture . The Stalin mold  --  one fountainhead , one wisdom , one solution  --  has been broken even where a few vest-pocket S'talins try to keep some of the pieces patched together . We 're on the track of something new ; we 've got hold of it and we wo n't let go . A day at the typewriter can mean the first blocking out of a new discovery , another step forward into the uncharted territory . Of course as in any social system ? the writer has to have the courage of his conviction , the integrity to write the truth as he sees it , the patience to fight his way through petty and sometimes not so petty obstacles . I would n't want to change places with any writer in the West . I 'm having an exciting time . 