@@488107

Mr. Widick is the author of Labor Today : The Triumphs and Failures of Unionism in the United States ( Houghton Mifflin ) . He teaches at Columbia and Wayne State Universities . Detroit Unless an unlikely political miracle occurs between now and November , most active unionists on every leadership level face the probability that organized labor will suffer a disaster in the national election . What the polls and the press surveys have portrayed , that George Wallace is making deep inroads into the so-called labor vote , is confirmed in a range of interviews in the Midwest . No one can argue that defections from the Democratic ticket in the industrial states are not hurting Hubert Humphrey , the choice of the trade union hierarchy . Ideologically , politically and organizationally , the present status of the trade union movement offers little hope that the labor leaders can save the day for their man Hubert . At a time when Humphrey seeks to soften his war views , the hard-line outlook of George Meany , president of the AFL-CIO , stands firmly with President Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Presidency Ordinarily , close to 70 per cent of union members vote Democratic , though among skilled workers the Republican vote is usually higher than 30 per cent . What is new is the large proportion of Democratic labor voters who have swung to George Wallace , finding in him a candidate who articulates their various discontents . In the South , the most conservative estimate we obtained from talks in labor circles bore out the recent Gallup poll estimate that about 50 per cent of union members were supporting the former Governor of Alabama . A more likely percentage was 75 , according to a union official close to the situation . The group not attracted to Wallace is , of course , the Negro membership . The polls which indicate that about 20 per cent of American voters are now for Wallace are misleading in the same way that the 4 per cent national unemployment figure tails to reveal the depths of that problem . The concentration of this vote , as with unemployment , is more meaningful , and it must be said that the intensity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shops is very disturbing . After the United Auto Workers held a series of regional conferences attended by the delegates to the spring national convention , and other active leaders , Walter Reuther engaged the American Arbitration Association to conduct a secret ballot of Presidential preference . The results showed that 10 2 per cent or 271 of these activists were for Wallace ; about 87.8 per cent or 2,319 were for Humphrey , and Nixon received twenty-seven votes , or 1 per cent . A UAW press release then exulted . " The overwhelming vote in favor of Hubert Humphrey and Edmund Muskie by the democratically elected delegates to these conferences , representing 1.6 million UAW members , shows that the vast majority of working men and women have not forgotten who their friends are . " What is most astonishing about this optimistic interpretation is that not a single individual in the UAW whom I talked to in any part of the country believes it . In fact , everyone asserted that this vote did not reflect the sentiment in the shops . Shop stewards , plant officials , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saying that the Wallace sentiment is bigger than anyone admits . This is not a UAW phenomenon- A secret poll of Teamsters in St. Louis came up with Nixon 956 , Wallace 860 , Humphrey 744 and McCarthy 449 Steelworkers in the Detroit area appear to share the sentiment of the Pennsylvania mill towns as reported in The New York Times ? the guys in the shops " go for Wallace . " Inquiries among the Akron Rubber Workers produce the same response . What about white-collar unionists ? A local union president states that Wallace sentiment is as strong there as in the shops The AFL-CIO announces that it has registered more than 1.6 million voters and that sounds good until you check with people who worked in the communities during these drives . They report big Wallace strength . In the suburbs of Akron , Cleveland , Chicago , Detroit , etc. , where anti-Negro sentiment is so strong , will higher labor registration help labor 's official candidate ? In Dearborn , Mich. , home of the Ford Motor Company and the UAW 's biggest local , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left in despair . As for the flood of anti-Wallace literature coming from union headquarters , old hands in COPE and PAC , the political arms of labor , know that this is the least effective way to influence opinion . Can labor rally young voters in the nation to the Humphrey banner ? Certainly not with its hard line on war , its antagonism toward any element in the Democratic Party that does n't go along with Johnson 100 per cent . It is difficult to see how the labor leadership can combat Wallace in the shops when its hostility toward the youth movement seems to echo Wallace completely . Meany referred to the Chicago demonstrators in this fashion : " I know what you would do with this dirty-necked and dirty-mouthed group of kooks . To be frank , you might overrreact . " Some 2,000 Machinists union delegates cheered . Meany is not alone in his views ; indeed , he expresses the views of most people I 've talked to in the union movement in recent weeks . When P. I. Siemiller , president of the Machinists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rioters , looters , peaceniks , beatniks and all the rest of the nuts who are trying to destroy the country , " he confirms the prejudices in the shops , and no one will win over the Wallace people with that line . One must go back a long way to recall a time when hostility was so bitter toward not just the young college radicals but youth in general . " They got it made and are goofing it up , " is what the assembly-line worker tells us Thereis a class hatred and an even stronger manifestation of at , ti-intellectualism in such sentiments . Does it suggest Germany in 1932 ? Nor is there much tolerance of " McCarthyites , " who are not being so much convinced as pressured . Said one top McCarthy supporter in Michigan , who may vote for Humphrey , " Sometimes I think I 'm in Prague " The only segment of the population in the Midwest centers that appears solidly Democratic is , again , the Negro voters , and this is due as much to fear of Nixon-Agnew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negro community . How explain the Wallace phenomenon among the working people ? Walter Reuther used to argue in the AFL-CIO that labor must " unionize the organized , " and the record speaks for itself August Scholle , president of the Michigan AFL-CIO , lists , besides a diminishing political activity in unions , these factors as contributing to the swing toward Wallace : ( a ) A rapid influx of young people into the union movement , replacing more militant veterans who have retired or died  --  these people " take all their benefits for granted " ; ( b ) a deterioriation of moral standards  --  not the kind Wallace talks about but a lack of loyalty and respect for those who fought for labor 's goals , like Humphrey for two decades ; ( c ) a general unrest and rebellion brought on by the Vietnamese War , ever-increasing taxation on those least able to pay , and other factors . Other analysts argue that it is racism , pure and simple . A minority of unionists see the Wallace phenomenon as the unrest of the little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't identify with the vast union structure and the top leaders . This view calls into question the validity of the programs and leadership of George Meany in the AFL-CIO , and Reuther 's comparative silence down the years . But no one likes to discuss the issue in those terms . This is not the first time that labor has faced a major challenge from the far Right . Rev. Charles Coughlin , the silver-tongued priest from Royal Oak , Mich. , once had a radio audience in the millions . He defended the acts and policies of Hitler and was seen as the forerunner of American fascism . He had good support in the industrial plants . But the skill of Franklin D. Roosevelt , combined with the dynamic appeal of the CIO union movement , cut the labor base from under Coughlin . What is disturbing today is that equivalent political factors are missing . The contrast between Roosevelt and John L. Lewis , leading the forces of social progress in the 1930s , and the Humphrey-Meany team of today is painful . Even if a miracle should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a dangerous Right , rooted in a sector of the population that is finding its own political muscle , away from the traditional patterns of American politics . The students on the campus may talk about " making a revolution , " but they ignore the real movement in America ? a swing to the right so marked that both Nixon and Humphrey are competing for the right-of-Center votes : that is how they read the political climate in this nation . Jokingly , I tell my labor friends , " Do n't worry about the election . You 'll win a big victory . You 'll claim you kept Wallace from the Presidency . " The smiles get thinner as time goes by . Lesser-evil rationalizations have their limitations .                     