@@488162

Mr. Pfeffer , special counsel to the American Jewish Congress and chairman of the Department of Political Science at Long Island University , is the author most recently of This Honorable Court : A History of the United States Supreme Court ( Beacon ) . Our Declaration of Independence asserts ' that all men are created equal and , according to Lincoln , it was to this proposition that our nation was dedicated . Nevertheless , , except in one place , neither the Constitution nor the Bill of Rights mentions the word equal or equality , and in that instance it was for the purpose of effecting inequality of persons ( by barring amendments depriving states of their equal representation in the Senate ) . The constitutional fathers were , of course , not oblivious to the institution of slavery . But they sought to protect rather than destroy it and did this by forbidding interference with the importation of slaves for twenty years ( after which nature could be relied upon to provide an adequate supply ) and by commanding the return of fugitive slaves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later to call an THE NATION / October 17 , 1966 American dilemma  --  the contradiction of actual practice to the preachment in the Declaration of Independence  --  as is made evident by their careful avoidance of the word slaves or slavery , and their employment instead of such euphemisms as " other persons " or " persons held to service or labor . " The first encounters the Supreme Court had with slavery occurred during Marshall 's administration , but these were only preliminary skirmishes ; the major encounter culminated in the most catastrophic decision ever handed down by the Supreme Court . Whether or not the Civil War was in any event inevitable , and as to this historians differ sharply , the Dred Scott decision made it so . It was considered by the American people to mean that under the Constitution , as interpreted by the Court , the peculiar institution was also a permanent one , changeable only by constitutional amendment ( which the South 's veto power made impossible ) or armed force . ( Ironically , this was the first decision in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Taney stated in his opinion , was property of which the owner could not be deprived without violating the Fifth Amendment. ) 385 The end of the Civil War brought with it the Reconstruction Congress , that body of remarkable men who occupied the Capitol in the decade beginning in 1866 . As Lincoln is the most unjustifiably sanctified figure in American history , the members of the Reconstruction Congress have been the most unjustly maligned Notwithstanding the D. W Griffith interpretation of history , the Reconstruction Congress was the noblest and certainly the most effective Congress in American history  --  if , for nothing else , for its adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment which is today the basis of perhaps 90 per cent of the appeals to the Supreme Court for the protection of personal rights and liberties . The Fourteenth Amendment was , of course , not the only constructive product of the Reconstruction Congress , anti-Klan laws enacted by it are still the only even partly effective means of bringing some measure of justice to racists who murder Negroes and civil rights workers . But it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rights and was conceived as the medium for assuring the Negro a full place in a flee society . Unfortunately , the nobility of purpose which motivated the Reconstruction Congress was short-lived and the conscience of Congress became dormant for more than four score years , from 1875 to 1957 , not a single civil rights measure , even of the most modest kind , was enacted by Congress The immediate and apparent cause for this extended hibernation was the Hayes-Tilden gentlemen 's agreement of 1876 under which the Southern Democrats traded the Presidency for a free hand in their efforts to restore the South as far as possible to its ante-bellum patterns . But the real cause was much deeper . Neither Hayes nor Congress could have brought reconstruction to its abortive end had not the American people themselves tired of the egalitarian drive which made reconstruction possible . From 1876 to 1929 , Americans ' all-consuming urge was to get as rich as possible in as short a time as possible The pursuit of happiness meant the pursuit of the dollar , not of justice or equality for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the last civil rights measure of the Reconstruction Congress , a number of Northern states did enact measures forbidding racial discrimination in places of public accommodation , but these soon became dead letters . The lack of Northern concern for Negro equality is perhaps best shown by the fact that the defendant which gave its name to the 1954 decision that outlawed racial segregation in public schools was the Board of Education of Topeka , Kan . In such a milieu it would have been unrealistic to expect the members of the Supreme Court to steer a course widely divergent from that of the general consensus , even if they had been inclined to do so , which , with the exception of the first Harlan , they were not . Like everyone else , the Court 's primary concern was the protection and expansion of capitalism , and as its main instrument for this purpose it used the set y I ouitccnth Amendment that had been fashioned by the Reconstruction Congress to achieve equality for the Negro By the time the lost major civil rights cases came to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court 386 made no effort to revive it for some sixty years . In a few cases , the Court did pay minor obeisance to the ghost In one case , it forbade the deliberate exclusion of Negroes from juries In another , it outlawed the " grandfather clause " whose purpose it was to close the polls to illiterate Negroes while keeping them open for illiterate whites . In a third , it struck down a city ordinance which forbade Negroes to occupy houses in blocks the majority of whose residents were white . ( It did this by upholding not the Negro 's personal right to live where he wanted to but the owner 's property right to sell his land for the highest price he could get . ) These , and most other similar efforts proved of negligible practical value , and in all Instances the Court sanctioned the devices that made them so . In respect to the first , it allowed the use of voter-registration lists and other standards which effectively excluded Negroes from juries For the second , it upheld the outright exclusion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only elections in the one-party South having anything but ceremonial significance . As for the third , it upheld the validity and enforceability of gentlemen 's agreements or racial restrictive covenants which were quite effective in keeping Negroes out of white neighborhoods The two principal insii urnents used by the Court to frustrate the hopes and intent of the Reconstruction Congress were the concepts of state action and separate-butequal Judicial decisions are not made by legal concepts but by the will of judges , operating within the limits im ? posed by the national tolerance and , to a considerably lesser extent , the precedents of prior judicial decisions Had the Court not invented state action and separate-but-equal , it would assuredly have found or fashioned other concepts to achieve the same ends But these two principles proved particularly efficacious in keeping the Negro in his place ; the first is still viable and constitutes the most formidable barrier to a judicial attack upon de facto segregation The state action concept was first expressed in 1883 when the Court threw out an indictment framed under a key provision of one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lynch mob who had seized four Negro prisoners held by a state deputy sheriff and beat them severely , killing one . The Court held the provision unconstitutional because the Fourteenth Amendment only forbids a state to deprive a person of life or liberty without due process of law and the lynch mob were private individuals unconnected with a state The coup de grace came later in the same year . A number of individuals were indicted under the Civil Rights Law of 1875 for denying hotel and theatre accommodations to Negroes , and a railroad was sued for rejecting a Negro woman passenger . ( The hotel and theatre were in San Francisco and New York , only the railroad was in a Southern state , Tennessee . ) The Court held the law unconstitutional because the amendment forbids only states from denying peisons the equal protection of the laws , and the hotel , theatre and railroad owners were private citizens . ( Later , the Court held political parties to be private associations , like social clubs , and could therefore find no state action in their white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Uctobei 17 , 1966 tion in the enforcement of restrictive covenants not to sell houses to Negroes . ) The separate-but-equal principle was announced in 1896 , when the Court upheld a Louisiana law requiring all railroads to provide separate coaches for white and colored passengers and making it a criminal offense for a person of one race to sit in a coach reserved for members of the other race . So long as the facilities were equal , the Court said , it did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment that they be separate . The Court 's tolerance in applying separate-but-equal is illustrated by a decision wherein it upheld the action of a local school board which , finding that maintenance of separate high schools for whites ' and Negroes imposed a severe burden on the taxpayers , decided temporarily to suspend the colored high school  --  although of course it did not permit the colored children to attend the white school . Since , the Court said , the evidence did not conclusively establish that the school board has acted out of hostility to the colored. race , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school education is , all that Negro children should have , it would not intervene . Thus the situation stood at the time of the revolution of 1937 which transformed the Court from the nation 's principal defender of property rights to its chief protector of personal liberties . It was in the area of equality for Negroes that the Court first entered into its new role and most consistently and effectively executed it . The Great Depression of the early thirties and the anti-Nazi ideological conflict at the end of the decade gave the American people a MB NATION / October 17 , 1966 1new perspective on the relative values ' of property and human rights , and the Court recognized and responded to this before Congress and the President did . Moreover , in takmg up where the Reconstruction Congress left off in 1876 , it filled a void left by the default of both the legislative and Executive branches of government . It was not . until 1964 that Congress enacted a substantial Civil Rights LaW , but by that time the Court had for more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equality for the Negro . It started modestly in 1938 , when it held that the separatebut-equal requirement was not fulfilled by providing a law school for white students at the University of Missouri and sending Negro student to a more northern state which maintained an integrated law school at its university , even if Missouri offered to pay the travel , living and tuition expenses for its Negro would-be lawyers . Six years later , the Court began to search more imaginatively for state action in discriminatory conduct . Overruling its prior decision , it held that a political party is not a private association and its white primaries are forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment . Thereafter , the decisions came with increasing frequency , and almost never did a challenge to racial discrimination or segregation receive anything but an affirmative response from the Court . Again overruling a prior decision ( during this period- judicial precedents fell thick and fast ) , the Court found state action in judicial enforcement of racial restrictive covenants and told realtors and home owners that they would thereafter have to rely on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's agreement . Then it held that a state could not postpone according a professional education to a Negro applicant until an all-Negro school would be completed , to assure constitutional equality it either had to admit the Negro to the all-white school or close that school until the Negro school was ready Shortly thereafter . it held that in any event separate-but-equal did not apply to professional or postgraduate institutions such as law schools The climax came in 1954 when the Court overruled a sixty-year-old precedent and held that separate-but-equal could no longer he applied to elementary and secondary education , and in a series of subsequent decisions held that it was equally inapplicable to all facilities or services furnished by government , directly or indirectly Although exhibiting considerable patience in the rate of desegregation in Southern schools , it withstood Governor Faubus ' attempted defiance at Little Rock and made it clear that its patience was not endless , with the result that there is today at least token integration in the public schools of every state in the Union . even Mississippi and Alabama It refused to allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private individuals . and stretched traditional legal concepts almost to the breaking point in according constitutional protection to sit-ins and other peaceful civil rights demonstrations After Congress had timorously adopted a constitutional amendment forbidding poll taxes in federal elections . the Court , without benefit of amendment or statute , outlaw ed poll taxes in state and municipal elections as well In one area , that of de facto segregation , it has refused to intervene . While it has rejected challenges to legislative and administrative efforts aimed at such segregation , it has until now refused to extend the concept of state action to impose an affirmative obligation upon the states to eliminate it It is not that the conceptual harrier is insurmountable ; a Court which has interpreted freedom of speech to encompass non-speech , and freedom of religion to encompass atheism , would not have too much difficulty in interpreting action to encompass inaction  --  indeed the Court has in effect done that in the malapportionment cases . More likely , the Court has concluded , at least implicitly , that there are certain limits to what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Judicial solution The Negro community too appears to be coming to the same conclusion . Increasingly it is expressing dissatisfaction and impatience with what has been accomplished by litigation , and is asserting greater reliance on self-help , popularly what is unfortunately called black power Yet even here the Court has made what time will show to be an invaluable contribution . Its anti-malapportionment decisions have begun to shift the focus of political power from the countryside to the cities , and the Negroes are becoming increasingly an urban people The Catholics and Jews were able to rise on the socio-economic ladder in no small measure because they are city dwellers and are able effectively to exercise their political power as well-organized interest groups . It is only a question of time before the Negroes will be able to do the same When this happens , the Court will have accomplished the task that it has assumed for itself , the achievement of true equality by the 388 Negro in fulfillment of the purpose and intent of the Reconstruction Congress and the Americans who gave their lives in the Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the American Constitution now for 175 years It took almost a century and a half for the Supreme Court to recognize its existence , but when it did get around to doing this it quickly made itself the nation 's chief guardian of that great document . In one respect  --  the protection of the tight to dissent during periods of political crisis  --  us performance has been less than could be hoped Jot , though perhaps not much less than could be realistically expected In the other areas of American liberties  --  freedom of nonpolitical expression , justice to persons accused of crimes , and the achievement of equality for the Negro and other racial nunontres. it has in the last quarter century discharged faithfully and effectively the responsibilities imposed upon rt by the generation that adopted the Bill of Rights .                     