@@494831

Nuclear Arms for NATO ? by Robert Osgood While Britain 's overtures to the Common Market raise hopes that the time-worn aspiration of a " united Europe " may be gaining new substance , NATO ? the center of military power in Europe , upon which the very survival of any free economic community depends ? continues to flounder . Its military strategy and capability , still so largely dependent upon the threat of American nuclear retaliation , has long since been outmoded by the rise of Soviet nuclear power , by the economic and political resurgence of the Continental members , and by the prospect of several allies building their own nuclear weapons . The resulting lag between generally acknowledged requirements and existing strategy and capabilities jeopardizes the political cohesion as well as the military security of the alliance . What can be done to overcome the lag ? Since 1957 there has been sporadic support in NATO ? promoted most energetically by General NorROBERT OSGOOD , on leave from the University of Chicago , is a Visiting Professor at the School for Advanced International Studies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Entangling Alliance , will be published in January . stad and the Bonn Government ? for making NATO itself a nuclear power , as an alternative to the United States trying to preserve its virtual nuclear monopoly in the alliance and to other allies trying to acquire " the bomb " on their own . By 196o , this multinational proposal had picked up enough momentum so that the outgoing Eisenhower Administration endorsed the " concept " last December before the NATO foreign ministers of a NATO-controlled seaborne medium-range ballistic missile force . The Kennedy Administration , after first backing away from this tentative initiative , expressed interest but made further support subject to some measure of agreement among the allies on how this NATO force would be controlled . At Ottawa , on May 17 , President Kennedy told the Canadian parliament that the US looked forward to " the possibility of eventually establishing a NATO seaborne missile force which would be truly multilateral in ownership and control , if this should be desired and found feasible by our allies once NATO 's non-nuclear goals have been achieved . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that NATO should be able to order the use of atomic weapons without prior authorization of the President of the United States , Secretary Rusk told a press conference that the Ottawa offer still stood , provided the allies would agree upon the organization and guidelines for the control and use of a NATO nuclear force . Thus , the door to a NATO nuclear force has been opened wider , but the US cautiously declines to move through it , preferring her allies to take the initiative . Who Pulls the Trigger ? Rusk was not exaggerating when he warned that the problem of nuclear control was " of quite literally the utmost complexity . " The political and military management of a nuclear force by 15 NATO powers goes to the " very life and death of nations . . . to the very heart of the responsibilities of governments for the fate of their own peoples . " This problem is , moreover , inextricably entangled with the broader and no less tractable problem of 15 nations supporting a collective military strategy and force adequate to protect themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knows , none of these related political and military problems could be solved by a multilateral nuclear force without the approval of Congress and , in particular , the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy . And that Committee has jealously guarded its legal prerogatives , established by the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 and its various amendments , to approve or disapprove agreements for nuclear cooperation and to make sure that the US preserves effective custody of nuclear warheads . Basically , the issue of nuclear control in NATO arises because the circumstances that originally made the allies content to entrust their security almost entirely to America 's nuclear forces ? that is , America 's clear nuclear preponderance over Russia and the allies ' economic dependence and military helplessness ? no longer exist . The impressive demonstrations of Russia 's nuclear capacity to strike back at the US have undermined allied confidence in a strategy that , despite all the promises to throw back the aggressor at the threshold or at least force him to pause and reconsider , has really depended overwhelmingly upon America 's threat to meet conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear on the one hand that the US will not resort ( or that the Soviet Union will not believe that it will resort ) to nuclear retaliation and will thus leave them defenseless ; on the other hand , they fear that the US will resort " to nuclear retaliation and thus carry them over the abyss into a suicidal war . Whether or not their dependence on nuclear weapons encourages overt non-nuclear aggression , it surely renders the collective will of the alliance vulnerable to the Soviet game of building up tensions and confronting the allies with the choice between thermonuclear catastrophe or peaceful accommodation on Soviet terms . Meanwhile , the Russians exploit the resulting splits among the allies . The spectacular economic recovery of Western Europe and the concomitant resurgence of their independent political dispositions increases their dissatisfaction with US control over a decision so fateful as that of using or threatening to use nuclear weapons . The technical possibility that France and West Germany can build rudimentary nuclear capabilities in the not too distant future adds to this dissatisfaction the contagious prospect of other allies doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1956 Atomic Energy Act called " substantial progress " toward a nuclear capability in order to extract greater nuclear assistance from the US and a greater voice in allied councils . To be sure , an ally 's technical ability to build " the bomb " and deliver it , does not necessarily mean that it will consider the effort worthwhile militarily , economically and politically ; but the very possibility raises a disquieting prospect : Several key allies might devote their major defense efforts to the proliferation of independent nuclear capabilities rather than to the integrated conventional forces which everyone agrees , in the abstract , NATO badly needs . Such proliferation would not only divert allied contributions from collective needs it would foster distrust and intensify political differences among them during a period in which the alliance must have all the cohesion it can muster . It would also increase the chance of an accidental or rash use of nuclear weapons and virtually preclude NATO 's coordinating and limiting a nuclear response . The plan for a NATO nuclear force is , therefore , a natural reaction to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Western allies with an equitable share of nuclear control inside rather than outside NATO 's auspices while , hopefully , employing some of the resources that would otherwise be sunk into independent nuclear capabilities of dubious military value toward meeting NATO 's urgent nonnuclear needs . Yet the creation of a nuclear force under genuine multilateral control raises the most delicate political and intricate technical and administrative problems , which have heretofore carried great weight in determining the Kennedy Administration 's reluctance to resume its predecessor 's initiative , beyond offering to " assign " a few Polaris submarines , under American operational control , to NATO . Meanwhile , there has been no effort to implement the scheme , to which the Allies agreed " in principle " in 1957 , for placing missiles on allied soil under allied control while keeping control of the warheads under the American Supreme Allied Commander , acting as the commander in charge of American forces in Europe . To devise an acceptable yet militarily effective and politically responsive organization and directives by which three , four or possibly fifteen members can decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that may be insurmountable , since they impinge so directly upon basic notions of national autonomy . ( In any case , the Berlin crisis is not the time to try to surmount them . ) But even if these difficulties could be surmounted , there remain three major arguments against a NATO nuclear force on grounds of military security : ( a ) US nuclear power is sufficient as a second-strike force for the entire alliance , but assigning part of it to NATO 's control would jeopardize the deterrent to direct attacks upon this country ; ( b ) America 's nuclear force is a more credible deterrent to an attack on the European allies than a multilateral force would be , since it is not hampered by allied vetoes on its use , and since sharing her nuclear responsibility might be interpreted as a sign that the US was disengaging her own nuclear force from the protection of Europe ; ( c ) America 's nuclear force is more responsive to central political control and military command , which are essential to prevent the accidental or rash use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nuclear one , subject to some kind of physical limitation and political bargaining . These are persuasive arguments . The trouble with them is that the choice may not be between a multilateral force and American control , but between a multilateral force and several unilaterally-controlled forces ; few who oppose a joint NATO deterrent would prefer four or five separate , national deterrents . It is probably true that no ally can acquire a more effective deterrent against any likely military threat , or any better bargaining position inside or outside the alliance , by wielding its own inferior nuclear capability than by relying upon America 's relatively vast and invulnerable force ? at least , not as long as American troops remain on the Continent and we continue to regard the defense of Western Europe as an interest comparable to the defense of the US itself . At the same fine , any ally 's attempt to use its nuclear capability to trigger America 's force or as a means of implicating that force in the support of special allied political positions would run the risk of producing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or repudiate her obligations to defend that ally . These points ought to be conveyed to our allies . Yet one can not assume that the military logic of the situation will discourage France , West Germany and others from following the American and British example : in the long run , no major nation will be willing to leave such fateful decisions as whether or how to use nuclear weapons entirely in American hands if it can avoid it . Quite apart from the symbolic significance of nuclear weapons for national prestige , vital considerations of national equity and sovereignty are at stake . After all , no nation can be sure about what will succeed or fail in deterring the Soviet Union or in resisting nuclear blackmail under various circumstances . Deterrence is not a science ; it must be gauged by systematic intuition . Since the US has become vulnerable to Soviet nuclear attack and her allies no longer regard themselves as abject American dependents in other respects , it would be remarkable if they did not prefer to exercise something of their own intuitions with respect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than putting their trust ( and security ) entirely in the wisdom of the American Government . One can expect allies to be particularly anxious to control or share control of the decision to use nuclear weapons that are based on their own territory . Seaborne missiles would not circumvent this problem in the case of allies upon whose territory so-called tactical nuclear weapons were based . Yet it is probably unrealistic to share control of tactical nuclear weapons and not of strategic nuclear weapons , since there is no clear , reliable distinction between the two ( some of the " tactical " missiles on German soil now have a range of 600 miles ) , and there is little confidence that the use of small nuclear warheads against battlefield military targets would be anything more than a short prelude to general nuclear warfare . Allied Fears of Germany . Among those presently non-nuclear allies who may , therefore , be anxious as well as able to build their own nuclear capabilities , one will surely be the German Federal Republic . West Germany has the necessary scientific and productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NATO and the nation most directly affected by Soviet pressure , is in a position to insist upon equality with her nuclear allies , despite the present treaty restrictions upon her military program . Yet German nuclear armament would stir up an ominous political storm in NATO . Even her access to tactical nuclear weapons , the warheads of which remain under American control , has aroused the British . Partly for this reason , as well as for reasons of domestic opinion , the Bonn Government has been the most outspoken advocate of a NATO nuclear force . It is not unlikely that other allies might also prefer nuclear sharing in NATO to the dispersion of nuclear control to Germany and to others ; for even those who have the material opportunity to join the nuclear club must see that the advantages diminish as the membership increases . But would allies who might want to build their own nuclear weapons believe that a NATO nuclear force would give them their proper share of nuclear control ? They know that , in that event , they would not have as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but they would have a voice in the use of a much more effective nuclear force than they could acquire independently , and they would have it at less expense . They would also have more power to prevent and confine the use of nuclear weapons in the European area , even though the US would undoubtedly reserve her own strategic force outside multilateral control . It is possible , therefore , that with American inducements and pressures , the Germans , the British and other allies would regard a genuinely multilateral system of nuclear control as , on balance , the best alternative to either America 's exclusive control or to independent nuclear efforts . In that case , even de Gaulle 's France would find it difficult to remain aloof , since it would be obvious that by remaining outside the club it would deprive itself of that military and political voice in NATO councils which is one of the primary objectives of her effort to develop an independent nuclear force . Yet , even if a system of genuine multilateral control were acceptable to all the allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress of an extreme crisis , prove so ponderous as to diminish its deterrent value ' and destroy its ability to control the use of nuclear weapons if the deterrent failed . To meet this difficulty a number of systems of centralized political and military control , short of putting " 15 fingers on the trigger and the safety catch , " have been unofficially proposed ; but the whole matter has never reached the stage of concerted official study , active exploration and negotiation , which would provide the test of its feasibility . Before the matter reaches that stage of organization , however , there has to be a clearer consensus in NATO on the strategy for using nuclear weapons , which , in turn , is connected with NATO 's strategy and capability for employing non-nuclear weapons . Any effective multilateral control of nuclear weapons presupposes an agreement among the allies on the kinds of circumstances and the ways in which nuclear weapons presupposes an agreement among the allies on the kinds of circumstances and the ways in which nuclear weapons would be employed . A New Conventional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to move the alliance toward a military strategy and capability which will raise the threshold of effective conventional resistance to a level that will enable it to fight a local conventional war , not just " force a pause " upon the aggressor . This is essential for the sake of the cohesion of the alliance and its resolution in the face of Soviet pressure , as well as for the deterrence of overt armed incursions . It is likewise indispensable for the effective operation of a joint nuclear capability ; for the problem of a number of governments deciding with suitable dispatch on where , when and how nuclear weapons are to be used , under joint political and military direction , against a local non-nuclear aggression would be virtually insurmountable in the absence of a political federation . On the other hand , to the extent the allies can reserve nuclear weapons as a retaliatory force to deter the adversary from using them , they will vastly ease the task of agreeing upon advance directives and guidelines and upon control procedures for the employment of nuclear weapons . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no less effective as a deterrent and as an instrument of policy than is America 's nuclear force . The very existence of a NATO nuclear force would be concrete evidence of a strategic consensus and a common will among the allies , which would reinforce deterrence . The creation of such a multinational force is thus not just an intricate , delicate task of organization ; it entails a revision of NATO 's whole military strategy and capabilities . If the dispersion of nuclear responsibility were conceived as a substitute for this revision , it would undermine the security and cohesion of the alliance ; but if this revision is conceived as the condiCon of nuclear sharing , it might provide the added incentive and dramatic occasion for a readjustment of NATO 's over-all military posture and its internal distribution of power , economic burdens and responsibility ? a readjustment which is long overdue . Clearly , to combine such a readjustment with the creation of a NATO nuclear force depends overwhelmingly upon American initiative and active leadership : only the US has the technological means and the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference Secretary Rusk quite properly observed that this was not " something which we can , ourselves , impose upon others . This is something that has to be a matter of deep consultation and thought among all those involved . " But to make American initiative conditional upon the allies formulating concerted , detailed plans would be equivalent to suspending the project indefinitely . Meanwhile , the opportunity for American initiative may pass , as the European allies , individually or perhaps in a grouping around a Franco-German or even an Anglo-Franco-German axis , pursue their own policies independently of the US and of the non-nuclear needs of the alliance as a whole . When one considers the prospect of this development , which would fundamentally alter the whole relationship of the US to Europe and of the European allies to each other and to the Soviet bloc , all the present difficulties besetting the creation of a useful NATO nuclear force would seem to be of secondary importance . 