@@478417

Rejecting the moral values of their well-heeled parents , college students today are searching painfully for a different kind of authority that will make their new freedom meaningful . 0 ur Tom looked like a bum when he came home for Christmas . His clothes were filthy , he was wearing a mandarin beard , and his hair had n't been cut since September . Last fail we gave him permission to live alone off-campus and cook for himself . Now he has trench mouth , a bad case of athlete 's foot , and some kind of mysterious virus . " Our neighbor was both exasperated and amused as she thus described her son , a senior at a famous Ivy League college . He is a superior student who had hitherto seemed anything but a beatnik . For years his parents have let him steer his own course and supported him financially at some sacrifice . What , then , is he rebellingagainst ? Is this merely a ludicrous episode in his development or a sign of a severe disorder ? His mother does n't know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bizarre actions of their college sons and daughters . Nor can professors and university administrators shed much light on the moods and motivations of students in the ' sixties . They have been baffled by the rioting at Berkeley last fall and other less publicized incidents elsewhere . For today 's student is a very different creature from his predecessors . In may own college days in the ' thirties , if I had come home at Christmas in Tom 's condition , my parents would probably have had me committed to a different sort of institution . What lies behind the change ? For one thing , today 's student is more affluent than we were , more comfortably housed , and better equipped with the materials of scholarship . But his college life is also more impersonal and competitive , less humane . It is harder for him to know his professors , the administration , or even 54 SALVATION ON THE CAMPUS his all too numerous fellow students . Learning is increasingly packaged and is sometimes referred to , shamelessly , as the " knowledge business . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like an impostor if he seeks to be broadly educated , and walls him off from others if he specializes . His professors are less attached to the institution where they teach and more to their disciplines . And they have less time to give him or the college . In this situation , the traditional college spirit ? of either the rah-rah variety or the community of learners ? may seem to the student as outmoded as the raccoon coat and the hip flask . If he has reached the age of reflection , today 's student is seeking above all to differentiate himself from the crowd . Thirty years ago it was distinctive merely to be a college man . Now he must struggle to be more than a grade-point average , an anonymous statistic with a college and home address . Often he expresses this yearning for uniqueness in ways that parents , administrators , professors , and other outsiders consider illegitimate . Well publicized are the bearded , sloppily dressed students , defiant of even minimal administrative regulations , studious enough , but incontinent in their demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own lives . Typical of this state of mind is a student 's letter in a recent issue of our college newspaper . " The trouble is that they administration and faculty take it all as seriously as the rest of the piety we get about law and morality and the intellectual purpose of our existence . The most ironic thing on this campus is that they believe in their own hypocrisy . . . . One of the reasons that administration and much of the faculty alike draw grotesque pictures of students is that they probably have never talked with one , not that they 'd listen if they did . For years the same situations occur , the same opinions are given , the same pleas are voiced , and the same nothing happens . " The desire for self-definition often goes hand in hand with an inner need ? more or less conscious ? for a compelling authority to make freedom meaningful . In the ' thirties , economic Dr. J. Glenn Gray , chairman of the philosophy department at Colorado College , has written widely on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a Guggenheim Fellow . His book " The Warriors , Reflections on Men in Rattle " was published in 1959 . He studied at Juniata College , the University of Pittsburgh , and Columbia University . pressures for existence and our opposition to the fascist menace rescued us from this dilemma . In the ' forties there was the war and , afterward , the threat of the Bomb to distract attention from inner conflicts . For some students in the ' sixties the elmilzrigat.saLrujule has become a Cause ? a clear-cut issue on which to act and to argue , But as vet this movement has not reached anything like the numbers nor hit with anything like the impact that we experienced with fascism , etWraiinism , the war ? agiEtheBomb . Lacking an embracing cause and a fervent idiology , - the studenespurpose to beCome aggress.hze , eximemist at times despairing . It can easily turn into preoccupation with subjective feelings and plain egotism . As Andre Gide has put it , " Each human being who has only himself for aim suffers from a horrible void . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college youth is to discover-some niiithority , - FOTh private and public , that will make possible authentic individuality . Their Favorite Rebel Ihave learned something about this search over the past fifteen years as one of the professors conducting a senior seminar called Freedom and Authority . Before generalizing , perhaps I should say a word about Colorado College , where I teach philosophy . It is a fairly typical small , private liberal-arts institution , founded in 1874 by New England Congregationalists before Colorado was a state . It has long since cut loose from church ties , drifting ? like Grinnell , Carleton , Pomona , and others ? into secularism . Our students are drawn from many states ; after Colorado , California and Illinois contribute the most . We are not as selective as the Ivy League colleges nor as equalitarian as the state institutions . Since ? like those of most private colleges ? our costs are high , our students come largely from upper-middleclass families . ( Some are shockingly rich . A few years back when we banned automobiles for freshmen , a Texas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that she be permitted to bring her private airplane . ) I was originally lured out here by a dean who painted an enticing picture of Back Bay Boston accents mixed with Western ranch drawls . But the percentage of students from ranches , farms , and the working class has steadily declined , and drawls are now rare . In sum , our students and their families are , economically and socially , very much like you who are reading this magazine . They represent an important ? if not typical ? sample of American college students . Our Freedom and Authority seminar is a very freewheeling , wide-ranging course . Though we constantly change the readings , a few hooks have remained by nearly unanimous consent from the beginning . The first of these is Plato 's account of the trial , imprisonment , and death of Socrates in the Apology , Crito , and end of Phaedo . These short dialogues , conveniently grouped in one paperback , are probably exerting a profounder influence on the campus today than such bestsellers as Golding , Salinger , and Baldwin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does Socrates appeal to contemporary students ? They realamdto-his te.arleae aa3ertionof his right to determine his own conduct despite powerful oppLDsiticuL.from the majority ofThis fellow citizens . The conflict between individual freedom and sociopolitical authority which he dramatizes expresses their own central dilemma . These students have outgrown the discipline of parents . In college , various authorities ? the college administration , campus mores , and student cliques ? vie for their allegiance . They are also uneasily conscious of the different standards of the professional and business worlds they are about to enter . The sensitive student , confused by these uncertain values , is thrilled when Socrates , the original rebel who became the " father " of philosophy , tells his fellow Athenians that he loves and cherishes them , but chooses to obey only his own vision of the right and good . Socrates ' example can still engender a revolutionary fervor in youthful hearts . It was hardly an accident that the campus rebellions at Berkeley and earlier at the University of Colorado were led by philosophy majors. * Less acceptable to my students than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which leads him to refuse a proffered escape from prison after he has been sentenced to death . He likens the laws of Athens to parents , who must always be obeyed even if they chastise their children unjustly . At this point , my students begin to protest , and their identification with Socrates is broken . As one of them put it last fall , " I ca n't imagine anything less comparable to my parents than the U. S. government . " There are exceptions . One girl , for example , last November reconciled the seeming contradictions *Similarly , the unprecedented student demonstration at Yale in March was a protest against the administration 's failure to give tenure to an admired philosophy teacher . in Socrates ' philosophy in this fashion : " In the Apology individual determination of conduct challenges and defeats all other values , including Athenian law . However , the reverse is not what happens in the Crito . Here , Athenian law is weighted with his personal laws of conduct against a solitary value , his life . His natural desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is challenged here . . . . As part of his personal conduct code , Socrates could not destroy Athenian law simply because it was being used to destroy a lesser value , his life on earth . To injure in turn when ill-treated ' was against his moral structure also , so that his personal conduct code forced him to abide by Athenian law . Of the three values considered in the Apology and the Crito , Socrates held individual determination of conduct most important , Athenian law second , and his own life least important . " All of us blessed her , a rank beginner in philosophy , for the kind of insight that an unburdened mind often brings to a complex issue . In the ensuing discussion , her classmates were intellectually persuaded that Socrates ' freedom was sustained by his lifelong membership in the community of Athens . But how could his example be helpful today ? Since patriotism is hardly an operable emotion among contemporary students , Socratic freedom , though intellectually appealing , does not in the end provide a satisfying answer . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a small community , a situation quite opposite to that of young people in our huge , fast-changing , incredibly complex society . " Just Like My Old Man " As a contrast to Socrates , we study The Death of Ivan Dyck , Tolstoi 's powerful short story in which a modern man must face an agonizing death with no resources save the polite conventions of an artificial society . Slowly dying , daily more isolated and desperate , Ivan asks : " Then what does it mean ? Why ? It ca n't be that life is so senseless and horrible . But if it really has been so horrible and senseless , why must I die and die in agony ? There is something wrong ! " Maybe I did not live as I ought to have done , " it suddenly occurred to him . " But how could that be , when I did everything properly , " he replied , and immediately dismissed from his mind this , the sole solution of all the riddles of life and death , as something quite impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 56 SALVATION ON THE CAMPUS He lay on his back and began to pass his life in review in quite a new way . In the morning when he saw first his footman , then his wife , then his daughter , and then the doctor , their every word and movement confirmed to him the awful truth that had been revealed to him during the night . In them he saw himself ? all that for which he had lived ? and saw clearly that it was not real at an , but a terrible and huge deception which had hidden both life and death . This consciousness intensified his suffering tenfold . In the end , Tolstoi rescues Ivan from utter meaninglessness and absurdity via his own ( Tolstoi 's ) passionate faith in primitive Christianity . But this does little to alleviate the atmosphere of controlled terror and doom . The story has a stunning impact on our students . If they find Socrates wholly admirable but a size larger than life , Ivan is all too human , the anonymous Everyman of our day , painfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students breathe , " My God , he is just like my old man ! " They do not identify with him for he is too much like adults they know and dislike ? a portrait of what modern life may force them eventually to become . Though they hardly aspire to be heroes like Socrates , they desperately want to escape being victims like Ivan . The Sin of Phoniness van 's " inauthentic " life has become a rich source for the Existentialists in their indictment of modern society . On the campus Existentialism ? which is both a mood and a metaphysics ? is compounded of anxiety about being lost in the crowd and the lack of closeness or intimacy with fellow students . Sometimes the despairing response to these feelings is sexual promiscuity : more often it is expressed in eccentric dress and flamboyant behavior . Such climates of opinion are contagious and often attract spurious reactions . These can be downright funny , as in the reported case of the student who used to telephone his girl friend and say , " Honey , I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a beer ? " But in fact the underlying mood is quite different from the perennial depressions of late adolescence . These students are anxiously concerned with the problem of being themselves . Authenticity is the element of Existentialism that strikes the deepest note for them . The highest virtue is honesty with themselves and others while phoniness in whatever form is the greatest vice . " The thing that 's wrong with this class , " a senior burst out recently , " is that none of us is spontaneous . We 're all trying to be so clever and to impress each other . I think we are simply afraid to be ourselves . I 'm sick of my own pretending , " To be a genuine or authentic person is not primarily a moral matter , in the sense that older Americans think of morality . For Existentialists authenticity means freely choosing what is one 's own in behavior , attitude , and mode of living , however singular these may appear to others . The kind of society we are building ? or that is being built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obstacle to the attainment of authentic individuality . Triggers of Self-discovery The difficult art of becoming oneself can hardly be more than begun by the age of twenty-two or twentythree . Hence the important question is : How long does the search continue ? Graduates of our Freedom and Authority seminar often write to their old professors and many of them return to campus annually , from as far away as Pennsylvania and California . We hold an informal seminar with them at Homecoming , usually based on a book which we have assigned in advance . Surprises about the future development of one 's students are the rule for a college professor . But I am still disconcerted when the students I counted on fail me and the least promising prove to be " late bloomers . " In the last category is a pretty Connecticut girl who seemed quite unremarkable when she left my seminar section a couple of years ago and proceeded to a government job in Washington . Soon afterward an FM agent . came to my office for a routine loyalty check and I gave him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an associate of Communists at college . and she was subjected to a thorough investigation . She secured help from the American Civil Liberties Union , an organization she had first heard of in our course . The investigation ended harmlessly at a hearing where one government agent testified that she was " an innocuous person . " When she returned to campus last spring for a visit this characterization was much on her mind . " That agent was right , " she told me . " Up till now I have been just that , an innocuous person , but I intend to be innocuous no longer . " She asked me to support her application for law school , which she entered last fall . She had decided to become a defender of civil liberties in a private capacity , not to practice law . This winter she wrote me long letters displaying an unsuspected spirit and passion and marking her as a person who has attained security of mind . She has already resolved not to take the loyalty oath required of members of the bar in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court case of the matter . She has also become a militant pacifist . It was apparently the description of her as " innocuous " that triggered all these responses ? all dormant in her college days . The death of President Kennedy had a similar transforming effect on another unlikely student whose undistinguished college career included a troubled progress through my Freedom and Authority course . He married and went to work for a national soap company where he was rising rapidly . But the Kennedy assassination disrupted his world . Soon afterward he wrote to me asking for " a philosopher 's point of view . " " I felt a strong sense of identity with him , " he wrote , expressing a feeling widespread at that time . " Perhaps this is because he was young , or because we shared similar political views ( weak and irresolute as mine are ) or because he was an intellectual ' President , or because . . . I felt guilt because of his murder , and I feel dead because of his death . " He had tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reason it through , but in vain . " I usually end up saying ' God damn , ' with an incredulous shake of the head . Surely there must be more grief written in people 's hearts than what is written on their faces . Aside from a few hours at the funeral , all seems to be normal with the people I see and know . But for me this one act had made all other acts irrelevant and trivial ; it has displaced time with paranoia , good with evil , relative simplicity with incomprehensibility , an ideal with dirt . " He could no longer remain in the business world . Despite his wife and children , he decided to return to graduate school to prepare himself for work in international education . He is now immersed in the study of foreign languages and Existentialism . Wearing a heavy beard , he has lost all resemblance to the young executive of a year ago . For the first time in his life , he told me recently , he is truly " engaged " in discovering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than middle-class drift . These two cases are , of course , exceptions . Relatively few of our young alumni have made much progress toward attaining a distinctive individuality after leaving college . The demands of business and professional life on the men , of home-making and child-rearing on the women , tend either to halt the search or even to induce surrender to reigning values . It would seem that the very prosperity which permits college students to spend time pondering important issues of existence acts as a sedative in their early adulthood . Affluence , not religion . might be called the opiate of the ' sixties . The immediate requirements of making a living and getting ahead in the status race seem to dull the passions and despair which obsessed many of them in college . There is , of course , nothing surprising in this . Many of us escape the need to give meaning to our existence through the age-old expedient of producing the next generation and letting them struggle with the problem . The Appeal of Nothingness The Existentialist preoccupation with the Absurd , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concepts ? did not until recently have much of a grip on the English-speaking countries . When I first began teaching the leading Existentialists about 1950 , interest in a Kierkegaard , Heidegger , or Sartre was likely to he a matter of either curiosity or fashion . Their very names were strange and most Americans bad difficulty pronouncing the word Existentialism . In those years my colleagues frequently asked me to give a coffee-break explanation of the movement . Now discussions are far more earnest and passionate . I conduct a Wednesday evening seminar on Existentialism at my home . Frequently I have to push the students out after several hours , if I am to simmer down and get any sleep that night . Often they continue heated arguments elsewhere till the small hours . In colleges all over America , courses dealing with Existentialists are currently very popular , to the disgust of the disciples of Language Analysis ? an Oxford import  - -   - -  who once felt confident of dominating academic philosophy . The rapid availability of translations from German and French Existentialist writings and sales of large editions attest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Undeniably , there is a large element of the modish , for Americans have always been susceptible to philosophic imports from the Continent and England . ( In philosophy , it has been said , we are still largely a colony of Europe . ) I must also admit , rather shamefacedly , that even philosophy is not immune to the attraction of " the hottest thing in town . " After the war it was Oxford Analysis , now it is Existentialism. 58 SALVATION ON THE CAMPUS There is , however , much more to the matter . Existentialists draw their insights and inspiration from literature rather than science . They are concerned with the individual and with personal experience in an age that threatens to overwhelm individuality . This is why they attract so many American playwrights and novelists who have begun the process of Americanizing the European mood . Because the specific possibilities and frustrations of our everyday life are sharply different from those in France or Germany we were slow to accept the Existentialist mood and metaphysics . Now that our writers have succeeded in " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling their delayed impact . The students I know best seem to have an intuitive grasp of what Heidegger and Sartre mean when they write of man 's exposure to Nothingness . In a few extreme cases Nothingness means a profound feeling of disengagement with American culture , if not Western civilization itself . Other students who say in the privacy of my office , " I am at the end of my rope , " are feeling only a temporary despair , perhaps little more than the romantic storm and stress of late adolescence . Sometimes I respond with a gentle joshing , and refuse to take them too seriously . With others I am far from sure . The latter group includes students who often do superb work in my classes but who are quite as likely to be on academic probation as on the Dean 's list . ( One of them recently spent three semesters in the near-failing and three in the excellent category . ) These are brilliant , alienated young people . Generally , they do not care for Karl Jaspers. the Existentialist who identifies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the philosophers radically at odds with the whole tradition of modern culture . They want Kierkegaard 's either-or --  -- the leap of faith or gross sensuality ; Sartre 's good faith or self-deception ; Heidegger 's nearness to Being or nihilism . The ablest student I ever taught at Colorado College was of this kind . He wrote better commentaries on these philosophers than are found in the published literature . His poems , which I alone was allowed to see , were also first-rate . But it was a trial to keep him in college from one semester to another . Again and again he would disappear into the mountains , by himself for days . My wife and I constantly feared his suicide . When he finally graduated I easily secured fellowships for him to three graduate schools . He turned down all of them and proceeded to wander over the country , supporting himself at odd jobs . In his college years I was , in effect , struggling with him for his very soul ; it is now sadly clear that I lost . Turning Inward In an earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students found release in action , in attachment to a utopian authority which gave them a feeling of belonging . For others , the crude menace of Hitler served to unite them with Western values . Today a few find a sense of belonging in Southern racism . Others in the civil-rights movement or in the Peace Corps with its opportunities for genuine service . What these students need above all is action , not further study , yet how can I counsel them to give up their studies before the degree ? To serve with any significance in our specialized society they will need more formal schooling than they have or want before they have " found " themselves . The plight of dropouts on the lower academic rungs is well known . Equally poignant is the problem of those at the top ? often even in graduate school ? who do not know where they are headed nor whether they should stay in college at all . Ironically , our technological society appears to widen the spheres of freedom while making it even harder to escape from the toils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Students today travel far more than we did in the ' thirties and ' forties ; learn and see more and participate in a much larger range of activities . At an early stage the choice of many different careers is open to them . But once they have chosen anything specific , whether it be a " major " or marriage , they are soon past the point of no return . In this situation Existentialism appeals . Its deepest conviction is that through his choices each individual makes himself . Its emphasis is not only on the absurd character of social reality , in some cases , of the world as a whole , but also on Possibility . In an inner sense everyone determines his own course . He can choose to lead an authentic existence or choose to be lost in the crowd . If the overwhelming majority opt for the latter condition , this does not prevent the exceptional person from standing alone as an authentic " single one . " To a man , Existentialists are against group activities . They never tire of reminding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out from . " " I have decided that I am simply different from all the others , " a brilliant youth told me the other day , explaining how even his close friends saw no point whatever to his poetry . " I must think and write for myself from now on . " Both resolution and pathos were in his voice . What , If Not Absurd ? I doubt that Existentialist philosophy can ultimately satisfy the search for authority . So far , few of these thinkers have provided guidelines for social or political action , though all of them stress the necessity for individual commitment . However , for students who are not yet able or ready to act , Existentialism offers a great deal , At the least it presents an escape from the morass of conformity , la dolce vita , boredom , and the meaningless competitiveness in which they  --  see so many of their elders caught . I f Furthermore , those who go behind Sartre to the Danish and German originators of this movement I discover a choice between anabsurd or tragic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally meaningless and futile , a de -- fimitlf lidinTral5le gesture in a void . The tragic conviction acknowledges the fragile and exposed character of inclividualifybut discovers meaning and purpOse in the individual 's struggle to locate himself in nature and society . Though his personal life is of short duration , and subject to chance and misfortune while it lasts , his actions are of great importance in the moral sum of things . Tragedy links us to what has been in the history of our species and binds us in faith to the future . It teaches that there are things worth living and dying for , ideas , ancestors . and descendants . On the other hand , the metaphysical idea that " life is a tale told by an idiot , full of sound and fury , signifying nothing " can do none of these things . The conviction of absurdity cuts all ties to history and nature and with them the nerve of meaningful action . Which version of Existentialism will be accepted by students in the rest of the ' sixties ? The answer will be important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in America there are no tragedies , only mistakes . The quality of current experience is rapidly dissipating any remaining truth in this ancient charge . Yet young people inevitably find it hard to learn the price in pain and suffering necessary to pay for the tragic vision . Falling into a persuasion of absurdity and meaninglessness is , on the surface at least , much easier . The polar choices again are between the life of Socrates and that of Ivan Ilych . That the tragic and absurd should be competing for students ' minds in the ' sixties is not surprising , when one remembers that many of their parents were fighting World War TI while they were infants and that they have grown up in a world changing at an incredible pace . Indeed , were young people not constitutionally adaptable and preoccupied with the immediate present , they would be in a much worse plight than they are . The wonder is that so many are sane and resilient . Rift Between Generations Nevertheless , there has hardly been a time , in my experience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experienced professors than today . The pity is that so many of us retreat into research , government contracts , and sabbatical travel , leaving counsel and instruction to junior colleagues and graduate assistants . In so doing we deepen the rift between the generations and at the same time increase the sense of impersonality , discontinuity , and absence of community that makes college life less satisfactory in this decade than it used to be . What is needed are fewer books and articles by college professors and more cooperative search by teacher and taught for an authority upon which to base freedom and individuality . After surviving so many turbulent decades of this century , some of us may feel a certain confidence that the present will prove no harder than the past has been . But we should remind ourselves that peace and affluence have their own perils as surely as do wars and depressions . Though our students increasingly come to us better prepared in the traditions of Western civilization , how many of them care more deeply about these traditions than did students in the bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat since 1960 , but I find that deep uneasiness about the course of American higher education has grown . Nowadays nearly everyone looks to education for salvation as once we looked to religion or to a political ideology . But before we succeed in building the great society , we shall need to resolve the doubt and bafflement about its validity and worth in the minds of those now in college who should serve as leaders . Many of the harassed young men and women I teach , at any rate , have not yet decided what sense , if any , their existence has .                     