@@245714

Even for sophisticated missile watchers , the men who have marked the flight of so many of Cape Canaveral 's great fire-breathing birds , last week 's show was a dazzling spectacle . The blast-off was swift and sure ; there was none of that heart-stopping hover of other tests when liquid-fueled monsters seemed to balance in uncertain equilibrium before they picked up the momentum of flight . This time the gleaming , 58-ft. cylinder shot straight up into the sky ahead of its lengthening tail . Three seconds after launch , its guidance system took over , turned it into the southeast . Thirty minutes later , the first Minuteman , largest solid-fueled rocket ever fired by the U.S. , splashed squarely on target more than 4,000 miles down the Atlantic missile range . " Brother , " murmured an awed observer , " there goes the missile gap . " <P> One shot did not a missile make , but the enthusiasm was closer to truth than hyperbole . For the first time in history , a major missile was all but operational on its initial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results of a series of tethered propulsion tests at Edwards Air Force Base that it decided last year to bypass the normal flight tests of components . The first Minuteman fired all three stages , put its brand new inertial guidance system , its nose cone and its flaring steering nozzles through the wringer in one bold gamble. * The stunning bull's-eye meant that the test program would be cut by months . <P> Countdown-Ready . Despite inevitable delays-even last week 's test was postponed twice after the countdown had come within seconds of firing-Minute-man has moved unerringly from drawing board toward operational readiness . The newest member of the Air Force missile family was born four years ago . when the nation 's hopes for a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile were carried by hard-to-handle , liquid-fueled rockets still in the development stage . Even then , before such giants as Atlas and Titan were ready to go , cold war planners worried that the massive , complex installations demanded by liquid fueling made tempting hot war targets . What was needed was a smaller , mobile missile that could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need , the Navy developed its submarine-launched Polaris , an intermediate range ( 1,200 miles ) solid-fueled missile . The Air Force went to work on Minuteman , designed to be fired some 6,000 miles from bases in the continental U.S. Like Polaris . Minuteman packs a half-megaton punch ( only one-third of the explosive load of the fully developed , liquid-fueled Atlas and only one-fifth of the giant warhead of the liquid Titan ) . Like Polaris and the Army 's tactical Pershing missile , Minuteman is cheaper and far simpler to handle than its liquid-fueled predecessors , requires a much smaller crew . Once built and armed , it can be stored indefinitely , countdown-ready-an ideal weapon for the split-second demands of push button warfare . <P> Rolling Stock . By mid-1962 , the Air Force expects to spot the first Minutemen in 55-missile squadrons , buried in steel and concrete silos around the U.S.                     