@@491932

Approximately 150,000 American families will lose babies this year , either during childbirth or during the months immediately preceding or following . Almost every parent whose baby dies during this crucial " perinatal " period will ask one emotion-laden question : " Could my baby have been saved ? " With the co-operation of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists , we have asked dozens of the nation 's foremost obstetricians , pediatricians and public-health officials the same question in broader form : " How much is being done these days to save the lives of babies  --  and what else should he done ? " The infant mortality rate in the United States is higher than in nine other countries . Of 112,000 babies who died during their first year of life in this country in 1959 , the latest year for which we have full statistics , 42,000 could have been saved if we had done as well as Sweden , which had the lowest death rate per thousand live births . Out of every 1000 infants born alive in the United States that year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sweden , fewer than seventeen died . Different countries tally births and deaths differently ; but the tallying variations do not explain why the United States stands a poor tenth on a 1959 list of infant death rates published by the Statistical Office of the United Nations . table deleted The obstetricians and pediatricians we consulted advanced a number of explanations of our death rate . They pointed out , for example , that a substantial part of the gap between Sweden and America is due to social , economic and educational factors over which the medical profession has little or no control . But they also conceded that a substantial part is due to shortcomings in the quantity and quality of care given some mothers and babies in the United States before , during and immediately after birth . Many obstetricians , for example , pointed out that their comprehensive care of pregnant patients , beginning as early in pregnancy as possible , undoubtedly saves many babies ' lives . But in every state , they added , babies die because their mothers received no prenatal care . Tens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor . These " drop-ins , " as hospitals call them , arc four to five times more likely than other women to lose their babies . In Sweden , by contrast , " drop-ins " are quite rare . All prenatal care is paid for by the government . One way in which our medical shortcomings contribute to our infant mortality is poignantly illustrated by a pair of obstetrical case histories , George and Mabel White , as we will call them , live in an attractive New England suburb . Their first baby was born uneventfully in a hospital near their home , accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals . Their second baby , born in the same hospital , quickly developed Rh complications . Fully equipped hospitals are ready to handle such complications , and mobilize their resources in advance when an Rh-negative woman with an Rh-positive husband is admitted . In this case no advance preparations were made because no one had tested the White family 's , blood to find out whether Mabel 's was Rh-negative and George 's Rh-positive . Nor were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of Rh antibody in it was rising as her pregnancy neared its term . Immediately after a baby is born to an Rh-negative mother , two additional tests  --  a Coombs and a bilirubin  --  should be run on its blood to determine whether it has Rh disease . These tests also were omitted . Hence the White baby 's illness was not diagnosed until a day or two after birth when the nurse in charge of the newborn nursery happened to notice that the baby looked jaundiced . Even then a prompt blood transfusion might have saved the baby . But this suburban hospital was one of a great many which lack a skilled pediatric team and the equipment for such a transfusion . So an ambulance rushed the baby twenty miles to another hospital . It died shortly after admission . The second of these case histories reached its tragic climax just fifteen months later ; it is horrifyingly similar and can be told more briefly . Same Rh-negative mother , Mabel White ; and the same Rh-positive father , George White . Same physician ; same failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as her pregnancy neared its term . Same suburban hospital , still unstaffed and unequipped to perform exchange transfusions . Same failure to run Coombs and bilirubin tests immediately after birth ; and the same delay in diagnosing Rh disease . Same hurried transfer of the baby in an ambulance to another hospital . And same denouement : death of the baby shortly after admission . " Could the same thing happen in your state ? " we asked obstetricians from other states which pride themselves on their medical services  --  Pennsylvania , North Carolina , Minnesota , California . All conceded that it could happen in some parts of their states . A California obstetrician added : " The available evidence suggests that half the babies who die from Rh disease in my state could be saved . " As a matter of fact , California has established a statewide perinatalmortality committee to curb preventable Rh deaths . Once that is under control the committee will move on to larger problems . Improved obstetrical requirements for accredited hospitals might go far toward reducing childbirth tragedies . Merely specifying that Rh-antibody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an antibody rise late in pregnancy means that the hospital must have exchange transfusion facilities ready or else transfer the case to another hospital , would help in many instances . Hospital accreditation standards are set by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals , sponsored by the American College of Physicians , the American College of Surgeons , American Hospital Association and American Medical Association . Of the 7000 to 9000 hospitals in the United States , only about 4000 are accredited . Most of the others are too small  --  less than twenty-five beds  --  to be eligible for accreditation . A woman having a baby should try by all means to use an accredited hospital . She can ascertain what ones in her community are accredited by writing to the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals , 200 East Ohio Street , Chicago 11 , Illinois , and sending a stamped , self-addressed reply envelope . Accredited hospitals must measure up to certain requirements in obstetrics as well as in other departments . But the Joint Commission 's obstetrical standards , while praiseworthy as far as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than for surgery or other specialties . For example , the commission requires that every accredited hospital have a so-called " tissue committee " of surgeons to review all surgical operations ; otherwise the institution loses its accreditation . In obstetrics the commission advocates " perinatal-mortality committees " to probe the causes of babies ' deaths in the hospital or soon after leaving it . It does not insist , however , upon such committees ; and many hospitals , accredited and unaccredited , lack them . In these hospitals babies may die from preventable causes without the hospitals ' knowing it . Effective committee reviews would quickly end this hazard . " The establishment of a conscientious perinatal-mortality committee in every hospital in which babies are born , " says Dr. Robert A. Kimbrough , who is medical director of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists , " could both save babies ' lives and enhance public confidence in the American hospital system . " At the governmental level of control , many city and state health departments give licenses to hospitals which fail to meet even the Joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notably including the Chicago Board of Health , set licensing requirements considerably stricter than those of the Joint Commission . The Chicago board 's program is impressive . It has a city-wide perinatalmortality committee staffed by qualified obstetricians and pediatricians . Infant deaths arc reported to the board immediately by telephone . A mobile unit reviews all relevant hospital records the same day . The committee studies these within forty-eight hours . If it discovers evidence of preventable death , the Board of Health requires immediate reform . So far no other major city has followed Chicago 's lead . Most states have maternal-mortality committees staffed by leading obstetricians , whose investigations have helped make maternal deaths a rare occurrence . Why ca n't all states set up statewide committees for babies as California has ? " Too many babies die , " was the answer usually given us . " The number of cases would swamp any committee . " What kills newborn babies ? The National Office of Vital Statistics lists the following causes of death taken from death certificates of babies born alive but who died before their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in addition to heading the list , was also an accompanying factor in nearly half of the deaths attributed to other causes . To save babies ' lives , far more information than these bare death-certificate statistics is needed . Why were those 19,767 babies who died of " immaturity " born prematurely ? How many of their mothers had toxemia or other conditions contributing to premature birth ? No one really knows the answers . Indeed , little is known about causes of prematurity . Take " asphyxia or failure to breathe , " which killed 19,505 infants . Is there a relationship between the anesthesia given the mother before the baby is born and the subsequent failure of some newborn babies to breathe ? What are the best methods for resuscitating a baby which fails to breathe or stops breathing ? How many could be saved by making the best resuscitation methods general ? The raw " cause of death " certificates throw almost no light on such crucial questions as these . " Birth injuries , " fatal to 10,439 , is another cause of death surrounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , difficult labors ; but except for uncommon conditions such as too narrow a maternal pelvis , little is known as to why some mothers have longer , more difficult labor than others . Large-scale efforts to find answers to many such questions are under way currently  --  some critics say belatedly . One , employing Univac , has been set up in Philadelphia , under the auspices of the American Medical Association 's Education and Research Foundation . Co-operating hospitals in various parts of the country send in detailed records on each birth . Univac computers process the data . The results will be studied for clues to high death rates . Each hospital 's record will be returned to it for use in improving its own procedures . Some 500,000 births , it is now expected , will be studied in this manner during 1962 . The Kaiser Foundation Research Institute and co-operating institutions are giving much more thorough study to 25,000 births in the San Francisco area . This project , under Dr. Jacob Yerushalmy , is investigating , among other things , fetal losses very early in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-term project at fifteen outstanding medical centers throughout the country . This study is planned and financed by the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness , a unit of the U.S. Public Health Service . Two notable features of this project are the storing in huge freezers of blood-serum samples-taken from 50,000 women during pregnancy , and the presence at 50.000 births of " recording angels , " who write down everything that happens to mother and baby in the delivery room . Both measures are for future reference . Unusually detailed physical examinations also are performed . ? If a baby later dies , the mother 's serum can be thawed and studied for clues . Virus antibodies , for example , may reveal that the mother had an undiagnosed virus infection during pregnancy . If many mothers whose babies die or have defects turn out to have had any particular virus , the findings may be the basis for creating a vaccine or other preventive to protect future babies . The voluminous notes of the " recording angels " also will be related to the subsequent fate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is designed primarily to throw new light on the causes of cerebral palsy , mental retardation and other lifelong defects . However , it should prove valuable in identifying factors involved in babies ' deaths . The large-scale studies are likely to give decisive answers to such questions as " induction of labor " risks , Labor may be induced by surgically breaking the amnion , or " bag of waters , " by slowly injecting the hormone oxytocin into the mother 's bloodstream , or by a combination of both procedures . Induced labor may be " medically indicated " as a baby-saving move if the mother is diabetic , toxemic , is Rh negative with a rising antibody level , or lives far from the hospital and has a record of delivering babies in a hurry . In addition . medical men perform " elective inductions " for the convenience of the family , the hospital or themselves . One overburdened obstetrician told us frankly that every Saturday morning he induces the patients whom he expects in labor over the weekend in order to safeguard his needed Sunday rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliveries in which a mother and baby may get less hospital service . Others do so to avoid calls between two and five A.M. , the uncivilized hours when more labors begin than at any other time . In some communities induction is popular under the name " childbirth by appointment . " Are elective inductions as safe as some obstetricians and eager mothers believe ? Or do they incur a risk which will become evident when studied by the thousands ? I Without waiting for the research findings , most obstetricians agree on one crucial factor : Premature birth and perinatal death are closely associated with the " socioeconomic status " of these babies ' parents . Among patients from well-to-do suburbs the prematurity and perinatal death rates are often 50 to 65 percent lower than among charity patients in big cities . Race is sometimes cited as a factor in infant deaths , since the death rate among nonwhite babies ( Negro , Indian and other ) in the United States is nearly twice as high as among white babies . But what appears at first glance to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead . Well-educated , well-off Negro families  --  as a North Carolina study indicates  --  have as low a rate as comparable white families . Against this background , Sweden 's achievement in cutting its infant death rate far below ours can be better understood . Observers familiar with obstetrics in both countries believe the difference is due primarily to Sweden 's providing at least moderately good prenatal care , and care during childbirth , for every Swedish woman . Sweden attempts to overcome the obstetrical handicaps of low-income families as fully as possible . Swedish women workers , for example , receive a cash payment under their employers ' health-insurance plan to help with the costs of pregnancy . Women not covered by health insurance receive cash aid from the government . Those who can not afford the recommended amount of meat , milk or other nutriment get additional government aid . Vitamins and needed medicines are supplied without cost to all pregnant women . Medical and hospital costs are either covered by health insurance or paid by the government . By contrast , many of our Blue Cross , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ childbirth in that their maternity benefits , with few exceptions , arc less than those for illness and surgical operations ; and new babies in many cases are not covered at all in the period immediately following birth , when they are most likely to need costly care . Free prenatal clinics and free obstetrical services are available to many indigent families in the United States , of course . But the quality is sometimes substandard , and the clinics do not reach many women who need them . While it may be true , as argued , that low-income families have too many children , letting their babies die is not an acceptable solution to the problem of too many births . The availability of birth-control information and materials in countries like Sweden and the Netherlands perhaps contributes its mite toward lowering their infant death rates . Our infant death rate would go down if more women limited their families to five or six  --  the risk of loss is quite high after the eighth or ninth  --  and if fewer babies were born to teen-agers , whose relatively immature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most urgent factor in America 's baby loss is the lack of helping hands , both trained and practical . When a woman in labor reaches the hospital , someone should stay with her  --  a nurse or attendant , or her husband . Yet obstetricians glumly concede that in many understaffed hospitals women in labor are left unattended , Sometimes no physician is on hand for the delivery . This is particularly likely to occur in small outlying hospitals at night or on weekends . There simply are not enough physicians to staff all such hospitals around the clock . Published statistics " assume " that all births in hospitals are attended by physicians , but health officials in several states agreed that exceptions are far too frequent . After birth , most American babies are put in the hospital 's newborn nursery for their first few precarious days . The American Academy of Pediatrics publishes precise recommendations for these nurseries . One is that they always have at least one watchful trained nurse on hand , with an extra attendant for each dozen additional babies . Another is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baby . Yet some nurseries have thirty or forty infants crowded into one inadequate room , only intermittently attended . Many hospitals economize on nurses by having no registered nurse in the labor room , the recovery room , the newborn nursery or the maternity ward night after night . Weekends may be even worse . " To determine how good a hospital 's obstetrical service really is , " one obstetrician remarked . " just drop in on Saturday night , " Shorthanded , overcrowded hospitals often send mother and baby home in two days instead of the usual four or five . Very crowded ones keep them only twenty-four hours . " We have too few obstetricians , physicians , nurses and hospital facilities to give even our present crop of 4,300,000 babies a year the quality of service they deserve , " says Dr. Nicholson J. Eastman , president of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists . " But population experts warn us , " Doctor Eastman says , " that we have n't seen anything yet . By 1970 we should expect some 6,000,000 babies a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities even for the present babies handle the population explosion that lies ahead ? " To cope with this overwhelming problem , obstetricians themselves offer several proposals : Expand medical-school facilities to train more physicians ; attract more physicians to obstetrics ; staff hospitals with more nurses who have had graduate training in obstetrics ; and form more obstetrical teams or partnerships , as they can handle more cases than the same number of physicians working individually . One further proposal is a center of current discussion : the use here of fully trained nurse-midwives  --  as in Sweden , the Netherlands and other countries with low infant death rates  --  to attend normal , spontaneous , uncomplicated births . Most American obstetricians oppose nurse-midwives as such , but agree that there is need for more women as " obstetrical assistants . " Nurse-midwife proponents reply that if women are to be limited to the role of assistants , running errands for doctors and handing them their forceps , the outstanding young women so urgently needed will never be attracted to obstetrics . Thus the heart of the problem lies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them assistants or nurse-midwives as you please  --  are to be given . Nurse-midwives are today being trained at half a dozen American medical centers . One obvious solution to the controversy would be to employ graduates of these training programs as members of obstetrical teams in areas where they are so urgently needed  --  and let them demonstrate in action how much responsibility they are capable of carrying . American obstetrics at its best is both excellent and increasingly technical . One subtle new technique for saving babies ' lives is the " fetal heart monitor " developed at Yale Medical Center by Dr. Edward H. Hon , now at Loma Linda University in Los Angeles , and Dr. Orvan W. Hess . If the flow of blood through an unborn baby 's umbilical cord is cut off during labor or birth , the lack of oxygen may kill the unborn infant or cause permanent brain damage . A slowing of ' the fetal heartbeat may be- the alarm signal . Sometimes this slowing can not be detected by stethoscope because of the baby 's position ; often it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is listening . The fetal heart monitor picks up the baby 's heartbeat continuously through electrodes and displays it on a screen or records it . This technique gives ample warning if the blood supply is interrupted . Technical solutions are being found for another cause of infant death springing from " placenta previa , " a condition in which the blood-filled placenta , the organ from which the baby draws oxygen and nourishment before birth , lies so abnormally low in the uterus that it blocks the baby 's emergence . If torn , it often costs the mother much blood and the baby much oxygen . X rays are not always able to reveal this condition in time for a Caesarean or other measures . Hence , a technique is being developed at several medical centers for injecting minute quantities of a radioactive salt in the mother 's blood . This salt promptly reaches the placenta . A sensitive radiation-detecting device is then moved over the mother 's abdomen . Its greatest reaction , naturally , is over the radiating placenta . Thus placenta previa can be diagnosed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than X rays entail . Even while research develops new baby-saving procedures , the old nagging problem of finding manpower , money , hospital and medical-training facilities remains unsolved . In at least thirty-eight communities , notably Seattle , Washington , and Milwaukee , Wisconsin , groups of parents already have organized to improve childbirth conditions . These groups will meet next June in Seattle , as the International Childbirth Education Association , to consider a nationwide program . Obviously there are many things that a lay group can do in this field : Campaign for better obstetrics , hospitals , nursing , training , universal Rh tests for pregnant women , greater maternity and newborn-baby benefits under health-insurance plans , improved pregnancy clinics  --  the list could go on and on . A few of the obstetricians with whom we discussed the formation of childbirth associations shuddered at the thought of lay " interference " with their specialty . But many others were enthusiastic . After all , parents are the cause of our population explosion  --  and it is they who should be most concerned with solving the . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               