@@477849

wALK north from Pennsylvania Avenue through the pulsating heart of Washington 's Negro world . Climb halfway up the hill that lies beyond the hall park and turn about . If your eyes are level with the dome of the Capitol and the top of the Washington Monument , if you see Virginia in the distance , then you 've arrived at the gate of Howard University . The quadrangles of old brick buildings , with new ones scattered nearby , resemble a dozen American colleges . Students scurry back and forth , looking intense or friendly or preoccupied . Freshmen heads are topped with beanies . The co-eds wear styles taken from Mademoiselle . When night faits , they go to rock ' n ' roll parties , work late at the library , or hear some prominent lecturer in a campus auditorium . Except that almost all of them are Negroes , they seem like college students anywhere . But Howard 's look of ivy-covered normality is deceptive . These young people have something special on their minds . They know that the color of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are filled with the sense of a changing destiny . " I 'm in ago , Negroes hardly knew this field existed . Teaching was about the only career open to them , usually in Negro schools . Or maybe the boys could become doctors or lawyers , but only with Negro patients and clients . " There 's still no place in the South for a Negro in my field . The same goes for my by friend , who 's studying architecture . What could he do in Mississippi ? So we 're going North when we graduate . We 'd like to stay near our families . But there 's no room for us at home . " This is the kind of dilemma that sets the Negro student apart . It helps make Howard not only a college but a cause . On its campus is focused the American Negro 's twentieth-century battle for emancipation . The sounds of this battle , audible around the world , make Howard a symbol to peoples , particularly in Africa , who are fighting for human equality . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Nkrumah of Ghana , and Haile Selassie of Ethiopia have all made calls to Howard to pay respects . The tate Patrice Lumumba , on his hurried visit to Washington during the 1960 Congo crisis , insisted on seeing Howard . He called it " the pride of the black race . " To Africans , Howard represents , as the world 's greatest Negro university , a tangible demonstration of what Negroes can achieve . But the 7,200 students at Howard , two-thirds of them undergraduates and more than a tenth from abroad , need no flattery to recognize that the university has a special place in the scheme of things . 52 HOWARD UNIVERSITY They see it as the creator and the mirror of change in the ? Negro community . Take , for instance , the engineering school . When it was founded in 1910 , it offered the first engineering training freely open to Negroes . Its facilities were meager and its accreditation was never secure . Until the eve of World War II , it never had more than a few dozen students . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of successful Negro engineers in the nation , that there was hope of a career in engineering . Year after year , school officials made recruiting forays into the South but applications for admission remained scarce . In 1939 , a far-sighted dean proposed building an engineering school large enough for 125 students . The idea seemed like folly . The war put an end to the discussion but while the plans gathered dust , industry and the armed forces were introducing Negroes to technology . Howard itself , at the request of the U. S. Office of Education , established intensive night courses in the sciences to train men for war work . At first , Negroes held back . But as word spread that jobs were actually available to them , enrollment grew . By the end of the war , Negroes flocked to class . When the plans for the new engineering building , were examined shortly afterward. they were totally out of date . Negro applicants for admission exceeded every previous forecast . A new engineering center was built . not for 125 students but for 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The school has had to hold down enrollment to keep from stretching its resources too thin . In 1949 , the American Institute of Electrical Engineers gave its stamp of approval by authorizing establishment of a student chapter at Howard . More gestures of recognition from the profession followed . In 1959 . Dean Lewis K. Downing became the first Negro named to the executive committee of the American Society for Engineering Education . It was another " first " for Howard to add to a list that ranges from the many triumphs of Ralph Bunche , a former faculty member , to the success of a young graduate student in desegregating the ladies ' room at a Baltimore welfare agency . Large and small , these are the milestones on the road to a new world which Howard has done much to create . Right from its beginning , Howard has been dedicated to the notion that education was the Negro 's chief weapon in the struggle for racial equality . Its founders , a group of Congregationalist churchmen financed by Northern philanthropists , were dedicated to the obliteration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the charter they drew up in 1867 does not mention race . Howard 's first graduates were the children of white faculty members . The university has had as few as one-half of one per cent of white students in 1940 , but it has always resisted efforts , sometimes well-intentioned , to make it legally segregated . Howard people today insist on calling the university " predominantly Negro , " rather than Negro . This is not the rejection of a stigma but an expression of a long-sustained commitment to racial integraLinn and equality . This commitment has given Howard an orientation toward the liberal arts , despite pressure for a more utilitarian curriculum . In the years when Booker T. Washington was belittling the value of liberal education for Negroes , Howard flirted with vocational training . But by World War I , it had reasserted once and for all the dedication to the well-trained mind that its founders imparted to it . DIXIE 'S STEPCHILD H AT its founders failed to impart was a sound financial base . Within a dec-ade , Howard was on the point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Congress . They argued that the federal government . in creating the Freedmen 's Bureau to aid emancipated slaves , had helped set up Howard ; when the Bureau was abolished the university was crippled . Congress responded with an unprecedented appropriation for 510.000 . It was a small sum but it created a unique relationship between the university and the federal government . Each year since . Congress has made a direct appropriation to Howard , known familiarly on campus as " conscience money . " These sums have made Howard , in a real sense , America 's only " national university . " Howard did not , however , become a federal agency . It retained its own self-perpetuating board of trustees and an independent administration . The power of the purse , to be sure , gave Congressmen a wedge to interfere . Representative James F. Byrnes of South Carolina , later Supreme Court justice and Secretary of State , frequently threatened to cut the appropriation in retaliation for some liberal racial view expressed on the Howard campus . Other Southerners engaged in similar harassment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Congressional majority as well as the board of trustees , composed historically of Northern white liberals and distinguished Southern Negroes , have defended the university 's freedom . In the long view , it is perhaps less surprising that Congress sometimes meddled than that it more often paid its money and left the college alone . Howard has , in fact , been far less threatened by racists than by economic conservatives . The Eisenhower Administration , for example , was not unsympathetic but sought to reduce the university budget for reasons of economy . In 1953 , Howard 's friends , including many from the South , had to rally to save its building programs from the budget axe . Howard counts among its friends a large number of Southerners , including many declared foes of civil rights . As would be expected , Northern liberals have been its most /oval supporters . But their help alone would be insufficient . Howard is also backed by the Southern delegations to Congress , whose members occupy the key places on appropriations committees . Southerners have taken a kindly view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not available to them at home . Only a handful of Negro colleges , notably Fisk , Talladega , and Atlanta , and a single medical school , Meharry , offer to Negroes opportunities comparable to Howard 's . Southern legislators are well aware that a Negro who can go to its law or engineering school is less likely to pound on the doors of the state-supported white schools . The fact that more than three-fourths of Howard 's students are from the South gives its officials a powerful argument in pleading for more federal funds . If one of its schools is threatened with loss of accreditation for lack of laboratories or libraries or dormitories , many more Negro students would begin looking for accredited institutions in the South . By siphoning off the restless top layer of the South 's Negro students , Howard helped delay the crisis which has now come to a head from Texas to Virginia . For this , Southerners have been grateful . The small annual appropriation , out of taxes collected from the entire nation , has been a reasonable enough price to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessarily choose noward with any reluctance . Even when welcome at " white " universities , both Northern and Southern youths have preferred it . An attractive Negro girl from New York explains it this way : " Some of my friends go to colleges where there are only a few Negroes . They have no sociM life , no outlet . They definitely lose something . I feel a little sorry for them . " An admissions officer put it somewhat differently . " Mothers tell me , ' I 'm sending my daughter to Howard because of the nice boys in the medical school , the law school , and the engineering school . If I send her to a white college , she 'll lose the most important contacts of her life . ' " " Let 's face it , " said a Virginia co-ed , " you make your close friends at college . Maybe I 'll miss something by not knowing whites better . But live all my life with Negroes and I 'd like to make my friends at the best Negro college . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the best , the elite Negro college , yet not a great university . For its first half-century , it was scarcely more than an exalted secondary school , with an assortment of inferior graduate schools . Lack of money was only part of the trouble . More of a handicap was the impoverished early education of its students . Howard had to teach most of them to read and write before it could teach them chemistry or art appreciation . Its graduate schools were burdened with the yield of Southern Negro institutions that rated as colleges only by the loosest definition . Certifying hoards applied this definition to accredit many of them , because its graduates were cerlain not to cross into white society . But Northern graduate schools paid them no heed . Occasionally a student would he admitted in the North , but only after the most rigorous scrutiny had disclosed that he could overcome his undergraduate deficiencies . Howard could make no such demands . Tacitly it had to concede its inferiority and make the best of it . By the 1920s , however , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be felt . Howard alone had graduated some 12,000 students , most of whom returned to the South to teach . Each generation , handicapped though it was , helped along the next . World War I brought down the first important racial barriers and kindled hopes of destroying others . At this juncture the board of trustees chose an eloquent young preacher from Charleston , West Virginia , as Howard 's new leader . Mordecai W. Johnson , at thirty-six , was the university 's first Negro president and the first born in the South . A graduate of Morehouse , one of the better Southern Negro colleges , he went on for more prestigious degrees at Chicago , Rochester , and Howard . He was a dominating man and an oratorical spellbinder , with the courtly style of a Southern gentleman . His cadences were Biblical , his phrases embellished with Christian verities . But beneath the stately exterior , he was tough . He had big ideas about what he wanted for Howard and he knew how to threaten , cajole , flatter , and persuade to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old administrators who were content to keep Howard small , cliquish , and inferior . After a bitter battle , he ran them off the campus . Then he headed for Capitol Hill . There he made an alliance with Representative Louis C. Cramton of Michigan , who pushed through Congress a bill changing Howard 's annual appropriation from a gift without legal standing to a statutory budget item . The two men then persuaded the Hoover Administration to call a series of roundtable conferences with leaders in Congress and private philanthropy . From them emerged an agreement for the federal government to appropriate $1.1 million a year for ten years , to which the private foundations would add one-third as much . This pact provided the basis for a modern university . By the beginning of World War TI , seven new dormitories had been built , as well as a new library , chemistry building , classroom center , and power plant . After the war , although there was no renewal of the formal commitment , federal support was increased , making possible a new engine-ering school , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and administration , new dormitories , a theatre , and an enlargement of the medical school . Last year , the federal contribution rose to $4.6 million . The pattern established in recent years gives the government responsibility for construction costs and half the operating budget . Howard must pay the rest from income . Johnson has been criticized , particularly by his own faculty , for emphasizing buildings at the expense of teaching and research . He was accused , especially in his later years , of confusing Biblical homilies with the pursuit of truth . He was charged with being narrow-minded and tyrannical . " Mordecai liked to exalt the intellect in his addresses to the students , " one angry professor commented , " but he destroyed morale in the faculty . He regarded Howard as his fief from top to bottom . On the campus , ' academic freedom ' meant submission to his ideas , no matter how wrong they were . " Rarely were such charges made public because Johnson was capable of ruthless reprisals . More than one faculty member who incurred his wrath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resigning . Many suffered from public display of Johnson 's temper . In his last years , the university chafed . The fact remains , however , that when Johnson inherited Howard , only one of its eight divisions was accredited . During his administration , an independent graduate school and a school of social work were founded . The quality of the ten divisions is uneven . A few are excellent , some no more than mediocre . But all are fully accredited . Under Johnson 's leadership the number of Ph.D.s on the faculty rose from almost none to an impressive 40 per cent . Scholars like Franklin Frazier in sociology , Rayford Logan in history , and Herman Bransom in physics achieved national recognition . Papers by Howard professors began appearing in scholarly publications and the university founded three journals of its own . Eighteen honor societies , including Phi Beta Kappa , have established chapters on campus . The master 's degree program was expanded and a limited doctoral program set up in the sciences , the only field in which the university could be certain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best graduate schools and some have made remarkable records in advanced work . The Johnson years were the years when the civil-rights movement was gaining momentum . With the university 's future so much at the mercy of politicians , Johnson could have exercised his iron rule to steer Howard clear of the tumultuous struggle . But instead , lie chose to make Howard lead . His statements on civil rights , though judiciously veiled in scriptural prose , were unequivocal . More than once , he rejected demands from racists in Congress that he desist or resign . Although he did not personally participate in the court battles , demonstrations , and political maneuvers of the civil-rights struggle , he set the tone for those who did . FINDING FLAWS IN LAWS T H E intellectual center of this battle , since post-Reconstruction days , has been the Howard Law School . Here hundreds of discrimination cases were studied and dissected . The school was without accreditation until 1931 , but its students were offered the country 's first civil-rights course and , in its library , the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights into its own as a field in American jurisprudence . A young law student in the mid-1930s could not miss the intoxication . Charles H. Houston , its director , was a great lawyer for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . He and his two closest associates , William H. Hastie and James M. Nabrit , Jr. , went into every area : suffrage , transportation , education , employment . Where the law had flaws , they were determined to find them . They inspired a mood of confidence and attack . In the ! Toward law library , lawyers met to prepare arguments and write briefs . They called for advice from the law-school faculty and from the university 's sociologists , political scientists , and education experts . When landmark cases like Gaines vs . Canada , which struck at segregated education , or Lane vs . Wilson , which challenged voting restrictions , were scheduled , the entire school was mobilized for a " dry run , " to listen and to criticize arguments . On trial days , the school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court . Each year the law school fed its graduates into the civil-rights struggle , waged from obscure local tribunals to the highest court . Men like Thurgood Marshall , Oliver W. Hill , Spottswood Robinson III , and Robert L. Carter , all of whom contributed to the Supreme Court 's 1954 desegregation decision , made such reputations that Howard became known as the " West Point of the NAACP . " After Houston retired and Hastie became the first Negro appointed to the United States Court of Appeals , James Nabrit , the last of the veterans of the early days , became head of the law school . In June 1960 , he succeeded Mordecai Johnson as president of Howard . Nabrit 's appointment delighted the faculty . Long Johnson 's assistant , he was never his disciple . In contrast to his erect and handsome predecessor , he is a small man of unimposing mien , given to somewhat flamboyant dress . His manner is easy , almost shuffling , and he talks in the slack drawl of his native Georgia . But he has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I knew things had changed , " one elderly professor said , " when Jim sent through a memorandum stating that the faculty would lead the academic procession at opening ceremonies last fall . Mordecai always put administrators first . " Nabrit loves the classroom . He insists upon calling himself a teacher , though in his twenty-five years at Howard , he has spent a large part of his time in administration . The first lay president in eighty-seven years , he signals the end of the pious orientation Howard inherited from its missionary founders . The hoard of trustees had to consider objections Congressmen might make to his NAACP ties . But it chose him nonetheless as the man best qualified to give Howard the Goal push in its long drive toward excellence . But this drive , Nabrit cautions , can not be conducted at the expense of the very people it seeks to serve . " The segregated system of life still exists in the South , and to some extent in the North . The university must still concentrate its efforts on educational opportunities for handicapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office . " We shall strive to train the intellect of our students and to imbue them with an acute social conscience . In this way , Howard will become , more than ever , an articulate and sensitive focal point in the civil-rights battle . " Nabrit believes that Howard may some day outlive its usefulness as a " predominantly Negro institution . " But it will succeed in doing so only by crushing segregation with the first-rate men of letters . science , and the arts whom it trains . These aspirations are made necessary , as Nabrit sees it , by the new determination of American Negro youth to make a place in a world until now reserved for whites . The feeling is manifested in picket lines and sit-ins , in which Howard students have played a significant part , and in mounting applications for admission . Another index is the decline in fraternity membership at Howard from half the undergraduates before World War II to about a tenth today . " When I was a student here , " a young professor remarked with pleasure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the big prestige symbol . Now the only fraternity in which students seem interested is Phi Beta Kappa . " NOISIER , MORE AMBITIOUS I N A sense , this new spirit makes Howard 's job more difficult . Its students , until quite recently , were children of a tiny Negro aristocracy . Within a poor and semiliterate society , they were the best prepared for college . In contrast the new students are not an elite group . The halls are noisier since they arrived , an old professor grumbled . But the ones who make the 60 HOWARD UNIVERSITY noise , he added , are usually more intelligent , more ambitious , and have greater potential than their predecessors . " Students with good marks get a lot of respect here , " said the editor of the school paper . " They , not the athletes , hold the student offices . I think that 's because we all understand that we have to be on top to make it . We know , for instance , that if we are tied with a white applicant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to get it . We 've got to be better . " Howard , Nabrit believes , owes this generation an extra effort to compensate for the training it missed . He plans to multiply remedial programs to make up for deficiencies in English , mathematics , and the sciences . Otherwise , he knows , they will be incapable of the first-rate work he demands . Nabrit has set his sights on increasing the scholarship funds tenfold . The opulent days of the GI Bill , which introduced many Negroes to college , are over . Although Howard 's tuition is only about a third that of most private universities , few Negro families can afford the heavy costs of college life . The Kennedy Administration has promised Howard increasing support , but the federal appropriation does not provide for scholarships . To fill the gap , Nabrit believes , Howard must raise an endowment that will yield $500,000 a year . This is no easy matter for a college with few rich alumni . In recent years , however , alumni gifts have been growing . As Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well aware that Howard can not fulfill its mission if lack of money keeps out the students it should serve . RECRUITED BY THE NATION T HERE is a lesson in this . Thirty years ago , Kwame Nkrumah , now president of Ghana , and Nnamdi Azikiwe , governor general of Nigeria , were turned away at Howard because scholarships were unavailable . Both wound up at Lincoln , a small Negro college in Pennsylvania , one of the few that acknowledged a bond between American and African Negroes . Mordecai Johnson was slow to recognize this bond . Like most American Negroes , struggling for status in a white society , he was unenthusiastic about kinship with a continent known for savages and colonial relationships . A few Africans attended Howard each year but until recently , neither students nor administration were very hospitable to them . Several Howard graduates now hold important posts in their native countries . The university missed the opportunity , however , to be counted a major influence in the shaping of the new Africa . But Howard 's special assets in dealing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department goes to Howard to find prominent Negroes for African missions , as well as young recruits for the foreign service . It exhibits Howard to visitors , particularly from t he colored nations , as au example of democracy . It invites Nabrit to its social functions for African dignitaries . It was he , last year , who broadcast America 's salute over the Voice of America when Nigeria became independent . Howard now has the highest proportion of foreign students in the nation . Of the 782 foreigners enrolled last year , more than half were Negroes from the Caribbean and 91 were Africans . But an increasing number of young Asians and Arabs come to Howard . It had 128 students from the Far East and 132 from the Middle East last year . Some nonwhites , sensitive to any hint of segregation , deliberately stay away from Howard . But most say they feel comfortable there , free to pursue their studies , away from the tensions of race consciousness . Nabrit , aware of this asset , has ordered a stepped-up program to attract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , the university expects to enroll more than 900 foreigners from 60 countries . For Africa , Howard is a magnet . Hardly a week passes that Nabrit does not get requests for Howard graduates to set up schools or practice medicine or engineer roads in a new African country . Both the State Department and the foundations look to Howard to widen its African studies program , which is only five years old , perhaps to set up an African affairs center in Washington . In the long view , however , Howard has as much to gain from Africa as it gives . American Negroes are making new identification with a people that major powers once held in contempt but now assiduously court . American Negroes are exulting in Africa 's triumphs . When Sekou Toure talked to a Howard audience of the special mission of " Negroes of all nationalities , " when Lumumba asked Howard students " to serve in the land of your ancestors , " they struck a responsive chord . The power of emerging Africa assures American Negroes of a significant place in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racial discriniination . It charges Howard with a responsibility that is not only domestic but global . 