@@440993

AT cue very moment when the Communist monolith is proving to be anything but monolithic , the Atlantic alliance is fragmented by increasingly severe economic differences as well as political disagreements and military arguments . This should be the time for the nations of the West to move closer together , yet the very opposite is the case in many respects . And because of American dissatisfaction over allied roles in the common military defense and in aid to the underdeveloped world , because of General de Gaulle 's seeming obstinacy in both defense and foreign policy , Washington observers see the danger of a rising tide of neo-isolationism . In short , one thing feeds on another , and in this process the economic factors are highly important . America 's foreign trade has been growing , but not fast enough to match the expenditures in military and economic aid and the outflow of capital plus the expenditures of American tourists . Last year the net deficit was $2.2 billion , and Treasury Secretary Dillon started this year with optimism that the trade deficit would decline . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $3.2 billion , and the expected second quarter rate is around $3.6 billion . Last year 's short-term capital outflow totaled $507 million . The loss on economic aid has been declining as the " Buy America " regulation has been applied to require the recipients of American aid to use most of it to pay for purchases only in the United States . Still , the gold drain , the eventual result of the net deficit in international transactions , continues . And the Administration 's latest move , a proposal to put a sales tax of up to 15 percent on American purchases of foreign stocks and bonds , sent many a foreign stock market into momentary panic and produced cries of help from such important American allies as Canada and Japan . The Pentagon has squeezed here and there and trimmed as well , but it is up against the hard cost of maintaining 600,000 men overseas . There has been some secret soul-searching on whether or not the number of men in Korea or Germany could be safely cut , but each mention of such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaulle 's determination to go his own way in the costly nuclear arms race has added a measure of frustration and brought some calls , especially in the Senate , for offering him nuclear aid so he can build a force which , along with the British one , would permit the retirement from Europe of American forces . This prospect , of course , is strongly resisted by the Kennedy Administration . But the continuing gold loss , complicated by the continuing domestic budget deficits , probably is adding new pressures to cut even military expenses overseas . There has been talk in Washington of schemes to revamp the free world 's monetary systems , just as there has been in Britain and elsewhere . But while President Kennedy has expressed some interest in such ideas , he has taken a " let 's study further " attitude . The noise over chickens The trade problem with the Common Market is beginning to appear as though it will make things worse before they get better . The " chicken war " is only a minor if vastly publicized affair . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one percent of American sales in the Common Market area . Chickens constitute a relatively new export , chiefly to West Germany , growing out of the amazing proficiency of American breeders . The same techniques can and will be used in Europe . But the noise over the chickens arises in large part from the fact that exports have come from the states of such key legislators as Senators Fulbright of Arkansas and Russell of Georgia . It is argued by American trade experts in Washington that what is far mare important than the chicken war is the possible loss of other farm exports to Europe , especially feed grains . Overlooked in De Gaulle 's July press conference was his clear determination to make France the granary of Europe . If the other Common Market countries go along with him , then the prospects are dim indeed for hard-currency farm exports from the United States , and the dollar deficit will continue to mount . In that case , some stiff cuts in American military commitments abroad will become more pressing , or else we will have to limit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coming Kennedy round of trade talks only add to this unpleasant picture . Foreign trade may be much less important to the United States than to other major industrial nations , but it is growing more important each year , especially in an economy still far from making full use of its existing industrial machine or expanding fast enough to produce jobs for the millions streaming into the labor market . It is an unhappy fact that the lessening of East-West tensions since the Cuban crisis a year ago seems to have brought to the surface a mass of problems and pressures within the Western alliance . Some will have to be lived with , chiefly those involving frontal Franco-American disagreements ; but others are subject at least to mitigation by constant , day-to-day effort at working levels of government . No spectacular solutions are in sight . The test-ban treaty Fourteen years ago this October , a deputy undersecretary of state said in a speech , " Basically , what we need is not a new agreement ' but performance on the agreements we already have with the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but execution of the promises already made . " That official 's name was Dean Rusk . In August he went before the Senate to argue for ratification of a new agreement , this one the limited nuclear-test-ban treaty . Changes in the positions of public officials are not unusual . What is striking is that feeling of hope which motivates American society , the belief that somehow a way can be found by negotiation rather than by war to resolve , or at least to alleviate , the great issues which divide the Communist world from the democratic world . There has been vast distrust so long between the two countries which dominate the two worlds that senators can easily be forgiven for being suspicious about a new agreement with the Kremlin . Yet few were able to escape a feeling that in casting a vote the Senate was indeed making the choice which Bernard Baruch described so vividly when he presented the first plan to control the atom : " We are here to make a choice between the quick and the dead . " In the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all three post-war summit conferences , the timid have referred to fears of a national feeling of euphoria sweeping the United States . The American people , whom the politicians extol at election time for their evident good judgment , are pictured at every point of possible East-West agreement as about to be taken in . There is really little basis in fact for such a belief ; certainly , as disappointment has so frequently succeeded the most limited hope , Americans have seemed to be resigned to a continuing cold war . The debate over the test-ban treaty , both within and outside the Senate , showed that the cold war has gone on so long that it has left some very deep scars . The outcries of suspicion and distrust , the search for hidden gimmicks , the insistence of Senator Hickenlooper on finding out " who gets the advantage " all point up this fact . It is far more difficult to re-examine our attitudes than one might think . Distrust of the Kremlin Hence , the course of this new agreement between the two superpowers is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union . Only recently has the general public come to accept the Sino-Soviet battle as having real substance rather than being some sort of sham battle designed to trick the Western world . Indeed , many are still skeptical . This frame of mind , made evident during the test-ban discussion , adds to the already cautious approach by President Kennedy , Secretary Rusk , and other American officials toward subsequent negotiations with the Russians . Nikita Khrushchev 's idea of an East-West nonagression pact finds no more favor with the public than it does in most corners of the State Department . Steps which might help in preventing a surprise attack are examined with a view to finding some hidden Soviet motivation . Khrushchev 's proposal to set up a nuclear-free zone is viewed as an effort to push back American power or send home American troops . There is very good reason to look at all Soviet proposals with a jaundiced eye . In years past most of them have been designed to divide the Western allies or to perpetuate the division of Europe , Yet there has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy Administrations . But President Kennedy marshaled his forces to win Senate approval of the test ban as massively as he might have done had some agreement been under discussion to scrap half the nuclear arms on both sides . The President and his top associates are driven by the compulsion that it is far more dangerous to do nothing . And they believe that the Soviet experience last fall in the Cuban crisis has led to some fundamental reassessment in the Kremlin . Therefore , they are determined at least to search out Khrushchev 's suggestions and to offer some alternatives , chiefly in the field of measures to prevent surprise attack . This determination , however , is coupled with a general feeling in Washington that the Kremlin believes this is a period to go slow ; that the Kremlin believes that in signing the test ban it has lowered world tensions and thus lowered the chance of war , and that that may be enough for a while , If this American assessment is correct , there will be much talk in the coming months between East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete terms . Goldwater 's chances In his analysis of American political parties , James McGregor Burns in The Deadlock of Democracy argues that there are today four parties in the United States : the Presidential Democrats , the Presidential Republicans , the Congressional Democrats , and the Congressional Republicans . This is an analysis which , broadly speaking , is accepted in Washington . What makes it of more than academic interest at this time is the presidential boom for Arizona 's Republican Senator Barry Goldwater . Goldwater fits the Burns description of a Congressional Republican , a man who puts local and state interests ahead of national interests , who wants more to be done by the states and the people and less by the federal government , and whose constituency is limited to one area or state . A Presidential Republican sees his constituency as the whole United States . It was the fate of Senator Robert A. Taft , a Congressional Republican , to lose out to such Presidential Republicans as Thomas E. Dewey and Dwight Eisenhower . The divisions are not so simple as Burns suggests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GOP convention in San Francisco , Goldwater is the admitted front-runner . Will he be the first Congressional Republican to buck the tide and take the prize ? And , perhaps even more important , if nominated , would he continue to be a Congressional Republican or would he evolve into a Presidential Republican ? Of all the issues affecting the choice of a GOP candidate , perhaps the most volatile is the civil rights crisis . The polls uniformly show that large numbers of white Americans feel the Negro is pushing too hard too fast and that President Kennedy is asking more than they would like on behalf of the Negro . Whether this will be the general attitude by election time next year will depend on the outcome of the civil rights battle in Congress and , above all , on the conduct of the militant Negroes , North and South , between now and election day . Goldwater stands to benefit by white disaffection with the Kennedy espousal of the Negro cause , Mood of the Capital In world affairs , Washington is hopeful . The Communist bloc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ East-West tensions . Things are not going well in the Atlantic alliance , but they have not reached a major crisis , either . At home , the economy is moving , but not moving enough . Congress has been stalling ; it is badly divided on many questions . The civil rights crisis is likely to get worse before it gets better . And on top of all this , another presidential election is now barely a year away . Politics is more and more in the air , coloring congressional votes and inhibiting foreign policy . ARGENTINA 'S last legitimately democratic government was overthrown by the military in 1930 . Dr. Arturo 1111a , the country doctor who emerged victorious in the July 7 elections to the relief of all , will now attempt to revive the democratic process in Argentina . At the same time , he must deal with a sagging economy which has virtually hit bottom in recent months . Dr. Illia will face the same political problems which plagued ex-President Arturo Frondizi and led to his removal by the military . Argentina 's middle class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided . The memory of former dictator Juan PerOn continues to exert a hold on the lower classes , The unhappy tradition of intervention by the armed forces and their implacable opposition to Peronism casts a constant shadow over any civilian government . Ideologically , there is not much difference between the major middle-class parties , Dr. IIHa 's UCRP ( Union Civica Radical del Pueblo ) and Frondizi 's UCRI ( UniOn Civica Radical Intransigenie ) . In fact , there had been but one Radical Party until Frondizi precipitated a split in 1957 ' and formed the UCRI . An alliance with the Peronists helped him attain the presidency with 45 percent of the popular vote in 1958 . Peronist disenchantment with his conservative economic policy and Peronist successes in the 1962 elections caused Frondizi 's removal by the military in April , 1962 . In the 1963 campaign , Frondizi , from exile in Bariloche , again sought an alliance with the Peronists , and his decision to support the Frente National y Popular succeeded in splitting the UCRI . One faction joined the Peronists in the Frente @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's presidential candidate . At a postelection UCRI meeting the Alendistas prevailed , and Frondizi has since announced that he will Form another party . The bitter animosity between the military and the Peronists has wearied the country and has created a political vacuum which a strong centerparty could readily fill . Yet the tradition of personalism , which centers political movements around individuals rather than ideas , has persistently impeded the formation of a powerful center party . The Peronists default The Peronist movement is showing some signs of fragmentation after the poor showing in the July elections . The decision to put up an avowed conservative , Dr. Vicente Solano Lima , as the Frente 's presidential candidate aroused the opposition of the political , " soft-line " wing of the movement , and its spokesman , the neurosurgeon Dr. Rail Matera , was expelled from the party 's coordinating council . When military pressures forced Solano Lima to withdraw his candidacy forty-eight hours before the election , Frondizi and the Peronists ordered their followers to cast blank ballots . In previous elections the Peronists had consistently been able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote . However , in the July balloting , the blank votes amounted to a mere 17 percent . It would be unwise to invest too much significance in the low total . Many Peronists voted for Illia or Alende as a reaction against the third major candidate , retired army general Pedro Eugenio Aramburu , who as provisional president after the fall of PerOn led an unsuccessful campaign to root out all vestiges of the former dictator 's movement . Also , it is evident that large numbers of Peronists were tired of remaining outside the electoral process . Of greater importance is the general recognition that the Peronists ' failure to put up candidates for the National Congress and provincial offices was a tactical blunder , for it leaves the movement without any legitimate means of pressuring the government from within . Postelection recriminations reflect the divergence between the moderates and the extremists in the party . But despite these divisions , Peronism continues to exist as a major force in Argentina , The Peronists still constitute the largest single political party in Report on Argentina the country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social revolution Juan PerOn effected in his nine years of dictatorial rule . He was the first political leader to bestow upon the masses a sense of dignity . Both urban and rural workers were made to feel that at long last they were participating in the governmental process . By means of clever demagoguery and extravagant fiscal policies , Perim and his wife , Evita , built up a fanatical following among the lower classes . Some observers feel that had PerOn been allowed to remain in office a few years longer , the inevitable bankruptcy toward which the country was moving might have discredited him in the eyes of his supporters . As it was , the intensive campaign to bring to light all the excesses of his regime failed to detach the hard core of his followers . Frondizi 's austerity program , which put a lid on wages ' but permitted prices to soar , further alienated the working class . When he allowed the Peronists to run their own candidates in the congressional and provincial elections of March , 1962 , they scored a sweeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military . Another factor contributing to the longevity of Peronism has been the ex-dictator 's ability to block the rise of any leader who might rival his hold over the masses . In any future reorganization it will be impossible to divorce the movement from the man whose name it bears . Though policy decisions may be made locally , PerOn as a symbol will remain . Intervention by the military A reluctance to vest full responsibility for civilian affairs in the hands of the Frondizi government led the military to intervene constantly in affairs of state . But direct action was not taken until the Peronists won the March , 1962 , elections , and Frondizi had alienated virtually every political group in the country . Although they have not fought a war since 1878 , the armed forces consume about 30 percent of the national budget , as opposed to 3 per cent allocated to social welfare . One of their functions is to protect the country against internal enemies . The fulfillment of this duty has served as a rationalization for not only direct intervention in civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spurred on by a deep guilt complex stemming from their support of the Perini regime up until the very end , the armed forces overthrew Frondizi and installed the puppet government of President Jose Maria Guido to prevent blatant military dictatorship . Congress was dissolved several months later , and Guido ruled by " decree laws " which were imposed upon him by the military . The state of siege , which had continued in effect from the days of PerOn enabled the executive power to jail people indefinitely at the disposition of the government . Instability soon verged upon chaos as power struggles broke out within the armed forces . In September , 1962 , the " Blues , " a group of moderate army officers led by General Juan Carlos Ongania , wrenched control of the government from the " Reds , " or vehemently anti-Peronist generals , and proclaimed their intention to hold elections which would " assure to all sectors participation in the national life . " Dissatisfaction with the electoral plans precipitated an uprising in April , 1963 , by the Reds and a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blues took a stronger anti-Peronist stand , which caused some observers to remark that they had turned " Deep Purple . " The UCRP electoral platform called for a reduction in appropriations to the armed forces and civilian control over the military . Opposition from all shades of military opinion , including the moderates , will provide formidable obstacles to the execution of these plans . Economic downturn The political turmoil which followed Frondizi 's removal worsened already unstable economic conditions . Frondizi had been pursuing a policy of vigorous industrial development , which demanded an increase in imports . At the same time , he failed to expand the agricultural and livestock sectors of the economy , which account for 94 percent of the nation 's exports . Whether as a result of poor planning or hostility to the oligarchic wealthy who control farm and livestock production , this policy led to a disastrous deficit in balance of payments and a staggering national debt . The full employment and industrial growth of 1961 soon gave way to a recession . In 1962 , Argentina 's gross national product in real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of 1961 . The peso , which had been selling at 83 to the dollar in April , 1962 , dropped as low as 153 . The 1962 trade deficit amounted to $173,400,000 . An overstaffed federal bureaucracy ( 1.8 million government employees ) and uneconomical state-run enterprises , such as the railroads , resulted in a case deficit of about $300 million in the 1961-1962 fiscal year . The country fell further in arrears on both its official overseas and its private debts . In the early months of 1963 , the downward trend continued . One of the few bright spots was the renewal of the 1963 standby agreement with the IMF . This led to similar standby support from the U.S. Treasury , AID ( Agency for International Development ) approval of $20 million in new balance-of-payments assistance , and an Export-Import Bank agreement to expand refinancing of Argentine debts . In addition , the so-called " Paris Club " creditors , which include most of the Western European countries , reconfirmed their earlier agreement to postpone $150 million in debt repayments due in 1963 and 1964 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exodus of manpower from the country . In May , 1962 , the number of visa applications for emigration to the United States began to increase from a level of about 500 per month , and in the first quarter of 1963 they reached a high of 2100 per month . Most of the applicants have university degrees or some technical skills . An unusually large number of doctors are included in the group . Also , the number of Italian nationals who have sought repatriation to Italy has doubled over the past year . Most of these people are construction workers hard hit by unemployment and rising prices . Business confidence returns Satisfaction with both the military 's fulfillment of its promise to hold elections and Dr. Illia 's victory has served to boost business confidence , which had all but vanished in past months . The peso rallied and steadied at 135 to the dollar . Heavy trading marked an upswing on the Bolsa , or Stock Exchange . Buoyed by an increase in exports over the first six months of the year , optimists were predicting a trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hope was also expressed that a revival of the nation 's economy might attract some of the $2 billion in Argentine-held private capital abroad . Rapidly expanding world markets for beef provide a golden opportunity for increasing exports even fur ther . An improved technology , plus a more sensible governmental approach to the livestock sector of the economy , is considered the most effective means of stimulating production . The gap between domestic oil consumption and production , which required the importation of petroleum and was costing the country $251 million , impelled Frondizi to initiate his Reactivation Plan of 1958 . The state petroleum agency , YPF , was directed to extend its exploration and development activi- ties , new exploration and development contracts were negotiated with private companies , and drilling contracts to supplement the working of YPF rigs were granted to private drilling companies . A number of U.S. companies signed contracts under the plan . The production of crude petroleum is now nearing a level of self-sufficiency . Nevertheless , the cry has been raised in various quarters , including the UCRP campaign platform , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The argument is that under the terms of the contracts , which require the private companies to sell all the oil they produce to YPF , payment by YPF must be made in dollars . Because of the drop in the value of the peso , opponents of the contracts contend that it would be cheaper to import . The private oil companies point to mismanagement in YPF , which is thoroughly enmeshed in financial difficulties and is far behind in its payments . Also , they criticize the drilling contracts , which provide for fixed fees and for as many as 1000 wells . In the United States , during oil booms contracts seldom call for more than twenty wells to be drilled and provide for renegotiation as drilling costs diminish . Shortly after the elections , Dr. Illia indicated that he would seek to renegotiate the contracts rather than annul them . His low-pressure personality will serve to advantage in the conciliatory negotiations vital to the economic and political recuperation of the country . It has been said that Argentina is such a wealthy country that it can prosper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years have demonstrated that it can not thrive under excessively bad management . A stretch of good government is long overdue . FIELD archaeology today is a race against time . The threatened submersion of the great Abu Simbel statues of Ramses II by the dammed-up Nile is only the most spectacular example of what is happening all over the world . Greek road machines are cutting through burial mounds old in the age of Homer . The weight of tractors tilling Italian fields crushes vaulted Etruscan tombs hidden beneath the sod . The foundations of skyscrapers in Mexico City root out the remains of Aztec towns . In our Southwest , pipelines trench through the remains of ancient Indian kivas . Everywhere , as populations explode , the archaeologist most rush to keep ahead of the bulldozer . In one year British scientists had to carry out forty-four " rescue digs " as gravel diggers burrowed into prehistoric village sites . American scientists have hastily surveyed three hundred areas in the West about to be covered by reservoir waters . In China , archaeologists are reported hurrying to investigate three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . And in Egypt archaeologists of sixteen nations are working feverishly to explore , record , and remove as much as possible before the Aswan Dam gates close and the entire human record of ancient Nubia is drowned forever beneath the Nile . No wonder the modern archaeologist calls much of his job a salvage operation . Fortunately , he is far better armed than his predecessors . Borrowing not only from physicist and chemist but from soldier and prospector , geologist and botanist , the archaeologist is speeding his work at every step with a wide range of tools . Shortcuts for archaeologists The airplane , for example , has proved invaluable , not only in rapid surveying of remote desert and mountain areas but in placing familiar landscapes in new perspectives . When aerial photography was still young , an alert RAF officer noted strange circles and lines in air shots of the green fields of Hampshire . Investigation showed that these were minute variations in color , visible only from the air , that marked the walls and ditches , the but sites and forts of prehistoric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the surrounding crop and are seen from the air as a lighter line through the field . Plants growing over a buried ditch have more moisture to draw on and appear richer and darker . Such marks recorded by aerial survey have provided a remarkable inventory of human occupancy sites , from Neolithic times to the Middle Ages . When a site has been found , much time and money can still be spent in fruitless digging . To pinpoint productive areas , archaeologists are using a variety of ingenious devices . In Turkey , facing the needle-in-a-haystack problem of locating small stone burial chambers in enormous earth mounds , scientists simply borrowed the familiar well driller 's rig . By drilling test shafts into each mound until they strike stone , an excavating team can locate the chambers without moving hundreds of tons of earth . Italian archaeologists have gone a step further . After drilling through the stone vaults of Etruscan tombs located by surface indications , they drop a camera down the shaft and take a picture of what is inside , thus avoiding the wasted effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex investigation devices make use of the fact that buried objects at a site change the electrical and magnetic environment . Resistivity surveying , a technique used by oil geologists , de-tects buried objects by studying ground resistance to an electric current passing between two steel probes stuck in the earth . A systematic grid of test probes across a site reveals a pattern of low or high readings that tells the expert of walls or ditches underground . High resistance indicates buried rocks ? perhaps an ancient wall , a stone floor , or a tomb . Low resistance may mean a ditch that has filled with earth ? the fill is damper than the undisturbed soil around it . A resistivity survey in Britain is trying to find the treasure King John lost in 1216 when an exceptionally high tide swept the royal baggage train from the causeway across the Wash Estuary , now dry land . Magnetic location , another geologist 's technique , has been applied to archaeological prospecting with particular success by Oxford University scientists . The earth is a huge magnet , surrounded by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needle point toward the magnetic pole . Heating of the iron oxide particles found in most soils often increases their magnetism enough to create small local variations in the strength of the magnetic field . Detection of such changes may indicate an old campfire site or cook oven buried below . Many Romano-British pottery kilns have been found by this means , even though their fires last burned many centuries ago . New methods of dating The earth 's magnetic field can also be used to determine the age of buried objects . Over the centuries , the direction of the field has constantly changed . When iron particles are magnetized by heat , the field direction is locked into the soil . When undisturbed baked clay , as in a kiln , is discovered , analysis can reveal the local direction of the earth 's magnetic field at the time the clay was last heated . Using samples of clay of known date , it is possible to prepare a chart of field variations over the centuries and relate new finds to this time scale . University of California scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thorium and uranium , which occur in most clays , are naturally radioactive , bombarding the minerals around them with alpha particles that distort their crystal structure . If the clay is heated , these distortions are removed , but the bombardment begins again when the baked clay cools . Thus , all the crystal distortion found in the clay must have accumulated after the pot was baked and is a measure of the elapsed time since the potter placed his wet clay in the kiln . The scientist heats a fragment of clay and measures the visible light it gives out ? the energy released as the distortions disappear . Dating by means of the radioactive isotope carbon 14 is even more useful because it can be used on any object of organic origin . Contin- ually formed in the upper atmosphere by cosmic ray bombardment of nitrogen , carbon 14 is absorbed by all living matter , plant or animal , and becomes uniformly distributed throughout the living world . When the living matter dies , the radioisotope gradually " decays " ? that is , turns into other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the isotope found in an archaeological object ? a charred log or a scrap of leather , for example ? compared with the amount found in a comparable living specimen tells roughly how many centuries have elapsed since the tree was cut or the cow killed . Because archaeologists have learned a great deal about the availability of different materials at various times and places in antiquity , physical analysis of the artifact often yields clues about who made it , where , and when . Using the technique of emission spectrometry , the scientist burns a tiny metal scraping or pottery chip with an electric spark leaping between two electrodes . The wavelengths of light emitted show what elements have been volatilized . Or X rays can be focused on a specimen to stimulate inner electron shells of its atoms to emit secondary X rays , whose wavelengths tell the researcher what elements are present . Still a third approach is to X-ray a powdered sample to produce a shadow pattern that reveals the crystal structure of the material , so that the minerals present can be identified . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigators were puzzled at finding Stone Age axes made of rock quite unlike any for a hundred miles around . Checking the crystalline structure of tiny slices from the axes , rock experts were able to identify their structure with rocks found in four different areas of Britain , all remote from where the axes were found . From this they determined that there were at least four " factories " where prehistoric stonesmiths made tools and weapons that were traded across Britain . In another case , analysis of the limestone used in two T'ang statues confirmed ancient Chinese traditions of theircommon origin , despite wide differences in style and in their outward appearance . Processing by computer Much archaeology is concerned with classification of everything from grave sites to bronze axes , to find the geographical and chronological relationships among the people who made them . The ubiquitous computer can do this not only far more quickly but on a much larger scale than could a crew of scientists . Data-processing systems can prepare statistical tables of scores of details ? size , shape , material , decoration ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are commonly found together . This technique , applied by a Cambridge University archaeologist to all the remains left by a little-understood prehistoric society called the Bell Beaker Culture , has revealed how the culture developed after the beakers came to Britain from the Continent about 2000 B.C. With this technological armament and the pressure of events , archaeological research is enjoying a boom , but not every archaeologist is happy about it . Relics are being collected faster than they can be examined , classified , and published , and some archaeologists would like to have all fieldwork suspended for a holiday of perhaps five years . There are experts who fear that their contemporaries may be repeating a mistake of the past ? digging up and in effect destroying evidence that future archaeologists would be far better equipped to interpret , thanks to the continuing development of new scientific techniques . This is a minority view , however . Most archaeologists point out that the bulldozers will not wait for the museum expert to catch up with his backlog of artifacts or to develop new techniques ; the site @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten years from now . And archaeologists are convinced that it is as important for man to know where he has been as to know where he is going . Capsule pipelines Someday we may pump wheat and iron in pipelines across the continent iust as we do oil and gas today . In fact , some pipelines may be common carriers , like railroads or shipping lines . A bold new approach to pipelining , under study by the Research Council of Alberta , Canada , opens up the possibility of sending all sorts of solids through pipes . Although the system is still in the laboratory stage , it could eventually have major impact on bulk transportation methods . Pipeline enthusiasts will tell you that solids have been sent through pipes ever since the forty-niners sluiced their gold-bearing sands . Fertilizers , cement , and ores are being piped today . And in the last few years a hundred-mile coal-carrying pipeline proved so successful that there is talk of long lines to carry coal from Appalachian mines to the East Coast , or from Utah to the Pacific . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the form of a slurry ? fine particles suspended in a liquid . Slurry pumping has high power demands , since the particles must move fast to keep from settling . Separating the liquid and the solid at the receiving end can be difficult and costly , although methods have been developed to burn coal slurry without drying it . And many materials are not suitable for slurry pumping at all because they would be damaged by contact with the carrier . The Alberta scientists propose to overcome these difficulties by sending solid material through the pipe as large slugs or in containers , Separation would be easy . Power requirements would be less . And commodities like wheat or chemicals could be kept separated from the liquid by being carried in disposable capsules ? say , of plastic . The researchers , whose work is supported by the Canadian government , got the idea when they observed water and oil of the same density flowing together through a horizontal pipeline . The oil formed spherical or elongated bubbles in the center of the stream which moved faster than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flow either had no effect on the pressure gradient or even reduced it . Suppose , the scientists speculated , those bubbles were capsules or solid slugs of iron or aluminum . Would they flow through the pipe in the same way ? To fond out , the Canadian researchers built small-scale transparent plastic pipelines in the laboratory , in which they tested hollow cylinders and spheres loaded with lead shot or mercury , and solid aluminum slugs of various shapes . Their bright idea works in the laboratory . Now Canadian industry is reported interested in tests on a commercial scale . Looking ahead , the researchers believe the capsule container would be unnecessary for some products . Preliminary indications are that coal , sulfur , and potash could be mixed with oil or water to form a paste which would be molded into ingots . Metals could be cut as slugs . Since Alberta has both coal and oil to move to market , the Research Council scientists are particularly interested in piping them together , so that everything pumped through the pipe would be payload . The coal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slug form would make it easier to separate it from the oil . Estimated capital costs for the proposed pipelines appear higher than for ordinary pipelines . However , capsules offer a power advantage . Horsepower requirements for pumping high concentrations of capsules ( up to 80 or 90 percent by weight of the pipe volume ) can be sharply cut , as compared with slurries , since the speed of the stream does not have to be kept high to prevent settling . Sheets of capsules The capsule principle appears in different form in a National Lead Company material called Nalcon . The company has developed a process that wraps individual cellulose fibers in a polyethylene jacket , then forms the capsules into sheets on a papermaking machine . The result is a material that is porous , like cellulose , and chemically resistant , like polyethylene . Nalcon is being used for storage battery separators and industrial filter cartridges . Some other materials proposed by the company for encapsulation in sheets are asbestos , carbon black , and glass fiber . A new kind of plastic In recent years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for materials of animal or vegetable origin ? nylon for silk , for example . Now scientists report a development in the other direction ? still only a laboratory stunt , but perhaps a portent of things to come . That lowly form of life , the bacterium , has been put to work making plastic . Rhizobium , which fixes nitrogen in the root nodules of leguminous plants , has long been known to contain polyester particles that may constitute as much as 80 percent of its dry weight . Two chemists at the research center of W. R. Grace &; Company have found a way of extracting the polyester to form a thermoplastic material that can be melted and molded into objects or cast into a film . Since the new plastic has a low melting point ? 178 degrees ? and has no particularly outstanding characteristics , it is hardly likely to compete with the standard varieties on the American market . The Grace Company scientists point out , however , that underdeveloped countries that lack the organic chemicals needed to make commercial plastics might produce this plastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Food-packaging films are suggested as one application . Water bags or wineskins are still used in many parts of the world , and a fancy variety is now offered to some Americans . Milk in six- to ten-quart plastic bags , said to stay fresh longer than bottled or cartoned milk , is being delivered in several cities . In the home refrigerator , the bags are kept in a special dispenser which has a lever-operated spigot at the bottom , eliminating the usual wide opening that may expose the contents to bacteria in the air . Dairies testing the Container Corporation of America innovation report their plastic-bag customers are drinking more milk per family , apparently because it is so easy to pour . LESS than two weeks before the arrival in Rome of President Kennedy on the first of July , Italy had no government and the Vatican had no Pope . Eighty cardinals from all over the world , seated before Michelangelo 's Last Judgment in the Sistine Chapel , were locked in conclave performing the task of finding a successor to John XXIII . Italian politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their party headquarters , were trying to solve the longest government crisis and one of the worst political impasses in the country 's post-war history . It seemed as though Kennedy would step into a vacuum , and there was some talk of canceling the visit . But then , on the same day , June 21 , both gaps were filled ? one very firmly , the other provisionally . The lean , ascetic , able , and dynamic Archbishop of Milan , Cardinal Giovanni Battista Montini , was elected Pope , assumed the name of Paul VI ; and was solemnly crowned in St. Peter 's Square the day before Kennedy flew in . Montini had entered the conclave a favorite . But this did not mean that his election was certain . When the crowd was waiting in St. Peter 's Square fc : the puff of white smoke that would announce that a new Pope had been elected , an old woman in peasant clothes was heard saying , " I want one exactly like John . " A priest standing next to her commented , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sitting in conclave are inspired by the Holy Ghost . They will make a good choice . The important thing is that he shall be a good Pope . " " No , no , " answered the old woman stubbornly . " I want one exactly like John . " This small episode epitomized a much more widespread feeling . Because of both his engaging character and his policies , John XXIII had been more popular than any other Pope in the present century . If the cardinals had deliberately tried to choose somebody who was exactly the contrary of what the old peasant woman expected , they could not have done better . John looked like a peasant , was fat , friendly , easygoing , and full of fun , and had a good sense of humor ; while Paul is thin , aristocratic , reserved , meticulous , and very serious . But the contrast ceases with personality and appearance . In regard to policies , Paul VI made it very clear that he was determined to follow closely in John 's footsteps . Nevertheless , Paul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ XXIII . If he supports and advances most of what John did and said , it is because the ideas of the two Popes had coincided for a long time . When Montini was Archbishop of Milan and Roncalli was Patriarch of Venice , they often exchanged suggestions and impressions . Montini was both an authority in the field of social studies and the leader of the more progressive trend of the Italian episcopate . In those days the future Pope John was a follower of the future Pope Paul . A firm hand in the Vatican On a fundamental question , the Ecumenical Council , Paul VI will not follow submissively the directives of his great predecessor . When John was still alive , the Archbishop of Milan , in a series of speeches and writings , had very respectfully and very diplomatically expressed reservations and criticisms on the way the Ecumenical Council had been organized and was being conducted . He found that the preparation of the Council had been superficial and that there was lacking a general perspective that would harmonize the work of the various committees in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Paul VI will give the committees his own coordinating directions and that the Ecumenical Council will be continued longer than John had planned . Paul VI at sixty-six is a relatively young Pope and hides under a frail appearance a very strong constitution . He has an almost prodigious capacity for work ? from six o'clock in the morning to one or two at night , with intermissions for a very frugal breakfast , lunch , and dinner , and an occasional brief siesta . He is a good organizer , has a good memory , a flair for languages ; and the fifteen years he spent at the side of Pius XII as his right-hand man have given him a complete knowledge of the central administration of the Catholic Church . One can therefore safely say that the Church of Rome is in very firm and competent hands . Political instability The picture changes completely from stability to instability on the other side of the Tiber . Paradoxically , this instability can partly be traced to the policy of John XXIII . For a better understanding of the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1962 , when Signor Amin-tore Fanfani , the ambitious , sharp-witted leader of the Christian Democrat left wing , did his by now famous svolta a sinistra , or " turn to the left . " He became Prime Minister of a center-left coalition which was formed by the Christian Democrats ( 273 deputies ) , by the Saragat Socialists ( 23 deputies ) , and by the Republicans ( 7 deputies ) , and which was supported from the outside by the Nenni Socialists ( 84 deputies ) . Under Pius XII a collaboration , even if not complete , between the Catholics and the Nenni Socialists , who describe themselves as Marxists , would have been inconceivable . But under John XXIII , with his policy of disentangling the Church from politics , it became feasible . The two main aims of the turn to the left were to give the government a wider basis of support both in Parliament and in the country in order to carry out social reforms , and to isolate the Communists by attracting their friends , the Nenni Socialists , into the democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of April this year , it appeared that Fanfani 's gambit had been a flop . The Communists , instead of suffering by isolation , gained one million votes and reached the 25.3 percent mark , which means that of every four Italians , one voted Communist . The number of Communist deputies went from 140 to 166 . The Christian Democrats lost one million votes and dropped from 45 percent to 38.3 percent . The number of their deputies fell from 273 to 260 . This meant that the more cautious and conservative Catholic has been the real power behind the scenes of the Italian Parliament through his tight control over the party machinery of the Christian Democrats . The irony of the situation was that the electoral switch that had driven Fanfani out made it even more necessary titan before to continue in the policy he had inaugurated . The Christian Democrats had lost seats ; the Saragat Socialists , who refuse to collaborate with the right , had increased theirs ; and to form a working majority Moro had to knock at Nenni 's door again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , complicated negotiations with Pietro Nenni , Giuseppe Saragat , the Republicans , and also the leaders of dissident trends within his own party . His aim was to repeat the turn-to-the-left experiment , and this time to involve the Nenni Socialists more deeply in supporting the government and make their divorce from the Communists final . The negotiations were being carried on for more than three weeks , from the end of May until the middle of June , to the indifference of Italian public opinion and press , whose interest was monopolized by the more dramatic events in the Vatican . When it looked as if everything had been settled , quite unexpectedly the left wing of the Nenni Socialists , headed by Riccardo Lombardi , rebelled and threatened to split the party in two if Nenni carried out his deal with Moro . After a stormy midnight debate in the executive , Nenni resigned , but he was later persuaded to withdraw the resignation . He finally decided to postpone all decisions until the Party National Congress in October . Moro found himself at an impasse , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a government . Stopgap government The situation was getting very serious . Not only was Kennedy 's visit approaching ? and it would have been a loss of face to have him come at a time when Rome was without a government ? but also the whole state machinery was threatened with paralysis , since the budget still had to be passed by Parliament and no money could be allocated to the various ministries until it was . The President of the Republic then asked the Chairman of the House of Deputies , Giovanni Leone , to form a caretaker government to last until October , when the Nenni Socialists will make up their minds and clarify the situation . Leone , who is fifty-five years old , is respected for the impartiality with which he has been conducting the debates and is liked for his Neapolitan bonhomie and common sense . Leone was as fast as Moro had been slow . He concluded his consultations in one day and presented the list of ministers to the President of the Republic on June 21 . He formed a Cabinet all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posts and replacing the Saragat Socialist and Republican ministers with experts . Fanfani was kept out , but in any case he probably would not have agreed to be included , since he is waiting for the next round . Leone went to the House and in a short speech made it quite clear that his was just a stopgap , emergency government with no special political ambitions . His program was approved with 255 yeses , 225 nos , and 119 abstentions . This meant that only the Christian Democrats had voted for it ; that the Nenni Socialists , the Saragat Socialists , and the Republicans had abstained ; and that all the others , including Communists , Neofascists , Liberals , and Monarchists , had voted against him . In such precarious circumstances there is not much one can say about the Leone government . It will be necessary to wait and see how the Socialists will jump . But it can be noted that while extreme uncertainty prevails in Italy 's internal situation , its foreign policy is not likely to change . It is a policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integration and the Common Market , on the admission of Great Britain to the Common Market , and on encouraging disarmament , in agreement with Italy 's allies . Italy 's prompt signing of the atomic-test-ban treaty was an example .                     