@@310498

Amid the ups and downs of the Berlin crisis , relationships between Bonn and Washington became flawed . U.S. talk about the need for Berlin negotiations led Adenauer to fear that President Kennedy was prepared to make concessions at German expense . Washington was irked by Bonn 's unwillingness to get down to discussions , and by West German demands for nuclear arms . To make matters worse , Kennedy and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer had never achieved any particular personal understanding . On a visit to Washington last April , the Chancellor appeared unsure of the new President , talked largely in guarded generalities about U.S.-German problems . But last week , during a three-day strenuous trip to Washington , most of the U.S.-German conflicts were resolved . <P> Doing Business . This time , Adenauer came to do business . He spent 13 hours in on-and-off discussions so private that even West Germany 's Foreign Minister Gerhard Schrder was kept mostly in the dark about what went on . After one of Adenauer 's meetings with Kennedy , Schrder approached the Chancellor to ask what the talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My dear fellow , " said Adenauer , " it was a private conversation . If I told you , it would no longer be private . " <P> But the tenor of the talk was clear . Coming to the White House , Adenauer had only vague ideas about what subjects could be negotiated with the Russians , but some very firm thoughts about what ought not to be discussed with them : recognition of East Germany , confirmation of the Oder-Neisse line as the boundary between Poland and Germany , establishment of Central Europe as a neutral zone . To the old man 's delight , Kennedy agreed to keep such issues out of any discussion on Berlin-although they might be considered in future talks on some larger issue , such as reunification of Germany . <P> Both men agreed that the basic Western rights-access to West Berlin , the freedom of the city , the privilege of garrisoning Allied troops there-were not negotiable ; they also agreed to discuss with the Russians some new contractual arrangement that would make those rights less subject to misinterpretation . Privately and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to accept the presence of The Wall as a bitter but ineradicable fact of Berlin life. * <P> A few smaller issues were left unresolved . Adenauer promised to strengthen West Germany 's NATO contribution from eight to twelve divisions ; but he was brusquely turned down in his demand to have some share in the decision to use NATO 's nuclear capability if ever a hot war began . Kennedy suggested that West Germany consider making more economic and commercial contact with East Germany ; Adenauer demurred , on the ground that any further relationship would approach de facto recognition of the Ulbricht regime . The two disagreed on the need for closer ties between West Berlin and West Germany ; Kennedy argued that any further efforts to tie the city to Bonn might stir the Soviets into fresh reprisals . As gently as he could , Kennedy suggested that Adenauer should start to groom a successor ; Adenauer merely promised to think the matter over .                     