@@270645

Despite all the argument , there has never really been much chance that the current Congress would kill the foreign aid program , a keystone of U.S. foreign policy . But there have been grave doubts about what kind of program will eventually be passed . Even longtime aid friends have been grousing about waste and doubtful returns from huge expenditures . The Administration 's plea for long-term aid commitments has angered Congressmen who cherish their annual right to review spending . Some U.S. industries , pressed by foreign competition , are complaining . And the State Department has notably failed to convince Capitol Hill critics that real administrative reform is in the works . Still , last week , prospects for passage of the presidential aid package increased sharply-and some of the help came from unexpected quarters . <P> The outlook began to brighten when Jack Kennedy threw his personal prestige into the fight . He summoned a newly created foreign aid pressure group , the Citizens Committee for International Development ( headed by TWA Board Chairman Warren Lee Pierson ) , to the White House and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the American people . " I consider this bill to be probably the most vital piece of legislation in the national interest that may be before the Congress this year , " said the President . " We can not live in an isolated world . And I would much rather give our assistance in this way than have to send American boys to do it . " Then , all week long , the President invited key congressional committee members of both parties to his office for the Kennedy soft-sell charm treatment . He listened to all their gripes , then argued vehemently that putting the program on a firm base of at least five years is the surest way of improving both administration and effectiveness . He even made certain that such aid foes as Louisiana 's Representative Otto Passman and Brooklyn 's John Rooney were exposed to a soothing sunset on the Potomac by including them in the Mount Vernon reception for President Mohammed Ayub Khan of Pakistan ( see The Capital ) . <P> Pope &; President . Then the protocol-shattering frankness of President Ayub 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program an unexpected boost . After spelling out Pakistan 's groping toward democracy and its dependence on U.S. financial aid , Ayub threatened : " We are pressing against you today as friends . If we make good , I think you will in some fashion get your money back . If we do not make good and if , heaven forbid , we go under Communism , then we shall still press against you-but not as friends . " The " affluent " U.S. , said Ayub , really has no choice : " You have to give it to us because so much is involved . " It was plain talk-a blunt attempt to intervene in what is essentially a private U.S. argument-but it was delivered in cultured British accents , interlaced with humor , and astonished Congressmen broke into long applause .                     