@@310006

FROM Moscow last week came an outpouring of praise for a former President of the U.S. : on the 80th anniversary of Franklin D. Roosevelt 's birth , both Pravda and Izvestia ran memorial articles hailing F.D.R. as the champion of Soviet-American understanding and cooperation . Khrushchev dispatched a warm message to Roosevelt 's widow , praising F.D.R. for " his efforts on behalf of Soviet-American friendship . " A Russian delegation appeared at Hyde Park to lay a wreath on F.D.R. 's grave , and Nina Khrushchev joined U.S. Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson and 250 Russians at a Moscow memorial ceremony dominated by a portrait of the late President . <P> " Capitalist Captain . " Of all the U.S. Presidents who have held office since the Bolsheviks took over Russia , Roosevelt came closest to the Soviet idea of what a U.S. President should be . He won Russian gratitude for establishing diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union immediately after he took office in 1933 ( Democrat Wilson had " intervened " against the new Bolshevik regime ; Republicans Harding , Coolidge and Hoover had refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F.D.R. ambiguous praise as " one of the strongest figures among all the captains of the contemporary capitalist world . " But the Soviet press was generally scornful of the New Deal , occasionally deriding Roosevelt as " a bourgeois politician , " and Roosevelt hit bottom in Soviet esteem when he condemned the Russian invasion of Finland in 1939 and placed a " moral embargo " on U.S. sale of planes and other war materials to the U.S.S.R. <P> After Germany attacked Russia in June of 1941 , and Roosevelt offered the beleaguered Russians " every possible material assistance , " his standing with the Soviets quickly rose . As the wartime ally of Stalin in the fight against fascism , Roosevelt was held up to the Russian people as one of a handful of Westerners who was a true friend of the Soviet Union . At the Teheran and Yalta conferences , Roosevelt turned on the charm to win Stalin 's trust and cooperation ( " I think I can handle Stalin personally better than my State Department " ) . As a result of agreements made at those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cynically broken , the way was cleared for the Soviet Union to take over Eastern Europe . In 1945 , three weeks before the Germans surrendered , President Roosevelt died , and Russians wept openly in the streets . The Communists are highly sensitive about the evidence that Roosevelt became disenchanted with Stalin and Soviet policy shortly before his death . <P> " Sage Observations . " Since Roosevelt 's death , the Russians have often held up his policies as an object lesson to other U.S. Presidents on how to deal with the Soviet Union . And so it was last week . Said Pravda , making the point bluntly : " It would be wise for present-day Western statesmen who assert that coexistence is a trap set by Communists to remember President Roosevelt 's sage observations . "                     