@@478019

IN THE past four years I visited and closely observed more than a dozen colleges and universities in all parts of the United States . My findings appeared in this magazine and in a book , Campus U.S.A. , published last year . It occurred to me that it would be interesting to subject the three service academies ? West Point , Annapolis , and Colorado Springs ? to the same critical scrutiny . Accordingly , last winter and spring I made extended visits to all three academies , where I attended classes , talked at length with faculty and students , and tried to immerse myself , as sympathetically as possible , in the atmosphere of each academy . This and two following articles are a report on how the academies stack up as educational institutions and how well they discharge their responsibility of preparing young men for careers in our military services . I shall also have some things to say , in the subsequent articles , about how they compare with each other and what conclusions may be drawn about service academy education . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other . Like many Americans , I have some distrust of the military , but I accept the importance of our being militarily strong . My own Army experience in World War Tank Destroyers and Military Intelligence ? was not unpleasurable . ( I was that rare bird , the guy from Brooklyn who actually enjoyed basic training in Texas . ) And if I came away with the usual enlisted man 's disgruntlement about officers , I also took pride in many aspects of my experience . It is not easy to get at bedrock reality about West Point , for it is obscured both by its own self-infatuated rhetoric and by the sullen dismissal it sometimes gets as simply a nasty Sparta . The myths about West Point are tenacious . Some people think it is an engineering school . ( Indeed it was ? the first in the country , founded in 1802 ? but it has not been one for a long time . ) They see the cadets as little tin soldiers all stamped from the same base metal . ( There is a West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but with lots of variations within the mold . ) Many Americans regard West Point training as lockstep education designed to create a narrow , Prussian officer class . ( The truth is that the Point is almost Faustian in its educational aims : In four incredibly crowded years , it is trying to shape a managerial elite , intellectuals , rugged athletes , technologists , and , above all , heroic centurions . ) Passionately conservative by tradition , West Point is caught in the social and technological revolutions of our time , and is rousing itself from a deep dream of the past . Officers and cadets sometimes sound as if Sylvanus Thayer , the great creator of its educational tradition , still walks the halls of the Academy . But the old days are gone ; West Point now confronts a world in which traditional military pieties must somehow coexist with such strange apparitions as managerial techniques , outer space , emergent nations , nuclear power , and the new vogue of public relations . But when one visits West Point , it is the venerable that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The past is everywhere ? in the museum full of trophies of war , in the monuments and antique cannon that dot the campus , in the great names ? Lee and Grant , MacArthur and Eisenhower ? that haunt the corridors . And the cadets-2,500 strong ? are brisk , trim , militantly purposeful as they hurry to class , or double-time to the athletic fields , or hang up their caps and coats in impeccably straight lines in Thayer Hall ( " the easiest classroom building in the U. S. to clean " ) . Their saluting reflexes are sharp ; their eyes comb the terrain for every passing officer . Formidable in a group , they are not all imposing physically , though there is little doubt that they toughen up impressively during their four years . The minimum height is only 66 inches , and even this can be waived for a really first-rate candidate ; many boys wear glasses . Though the cult of manhood is sometimes overpowering , the cadets sometimes look like vulnerable schoolboys . But if West Point is a college ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fully accredited ) , it is a unique institution with a unique mission . The word " mission " is ubiquitous at the Point ; it is a little startling to hear it applied to such unwarlike matters as the teaching of 1 he semicolon or introductory French . West Point 's traditional mission is to turn out career officers in the United States Army . By law , grahlnates must serve four years , though up to 12 per cent may choose another service and about that many choose the Air Force . As a military academy , it necessarily stresses such virtues as courage , honor , and loyalty in the most uncompromisingly old-fashioned way . On the other hand , as a modern college , it provides instruction in the humanities and social sciences ( 40 per cent of the curriculum ) and in science and engineering ( 60 per cent ) . Academy officials try to unite these purposes by talking about " the whole man concept , " though this once-fashionable notion has been jettisoned by more sophisticated educators . Civilian educators are now more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a narrow focus ? than in a pallid well-roundedness . It is only fair to point out , however , that given the Army officer 's varied functions , such specialized zeal may not be realistic . The real question is : How well does West Point prepare its graduates at a time when Army officers are no longer garrison polo players or punctilio-ridden members of a leisure class but hard-pressed public officials in a dangerous time ? HOW AND WHY THEY COME W HO goes to West Point ? There is the old canard that the United States Military Academy is a school for the sons of upper-class families which have fallen on dark days ? a free education for the needy rich . That is no longer the case , if it ever was . West Point is becoming increasingly representative of the entire country in contrast to the old days when it was largely rural , Protestant , and upper-class . Today one-third of the cadets come from lower social strata . It is fair to say , as Morris Janowitz suggests in his excellent study , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an avenue of social mobility for those of lower social origin and from newer immigrant families . " Nevertheless , over 50 per cent of the cadets come from families which have been in America for at least three generations ; about 75 per cent from families whose origins are in the British Isles , Ireland , and Germany ? a far higher proportion than in the population at large . Although the percentage of Catholics used to be small , it is now proportionate to the numbers of Catholics in the U. S. , as is the case with Jewish cadets . Negroes are strikingly under-represented , but there is reason to believe that the percentage will increase in time . About 20 per cent come from service-connected families , but only about 6 per cent of the Class of 1966 are sons of alumni . A third have had some previous college experience or are service competitive appointees ; these are a bit older than the usual college freshman . What sort of boy chooses West Point ? A recent study reveals that cadets are distinctive in that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline at home as more strict than lenient . Obedient at home , active in extracurricular activities , regular churchgoers , they might be summed up as bright , dutiful boys with a conventional cast of mind . Why do they go to West Point ? Out of a complicated web of motives , it would appear . For many it is the desire to serve , for others it presents career opportunities , and for still others there is the ancient dream of military glory . Most of the cadets ( 86 per cent ) are admitted as regular Congressional appointees . Each Senator or Representative is entitled to have fourmen attend at any one time , and he may nominate four candidates for each vacancy . The top man , in order of his preference , who qualifies for admission is accepted . Lately , however , an increasing proportion of Congressmen have permitted the Academy to do the screening of their nominees and determine their admission order . Naturally . the Academy prefers this arrangement . Candidates for the 14 per cent of competitive appointments are chosen from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Force , honor military and naval schools , sons of deceased veterans , and Presidential nominees . Not unexpectedly , a recent study revealed that in the Class of 1965 the attrition at the end of Plebe year was 25 per cent for regular Congressional appointees but only 16 per cent for competitive appointees . How good are the young men admitted to West Point ? They are surprisingly good . They do well in terms of College Boards , with higher verbal scores than freshmen in good engineering schools and higher math scores than freshmen in some of the elite liberal-arts colleges . Moreover , in high-school achievements , the Plebes remind one of a Harvard freshman class . In the current Plebe class , 77.9 per cent were in the top quintile of their class , 14 per cent were presidents of the student body or of their class . Candidates are chosen on the basis of their academic achievement ( a weight of 60 per cent ) , physical aptitude ( 10 per cent ) , and leadership potential ( 30 per cent ) . " We 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is not all egghead and not all football player . But we try to avoid the well-rounded man who is all radius . " To get the best students , Army officers , West Point alumni , and even cadets on holiday proselytize zealously in high schools throughout the country . These recruiters must defeat all sorts of notions about the Academy including the idea , often expressed by high-school guidance counselors , that " you need a pass to get into the post . " West Point , in fact , is a national monument open to all ? especially to teachers and guidance counselors . STUDYING UNDER THE GUN T H E academic load , by conventional standards , is awesome . Most cadets have about twenty-nne hours of class each week , plus athletics and two hours of military training . ( The bulk of their military training has now been shifted to the summer , and there are only five close-order drills a year . ) The pressure they are 54 WEST POINT : A NEW BREED under is intensified by the stiff discipline of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " an officer summed up . Mathematics is particularly heavy ( eight hours a week during Plebe year ) , and the academic dean , Brigadier General William W. BesseII , Jr. , remarked that there seems to be a direct relationship between success in the service and proficiency in mathematics . West Point officers are quick to point out , however , that cadets take more courses in the humanities and social sciences than is generally the case at MIT or among science majors at Harvard . The curriculum , which has been under continual scrutiny , was reorganized during the last two years . The standard curriculum is essentially unchanged , but electives have been added in such areas as advanced calculus , the novel , foreign languages , national security problems , and automotive engineering , ( The last course is popular among near-graduates who want to know what 's under the hood of the cars they have recently been permitted to keep on the Post . ) New courses have also been introduced into the prescribed curriculum , most notably Environment , a fusion of space science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cadets call it all this and heaven too . " ) All first-classmen ( seniors ) are allowed to choose two semester electives but many cadets ( 46 per cent last year ) enrolled in at least one subject other than the standard course . There is a distinct possibility that in time cadets will actually have major fields in the fashion of civilian students . The virtues of West Point 's teaching methods have been hotly debated . In essence , the Thayer philosophy calls for small classes , homogeneous grouping maintained by periodic resectioning , limited lecturing , daily " classroom participation , " and frequent quizzes . In its pure form , the Thayer system requires that every cadet be graded every day in every subject . This , however , has been more an ideal than a reality . And there is considerable recession from the early ardor of the Thayer system . " The cadet is expected to participate ? please do n't use the word recite ? in every class , " Major General William C. Westmoreland , West Point 's Superintendent , explained . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't cut class at West Point ; they are under constant appraisal and vie with each other for pre-eminence . As one officer put it , " There 's no place to hide , no girls to look at . " It 's impossible for a cadet to goof off for a month or two and then buckle down to work ? a common enough practice among civilian students . On the other hand , Academy teaching methods have been criticized as rigid and atomistic . The Thayer system is predicated on the idea that subject matter can be broken into neat little units on which all students can recite with clarity and precision . ( It is no accident that programmed learning , which shares many of these assumptions , is under consideration at West Point . ) But the chief quarrel with instruction at the Academy has to do with the teachers , of whom two-thirds are Army officers . FACULTY : THE SHORT TOUR H F standard criticism is that the instruc- torsare essentially amateurs , inadequately trained , whose methods are designed to camouflage their ignorance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top . a corps of twenty-three permanent professors serve as heads and deputy heads of departments , and an Academic Board consisting of fourteen department heads and the Superintendent sets academic policy . Under them , about two-thirds of the teaching staff arc West Point graduates . Most of the rest are Army officers both Regular and Reserve ; a few are Air Force officers . Almost all the instructors have had at least two years of graduate study ? the time allotted for the master 's degree ? and are usually assigned for a four-year tour of teaching . Because many of the instructors are inexperienced , they plan their lessons in groups , developing a standard approach but with some allowance for legitimate intellectual divergencies . Teaching at West Point is considered a valuable part of an officer 's career pattern , since one way or another officers spend at least one-third of their careers either studying or teaching . Still I was startled when I realized that the " union card " a West Point official talked to me about was the master 's degree ( usually an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth is that by conventional academic criteria ? degrees , publications , academic honors ? the West Point faculty lags far behind that of a good civilian college . The credentials lineup for the current year is as follows : In a faculty of 358 , 93 have only bachelor 's degrees , 251 have master 's degrees , and only 14 have doctorates . " Let 's face it , " a department head argued . " We ca n't get distinguished scholars . They 're interested in teaching graduate students . And can we meet the competitive pressure from Stanford ? " To be sure , there are some productive scholars at West Point ? notably , Colonel V. J. Esposito , author of The Atlas of American Wars , and Colonel George A. Lincoln and Colonel Russell K. Alspach , chairmen of the Departments of Social Sciences and English respectively ? but they are a tiny minority . Almost entirely lacking are the " great men " of our best universities who become a kind of legacy from one generation of students to the next . Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The short tenure , it could be asserted , is not a disability but a blessing . West Point teachers come in fresh and maintain a high level of enthusiasm during their short tour . The conference method and the standardized units insure a minimum level of competence . " How much do you have to know to teach a basic course anyway ? " an officer asked testily . ( The answer , of course , is a good deal if you mean to teach it well . ) Though West Point instructors are often only one step ahead of their students , there is little of the indolence that afflicts some civilian professors . ' The students at West Point have a light in their eyes , " a visiting professor observed . " They have n't been taught by disillusioned professors . " In truth , the cadets prefer officer-teachers , for they are members of the same fraternity . Finally , the welfare state aspects of Army life have their advantages . " You do n't see our people shopping for jobs at scholarly conventions , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worry about finishing a dissertation or writing scholarly articles that no one reads . And they do n't have to brood about finding a house or about medical expenses if their wives are having babies , " The faculty at West Point is far removed from the stereotype of the military martinet . Genial , courteous , and manly , they are eager to please , eager to be understood . One of their small idiosyncrasies is the alacrity with which they brief the visitor ? even in corridors ? fully accoutered with charts and pointer . They have humor but little irony . With some exceptions , they arc not nearly as vigorous intellectually as the faculty of a first-rate college . The exceptions certainly include the group in the Department of Social Sciences , a number of whom are Rhodes Scholars like their boss , Colonel Lincoln . In the course of my visit I attended a number of classes . Cadets no ' longer stand at attention when they recite . After the section leader salutes the instructor and reports , the cadets settle into the usual relaxed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere is the " sir " prefixed to every response . The charge of rote learning notwithstanding , the classrooms have a fair measure of vitality . An officer explained : " The cadets ' individuality is expressed there . That 's where their minds are sprung . " Along with the inescapable conformity of the military role , there is a certain premium placed on aggressiveness and daring . Consequently , the classroom is often the scene of considerable intellectual carnage . General Bessell , the academic dean , explained : " We deal more with grays than with blacks and whites . Our writs written exams. are the discussion type , and there is often no approved solution . " Nevertheless , the shadow of weaponry inevitably falls across the curriculum . The cadet never forgets that though he is a student , it is with a difference , The word mission springs naturally to his lips . Reciting , he will say : " Sir , I am called upon to solve the following problem . . My method has been . . . My results are . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was assigned in which the cadet was to hypothesize that he was the special weapons-effects officer in an area subjected to atomic attack . His mission was to determine how much time should elapse before troops could safely be moved through the area . Naturally , the cadets vary greatly in ability , Colonel Alspach , who was a civilian professor at the University of Pennsylvania , remarked : " The best arc likc the best everywhere . The worst are a little better than the poorest ones at Penn . " Whatever their intellectual merits , 1 must confess that interviewing cadets was something of a chore . They were all so painfully polite and yet so refractory . Though I deplore naive strictures about the " military mind , " there was a deadening uniformity about their responses . Disciplined , correct , mindful of the proprieties , they all gave me what one of the officers wryly called " the party line . " ( The student officers . in particular talked as if they were in training for the Superintendent 's job . ) There was little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind that made talking with students at Harvard or Swarthmore such fun . My job was complicated , also , by the fact that I never really had the run of the place as I did at civilian institutions . Even a casual visitor , in that ambiance of saluting and soldierly deference , begins to feel that he is under discipline . is there an intellectual culture at West Point , or is the very idea inconsistent with the Academy 's mission ? There arc extracurricular activities of a mildly intellectual nature . A good deal of high-echelon talent , both military and civilian , debarks at the Academy for lectures . One gains the impression , however , that the cadets in the main are vocationally oriented and that intellect is regarded as an embellishment they will finduseful in the wide , wide world . As one cadet expressed it , " It 's the theory here that you should be well-rounded . We will meet more people later on who know Plato than nuclear physics . " Each cadet loom is required to get a daily newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Time is the most popular , Newsweek trails behind , and a few cadets subscribe to The Reporter . Consider the influence of the following on a cadet 's reading habits . If he wishes to display in his room more than the authorized number of magazines , he must request special permission of the inspecting officer ( " I request permission to display these periodicals since I intend to use them in connection with SCUSA , my English elective , and social-science monograph requirements " ) . The recent visit of the late William Faulkner to West Point was highly revealing . In preparation for his lecture , every cadet scheduled to attend spent two weeks reading Faulkner for English and had thought out one solid question to present to the writer . As it turned out , the novelist was " pleasantly astounded " by the literary performance of the cadets . ' ' THE TOUGH GET GOING " D ESPITE a few fervid proponents of the intellectual life on the faculty , one comes away feeling that the humanities and social sciences have a position of dull respectability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the academic curriculum is on the scientific side . But it is in the realm of athletics that one encounters a genuine ardor . The cue for passion was provided by General Douglas MacArthur when he was Superintendent . His words are emblazoned on a gymnasium wall : " Upon the fields of friendly strife/ Are sown the seeds/ That , upon other fields , on other days/ Will hear the fruits of victory . " The current champion of the strenuous life at West Point is Colonel Frank J. Kobes , jr. , the director of physical education . A genial but impassioned giant , superbly well-conditioned himself , he strides about his domain of sweat in a small fury of messianic fervor . He has publicly scolded the " Space Age child " ( " overfed , overweight , and underactive " ) , assailed the Space Age curriculum ( " loaded with abstract intellectualism " ) , and argued that West Point is not getting more bookish boys ? " We 're making them more bookish ; we 're succumbing to academic hysteria . " The chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every cadet must turn out physically qualified for ranger and airborne training . The athletic program , also designed for this goal , is threefold : training in sports , varsity athletics ( not under Colonel Kobes ' rule but under the Director of Athletics ) , and an elaborate system of intramural ( interregimental ) competition . Along with rugged contact sports , long-haul gentlemanly activities for aging officers ? golf , tennis , and squash ? are also provided for the cadets . Every cadet who is not on a varsity team participates actively in any of eighteen sports . And they mean business . The boxing room has a motto : " When the going gets tough , the tough get going . " Each team is professionally garbed , and the array of equipment in the gymnasium is stupendous . ( The library , though reasonably good , does not achieve such a level of excellence , but a new library building is under construction . ) The rationale for varsity athletics , including Big Football , is that it builds fighting morale and serves as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ microcosm of battle . ) There is no polite palaver about sportsmanship . MacArthur 's stiff-backed dictum ? " There is no substitute for victory " ? defines the West Point ethos . A fresh-faced lieutenant on the stall of the Commandant said to me when I turned up for an appointment , " Sir , General Stilwell is tied up at a meeting of the Athletic Board . " He then added in the kind of sepulchral voice in which no doubt the fall of Dien Bien Phu was announced to the French General Staff , " You know , sir , we lost the Navy game . " West Point officials deny that football players are a privileged class . Since everyone at West Point is , in effect , on scholarship ( each cadet receives $111.15 a month in addition to a ration allowance ) , the inducements are obviously not monetary . Nor is there any exemption from military and academic obligations . The faculty , however , has its many die-hard football partisans and . as elsewhere in the football leagues , some are probably indulgent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? A T Fl LETICS is merely one facet of a far-reaching military training program . Though actual training in tactics and weaponry takes place during the summer period , the cadets live a regimented existence all year round whose purpose it is to instill in them the qualities of command . It is the " top " man militarily who commands the Corps of Cadets each year . This , of course , is the West Point of legend ? the flawless ranks on parade , the remorseless inspections , the high gloss of their appearance , the snap and precision of their movements , the inviolability of their honor . To the outsider , it provides a glimpse of a strange , almost medieval world ? proud , curiously insulated , hostile to change . But the chill winds of change arc blowing . To be sure , " beast barracks " ( Plebe summer preceding the first year ) is traumatic and still separates the men from the boys . Upperclassmen , as they have in the past , harass and badger ; the Plebe throws as grotesque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions . ( Q : How is the cow ? A : Sir , she walks , she talks , she 's full of chalk , the lacteal fluid extracted from the female of the bovine species is highly prolific to the nth degree . ) But physical hazing was outlawed forty years ago , and psychic abuse must serve the ends of training . When one considers the playpen that adolescent life is today , the West Point regimen seems a small epic of deprivation . During his first year , the cadet leaves the post only with freshman squads for games , singing , or debate , never alone . The old dictum ? " no horse , no wife , no mustache " ? still holds . " It 's better to sire an illegitimate child than to marry and violate West Point regulations , " one cadet said earnestly . The regulation states that cadets will not be , or have been , married ? about fifteen a year resign to get married . Cadets still listen in stricken silence 58 WEST POINT : A NEW BREED @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poop-deck of the di ninghall . Being a cadet is no joy , but it is satisfying . A football player said : " West Point is a good place to be from . But if I had to do it all over again I would . " Another Plebe earnestly mirrored the NVest Point mystique : " Duty , honor , country the West Point motto ? that 's what holds us together . You can look at a man and tell if he 's West Point . He stands up straighter , he speaks more forcefully , he looks better . Just look at his belt buckle ? it 's always properly lined up . " The conservative principle was enunciated in reverberant tones by General R. G. Stilwell , the Commandant . A robust-looking , articulate man of forty-five , with an impressive military record , he declared : " Rather than say that the requirements of West Point have changed , we might say that they have become more extensive . Nothing that has come down through the years has been invalidated . The soldier 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert E. Lee to the present ? has been to fight his country 's battles . " General Westmoreland , the Superintendent , equally military in hearing and a brilliant combat leader , reflects in part the new managerial orientation of the military establishment . " Coming back to West Point after twenty-five years , " he said , " I find that the fundamentals that we value so highly are unchanged . However , our discipline is not martinet-like . It 's enlightened discipline , and we evaluate it constantly . " " Enlightened discipline " is the new motif , and the tactical officers ? traditionally tough guys ? are now both disciplinarians and guidance counselors , well-schooled in pupil-personnel problems . And the cadets ' manuals on military leadership and psychology are full of such current pieties as the following : " Thinksmanslrip then is corollary to Leadership . " Social life in this double-time milieu is minimal but it does pick up during the last two years . Cadets may not drink within fifteen miles of the post , but in a recent innovation first class-men ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Officers ' Club or in officer-sponsors ' homes . They may also learn to dance ? sometimes with live girls rallied from such sources as daughters of Post personnel and students from nearby girls ' colleges . The cadets see themselves as socially underprivileged but fully expect to make up for their deprivations . One cadet insisted that girls are generally curious about what 's " behind that little gray suit . " Indeed , they are . Mrs. Beatrice E. Holland , the West Point Hostess , revealed that she receives countless letters from girls eager for blind dates . In a typical date , the cadets meet their " drags " after the 2:00 P.M. parade on Saturday , go to an early evening movie , and then to the cadet hop . The more sophisticated the gill considers herself , the more critical she is likely to be of cadets . A girl from Briarcliff Junior College commented : " They 're healthy , normal boys except that they 're neater and stand lip straighter . " A group of Vassar girls , however , were full @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " said one , " that when they get you alone , watch out . " Another said : " They 're nice but , from our point of view , limited . " In any case , they have no difficulty finding mates , including a fair share of Vassar girls . Many marry immediately after graduation , and the marital scramble is so intense that cadets must draw for after June week wedding times at the Chapel . ( " I 'm not rushing into things , " one cadet said jauntily . " Well wait three days . " ) ARE THEY PREPARED ? A N Y assessment one makes of West Point cadets is likely to be difficult unless one is either foolish about " the long gray line " or a rabid antimilitarist . I am neither . Certainly at a time when adolescent culture is often an untidy , hedonistic reservation , the Corps of Cadets seem trim , upright , and attractive . Emerson 's reaction in 1863 , when he spoke of their " air of probity , of veracity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is possible that the very virtues of the cadets may be a disability . In our undisciplined times , they have a sense of estrangement from the main currents of American life . Though their curriculum is continuously updated , ma ny cadets ? especially the cadet officers ? would like to see things tougher . Their attitude toward the tight , quasi-clerical collar of their dress uniform is characteristic . " It 's uncomfortable , sir , but you get used to it , " a cadet said with his friends assenting . Their own commitment makes them hostile to segments of society that they feel are spoiled . They have a lofty disapproval of young people today ( " soft , selfish , egocentric " ) , see themselves as an idealistic elite , and identify with the new managerial class . I encountered a dark suspicion of trade unions . " Unions have a much narrower perspective than management , " a cadet said . " Therefore , they should n't have the power they 're beginning to acquire . " Some cadets were outraged that electricians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than second lieutenants . But the pivotal question about West Point is how well it prepares cadets for the infinitely complex tasks they will face . There is no doubt that the Academy succeeds in inculcating the traditional military virtues and in shaping high character in the best old-fashioned sense . ( And this I consider a good thing , for middle-class life today has a dismal way of flattening down such traditional attributes as courage and honor . ) The training cadets receive is better and tougher than in the past , and West Point officers make excellent combat leaders . But at a time when the military establishment 's task is to deter war , not to wage it and , when waging war , to contain it , one wonders if the traditional arrangements still make sense . Indeed , an excellent statement of this purpose was made by General Stilwell ( then Colonel ) talking to the Class of 1960 . " In the second half of the twentieth century and beyond , " he said , " the military instrument will fulfill the noblest measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-course to bloodshed . . . , Nevertheless I was startled at the pre-nuclear consciousness of both officers and cadets . There seemed to be a striking failure to recognize that warfare has entered a radically new phase with the introduction of nuclear weapons . It was hardly reassuring to hear again and again that nuclear weapons are simply " another member of the weapons family " or that " people were also disturbed when the crossbow was introduced . " Though it is true as General Stilwell asserted in a speech to cadets , " you ca n't use beatniks in this game , " it is equally true that for the new officer a high premium must be placed on intellectual sophistication , cultural maturity , and the ability to handle political and military ambiguities , The old martial virtues , admirable as they were , are n't enough any more . The fact is we live in a topsy-turvy world in which we have developed weapons we may not use and in which the typical military engagements arc small-scale brushfire wars . In these conflicts ? and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian has broken down . If we are to succeed in Vietnam , for example , it is absolutely indispensable that we win the support of the local population . This is not a matter of military tactics or logistics but rather of achieving rapport with people very different from us and persuading them that we should stand together . It turns out that Anthropology ? a course which is not offered at West Point ? is at least as relevant these days as Ordnance Engineering . This brings us back to the educational program at West Point ; for it is in the classroom , not on the playing fields , that today 's officer must be created . Here the verdict is negative . Academically , West Point is a second-class college for first-class students . The limitations of the program can be summed up in this fashion : The faculty is n't good enough . The students are overloaded and have little or no time for the kind of contemplative activity that alone can make an educated man . The program , by virtue of its military coloration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is awkward to encourage the habit of unquestioned obedience on the one hand and intellectual freedom on the other . And one may well quarrel with the puerile emphasis on Big Football and the time-consuming rituals of the Plebe Systeitt . The Army is not unmindful of these questions , as new developments at West Point suggest . The ratio of doctoral degrees of the faculty is likely to increase soon . Moreover , there is an emerging academic professionalism in the Army . It is estimated that 60 per cent of the Class of 1961 will get master 's degrees in civilian graduate schools in a variety of fields . But it is the spirit that is ultimately crucial . The old garrison segregation is dead ? never to be revived . The vexing question persists : How much of the old garrison education is still alive ? 