@@494593

We Need the Pastore Bill seven commissioners voting affirmative and one negative ) in the Boston WHDH case and their outraged denunciations of the Pastore bill . In WHDH the Commission , overturning its practice of decades - a practice upon which the economics of the broadcasting industry has been built - decided that a broadcaster 's license would be up for grabs every three years ! It is true that the Communication Act of 1934 as it was drafted would support such a reading - licenses are renewable every three years . But the understanding of Congress manifested in many ways and the consistent practice of the Commission has been that if a licensee behaved itself it would be renewed . In WHDH there was no finding that the licensee had misbehaved or that its programs were deficient ; simply a determination that a competing applicant was preferable because WHDH was owned by a newspaper and it was not . The objective of diversifying the media is absolutely sound , and in an initial contest for a license there is a valid basis for preferrng an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided on the basis that it was in fact an initial licensing proceeding . The Commission has since indicated that the case is a special one not to be taken broadly , Arguably , this makes the Pastore bill unnecessary . ) But to license a newspaper-owned broadcaster and then after the investment is made to forfeit it to a newcomer is inexcusable . It is inequitable and functionally unsound . The obvious riposte was the Pastore bill , which provides that if a licensee has fulfilled its obligations it is entitled to be renewed . Yet The New York Times and The New Republic ( " Pastore 's Pet , " October 25 , 1969 ) have denounced the Pastore bill . They have resorted to the amazing analogy of an election for public office . An officer must run for reelection , they ask , why not a broadcaster ? And why not the New York Times or The New Republic7 Scribners ? the theaters ? the moving picture houses ? Oh , but the broadcasters are using the " public airwaves . " Well , The New Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privilege . However , the whole argument is irrelevant . The function of broadcasting is communication and the question is whether a communication industry financed by private capital can be run on a three-year basis . Once the question is asked it appears to be almost rhetorical . We may have to face the irony that what we now need is precisely something like the Pastore bill , That bill forbids the Commission to consider new applicants unless it first finds that the present licensee has failed to measure up to its responsibilities ; the Commission is required to pinpoint the licensee 's failures . Without such a bill , the licensee must compete with new applicants , so that he can be defeated on a merely comparative basis . His rival may freely improvise what is needed to establish that his future performance will be superior . Thus , the Commission would have an easy opening for censoring the licensee and keeping him in constant terror . But there still remains the question whether whatever the sanctions , the quality of broadcasting can and should be controlled by government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Citizens Committee for Broadcasting , has greeted WHDH as an entre for improving the quality of television . It may be possible to isolate cases of particularly outrageous exploitation of sex and violence . A trial examiner of the FCC has indeed recently refused to recommend the renewal of a Los Angeles station . That station day after day has shown motion pictures of the most nauseating character deliberately beamed to the whole family . Yet we are all aware of the basic difficulties of judgment in this area , and of the near impossibility of developing objective standards , particularly of positive quality . And Mr. Agnew 's performance should help those who to date have chosen to ignore the problem , to face up to it . Do they really want the bureaucrats of the FCC judging programs ? Is there then no role for government in the improvement of broadcasting ? Possibly not a great role but there is a role , and it is better to understand what it may be , rather than to demand what is dangerous or impossible . Spiro Agnew and FCC Commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of control in the broadcasting industry . Much of this is unavoidable as long as the networks serve significant and valuable functions in newsgathering and expensive entertainment formats . But there are possible ways of reducing network power and of reducing multiple ownerships of the broadcast licenses . We can encourage CATV - the present policy of the FCC is moving in that direction ? and of other technical innovations . CATV may solve the scarcity problem ; it brings signals into the home by cable rather than over the air and thus could expand enormously the number of channels available . We can maintain competition in these develaping areas . We can , in short , seek to promote more competition and more voices in the communications industry . What about programming responsibility ? We can not do much about quality but we can lay down rules requiring stated minimum amounts of public service programming . Professor Hyman Goldin is proposing a requirement of a certain amount per week , in prime time , of public service programs by the networks . A recent proposal suggests that advertising during children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertising standards could be established and perhaps the FCC could devise and police a more general definition of excessive commercialism . This does not exhaust . the potentialities of useful government control . But beyond government regulation , we can subject broadcasters to continuous surveillance and criticism . We can encourage the local publics to participate in renewal proceedings , as indeed some of them , particularly the blacks , are now doing . But ultimately there is a limit . We have committed broadcasting to an industry financed by advertising , It is , then , an essentially popular , mass-audience medium . CATV , public and educational broadcasting can provide something for elite audiences as commercial broadcasting does now in its news , sports , occasional public service programs and sometimes high-level entertainment ( vide , Midsummer Night 's Dream , Vladimir Horowitz ) . It is encouraging that recently public and educational television is substantially increasing its appeal ; polls show that four out of every 1. o households watch it . Anthony Lewis recently noted that even in England half commercial , half public TV ? programming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as the masses support TV by taxes or advertising revenue , it is idle to expect it to be much different from what it is today . We should strive for improvement and for diversification within the Limits of the possible .                     