@@207645

At the rate that troubles keep piling up for Algerian President Ahmed ben Bella , he may never satisfy that longing to address the current session of the United Nations General Assembly . Fortnight ago , Ben Bella 's bags were all packed when the Berber revolt in the Kabylia forced him to change plans . Then , after proclaiming with some exaggeration that the rebellion was crushed , Ben Bella confidently put the U.N . trip back on his schedule . Last week it was off again as the strongman faced a new crisis : a nasty border war with neighboring Morocco . Far from avoiding the clash , Ben Bella had reason to welcome it , since it camouflaged his internal problems . <P> Not Negotiable . Trouble had been brewing for years . As long as the French ruled North Africa , they saw little point in fixing the boundaries between their colonies . Thus , when they pulled out of Morocco in 1956 and gave up Algeria six years later , there was no clearly defined line for 600 miles along the north-south border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much , except that beneath the desert sands of the region was discovered one of the world 's richest deposits of iron ore ( 65% pure iron ) , coal and other minerals . Morocco 's King Hassan II claimed the area as part of his ancient kingdom , declared that the Algerian rebels had promised to turn it over in exchange for Morocco 's crucial help during the guerrilla war against the French . No such thing , said Ben Bella ; the land is Algerian and not subject to negotiation . <P> Political enmity heated up the feud over territory . Hassan , a reform-minded but high-living monarch , preserved his ties to the West , kept on thousands of French teachers and technicians to help independent Morocco get started . This policy of moderation was abhorrent to austere , leftist Strongman Ben Bella and his vindictive brand of socialism . The Algerian regime launched a virulent propaganda war against Morocco . <P> Meal Ticket . Finally , after a border skirmish earlier this month in which Algerian troops killed ten Moroccan soldiers , Hassan mobilized his crack , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tiny , desolate outposts : Hassi Beida , little more than a water hole and a few palm trees perched on a stony hill , and Tin-joub , a mud-walled fort seven miles to the east . One day last week a battalion of 1,000 Moroccan infantry armed with bazookas , recoilless cannon and heavy machine guns stormed both outposts , seized them after a four-hour battle in which at least ten Algerians were slain . By sunset the outnumbered Algerians rushed up reinforcements . Soon 4,000 men were involved in the fighting , 750 miles southwest of Algiers . It was a sporadic struggle , and after four days it subsided . Except for an Algerian plane that bombed and strafed a Moroccan town some 200 miles away , the war consisted mostly of sniping and artillery salvos , exchanged over a no man 's land of rocky ridges , steep ravines and huge boulders jutting out of the desert sand .                     