@@491734

A n unexpected sequel to the American occupation of Japan has been the growth of Japanese influence in America . Those who set out to teach the Japanese something about democracy have ended by learning from the Japanese something about architecture . This is but one reason among many for , wondering afresh whether that original idea of a crusade for democracy had the sanction of common sense . Are we now quite so certain that democracy must everywhere prevail as not only the best but the final achievement of human wisdom as applied to politics ? Does history reveal nothing but a series of experiments , each failing in turn but each bringing mankind a step nearer this , its ultimate goal ? History , in fact , reveals nothing of the kind . We learn from it that various forms of rule have tended to succeed one another in what might seem to have been a significant sequence , democracy showing a tendency to collapse in a chaos from which dictatorship offers the only escape . ' There is little in history to show that democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What history does show is that people have always inclined to regard their own form of government asperfect , or at any rate inevitable and eternal . Subjects of , say , a deified emperor have seldom supposed that any other form of rule was worth serious discussion . For most of them , at any period , talk of an alternative scheme would have seemed impracticable , blasphemous or merely crazy . Present advocates of democracy are apt in the same way to claim for that form of rule a universal validity which h it would seem to derive neither from theory nor from fact . Representative democracy is a form of government which has a number of real advantages for some peoples at a certain stage in their.development . To claim more than that , invoking some semireligious principle of human rights , is to assume just such an attitude as characterized the more pious inhabitants of dynastic Egypt . If we are to defend democracy in serious discussion , it must not be because it is sacred  --  few forms of rule have been anything else  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is good , we should be able to explain why . While a study of the past may warn us against accepting current beliefs merely because they are current , it throws only a doubtful light on the future . We can admittedly observe a sequence of political development in past civilizations ; a recurring pattern in which monarchy has given place to aristocracy , aristocracy to democracy , and democracy to a dictatorship which has turned into monarchy again . Nor is there anything in the tempo of current history to suggest that what was once a phase in a recurring cycle should now be regarded as permanent . Were it possible to judge from political events considered in isolation , we might rather be tempted to assume that what happened before was likely to happen again . And indeed there is probably nothing in the present political scent  --  no movement , no investigation , no scandal or plot  --  for which past history affords no parallel . But the present age , which has so little to offer by way of political innovation , has much to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political pattern can exactly repeat itself in an environment which has been so technically transformed . The argument from past experience may no longer hold good . Talk of technical achievement brings to mind the hydrogen bomb . But that is not so significant politically as other and less spectacular developments . Many of these might be instanced , and there are those who would maintain that a longer expectation of human life is the most important . But there are three other developments to which too little attention has been paid : developments respectively in psychology , communication and what is called " conventional " war . To deal with psychology first , there was a time when the results of an election or plebiscite were given a sort of religious sanction . Victorian editors could announce that the people would oppose the Updrainville irrigation scheme , that the people had rightly demanded the construction of the Moose Canyon Bridge , or that the people had wisely chosen Mr. Clawhammer as governor . And while it may be doubted whether the will of the people had quite the force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right  --  the drainage scheme unworkable , the bridge vitally needed and Mr. Clawhammer a better man than his opponent . These side-whiskered men , leaning on their axes as they paused for thought , could arrive at the right decision . In a simply organized agricultural or pastoral society the relevant facts could be widely known . Today , in a more complex society , the mass psychologist has been able to dissect the voting process with disconcerting results . The will of the people breaks down under analysis , turning out to be ill-informed , emotional and liable to vary indeed from day today ; nor , incidentally , is there any close correlation between the views people express when approached individually and the views they express when collected in a group . Taken apart in this fashion , the will of the people turns out to be a myth . Voting is a more orderly process than rioting , but has only an even chance of producing the right answer . The Romans achieved the same result more cheaply by consulting the gods  --  whose guesses seem in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than their own . But the infallibility of the " general will " is a dogma that must remain where it belongs  --  in the last century ; if not , indeed , in the last century but one . As for communications , it must be remembered , first of all , that these have always determined the scale  --  and to some extent the nature  --  of political institutions . The earliest civilized states were each based on a river system as their means of communication , the length of the river determining the size of the state . Kingdoms based on the Nile , the Tigris or the Ganges could be relatively large ; kingdoms based on the Tagus , the Mekong or the Scheldt had to be relatively small . The Romans and Chinese broke through these limits by building roads , but the river-system scale of political organization lingered on to a surprisingly recent period of history , determining the respective sizes of , say , Yorkshire , Virginia , Canada and Venezuela . A single government could stretch its authority only as far as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportionate to the distances involved . Today the extent of a government 's influence has been at once extended and intensified . Rail , road , telegraph , air and radio communications have made a distant supervision both effective and continuous . The river-system scale of political unit has become in some ways an anachronism ; nor is there non the same need to establish a god-emperor ( like Constantine or Stalin ) whose shrine or effigy can represent him in places he will never visit . Today the Queen 's voice , and even she herself , can come through the air : just as the President 's personality can be projected by television or recorded on tape . Communication is no longer in the same sense a problem . So , far from presenting any technical difficulty , communications now present the government , whatever its character , with almost limitless scope . By means of state-organized schools , newspapers , films , radio and television , a docile people can be taught practically anything  --  that all capitalists are wicked , that all Jews are criminals or that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed in advertising have already some remarkable achievements to their credit . Mass media of instruction would seem to have endless possibilities . So far the known results include the popular election , by enormous majorities , of both scoundrels and lunatics . There is nothing to prevent any government from building up for itself a dream world in which dramatized leaders with purely fictitious ability give the appearance of prosperity to lands of which the extent has been exaggerated , reporting triumphs over rival powers which have been invented for the purpose and boasting the success of improbable missions to other and imaginary planets . Past emperors of China built up such a dream world for themselves , but they lacked more than a fraction of the necessary equipment . The age of hallucination , of which Adolf Hitler was one of the earlier victims , has scarcely dawned . People will someday perhaps look back with wonder on a time when the camera was thought to matter less than the event it was supposed to record . The world that has seen this revolution in the methods and speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war . From the time of the French Revolution to the time of the Russian Revolution land campaigns were mostly settled by massed infantry , national strength being roughly measured by the number of bayonets each nation could put in the field . It was also , and by no coincidence , the age in which the counting of votes had its greatest prestige . During World War II the massed-infantry attack went out of fashion , the strength of nations coming to be measured in quite other terms . Even if we ignore the possibilities of atomic warfare as something now probably obsolete , and even if we discount the possibilities of biological warfare , as something yet untried , the fact remains that numbers have come to matter less . The potential war strength of a country might be measured by the number of its scientists ; it can no longer be measured by the mere number of its people . In general , democracy has best suited societies in which the equal value of votes has been reflected in the roughly equal value of the voters when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies where the decisive weapons  --  whether war chariots or cannon  --  have been in the hands of a few . For this reason it might be thought that the technical basis for democracy , in war as well as in peace , has by now been perceptibly weakened . From facts such as these it would be natural to conclude that the days of democracy are over . The conclusion would be premature , however , for political systems do not evolve as rapidly as that . Where democracy exists , it may well survive for a further period ; but there is good reason to question whether it is likely to take root in any soil to which it is new . With a less favorable climate , the transplanting becomes a less hopeful proposition and doubtfully worth the effort . What may flourish for a time in the atmosphere of the West has far more dubious prospects in the atmosphere of the East . For there t he racial and religious background , the family , caste and clan relationships , the secret societies and fanaticisms , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrelevant . There might be some point in the missionary effort if the technical progress of the age were moving in the same direction and at the same speed , but the Last will feel the impact of improved communications long before it can absorb the lessons of nineteenth-century liberalism . If there was a time for that , the time is passing or has passed . What , by contrast , are the prospects of democracy in the West ? We have seen that it is there affected by technical developments which are mainly , if not entirely , adverse , Put in the simplest terms , it is now far easier for a government to tell the people what they are to believe than for the people to tell the government what it is to do . But that is not the whole story . In at least one important respect , democracy is being strengthened and it is important to see how this has come about  --  more especially in the United States . The basic weakness of democracy has always been what the Greeks called " stasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lower classes , which have always in times past been the more numerous , have sooner or later used their votes to despoil the rich . They have voted , in effect , for economic equality  --  that is , for socialism . The effect of this has always been disastrous , and more immediately disastrous for democracy . In the stresses and strains brought about by the legalized plunder there are bound to develop all 46 sorts of treasons , stratagems and spoils , From the conflicts which have ensued , one man , usually a leader of the winning side , has emerged as dictator . Whatever the result of the battle , freedom has always been the first casualty . In the struggle between capital and labor both sides are impelled by exactly the same material motive , and both sides are guilty  --  as Gandhi pointed out  --  of exactly the same sin . Neither , of course , is concerned with the welfare of society as a whole . In trying to transpose the Greek theory of class war into the terms of modern industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a process by which the wealthy would become richer and fewer , the poor would become poorer and more numerous until the top-heavy absurdity of the situation would make revolution inevitable and irresistible . So would begin the rule of the proletariat , to last apparently forever ; an odd conclusion for an admirer of Darwin to have reached . In the Marxist revolution the internal conflicts , as observable in the Greek and Roman city-states , have been neatly eliminated . There are only two classes , and the one had dwindled to a mere handful of people who can be hanged at leisure , after which event the unopposed remainder can live happily . Had Marx known anything about the working classes  --  a set of people with whom he had no social contact  --  he would have known that the problem is not quite so simple as that . Quite apart , however , from any misconception that Marx may have had about the social equality existing between boiler riveters and bellhops , his account of the future has been completely falsified by events . There have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries almost entirely agricultural , while the industrial areas have developed , in the main , on lines of their own . Of this development the main feature has been the dwindling importance of the class which Marx expected to become supreme . His proletariat comprised for the most part the skilled workmen , the trade-unionists , of the mid-nineteenth century  --  the men who drove the locomotives or installed the plumbing , men who wore top hats on the way to church . That industrial society depended upon the skilled artisan was a truism of the period . The skilled artisan was the stanch supporter of Methodism and of labor politics  --  both anathemas to the gentry . He was a man who would do nothing for the really poor  --  insisting as he did upon the wage differential between himself and them  --  but the leader in all resistance to the capitalist . Trade-unionists of this type were so important in their day that few at first were to notice either their diminished status or their dwindling numbers . In twentieth-century industrialized societies it was not the proletariat that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in growing wealth . The future lay not with the skilled artisan but with the qualified engineer on the one hand and the unskilled factory girl on the other . These were classes of people of whose existence Marx was only dimly aware . It is upon them , rather than upon the skilled artisan , that industry has come to rely . A. significant event in the development of western middle-class industrialism was the British General Strike of 1926 . By all the accepted axioms of the day , a stoppage of railways  --  let alone all the other heavy industries ? should have paralyzed the country . But the country was not paralyzed . It no longer depended upon railways . It also became suddenly apparent that the middle classes , which rallied against the trade-unions , were more numerous than the strikers . The strike failed and no subsequent labor victory at the polls could efface the impression that the middle classes had scored . The motorcar , which made them independent of the railways , was their symbol of victory . It was they , not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the future . Marxism can appeal nowadays to such social groups in Australia as arc psychologically still in the 1880 's , but it long since died as a force in Britain ; died with the discovery that the proletariat can not be supreme and is not even particularly important . The process by which the new urban middle class established itself in Britain was repeated , but with greater emphasis , in the United States . By a process of technical achievement , rehousing and education , the middle class came to outweigh the class above and outnumber the class below it . There are depressed classes in the United States , and there are people with a grievance against society : but they are swamped by the masses of people whose fear is that they will lose what they have  --  namely , a suburban home , garage , car , refrigerator , washing machine , television , telephone , supermarket and high school . That democracy in the United States should end in class war is now almost unthinkable , for the raw materials do not exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Los Angeles , with the fumes of their own exhaust pipes . It is true that the whole picture could be drastically altered by an industrial depression , but the story , whatever happened , would not conform either to Greek theory or Marxist prediction . If American democracy is a middle-class affair , firmly based on the longterm interests of a strong majority , it should not end in socialism nor should it collapse in chaos . The fact remains , however , that it is vulnerable in other ways . We have seen already that the whole machinery of persuasion is in the hands of any government that cares to use it . How great is the danger that such an influence may , in fact , be used ? In attempting to judge the possibilities we must note , first of all , that the effect of mass education is to expose people more , not less , to propaganda . In theory a university or high-school graduate should be skeptical about what he reads and hears . But do American graduates criticize or do they merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illiterate peasant who possesses no radio . His views may be narrow but they are at least his own . Most vulnerable of all are the people who listen and believe . Are people of that kind tending to multiply ? There are some grounds for thinking that they are . Against the dangers of intensive propaganda the accepted remedy lies in the party system . People forced to hear bath sides of every question are compelled , we arc told , to decide for themselves . Those considering the merits of any presidential candidate will hear as much against as for him . In this there is an element of truth . The theory breaks down , however , whenever the two parties become too much alike . In the days when British Tories alternated in office with their Liberal opponents , the electorate had to choose , it was said , which of two wealthy cousins should introduce the same bill . Is there no danger of that in the United States ? The extent of the danger is to be measured by the proportion of voters who do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unconvinced that it matters either way . A lack of public interest is normally the result of there being nothing to he interested in . If the crowd drifts away from the tennis match , it is usually taken as a comment upon the standard of play . There are those who believe that the great debate in the United States , at least as between the parties , is finished and that the voter 's only concern is to defend his standard of living . For this theory there would seem to be some evidence , Some 62,027,000 valid votes were cast , for example , in the last presidential election  --  a record figure but representing only 60.4 per cent of the theoretical maximum . To have had a few million less  --  to have had as few as 50 per cent of the voters participating  --  would have been a serious indictment of the whole system . With such a condemnation even remotely possible , the advocates of American democracy have cause to consider their case afresh . One other weakness needs to be mentioned and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public payroll . This state of affairs could be denounced in the name of economy , but that is not to the present purpose . The question is how far this scheme for full employment is compatible with democracy . Let us take an extreme case and suppose that half the adult population were in public employment . This would mean that half the voters were employed under the direction of the party in power  --  dependent upon it for pay , security , privilege and promotion . Is that situation a proper basis for independent voting ? Nor is the situation much improved if the roles were to be reversed , the voters blackmailing those by whom they are employed . " Give us dou ble overtime , " they will say , " or we shall vote you out of office , " Situations are seldom quite as simple as that , but the final result either way would be a one-party system with one party controlling or controlled by the civil-service vote and that party perpetually in power . To this it may be objected that those on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may also be urged that civil servants are persons of the highest character who would never use any improper influence in wage negotiations . Arguments such as these are not without weight , but neither are they conclusive . For one thing , an election can be decided by a bloc far smaller than the one described . Given anything like equal strength as between parties , a mere 10 per cent of the voters , acting together , could easily tip the scale . In Great Britain those in public employment , some 6,000,000 out of a total population of 51,500,000 , form a far higher proportion than that . As regards the high character of the people concerned , it must suffice to remark that the character of some of the earliest voting civil servants  --  those of ancient Athens  --  would not seem to have been high enough . Nor were English politicians of the eeriod very happy about all the excisemen employed by George 111 . The crime of enlisting the civil service in the cause of a particular party ( his own ) was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be that the descendants of the Athenians , mingled under the American flag with the descendants of the excisemen , have now a loftier moral tone than their ancestors could boast . But it is not , surely , an issue upon which the betting would he much more than even . It lacks , as an assumption , the rocklike solidity upon which the enlightened lawgiver would care to build . To give democracy in its American form not an eternal validity but a new lease of life , there would seem to be a case for reform . The system needs reinforcing at the points where it is weak . For the specific weaknesses to which attention has been drawn , three remedies suggest themselves : the vote should be restricted to those who have earned it ; the legislator should be freed from improper influence ; the public revenue should be limited under the Constitution to a stated proportion of the national income . To take these points in order , we may conclude first that the voter 's negligent attitude toward the ballot box derives from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not merely given him but thrust on him . He was implored to take it and begged to use it . He is pursued with the vote and can be fined in some democracies for failing to exercise it ; from all of which anxiety the natural inference is that the vote must be worthless . Were every American citizen presented with a university degree at birth  --  a measure of economy for which there is much to be said  --  few would trouble to put " A.B . " after their names ; just as few bother to claim the war medals to which nearly the whole of their generation are entitled . For a thing to be valued it has to be specially earned . On this principle the vote might well be conceded , with obvious reluctance , to those whose title to it derived from blood , sweat and tears . It might be restricted , for example , to people over thirty who had passed a certain educational standard , who had done public service , who had paid taxes above a certain minimum and who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their names to be placed on the electoral roll . Girls who prefer to remain aged twenty-nine would be very properly ruled out as immature . Men without military service would be ruled out as unpatriotic . People who misspelled ( Continued on Page 51 ) ( Continued from Page 46 ) their letter of application would be ruled out as illiterate . The vote would thus be confined to those who have taken some trouble and shown sonic interest , and would be instantly lost again if not exercised . For this last stipulation to be enforced , however , the voter must clearly be given the means of voting against all the candidates . If every voting paper had not only the names of the real candidates but the further name of a fictitious Colonel Bogey , each vote for him would suggest " That no election be made until an adequate candidate presents himself . " The world 's politicians have so far managed to exclude Colonel Bogey from democratic constitutions . Failing his candidature , however , the municipal voters of Sdo Paulo in Brazil recently elected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their city council . The popular support for Cacareco seems to have been overwhelming ; ? nor could there be any objection to her on the score of nationality , she being a citizen of Brazil by birth . Her disqualification was eased , no doubt , on some legal quibble ; - ; onnected perhaps with her age  --  she is four and a half . To have been born in the too is no bar , surely , to the exercise of democratic rights . But politicians may fairly expect to find themselves opposed by other candidates whose claims arc broadly similar . Nor will it be possible to exclude them all on some trivial technicality . With the world 's zoological gardens so well supplied with popular personalities , qualified for the legislature by residence and age , there can be no doubt that their fuller representation is to be expected . A few heavy majorities for such candidates  --  a tortoise here , a reptile there  --  would be no bad thing in the annals of political science . To explain the second point of proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English voter used to record his vote publicly on a " hustings " or platform set up for the purpose in the market place . He would sturdily march up the steps and audibly declare his choice amid the applause of his friends and the rotten eggs hurled by his opponents . It was for long defended , and with some reason , as an opportunity for the display of the manly virtues . It was certainly that , but there were drawbacks to set against its advantages . When the practice was finally abolished it was not because voters were being fatally injured  --  often as this may have happened . It was not even because some of them had to be carried up the steps , collapsing thereafter in a drunken stupor  --  as many in fact did . It was simply and solely to prevent corruption . The secret ballot ended individual bribery overnight . The voter might accept the bribe , but there was no means of knowing that he would earn it or that he had not been equally bribed by the other side . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as much as to deny that it exists . What few have remarked , however , is that the arguments for secret voting at the poll are at least as unanswerable as applied to the legislature . It can be urged against it that voters have a right to know how their representatives have voted . The point , however , is a doubtful one at best . After all , the representative is not a delegate . He should vote according to his conscience and knowledge , not according to the wishes of people who were not present at the debate . And the people who , in practice , watch the House divide are not the voters but the party bosses , financial backers and mere thugs ; all who might be in a position to threaten or reward . Under secret voting , it might be objected , the representative might sell his vote without fear of exposure . To some representatives no idea could be more attractive . But there would be no one to buy it . Who will purchase goods of which the delivery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether they have been delivered or not ? " On my word of honor , " says the representative , " I shall vote as we have agreed . " But who cares about his word of honor ? He is a - crook or he would not be accepting the bribe ; nor do we know that it is the only bribe he has taken . In any representative body a secret and a public vote will producc quite different results Which result gives the better indication of what men really think ? To add to the authority of a legislature , more especially as against the executive , a system of secret voting in the House is a first and decisive step . Last of all comes the question of the public payroll . That socialism , or anything like socialism , is incompatible in the long run with democracy is tolerably obvious . What the remedy is to be is appreciably less obvious . It would be simple to propose an amendment to the Constitution by which the number of persons publicly employed should be limited to a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would hardly achieve the end in view . For the line is not so easy to draw , Those employed by a private corporation which is wholly or even mostly engaged on government contract , arc hardly to be distinguished , for this pur pose , from those whose public employment is direct . To preserve democracy in anything like its present form  --  still more , to revive its energies  --  the need is not so much to restrict the numbers on the payroll as to limit the total cost of administration . The problem is too large for discussion here  --  it might almost be the subject for a book  --  but there are grounds , surely , for concluding that the governmental share of the national income has increased , is increasing , is likely to increase still more  --  and ought to be drastically diminished . The price of democracy , it has been said , is eternal vigilance . Is that a price the American public is willing to pay ? There are forces today which tend to preserve democracy , the disappearance of the proletariat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to swamp it , of which public extravagance is perhaps the most dangerous . But this much is certain : that the democracy which merely drifts , swayed this way and that by technical development and cyclical trend , is no longer dynamic and no longer even alive . It can not be sustained , still less can it be improved , without constant effort and constant care . A written constitution is a life belt to which the exhausted can cling ; it is not , in itself , an aid to further progress . In most countries the traffic police are not unreasonably suspicious of motor vehicles manufactured much before 1930 . They demand some test of their roadworthiness before admitting them into the stream of modern traffic . For a machinery of government perfected in 1789 a test at least as stringent might well be devised ; and it would be odd indeed if no overhaul was ever found to be advisable . It is one thing to say that what has lasted for 170 years must have been soundly designed in the first place . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long with such trilling repair , can last , unadjusted , forever .                     