@@478986

The more fashion exerts its sway over the meaus of sexual illusion ? dress , adornment , even sexual behavior itself ? " the more painful is our sense of our fallenness and the more obtrusive our nostalgia for Eden . Dassin ? Mercouri , Ponti ? Loren , AntonioniVitti , Newman ? Woodward , Vadim ? Fonda , Cassavetes ? Rowlands : these are but a few of the romantic , or connubial , associations between director or producer and star . In these instances , the cinematic purpose would seem to be to exhibit the star , in various combinations of nakedness and passion , as the paragon of a sexuality so truthful and fully formed that the men in her movies , with moralities , must be either converted or undone . At least since Theda Bara , the Love Goddess has been a standard commercial venture in the movies ? a venture which must be satisfactory to the banks which invest in these movies . But the relations I have mentioned would seem to persist beyond the requirements of finance , and persist even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would allow them other cinematic possibilities . Moreover , the notoriety all these relationships have achieved ? with the help of the press , television , and radio ? soon makes these arrangements as compelling for the average moviegoer as the movies in which these stars appear . Thus , to watch Mercouri enacting the amorous necessities of her life with her screen lover is to be reminded that Bassin sits behind the camera governing her overtures and responses . If Gena Rowlands , cast as a prostitute in Faces , fondles her reclining co-star with what appears to be uncalled-for restraint , we are forced to wonder whether Cassavetes is not falsifying her characterization in order to protect his own jealous interests . Or , to take another extreme , when Vadim sets up his camera at the foot of the bed so he can record minutely the fondlings his particular star of the moment will undergo with her screen lover , we must wonder whether this explicitness is dictated by the movie or by the nature of his tie to his star . In other words , so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implicit plot between star and director , our attention will wander back and forth from the movie to the actual relationship between director and star . And naturally we will speculate about the extent their present life together determines each new movie and , equally , the extent each new movie influences their life off screen . But these are real people whose lives are hardly represented by gossip columns and movie magazines . And even if I wished to pursue this imperti50 MY WIFE , THE NAKED MOVIE STAR vent course , I have no private bank of gossip about these notorious figures of the film world . So I leave these actual creatures , and turn instead to creatures of my own imagining ? creatures who seem to capture something of the sexual predicament of our time . The scene , as I imagine it , takes place in a custom-built Mercedes-Benz trailer , parked in the meadow of a small farm on the outskirts of Madrid , where the entire crew has assembled to shoot two important scenes from Don Juan Strikes Out . Briefly , the movie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm girl ( our star ) ? the creature whose shrewdness and vigor of flesh call his whole sensual career into question , finally reducing him to those ordinary cries of jealousy and possessiveness he has all these years managed to avoid . Josee Civetta has been sitting in her trailer dressing room while her makeup man places smudges on her forehead , left cheek , left shoulder , and just over her right breast . These smudges will be incurred in the first scene when she is shot spading hay to the horses in the barn . After the last spadeful of hay , a cut will be made to the small stream running through the farm . Here Josee will remove her outer garments as she is about to bathe , when Don Juan comes upon her . Now her husband and director , Sergio Rocco , enters . " Josee , Baby , stand up and show me how you 'll look when you first take your dress off . " Letting her dressing gown fall to the floor , she does a mock bump and grind in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endure this charade with his familiar patience , she bends down to retrieve her dressing gown , her backsides painting at him , and on rising slowly dusts and folds the gown before placing it on top of her dressing table . " Josee , later on you can act . But right now , I want to see how you 'll look , so please turn around . " Instead of turning full-circle in one motion , Josee defiantly makes abrupt small partial turns , her hands on her hips , and at the end of each turn she stands flat-footed , her legs spread apart , and one hip thrustlaterally . Sergio makes no comment until she is at last planted with her back to him . " It 's wrong ! The panties are wrong ! Look ? by now everyone in the world knows what your behind looks like . Right ? An average guy sitting in a movie house and seeing you in your tenth film , he needs to be reminded of your behind . And the best way to do this is to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farber is Director of Therapy at Austen Riggs Center , Inc. in Stockbridge , Mass . Author of " The Way of the Will " ( Harper Colophon , 1968 ) , he was formerly Chairman of the Washington School of Psychiatry and Training Analyst in the Washington Psychoanalytic Institute . " Okay , okay , have it your way , Sergio ! If the guys in the movie house are just like you ? which I doubt ? if all of you get a charge out of seeing me in tight panties , well I guess then eventually I 'll get a charge out of it too . At least that 's the way it 's been . " If Sergio 's guidance were confined merely to techniques for revealing Josee 's body to the world , he would hardly differ from the burlesque coach , instructing his prot ? g ? e in her little song and dance , her bumps and grinds . Such a coach might persuade his stripper to be comic , patronizing , sincere , kittenish , wistful , acrobatic , depending both on her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploited . And once her routine was established , they might ? together or separately ? look on the matter as a form of show business , whether pleasurable or tedious , which allowed them both a livelihood . Most burlesque performers , I am. told , have little sympathy for their audience , which they regard as a tawdry assortment of marginal and lonely souls who come to be teased into a solitary excitement which must later be dissipated , if not in the theater itself , then in public and private toilets , alleys , rooming houses , and convention hotels . Even if partners are sometimes appropriated for relief I doubt that the burlesque queen , herself , is deceived about the solitary nature of this dissipation . Despite ? or because of ? their grim evaluation of their audiences , some burlesque performers take pleasure in their powers of erotic manipulation from afar , and I have no doubt their own pleasures improve their effectiveness as strippers ? without necessarily making them more objective about the solitary quality of their own excitements , which they share with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artistic ambitions are too formidable to be contained in such a quaint form as burlesque , whose limitations resist all sentimental attempts to puff it up into folk art . Without doubt , their goal is to capture and project the reality of love and sex in our times . Unfortunately , their artistic endeavors are both broadened and blurred by the withering of censorship in the movies over the last few years . These days too much craft must be given over to the struggle to discover new ways of illuminating the landscape of sexuality . And not unlike ordinary erotic life , the movie itself may be neglected in the consuming and frustrating effort to improve the sexual clich ? which was yesterday 's novelty . The problem is that any visual and objective view of sex is necessarily limited by our anatomical range of behavior . And obsessed by this view , the modern realistic camera is therefore driven to look more and more at less and less , pursuing with mounting magnification those scant details which can not and will not yield the essence the moviemakers seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the subject was easily represented by a simple cinematic convention which taxed no one 's ingenuity , though repetition eventually rendered it ludicrous . In the final " clinch " the hero clasped the heroine in his arms , and as he pressed his face to hers , our view became that of a rear camera pointed at the back and side of the hero 's head ? so that when their faces met , their mouths were concealed from the camera 's eye . Though we were expected to accept the illusion that our stars were kissing each other , we had the option of assuming ? if these two seemed mismated ? that their lips never met , or if they did meet , their kiss was no more than the desultory peck of two young people arbitrarily paired by the democratic rules of the game of post office rather than by their own inclinations . ( If we were to see two modern movie lovers kiss with mouths closed rather than open , we should have to assume they disliked each other . ) At this distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aesthetic advantages to the convention ? which should have been spared some of our ridicule , considering the more literal fleshly conventions which have replaced it . For one thing , the final " clinch " affirmed the old-fashioned virtues of privacy and modesty , asserting that the real physical facts within this ideogram of an embrace were none of our business as audience and , moreover , none of the legitimate business of art itself , including all the technicians who make movie art possible . By no means , it should he emphasized , did this refusal to be explicit about what should be implicit interfere with our freedom to imagine this amorous union . Some of the audience , I have no doubt , turned their imagination to the specifically lustful potentialities of this relationship , while others took a larger view of the ups and downs of the subsequent course of the life of the pair . But in either case , it is worth stressing the paradoxical point that our present freedom from censorship has deprived us of our earlier freedom to have our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the " clinch " at least was an illusion so safely responsive to even minimal dramatic skill that it could easily be put aside once the day 's shooting was over ? which must have been a relief both to audience and actors . Plainly said , there was nothing about the illusion itself , however it was exploited , which demanded it be lived as well as acted . Thus , in addition to all else it might have suggested , the illusion contained the illusion of being an illusion . And without that radical ingredient the audience might well leave the theater with the unpleasant suspicion that these two actors were continuing to embrace long after the camera crews had gone home . Sergio and Josee , as it has already been suggested , loyally support the modern creed that the craft of moviemaking must include in its repertoire not yet all but still a good deal of sexual play . Therefore , in his profession as director and hers as performer , they will strive for an erotic authenticity which emulates ? in appearance , at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they believe ? or profess to believe ? that the visible mannerisms of sex can be separated from the entirety of affective life , and then willed into actuality whenever the dramatic occasion so requires . Now , Josee 's ability to enact her role with almost any leading man must be as gratifying to the director in Sergio as to the actress in Josee . At the same time , her ability may reassure the husband in him ( and the wife in her ) that her amorous conduct before the camera is merely a dramatic accomplishment , involving no actual entanglement with a real man . Yet , if he is as like the rest of us as he insists , his faith will waver from time to time , making him wonder to what extent her so-called ability is an appetite in disguise ? an appetite addressed indiscriminately to every man or , worse yet , to no man at all . In such a state , the knowledge that he bears some responsibility for this enterprise can only increase his distress . After all , he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their love scenes with his wife . So there is a sense in which , if his pain is sharp , he could regard himself as a respectable pimp . Hopefully , this self-chiding will subside as he regains his belief in his split existence ? in other words , as he remembers it is only a movie . On the other hand , should Josee be sensitive to his jealous lapses , she will be careful not to repeat her movie gestures in her nights with Sergio . She may even be tempted to invent gestures which are reserved only for her husband . But even if she were up to the artistry necessary to dissemble the deliberate nature of her invention , thus preventing him from confirming his worst suspicions , her predicament would still be disagreeable , inasmuch as she could no longer be sure that her marriage was not just a movie . While her conscience may enable her to resist such domestic artifice , what is to prevent her from appropriating the surfaces of her marital intimacies for the sake of her cinematic lovemaking ? After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to abstract for the sake of her art the external mannerisms of her erotic life , without violating those affections which ideally will rejoin these mannerisms when she leaves the set . On the other hand , should her lovemaking with her leading man provoke an excitement more overpowering and enduring than the mechanical stirrings she would ordinarily anticipate , she will remain loyal to her creed , preferring now to question the validity of her marriage . Thus , rather than regard herself a victim of those erotic gestures that were intended to facilitate the movie illusion , she may conclude , invoking the usual romantic sentiments , that 52 MY WIFE , THE NAKED MOVIE STAR her new attachment came about in spite of and not because of dramatic requirement . Real consummation for a movie , of course , does not occur until it is at last submitted to the paying audiences of the world for their verdict . If out of boredom the men in the theaters close their eyes to the naked Josee to nap with dreams of their own making , or turn away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave behind , or wander to the refreshment stand to giggle over the unintended absurdities of this movie , will Sergio 's and Josee 's excitement over each other survive this test ? Or will their excitement now give way to a restlessness and indifference , not unlike that of the audience ? In other words , their attachment to each other must draw some sanction and vitality from the audience response to their creation . It is as absurd to imagine Sergio and Josee without an audience as to imagine them forcibly settled in a distant suburb where they are condemned to find their entire erotic sustenance only in each other . Why should it be otherwise ? Why should we ask more of these two famous people than of ourselves ? True , the scope of their lives together is gigantic , their desires depending on the confirmation of millions of moviegoers . But I think if we scale down the magnification , we can see more similarity than difference between their lives and our own . When Sergio argues that tight panties will best set off Josee 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or disapproving the dress his wife has chosen for the evening 's party . In costume and deportment she must , like Josee , prove herself sexually attractive , without transgressing the bounds of taste and , equally important , without mistaking the illusion she creates for the reality of her life with her mate . The line she pursues is as thin as Josee 's : her performance must be sufficiently convincing to charm her companions and at the same time she must project enough make-believe not to deceive her husband or herself ? not to mention the other guests , who have their own loyalties to contend with . She must never forget that a man of course wants his wife to be admired , but to the extent that she presents herself and is accepted as an available sexual object their relation will suffer . All this of course is equally true in reverse ? the man 's public demeanor and reception ( his habitation of " his image " ) will be inspected by his wife . ( Indeed , this objectifying on public occasion extends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why " self-image " seems such a dubious concept . ) When the party is over the couple will return to their home with as much or as little exhilaration as Sergio and Josee after a preview of their newest movie . In brief , then , I believe the hazards which beset Sergio and Josee as they try to keep their cinematic and marital lives separate are not essentially different from those which trouble sexuality for the rest of us as we shuttle back and forth between our private and public worlds . At this point , let me mention two opposing views of the problem , both different from my own . In 1022 Freud wrote : It is a matter of everyday experience that fidelity , especially that degree of it required in marriage , is only maintained in the face of continual temptation . . . Social conventions have taken this universal state of things into account very adroitly , by granting a certain amount of latitude to the married woman 's thirst to find favor in man 's eyes and the married man 's thirst to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency to unfaithfulness will thus find a safety-valve and be rendered innocuous . Convention has laid down that neither partner is to hold the other accountable for these little excursions in the direction of unfaithfulness , and it achieves the result on the whole that the desire awakened by the new love-object is gratified by a kind of turning-back to the object already possessed . The jealous person , however , does not believe in any such thing as a halt or turning back once the path has been trod , nor that a social " flirtation " may be a safeguard against actual infidelity . " Not uncharacteristically , Freud is less concerned with the quality of erotic life , in and out of marriage , than with the manner in which society restrains and diverts the sexual drive in the service of preserving its institutions . " What the world calls its code of morals , " he wrote , " demands snore sacrifices than it is worth . " Because fidelity in marriage " is only maintained in the face of continual temptation " ( italics mine ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds the other accountable , can have the hygienic function of preserving the monogamous relationship of marriage , since whatever excitement is aroused in these social forays can be turned back to the marital partner . Freud 's view is a form of mithridatism : small doses of infidelity will defend against larger infidelity . In a society as absorbed with erotic images as ours , it would be difficult to know whether the small infidelity was a protection against or an indulgence of our sexual proclivities ? whether the institution of monogamy is strengthened or weakened by the erotic quality of our social life . Tolstoi , on the other hand , found nothing to applaud about the " little excursions " Freud found so salutary . In fact , he found the spectacle so loathsome he renounced sexuality altogether . And we men do n't know ? we do n't know because we do n't want to know ? but women know perfectly well that the loftiest and most poetic * " Certain Neurotic Mechanisms in Jealousy , Paranoia and Homosexuality " ( 1922 ) . love depends not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of doing up one 's hair , one 's complexion , the cut of a gown . Ask an experienced coquette which she would prefer to risk : being detected in falsehood , cruelty , even immorality , in the presence of the one she is trying to entice , or to appear before him in a badly made or unbecoming gown ? and she will always choose the first . She knows that man lies when he talks about lofty feelings ? all he wants is the body ? and so he pardons anything but an ugly , unbecoming , unfashionable costume . The coquette knows this consciously ; every innocent girl knows this unconsciously , just as animals know it . Hence these abominable jerseys , these bustles , these naked shoulders , arms , and almost bosoms . Women , especially those that have been through the school of marriage , know very well that talk on the highest topic is just talk ; that what man wants is the body and everything which displays it in a deceptively captivating light . And they act accordingly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become second nature , and look at the life of the upper classes as it really is , in all its shamelessness , it would appear like one luxurious brothel . . ? The Kreutzer Sonata ( 1889 ) Were he alive today , Tolstoi would regard the new sexual freedom as merely further corroboration for his conviction that life between the sexes , having become " one luxurious brothel , " was no longer morally feasible . And , even more so , he would be positive that abstinence was the only way to escape this brothel . But today we are less interested in his solution , which even in the monastic orders is undergoing some challenge , and more impressed by his statement of our dilemma : " . . What man wants is the body and everything which displays it in a deceptively captivating light . " ( Italics mine . ) As a general , even minimal comment on erotic life , Tolstoi 's notion that man desires the body seems unexceptionable , although our habit with abstractions of this order may make us forget that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires but rather the body with its coverings and uncoverings . Nor is it remarkable that romantic talk find its heightening in the same play between concealment and disclosure , mystery and discovery . But this aspect of sexual desire outraged Tolstoi 's moral sensibilities : woman 's provocative dress , like man 's " lofty " talk , was a deception suggesting a more glorious actuality than she possessed or that he could possess . Or perhaps his outrage lay in his painful sense that the peeling away of her decorations merely exposed an inner enigma that , while it may briefly be transcended , must be probed again and again without ever yielding its secret . Oscar Wilde expressed his disdain for the special nature ? the essential femaleness ? of women in his quip that woman is a Sphinx without a secret . While I do not share his disdain , I can appreciate the truth there is in his remark . ( It is not quite true that she has no secret : her secret is that she has a secret . ) Because man 's sexuality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encompass a sexuality whose most formidable powers , including child-bearing , must remain hidden to him . However much he prizes the otherness of his partner , he is nevertheless driven to impose a visible , concrete reality , or a metaphor of such a reality , on this privately contained world . And , of course , because she wishes her interiority to be penetrated . she will accommodate herself somewhat to man 's objective need , for in this way her own needs are satisfied as well . Depending on the fashion of the moment , man will fasten on such outward criteria of desirability as buttocks , or legs , or breasts , and woman will join him in valuing these fleshly distinctions , since each hopes to please the other . Pornography is but a further indulgence of his hunger , now extended to the visual details of sexual performance itself . It is worth mentioning that pornography , as we know it , is a genre made by man for man , exploiting the absolute compliance in literal uncovering that only fictitious women can provide . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is beyond my competence to say what a female pornography would be , except to suggest that its enticements would probably have to include a fundamental romantic context ? a plot , out of which erotic situations may be brought to flower ? in the imagination or on the page . Such a pornography will be closer to Dear John than to Fanny Hill , closer to True Confessions than to dirty postcards . I do not mean to suggest , let me make clear , that women 's penchant for " situational " erotica makes the sort of pornography they prefer any more " refined " than the more literal , no-nonsense forms preferred by men . The sexual arousal , in both cases , is merely an indulgence of an altogether literal , impersonal sexual hunger , and , as such , is as irrelevant to the possibilities of sex as a truly human encounter as is masturbation . To return to Tolstoi 's assertion that to be desirable the body must be displayed in " a deceptively captivating light " In their attempt to explain this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the manner in which colorful and exotic features assist a number of lower animals in their mating rituals . However , such animal decoration , it should be remembered , is no artifact created by the Disney special effects department . Moreover , it is our dissatisfaction with our own pale bodies that makes us judge the peacock 's plumage or the mandrill 's blue and scarlet rump more enticing than the dull gray fur of the rat ? or our own poor parts . Conceived in envy , such biological speculation is more a pathetic consequence than an explanation of our particular peculiarity. 54 MY WIFE , THE NAKED MOVIE STAR Yet , even if our erotic life is essentially unlike animal mating , why should it strike us as peculiar ? Why are we unwilling to reconcile ourselves to the human fact that , unlike other living creatures , we can not do without the erotic deceptions that outraged Tolstoi ? After all , as far as we know , sexual illusion has been necessary throughout history . So , if we are envious , what are we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Much as we may object to the excessive and vulgar prescriptions the mass media offer about how to make the body attractive , still we are forced to acknowledge a portion of truth to their instruction . Any man whose ardor has diminished , if not subsided , before a toni and stained nightgown , can testify to his dependence on sexual illusion , while suspecting this ragged costume betrays comparable failure of passion in its wearer . At the same time , in the midst of such discouragement , we wish it could be otherwise ; out of nostalgia and/or hope , we long to shed both the excitements and constraints provoked by our coverings , and recapture ? or achieve ? a bliss in which our bodies in themselves will be sufficient . At this point , theology may offer more illumination than biology . Before they ate of the tree of knowledge , even a distant suburb could have been an Eden for Adam and Eve , for they still found each other pleasing without adornment or concealment . However , when the Lord ordered them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowledge . And in His wisdom He knew that modesty imposed from without would never quite protect them from an immodesty from within : concealment for one could always be disclosure for another . With the first fig leaf , the quality of the covering became critical . There being fig leaves and fig leaves , now a choice had to be made : not only were fig leaves large and small , adequate and inadequate , but some were more pleasingly shaped and colored than others . And how and where these leaves were to be suspended became as important a consideration as their hue and conformation . Seen in this tight , fashion reveals itself as a shifting , yet unresolvable , arbitration between the conflicting demands of concealment and disclosure . But the greedier fashion becomes , appropriating for its arbitration clothing , cosmetics , deodorants , coiffures , and even sexual behavior itself , the more painful is our sense of our fallenness and the more obtrusive our nostalgia for Eden ? or what we imagine to be our lost innocence , Not merely , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too cumbersome for us to bear , but it appears now as the adversary of the body-ness of the body , bent on repudiating all its ordinary messiness ? its fat , dirt , blemishes , secretions , smells ? and making our own physicality itself repulsive to us . With such an unsettling vision as this , the more energetic among us will move from sex from other human activity in this manner : Its particular difference from everything else in this life lies in the possibility which sex offers man for regaining his own body through knowing the body of his loved one . And should he fail that knowing and being known , should he lapse into all those ways of knowing about which he has proudly learned to confuse with knowing ? both bodies will again escape him . Increasingly , as D. H. Lawrence understood , man has become separated from his body , which he yearns to inhabit , such yearning understandably bringing sentimental and scientific prescriptions for the reunion eluding him . Yet it is through the brief reconciliation with his own and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and endure ? the bodily estrangement which has always been his lot , without succumbing to the blandishments that would betray the realities of both sides of this duality. * Prescriptions for reunion are addressed to a form of perception which , for the most part , does not dominate our day-to-day domestic existence . Even here we shall certainly employ many of the materials and devices of sexual illusion and fulfillment urged on us by the public media ? all the coverings and uncoverings , both literal and figurative . But the fact is that ordinarily we do not see , hear , smell , taste , and feel our mates in the manner these media proclaim . In our ordinary life , in private , we experience one another ? and our relation ? and this is not essentially a visual process , We are presences rather than appearances to each other ; we " read " each other 's visible and objective surfaces as a code to the more substantial invisibilities ? of meaning , texture , and habit ? of our life together . However , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overblown in Sergio 's and Josee 's cinematic enterprise , also belongs to us in our private and public worlds . And we feel it most sharply when acquaintances enter our domestic world and we leave it to visit theirs . On such public occasions we fall into experiencing our mates as we imagine they will be experienced by others . Stripped of our private relation , which changes everything , I now see my wife as I think others see her , which is to say that I see her as an aesthetic or sexual or social object . Mannerisms of phrase , countenance , voice , gesture , which usually are no more conspicuous than old prints that have long since merged into the anonymity of the dining-room wall , are now , in this new objectivity , brightly lighted and rigorously framed . Telling an old anecdote , I may , out of the corner of my eye , see more tolerance than amusement in my wife 's face as if she were briefly sitting in Sergio 's directorial chair , judging my performance in Sorry , Dear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1966 ) , terms that are neither her habit nor my preference . Or , watching her rapt response to her dinner companion 's conversation , I will take my turn in Sergio 's chair , to wonder if what I see is appropriate or inappropriate to the improvisation I am now compelled to direct . The dress that I thought decent enough when we left for the party now seems too little or too much for this occasion , but I can no longer be sure whether this new evaluation belongs to the dress or my altered perception ? or both : whether , in any case , my new vision is the truth domesticity has obscured or simply an insanity I could have spared myself , had I avoided this party altogether . For the sake of illustration I have arbitrarily made these private and public worlds more discrete than they can ever be . In actuality both worlds interpenetrate , shaping the reality and potentiality of each . In the midst of any gathering our domestic view may unexpectedly and fleetingly return . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together when we see each other publicly , the members of the party invading and challenging every room we would make our own . And with the mounting clamor of sexological exhortation , the bedroom at these times not only offers no sanctuary but seems more crowded with recipes for bodily satisfaction and/or hygiene than the kitchen or bathroom . To some degree we must live always with a foot in each realm , hoping that something of our private experience will carry over into the public arena , softening some of its harsh objectivity ; and hoping as well that that amount of public imagery that does pass into our private world ( and it does , for we are also appearances to each other . and sexual illusion has been , since Adam and Eve , as necessary as it is dangerous ) will be peopled by our private selves , subjected by us , in our relation . If it is hazardous to legislate an Eden through exiling ourselves from the world in which we live , it is equally hazardous on the worldly side to seek a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from every direction every day of our lives . In both ventures we attempt deliberately to will what can not be self-consciously willed . It has long been my conviction that ours is an age of the disordered will , our conceit being that there is no human possibility which lies beyond our conscious will . To mention but a few of our more bizarre willful undertakings : we will to sleep , to read fast , to he creative , to have simultaneous orgasm , and to enjoy our old age . As a result of this particular modern disability , we are reluctant to resign ourselves to our natural and inevitable fate of living within the ebb and flow of sexual illusion in both private and public worlds , while at the same time distrusting the efficacy of any given device to bring us the salvation we seek .                     