@@478276

The electromagnetic spectrum is enabling ' us to " listen " to the universe , cut steel with tamed light waves , preserve food without refrigeration , and " see " through distant ice caps . Early this month , the vagaries of rocketry permitting , a United States spacecraft will rise from White Sands , New Mexico , carrying a device destined to " see " a star that human eyes have never beheld and probably never will . The star , in fact , may not be a star at all . It is known to scientists only as an intense source of X-rays which are invisible and can not penetrate our atmosphere . However , we know the source exists because earlier rockets , also equipped with X-ray detectors , intercepted the beams during high-altitude flights . From this it can be deduced that ours is a dual universe . Some things we see , some we do n't . No one realized this , however , until 1800 when an English astronomer , Sir William Herschel , in observing the sun began experimenting with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his surprise , that certain combinations stopped most of the sun 's light but none of its heat . Other combinations blocked the heat but allowed the light to pass through . This was contrary to the long-accepted theory that sunlight and heat were the same and therefore inseparable . To verify his suspicions , Herschel then placed a thermometer in the light spectrum ? the red , orange , yellow , green , blue , and violet rainbow dispersed by a prism . He found that at the red end of the spectrum temperatures were higher than at the violet end . Most interesting of all , they continued to rise beyond the red , where nothing could be seen . Obviously , something totally independent of light was generating this heat ? something undetectable by the human eye . But what ? Fifty years and many experiments later , scientists were finally sure that invisible radiation existed beyond the borders of light ? at both the red and violet ends of the spectrum . They learned too that the radiation traveled in waves whose length ( i.e. , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the light band . Waves beyond the red were progressively longer than light waves , and those beyond the violet were progressively shorter . Thus the " light " spectrum began to grow into a new and broader spectrum . Today it is called the electromagnetic spectrum because its radiations are both electrical and magnetic . It now embraces an immense family of waves about sixty times the size of the original . For example , there are radio waves , the swift wings of the spoken word and of rocks and rolls ; microwaves , the home of television and radar ; X-rays , the illuminators of bones and undigested safety pins ; gamma rays , an undesirable product of nuclear bombs ; infrared waves , which we can create simply by striking a match ; and ultraviolet waves , whose effects we sometimes peel from shoulders too long exposed to the sun . And there is the familiar substance we call light , first recognized as electromagnetic radiation by James Clerk Maxwell in the mid-nineteenth century . Maxwell , too , was the first to theorize that man might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that nature was not necessarily their only source . Two decades later Heinrich Hertz proved Maxwell right and so set the stage for the beginning of radio and the subsequent blossoming of the spectrum . Though we have understood and used the full-blown spectrum for about a half a century , it is now undergoing a profound ? if rather slow and evolutionary ? change . This process began around World War II , and has picked up tempo in the last five years under the impetus of nuclear and space developments . Today the spectrum is like a bargain table at Macy 's . It is alive with activity , involving such things as the laser , the new light-amplifying device with revolutionary possibilities for communications and weaponry . It also involves improved safety in aviation , protection for astronauts , new navigation techniques , bacon that lasts for months without refrigeration. and mysterious objects incredibly far out in space . Theoretically , our use of the spectrum is limited only by our ingenuity . The spectrum , however , is not a tangible thing . No one has ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is simply a convenient scale or arrangement of something man has learned to use but can not see . It was built brick by brick from Herschel 's foundation and its names are applied according to the usage of a band of waves or its position on the scale . The X-ray band was so named by discoverer Wilhelm Roentgen because he did not understand its true identity and hence used the mathematical symbol for the unknown . The spectrum is also a yardstick of energy , for electromagnetic radiation is energy traveling John L. Chapman , who is now editor of " Northrop Technical Digest , " won the AAAS-Westinghouse award for magazine science writing in 1962 for his article in " Harper 's " on plasma physics . During the war , he served with the U.S. Air Force in the China-Burma-India theatre ; he is the author of " Atlas : The Story of a Missile . " in the form of waves , not unlike those produced by a stone dropped into a pond . All electromagnetic waves , whether natural or man-made , are born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wavelengths of radiations range from hundreds of miles for the longest to about one ten-billionth of a centimeter for the shortest . This span is so great that it is impractical to use a single unit of measurement throughout the radiation spectrum . So the waves are variously measured in meters , centimeters , microns , millimeters , and angstroms . One angstrom unit equals one hundred-millionth of a centimeter . Whatever their length , all electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed-186.000 miles a second ? the familiar speed of light ( which , of course , is an electromagnetic wave ) . Because their speed is uniform , electromagnetic waves can also be measured by their frequency ? i.e. , by the number that pass a given point each second . By way of analogy , suppose you are watching a long railroad train rolling by at a uniform speed . The first cars are very long , hence there are correspondingly long intervals between the flashes of daylight you see between them . Then , as shorter cars go by , the number or frequency of daylight flashes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So it is with electromagnetic waves . Long waves have low frequencies ; as wavelength decreases , frequency goes up . The Long and the Short The whole family of electromagnetic radiations can be pictured as a long , triangular ladder with very wide rungs at the base ( signifying the longer wavelengths ) and progressively shorter rungs leading upward until , at the top , the sides of the ladder appear to converge . Nearly half of the lower portion of the ladder comprises the " radio " spectrum . Within it are the long waves , including those used for standard radio broadcasting , and short waves ( the shortest of which are called microwaves ) , used for television , police radio , overseas broadcasting , amateur radio , and radar . Man-made radio waves vary widely in length ? from several miles to a fraction of an inch . The difference between them , however , is more often expressed in terms of frequency . For example , all standard radio broadcasting functions between 550,000 and 1,500,000 cycles per second . This is the rate at which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large figures are usually expressed as 550 72 THE EXPANDING SPECTRUM to 1,500 kilocycles ; another zero is dropped when the numbers are imprinted on radio dials . ) Directly above radio waves on the ladder is the region of heat radiation , called infrared because it lies below the red component of visible light . This " almost-visible " radiation has been used for many purposes , including photography , missile defense , criminology , and meteorology . An infrared device responds to heat rather than light . For example , in the Pacific during World War II , American soldiers used a spotting device known as the Sniperscope . It directed infrared waves at enemy troops and then converted the reflected radiation into visible light . Today , infrared sensors guide the Sidewinder missile to the exhaust heat of target aircraft . Infrared waves range in length from about .75 microns to 500 microns ( one micron is a millionth of a meter ) . Next to the infrared waves on the electromagnetic ladder is the narrow strip of waves to which the human eye responds ? that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " light , we see its effects . The frequency of light waves is between 400 and 800 trillion cycles per second , and they are so short that their length is measured in billionths of an inch . This small zone of radiation ? less than 2 per cent of the total spectrumcreates the visible world and also provides the energy to sustain all life on earth ? through the process of photosynthesis . Above the light waves are three more bands of invisible radiation ? ultraviolet waves , X-rays , and gamma rays . These have progressively higher energy and shorter wavelengths , the shortest gamma rays measuring about one ten-billionth of a centimeter . Our planet and the universe it inhabits are , as one scientist puts it , " a mad jumble " of these fast , long , short , and penetrating radiations . Not all , however , are electromagnetic . Nature also generates streams of high-speed particles ? principally bits and pieces of subatomic matter such as electrons , protons , and neutrons . Such particle radiation is associated with the radioactivity caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radium , and thorium . Just to confuse matters , nature made one form of radioactivity which is electromagnetic instead of particulate . These are the gamma rays , which are present in the electromagnetic spectrum . The primary engines of radiation in nature are the stars , which derive their energy from the burning of hydrogen .                     