@@488190

" The books , " the old-timer from Capitol Hill remarked , " say that water is two parts hydrogen and one part oxygen . Actually , it 's one part economics and one part politics . . . " This should come as no surprise to anyone who has watched the long-time bureaucratic scramble in Washington - to get aboard the water wagon . In the fastest growing parts of the country ' , water has been inextricably linked with votes . For decades , Interior , Agriculture andthe Corps of Engineers have trampled on one another 's toes  --  and projects  --  in a stampede to bestow liquid bounty on the common man , and orient his legislative representatives toward bigger appropriations for their respective agencies . Logrolling and water have a historic affinity , too . This merry jousting had geographic limitations , however ; water was primarily a concern of the West . Stetson-hatted ; string-tied members of Congress from the cactus country had to preface appealsfor Eastern support of their pet projects with explanations of what water was . And as far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the attorney general of Ohio , the mayor of Duluth ? were concerned , f the folks out West could have been drinking pulque , and voting accordingly . But now suddenly the arena has become vastly enlarged . The big new subject of pollution has turned water into a game any number can play  --  indeed , that most people are being drawn into willy-nilly . Pollution is nation-wide ; protests about it are arising from the Androscoggin in Maine to Lake Tahoe in California , resistance to remedying it is equally ubiquitous ; and everyone with even a tax-paying interest in politics finds himself somewhere in the rumble . The tip-off , if one were needed , came last February when the President , while refraining from accustomed personal reference to the Pedernales , teed off on water pollution . Alleviation of water pollution promises to be one of history 's classic tests of Democracy At Work . It is a predicament we got ourselves into through a tacit national policy of using waterways for the disposal of waste , municipal and industrial . The waste load has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds vested interests in pollution in every hanilet of the country . If a , community does n't have inadequate sewage treatment  --  which is likely  --  or a factory discharging noxious fluids , it at least has stockholders in the steel , chemical , oil , paper or textile industries , which are among the biggest polluters , This conflict of interest at the citizen level is what brought pollution , to its present aggravated state . Political pussyfooting with pollution has a long history . The International Joint Commission , a six-member United States-Canada board that deals with boundary problems , first went after pollution on the Great Lakes in 1912 , and still is nominally pursuing it . But the commission 's function is purely advisory to the two governments , and its purview is limited to subjects which , after interminable travel through diplomatic channels , are formally referred to it by agreement of the two governments . On the Great Lakes , inquiry has been carefully confined to the waters connecting the lakes , rather than the lakes themselves . When it has found pollution , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remonstrate politely with the offenders . Withal , the commission claims to have effected , down the decades , some reduction in pollution at the points under its surveillance . Meanwhile , Great Lakes polOctober 11 , 1965 lution has been getting steadily worse  --  to the point where Sen. Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin said of degenerating Lake Erie : " It 's no longer a body of water  --  it 's a chemical tank . " All states have laws against water pollution , but with a , few exceptions enforcement has been weak , not to say cowardly . Hidden away in the files of the average state will be hundreds of permits to municipalities and industries to violate pollution laws , pending vaguely projected improvements in facilities that have n't materialized . The New York State Health Department in 1936 ordered the city of Utica to stop polluting the Mohawk River , giving it four years to clean up its discharges Nearly thirty years later , Utica is still pumping 15 million gallons of untreated sewage into the river every day . Sewage is an unglamorous subject , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local officeholder to get the community to pony up $10,000 for a useless statue than for improvements in the sewage plant It is also a lot easier for him to see " the company 's side of the problem " when somebody complains that the XYZ Corporation has , without anybodys vote . pre-empted the old swimming hole and boating place as a waste-disposal channel . If patriotism is the last refuge of scoundrels , local economic chauvinism is the cloak of pollution abetters . The Velsicol company in Memphis , reproached for dumping into the Mississippi masses of high-powered agricultural chemicals that killed , millions of fish , staged a civic dinner whose keynote was a sarcastic : " We understand you do n't want our industry in your city . . . . " There is no instance on record of an industrial concern 's carrying out a threat to move if required to meet acceptable water-quality standards . The National Association of Manufacturers reports that American industry last year spent $100 million on waste-treatment , facilities . That is exactly one-sixth of the amount that one company ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steel companies , as a polluter  --  plans to spend on new production facilities in the next year It is less than 5 per cent of what the steel industry alone plans to spend on capital expansion in 1966 . Rather than cracking down on pollution , there is evidence that some states have been misguidedly using it as a come-on for industry . Anti-pollution efforts in the United States started in 1886 in a laboratory on the Merrimack River at Lawrence , Mass ? the area of some of the nation 's earliest industry . Nearly a century later , the Merrimack is still one of the worst polluted rivers in the country . New England , which has suffered more , than any other part of the country from an exodus of industry , also has been the most intransigent area in defying federal pollution-abatement efforts ? even resorting to the ridiculous contention that federal concern with pollution on interstate waterways is unconstitutional . Alone in the country , New England and New York ( which shares many of New England 's streams and industrial problems ) have maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streams . This is a three-card-monte exercise in which up to fifteen years have been frittered away in " studies " and hearings that resulted in various degrees of pollution being approved for various segments of rivers . Ostensibly this is to provide goals for improvement . In reality it freezes existing pollution , and begs the question of a real cleanup by presupposing that pollution is inevitable and that certain interests have a right to commit it . New England industry has n't conspicuously flourished from this approach . Industry needs clean water , and with rivers from the Androscoggin to the Connecticut woefully polluted , there are lots of better places for manufacturers to settle . The South , equally avid for industry , got the message some time ago . In many places , industries once had almost a free hand to pollute . Portions of the Savannah River in Georgia and the Coosa , running into Alabama , are among the shocking results . But now usable water is getting scarce , and Georgia , in particular , has started a big cleanup campaign in which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coupled with the realization that availability of clean water is more alluring to industry than easy disposability of dirty water . This sort of enlightenment reaches its apogee in California , where agriculture overshadows industry economically , water is scarce , and state authorities feel they can be tough about effluent standards in respect to both industry and municipalities . Thus , when the Kimberly-Clark paper company , casting about for a Western mill location with a good water supply , chose Anderson , on the Sacramento River , California in effect said : " We 'd be delighted to have you , but only on this basis : the Sacramento is one of our priceless natural treasures , and if you 're going to sluice waste into it , that waste is going to be so clean that baby salmon ( more sensitive to water quality than people ) will thrive on it . " The company judged it well worth while to spend 222 upward of 10 per cent of its $20 million investment on waste-treatment equipment This spectacularly contradicted the notions that lax enforcement is the key to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next to bankruptcy . Other states are starting to show gumption Federal intervention in water pollution is limited by statute to interstate situations , except where a governor asks for help on an . intrastate problem .. Michigan invoked such federal aid in 1961 Its water officials had prided themselves on pollution enforcement throughout most of the state , but Detroit was another story . There the combined political and economic power of the automobile industry was evident both in outrageous discharges from plants and in a horse-and-buggy sewage system to serve 3 million people . Detroit has only " primary " sewage treatment , which in the inelegant phrase of sanitary engineers means just " settling out the lumps " before the remainder is flung into the public domain . Standard treatment nowadays includes " secondary " processing of waste with chemicals , filters and sometimes electrolytic gear that remove up to 90 per cent of pollutants and leave a fairly innocuous residual fluid . At federal hearings last spring , Detroit 's sewage director , Gerald Remus , lamented that secondary treatment facilities would cost the city the inconceivable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominal twenty-year period , would amount to less than $3 per capita per year . The achievement of an explicit agreement between state and federal officials on a pollution cleanup program  --  enforceable by federal court action  --  usually requires a certain amount of horse trading on terms , with the state people going as far as they feel they can in commitments without the risk of being lynched by their constituents . In the case of Detroit , the U.S. Public Health Service negotiators , having gotten on the record official acknowledgments of the automobile companies ' atrocious discharges ( Chrysler being a notable exception ) , settled for a semantic compromise on the city 's sewage . Instead of categorical " secondary treatment , " it was agreed that Detroit would install " a degree of treatment sufficient to protect all legitimate uses of waterways . " The previously mentioned conflict in the public mind is suggested in the paradox that . at the time when Michigan state officials were accepting federal backing to clean up pollution , the Michigan State Chamber of Commerce was trumpeting alarums about " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Along with many other representatives of states and Industry , the Michigan Chamber was , buck-ing the Muskie-Blatnick bill , the major pending piece of national water cleanup legislation . The Chamber depicted fundamental liberties as being jeopardized by the bill 's proposal to make water-pollution control a separate division of the Department of Health , Education and Welfare , instead of being an offshoot of the subordinate Public Health Service . This was purely an intra-departmental change , paralleling what had already been done with air pollution ; it did not give the department a jot more statutory power than it had already . The reason for making the change  --  and the reason the pollution lobby opposed it ? was that it promised to make the department 's existing powers more effective . Water-pollution control evolved as a side line of the Public Health Service 's original preoccupation with disease . This work had involved a lot of friendly collaboration between Public Health field personnel and state health officials . When water-pollution personnel moved into states to enforce cleanups , this long-standing relationship got in their way ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frictions with state officials . So it seemed a good idea to draw an administrative line between the two activities . What agitated the pollution lobby even more was the Muskie-Blatnick proposal to establish national water-quality standards . This seems no more illogical than having a uniform national standard for aspirin or minimum wages . It takes the same concentration of bacteria in water to make a person sick in Delaware as it does in Oregon , and the same amount of phenols to dirty a boat hull in Lake Erie as in Lake Texoma . Furthermore , it is obviously inequitable for a lowThe NATION standards upstream state to impose filth on a more conscientious state downstream . Yet in the Michigan Chamber 's nightmare , the proposed statutory innovations would empower the secretary of Health , Education and Welfare to control even " the expansion of subdivisions in our state " through manipulation of water regulations . Of such chimeras The New York Times commented : The complaint about " invasion of states ' rights " has been heard too long . It is the rallying cry of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other industrial firms that oppose Federal action because they find it much easier to put pressure on state and local governments . There is no need to defer furthei7 , in this field to the states . ' ' If theg , ; fidd not defaulted in their resporisibtlities for ' , decade 's , pollution would not be a major problem today Too many states have too often winked at serious pollution by cities and by local industries . The League of Women Voters , the Izaak Walton League , the United Auto Workers , and scores of similar organizations  --  along with LBJ ? are on the warpath against water pollution . Public pressure is plainly becoming more distressing to some officials than the old pressures . Protests from hundreds of thousands of Ohioans virtually pushed Governor James Rhodes into requesting a federal proceeding to abate interstate pollution of Lake Erie . This represented a tactical victory for New York 's Sen. Robert Kennedy in protracted dueling with Governor Rockefeller over water matters . The Governor , promoting a S1.7 billion six-year state-cleanup program , sought for a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely an intrastate affair that called . for no federal interference ? except federal subsidies . At an emergency gathering of governors at Cleveland on May 10 , about the Lake Erie mess , Mr. Rockefeller talked expansively about problems of pollution , while almost avoiding mention of Lake Erie  --  or the tons of corruption that pour into it hourly from around Buffalo . Hence there presumably was some head snapping at Albany a month later when Governor Rhodes ' Lake Erie application to Health , Education and Welfare inexorably involved New York October 11 , 1965 as a co-polluter along with Michigan , Pennsylvania and Indiana . Even then Governor Rockefeller resisted the prodding of Senator Kennedy that New York should avail itself of federal assistance in intrastate pollution problems . The latest round in the skirmishing culminated on ? September 1 , when ? New York 's water shortage having called attention to the grievous pollution of the Hudson ? Health , Education and Welfare started an abatement action there , tactfully stating that it was being initiated " at the request of the governors of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidentally , has been giving industrial circles some qualms with proposals to charge big-water users higher rates , to discourage waste , and to tax industrial plants for pollution The system has worked well in Germany . New York City 's water shortage appeared to be a glaring illustration of ineptitude on the part of officeholders . Mayor Wagner has insisted that the city 's water-storage capacity has increased greatly under his administration ( even if unkind vagaries of weather prevented that capacity from being filled ) . If we look into the little-publicized credentials of the city 's appointed water commissioner , Armand D'Angelo , who has been perspiringly dispatching rain-making students to California and trying to keep up with Rep. William Ryan 's bodacious wading in water leaks , we find that he is bringing to bear all the experience of a career as a draftsman and union business agent . Under the circumstances , it may not be surprising that a lot of New York was parched while the Hudson River was sweeping past at a rate of 1 million gallons a second . The Hudson is polluted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Yorkers have sweltered through the summer with partial air conditioning , means are being found to use its water . An adequate supply of ' clean water is still a matter of money  --  money to pipe it in , money to depollute it , or in the final extremity , money to buy it in tank cars and bottles As long as there are liquid assets to be juggled , there will be people eager to juggle them . Money talks , they say . So does vox pop . Recently , vox pop has been talking louder . 