@@494872

We are living today in a prewar period ? like those that led up to 1914 and 1939 . There is the same challenge to the established international order , apparently mount ? ing year by year toward a point of critical culmination . There is the increasing threat of force . There is the accelerating arms race . Finally , there is the psycho ? logical transformation among peoples , an initial fear and pacifism tending to give way to increasing anger and determination as the stark alternatives of policy come to be vividly appreciated at last . Even though this is a prewar period , it does not fol ? low that it will culminate in the outbreak of World War III . The process of gestation may yet be aborted by statesmanship on both sides . The hope that it may resides in one unprecedented fact : that neither side , while it retains its reason , will deliberately choose war as a means of gaining its ends . The price in destruction that the new weapons could be expected to exact , on both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ruling out major war as a deliberate instrument of policy . This , be it noted , was not the situation before 1914 or before 1939 . The prime characteristic of a prewar period , however , is that the political leaders on both sides find them ? selves progressively losing control of the course of events . The alternatives before them are constantly fewer , the choices constantly narrower . The fact that the world is already involved in this dangerous pro ? gression is what endows the present with the charac ? teristics of a prewar period . A common belief is that the arms race , in itself , is the root cause of the progression . This view has never been convincing to me , and in the present circum ? stances is less so than ever . If the new destructiveness of national armaments deters the deliberate resort to war today , it is hard to see how that deterrence will become less with their increase and development on both sides . Desirable as it might be for other reasons ? including the danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strain ? the universal dis ? armament that we talk about would surely increase Louis J. HALLE is a professor at the Institute of Higher International Studies in Geneva and was formerly with the State Department Policy Planning Staff . the likelihood of war by making the resort to it less dangerous . The disappearance of alternatives , the narrowing of choice , the progressive loss of control by governments ? these characteristics of the prewar period seem to me to arise , not out of the arms race , but out of develop ? ments in the field of what one might call public and political psychology . As the tensions of the prewar period rise , or simply as they endure at a high enough level , the moderate elements on both sides find them ? selves under increasing pressure from the extremists , who may at last succeed in making themselves political ? cally predominant . This rise of the extremists is observ ? able , today , in our own world and in the Communist world alike . Let 's begin with the evidence in the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist Party in Moscow has revealed that Premier Khrushchev 's leadership is more strongly chal ? lenged , and his authority less firmly established , than we had thought . Not only have the Chinese Communist leaders publicly shown their contempt of his authority , even Mr. Molotov in his exile has felt that the balance of forces within the Communist world is such that he now dares personally challenge that authority . What is the issue between Mr. Khrushchev and his domestic opponents ? the so-called " Stalinists " ? All the evidence suggests that the main issue is whether the progress and promise of the Soviet Union , in its domestic development , shall be safeguarded by a policy of relative moderation abroad , or shall be ex ? posed to the risks inherent in a militant foreign policy based on an acceptance of war as an eventuality . Mr. Khrushchev 's whole course , since his advent to power , suggests that he has taken a more realistic than ideo ? logical view of the world in which he has to play his part ? limited as that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1955 and 1956 , to favor a policy of retrenchment and consolidatiOn like that on which the Emperor Hadrian embarked when he came to the throne of the Caesars . It led him to favor a gradual liberalization of the Rus ? sian society , a relaxation of international tensions , and the confinement of international competition within the limits of what he calls " peaceful coexistence . " Perhaps I exaggerate or simplify . Mr. Khrushchev is undoubtedly a man of limited understanding , and there have been occasions when he seemed momentarily drunk with power , when Soviet successes in weaponry or in outer space appear to have aroused in him exces ? sive expectations that the West would be cowed into retreats of one sort or another . On the whole , however , his policy seems to have been one of relative modera ? tion , and of achieving Soviet objectives by a process of growth , however forced , rather than by the danger ? ous shocks of war . If Mr. Khrushchev 's words and actions since last spring are superficially inconsistent with this view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic politics ? that of disarming one 's opponents by stealing as much of their program as may be neces ? sary for the purpose . So it is that the Republican Party in our country and the Conservative Party in England , when they are in power , adopt the programs of the welfare state . The strength of the opposition to Mr. Khrushchev , as it has now been revealed by the 22nd Party Con ? congress , provides a plausible explanation of his foreign policy in the months leading up to it . By militancy abroad , which he may have expected to produce great ? er successes at Berlin and elsewhere than it did , he hoped to have disarmed his opponents in the Commu ? nist world by the time the Congress opened . That he evidently failed in this seem to me ominous . It now appears that , despite his efforts to disarm them , the extremists in the Communist world may be growing in strength . A like political evolution appears to be taking place in the United States , in response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the tendency of McCarthy ? ism , after its temporary flare-up in the 1950 's , to settle down as a permanent and broadly based element of American politics . We see it in the support that Sena ? tor Goldwater finds for his radicalism of the Right . We see it in the powerful attacks on men like Ambassador Stevenson and Senator Fulbright . Finally , we see it in what can only be characterized as the open rebellion of Major General Edwin A. Walker against the consti ? tuted authority of the United States ? a rebellion that has its points of resemblance with that of General Up to now , the forces of reason and moderation have remained in the political saddle ? in Russia , in France , and in the United States . But in order to keep them ? selves from being unseate.clthese forces may find them ? selves increasingly constrained to pursue policies that represent dangerous compromises with their own best judgments . The Stalinist opposition may not have over ? come Mr. Khrushchev , but it may nevertheless have caused him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons in the face of the world , and to pollute the world 's atmosphere by demonstrative explosions of monstrous nuclear devices . In the United States and in France , the equivalent forces of opposition have at least seriously weakened the governments and reduced their possibilities of maneuver in foreign affairs . The French Government has not been able to achieve a necessary ordering of its affairs in North Africa , and our American Govern ? ment has not been able to adjust its policy in the Far East to the realities developing there since 1949 . If there is any hope of keeping this vicious spiral to ? ward extremism and war from getting altogether out of control , then we are going to have to understand the political psychology involved . The fundamental feature of that psychology is the tendency of the great abstractions to take the place of this world 's intricate realities in men 's minds . The enemy , with all his com ? plex humanity , is dehumanized . The human reality is replaced by the image of a demon , monstrous in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his appetite for destruction and his thirst for power . Most of us can remember how this became the predominant image of the Japanese people and of the German people presented to us during the last war . It is the image of the enemy presented in General Walker 's statement announcing his resignation from the Army and pro ? claiming his rebellion . This image of the demonic enemy carries with it a clear implication : that anyone who would try to deal with him as a being who shares the common character ? istics of the human race , anyone who would seek to reach agreements with him , anyone who does not aim at his extermination ; must either be in league with him and a traitor to his country , or else must be the dupe of traitors . It follows that the forces of moderation in the country , including those which govern it , must be in a state of treason . The conclusion of such extremist rea soning is that all-out war is already implicit in the sit ? uation and must be acknowledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gates no less than against his forces on the outside . And once the claim that we are already in a state of war is accepted , then the question arises why we are not undertaking to shoot with everything we 've got ( why we are " pulling our punches " ) . We may be sure that essentially the same situation prevails inside the Communist world . The Stalinist image of the brutal and ruthless capitalists corresponds to the view that our radical right wing propagates of the Communists . The forces in the Communist world who favor " peaceful coexistence " with the capitalist monsters are traitors to the cause ? including those who govern in Moscow . The situation must be recognized as one of all-out war waged for the extinction of the enemy species . " Peaceful coexistence " is treason . It is significant that our own extremists can justify their position today only by an assurance that , if we go all out against the enemy , he will retreat rather than fight . ( It may be that the corresponding argument is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a tacit recognition that an actual all-out shooting war for the preservation of our way of life can no longer be invested even with the appearance of sense . This , at least , is a favorable development in our day . But the assurance that a shooting war would not eventuate is worthless , as was General MacArthur 's assurance that an advance toward the Yalu would not bring the Chinese Communist forces into Korea against him ? as were the assurances that must have been offered in Moscow , by those who favored the North Korean attack across the 38th Parallel , that the United States would not come in to repel it . If the all-or-nothing men come into power on one side they are likely to come into power on the other , and under such circumstances it is improbable that a crisis like that over Berlin will be resolved without a war in which the hopes of both sides are lost . The world is not without historic experience of these situations , but the lessons of its experience have not become a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient Athenian democracy , which went down to disaster in the unnecessary Pelo ? ponnesian War ( dragging the whole Greek world down with it at last ) because , by the dynamics of the same political progression that I have been describing here , the leadership of moderate men like Pericles succumbed to that of ignorant all-outers like Cleon . Thucydides , in what is surely the political classic of all time , wrote his interpretive " History of the Peloponnesian War " in the hope that it would be " considered useful by all who wish to know the plain truth of the events which hap ? pened and will according to human nature happen again in the same way . " The danger , which he identi ? fied with the increasing ascendancy of the ignorant and the demagogues , remains in spite of his wisdom , for the ignorant have never read him and the demagogues are not interested . So the catastrophic failure of de ? mocracy 25 centuries ago could as easily repeat itself today ? unless the nuclear threat makes a difference . Seeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but now under unprecedented cir ? cumstances that tend to deter the resort to war , we must ask what can be done to abort the classic process . Mr. Khrushchev can no more wish to see the extrem ? ists come into power in Washington than in Moscow ; and Mr. Kennedy can no more wish to see them come into power in Moscow than in Washington . Implicity , this gives them something in common . The great issue between the moderates and the extremists cuts across the lines of the Cold War . Circumstances have given the moderates on both sides a common interest , wheth ? er they like it or not , whether they acknowledge it or not ? that of jointly retaining , against their own ex ? tremist opposition , the power and the freedom of ac ? tion necessary to abort the process by which our world moves toward a Third World War that neither side can accept as a tolerable prospect . We have to recognize , then , that the true interests of the United States and Russia , as represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include substan ? tial if unacknowledged common interests . I would say that they included common interests that properly transcended all their separate interests . If we can recognize this , then we shall see how necessary it is for the responsible leadership on either side to give it effect by bearing in mind the domestic political prob ? lems of the other , and the impact of its own actions on the other 's ability to cope with them . This means a degree of understanding , however tacit , between the two leaderships . I am aware of how delicate and tricky are the cir ? cumstances that have to be dealt with here . It means political tight-rope walking , for the actions that leader ? ship on one side feel compelled to take in order to build a backfire against its own extremist opposition have the effect of strengthening the extremist opposition on the other side . Moreover , the limitations of the mutual con ? fidence that may be possible between the two sides requires a wariness that limits the possibilities of sup ? porting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? traordinary times , the stakes are higher than ever before in the world 's history , and mankind has every reason to learn , today , that for the first time it has an overriding common aim which transends , even though it does not eliminate , the divisions based on traditional differences of ideology or national interest .                     