@@441575

THIS year Great Britain 's fast-growing trade with Europe will probably exceed in value its trade with the entire Commonwealth , in spite of tariff preferences . Last year the European trade almost achieved parity ( 34.3 percent of total trade against 35.5 percent . ) . To Prime Minister Macmillan , this striking economic development reinforces the obvious political strength of the case for Britain 's membership in a united Europe . For Britain to be omitted would imperil the British economy 's chance of growth . But all the other fifteen prime ministers invited to the greatest of all Commonwealth conferences this September assess the implications differently . To them , the fact that Britain 's imports from Europe have risen more than 60 percent in seven years , while its imports from the Commonwealth countries have risen barely 3 percent , accentuates the still unanswered challenge to the free and capitalist West . It focuses the potential danger of Britain 's joining Europe on the wrong terms . Khrushehev plainly fears the challenge upon his borders of a dynamic , democratic , and united Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less developed parts of the Commonwealth , there seems to be something in what he says : that one of the inherent contradictions in international capitalism , which may finally bring it down , is that the rich inevitably get richer at the expense of the poor . And even the more sophisticated , who note that Khrushchev 's own recent actions show that Communism , like capitalism , has failed to solve the agricultural-industrial equation , would argue that this problem should have priority even over that of achieving more rapid and continuous growth in the major industrial countries . The genuine enthusiasm for a united Europe in official circles in London has been tempered bythis reminder issued in May by the National Institute for Economic and Social Research : " Unless present policies are modified in favor of primary producing countries , it seems fairly certain that their exports will rise much more slowly than in the decade 1950-60 , . . . Anything that reduces their share in the British market will have a relatively big adverse effect . " The Commonwealth in . jeopardy The prime ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Time is eroding imperial preference anyway . The British market is , relatively , much smaller than it was . Already , quotas have had to be placed on some products ( like New Zealand butter and Indian textiles ) . Already , the centuries-old right of free entry for Commonwealth citizens into Britain has had to be modified . If Britain does join , the essential thing still will be to ensure that the Common Market does not become just a modification in favor of industrialized countries . While this is true in general for all the prime ministers coming to London , the details of the truth are different in each case . Nkrumah 's Ghana has taken the Khrushchev line . But Ghana might be offered association with the Common Market , and refusal to associate could isolate the country . Its African neighbors and competitors would enjoy considerable advantages in trade denied to Ghana . To be associated or not to be associated is Nkrumah 's question . Welensky of Rhodesia , however , may have no choice . Association will be denied Rhodesia " until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then , to Rhodesia 's economy ? Diefenbaker of Canada , with a bare majority now , a delicately balanced currency , an unbal- anced economy , and an increasing dependence on the United States , faces the certainty that Canadian manufactures will gradually lose their preferences in the British market and will have to compete after 1970 over a tariff with similar goods from Europe then entering duty-free . Although this Canadian trade is still small ( $175 million in 1960 ) , it is a growth trade and may represent the margin between a trade surplus and a deficit . Canadian wheat may also face difficulties . Menzies of Australia has similar preoccupations , and in addition , new towns have been built in Australia on the basis of the growing trade in processed food with Britain . Holyoake of New Zealand has the most difficult problem of all . Dairy farming is his country 's greatest industry ; Britain its only great market , taking almost 90 percent of its farm exports . With Britain inside a single European agricultural system , taking instead continental Europe 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Yet all must also face the question , If Britain stays out of Europe and stagnates , where and how does it find future growth ? Macmillan 's answer Macmillan 's answer is his own " Grand Design , " which is essentially an extension of President Kennedy 's . Macmillan 's plan has these main features ; a completely united Europe ( Britain would include the neutrals , whose association is opposed by the United States ) ; a world commodity agreement ; transitional arrangements to maintain Commonwealth exports until such an agreement is in force ; free entry into Europe for the major raw materials ; reduced world tariffs on manufactures through reductions in GATT ; a farm price level in Europe set low enough to discourage surpluses and allow reasonable imports ; association for the new African and West Indian states ; special arrangements either in Britain alone or in the new Europe as a whole for New Zealand ; greatly increased European aid for developing countries ; and a constant review by the European Commistftt. sion of the trade of India and Pakistan , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible , improved . The future of the Conservative government in Britain clearly depends on the extent to which Macmillan can persuade the Commonwealth prime ministers of the viability of this design . And , of course , the British parliament and public . And the existing Common Market of the Six . And the United States . Changing the Tory image For the government , the tide of favor has ebbed already . At by-elections the Conservatives have lost seats , and the possibility that the increasing Liberal vote might next year or the year after put in a minority Labor government at the next general election can not be discounted . The fate of the Coniervative Party depends on whether Macmillan can redress the discontent of the British electorate , and that of the Tory backbenchers . The strong men in what is virtually a new government are an interesting mixture . Besides Macmillan they include Butler , Macleod , Maudling , Thorneycroft , Boyle , Home , and Hailsharn . Butler , the philosopher of the party , is now designated as Macmillan 's successor , although , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Macleod was too liberal about Africa as colonial secretary to suit many faithful Tories , yet he is now considered responsible , along with Macmillan himself , for the decline in party fortunes , because he was not liberal enough . Maudling is remembered in Europe as chief designer of the ill-fated scheme for a free trade area . He is an expansionist . Thorneycroft is a convinced " European , " but is best known for resigning when Chancellor of the Exchequer because the government would not deflate firmly enough . Boyle resigned over Suez . Home is a traditional Tory ; Hailsham is the most unorthodox . The central task of these men is to make it manifest that Britain is going to be what Macmillan says it already is , " one nation . " Macmillan made eleven changes in a Cabinet of twenty-one members , bringing into the Cabinet eight new faces . He made twenty-four changes among junior ministers , elevating for the first time eleven backbenchers . Among the newcomers are Edward du Cann , 38 , organizer of successful mutual funds , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de Ferranti , 32 , a member of one of Britain 's greatest family industrial firms , who is now parliamentary secretary in the Ministry of Aviation ; Christopher Chataway , 31 , a four-minute miler and a popular television personality , who is secretary to the Ministry of Education . The first reaction to the drama was one of doubt . The London Times said the changes would be meaningful only if the Tories now give the British people a new sense of purpose . No newspaper waved its hat . Selwyn Lloyd was cheered in Commons after his dismissal . Macmillan , entering a few minutes afterward , was received almOst in silence . Gaitskell called on him to go , but he remained in command , and once again Tory ranks began to close . The atmosphere of doubt was made heavier , however , by an awareness that the new government wilt not meet with Parliament again until October , except in case of emergency . Yet the greatest issues of all Will be decided meanwhile . The outlines of European agreement will have been reached . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgments . Electors will be preparing to give theirs in three fall by-elections . The fate of the Macmillan government could be decided by what the Commonwealth prime ministers say and how the public reacts to that , instead of by she reaction so a new party image . Growth in Britain 's economy The obstinate refusal of the British economy to show signs of dynamic growth has obscured some undeniable improvements . All this year , trade itself has been in surplus , and the balance of payments has been favorable . In five out of she first six months of the year the gold reserves grew substantially ; and in the sixth the deficit was due to a special credit to Canada . Investments in Britain from abroad , notably the United States , have been mounting steadily . Last year they topped one billion dollars . The stock market break on Wall Street , although reflected in London , has not seriously diminished them . The long fall in Britain 's invisible exports has been halted and reversed . The export price level has not risen for twelve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's " pay pause . " Exports have inched upward . The Treasury believes they Will NOW accelerate . Import costs have recently fallen . In terms of stability and opportunity Britain IIONV may actually be better placed than either West Germany or France , where , although she growth records are better , the costs and prices are rising . Car production is hack at the record 1960 levels . This is of particular importance to Scotland and Wales , Britain 's own underdeveloped areas . England 's past monopoly of growth and of consumer industries proves now to have been a main cause of the long impoverishment of the other members of the United Kingdom . Now , established in Scotland , Wales , and Northern Ireland , these industries bring real hope for she future . In Wales that hope has already burst into life . In 1946 , eight out of ten of all the able-bodied men in the valley around . Merthyr were out of work . Some had been out of work for ten or twelve years . A few had never had a job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wales revitalized Coal and steel , still basic to Wales , have been modernized . Most of Britain 's sheet steel and tinplate  --  consumer 's steel ? are made in Vales 11051 ' . To coal and steel have been added textiles , television , packaging , aluminum , oil , electronics , and automobiles . The number of students studying science at high levels in Wales has been more than doubled . Welsh farming , too , has taken on a new expansionist air . It is difficult to pinpoint the moment of breakthrough , but the first vital decision was that of the late Lord Dalton in the wartime coalition government . ( He was then Labor 's man at the Board of Trade , as Mr , Hugh Dalton . ) The accepted view then was stoat the answer to unemployment was to remove the obstacles to mobility of labor . Dalton produced a bill to give himself power over the location of new industry . Steps Were taken to create conditions that would make bossiness people want to come to AVales . The strength of character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and their adaptability . With these , and new plant , the statistics of individual productivity in Wales began to show a growth rate of twice the national average between 1952 and 1960 . A development corporation for Wales was set up to encourage new industries further and retrain workers . Government factories were provided at low rentals . Technical eclu. cation was improved . And the roads and railways to Wales have been improved faster than anywhere else in the United Kingdom . IN THE spring of 1958 , Prime Minister John Diefenbaker personally carried his Conservative Party to the greatest political triumph in Canada 's history . His Conservatives elected 208 members in the 265-seat House of Commons , decimated the once invulnerable Liberal Party , and shattered two minority groups . Four years later , in June , 1962 , Diefenbaker led his forces into another general election which became an equally spectacular political ambush . Only the emergence of a third party in rural Quebec saved Mr. Diefenbaker from disaster and enabled him to carry on with a minority government until Parliament meets this fall . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis , which had been developing for fifteen years and which exploded unexpectedly on May 2 . Without it , there were no real issues , and the Diefenbaker government would undoubtedly have retained a small majority . It was public alarm over the suddenly devalued Canadian dollar that gave his opponents a focal point on which to concentrate . They did so with great effect . Diefenbaker 's fumbling Diefenbaker had been in 1958 a happy warrior who coasted into office inveighing against American domination of Canadian industry . With a florid style of gesticulating oratory reminiscent of William Jennings Bryan 's , he rang all the changes on the nationalistic theme . Now he was the chastened , often irascible leader of a star-crossed regime which seemed unable to do much right . The Diefenbaker government tried to court American friendship by agreeing quickly to joint development of the Columbia River and was deeply embarrassed when the government of British Columbia refused to give its consent . It scrapped Canada 's own Arrow jet fighters and had to settle for Bomarc missiles without warheads . It tried to expand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unexpectedly circumvented by the traditionally pliant Canadian Senate . It crusaded against the export of natural gas to the United States and wound up approving it . It fought to discourage British entry into the Common Market and was slapped down by London and Washington . It resolutely refused to devalue the Canadian dollar ; then , when it changed its mind , fell into an exchange crisis . The effect of these and other examples of government fumbling tarnished the Diefenbaker image , yet they were hardly the sort of issues that decide elections . In early spring all the auguries pointed to a Conservative victory with a much reduced majority . The economy was coming out of the recession . National income was at an all-time high . More people ? 7 million in a population of 18 million ? had jobs , at the highest wage level in history . Unemployment , which had reached an alarming 10 percent of the labor force in 1960 and 1961 , was dropping rapidly to a manageable 5 percent . The 400-million-bushel wheat surplus , which had jammed public elevators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government sold it to Communist China . The oil industry , the Tory whipping boy of 1957 and 1958 , got some belated encouragement and pushed production to record levels . Rising oil and gas exports in 1961 , plus wheat sales to China , helped give Canada its first favorable trade balance since 1952 . The Diefenbaker administration embraced deficit financing with $3 billion in budgetary deficits in five years . It raised old-age pensions , liberalized unemployment-insurance payments , increased subsidies to wheat farmers , dispensed larger subsidies to all the provinces , expanded hospital construction , and undertook public works on a grand scale . It even found $5 million to subsidize amateur athletes and exercise addicts . Canadian dollar crisis In its early stages , the political campaign could not sustain much public interest . Lester B. Pearson and his Liberals electrified nobody with promises of a much deeper plunge into the wel- fare state . Then , on May 2 , the government announced that it had been forced to fix the Canadian dollar at 92.5 U.S. cents , a drop of 5 cents in six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents . Canadians may not have understood much about international monetary markets . But the drop of the Canadian dollar from its former pre-eminent position hurt their pride . For five years , the Canadian dollar hacl sold at a premium of up to 5 cents more than the U.S. dollar . To Canadians , the premium was one thing they had which was superior to something American . When the dollar slumped to 92.5 cents and could not be held there , it was ego-shattering . When the dollar crisis broke on May 2 , the Conservatives quickly blamed the " gloom and doom " of the Liberals for impairment of confidence abroad . They also blamed dollar selling by currency speculators for the currency crisis , then argued that a discounted dollar would benefit the Canadian economy . It would create jobs in Canada , widen exports , and above all , it was a boon to agriculture . There was no economic crisis , said Diefenbaker , again and again . Never in Canadian history had so many people had it so good , and the new dollar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dollar crisis to chastise the government because it would raise Canadian prices . The Liberals charged that the devaluation of the Canadian dollar was final proof of the fiscal incompetence of the Diefenbaker government . They printed a million " Diefenbucks " of 92.5 cents face value , and the electorate was highly amused . The Conservatives , the Liberals charged , had jolted American confidence in Canada when they imposed a special 15 percent tax on dividends in 1960 . Their long string of whopping budget deficits had destroyed world confidence in Canada and started a flight of capital from Canada . Then , to top it off , the Canadian stock markets slumped with U.S. markets . Behind all the campaign oratory lay a simple fact that was ignored by all parties : the dollar crisis was the result of fifteen years of borrowing from Peter to pay Paul , of selling off the country 's assets to pay its current debts . Since World War II Canada habitually has had an adverse balance of merchandise trade . Its excess of imports over exports often ran as high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made up by Canadian industrial and municipal borrowings in New York , where interest rates were lower than in Canada , and by a massive flow of American investment into Canadian industry . American investments Under the British preference system , goods from Canada enter other Commonwealth countries at rates of duty below the rate paid on imports from the United States . American industry , for that reason , was encouraged to locate branch plants in Canada . It could then bring in its components from the United States duty free , assemble the finished product in Canada , and undersell domestic U.S. competitors in the Commonwealth . After World War II , the trickle of branch-plant investment northward became a flood . At the same time , discoveries of large Canadian fields of oil and gas and iron ore and base metal deposits attracted billions of U.S. dollars . Filially , Canada had a reputation as a safe investment haven replete with profitable opportunities . The growth of American investment in Canada increased from just under $5 billion in 1945 to $17.5 billion in 1961 . As this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steadily and have accentuated the ' balance of payments deficit from trade . Canadian interest and dividend payments to United States residents in 1961 exceeded $620 million , compared with $427 million in 1956 and $250 million in 1946 . Nevertheless , the balance of payments problem was never acute as long as Canadians borrowed heavily in New York and American industry invested a billion dollars a year in Canada . However , in 1961 Canadians did not borrow as much as they had formerly borrowed . With the oil and gas industry becoming fully de- veloped , and with much of the manufacturing and service industry overdeveloped , investment opportunities for American capital declined . The combination reduced the Canadian dollar demand in New York , and its value gradually sank as the government decided it preferred to have it below par anyway . Then , when the interest payments on the U.S. investment increased , the downward pressure became too much for the Canadian government to cope with . Obvious as these facts are , they were ignored completely in the election issue oratory , and for good reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is unique , because it lies completely outside normal definitions of external debt . It is not a debt owed by the government of Canada to the government of the United States . I t is not a debt of the government of Canada to bondholders in the United States . It is real property and profit-making business in Canada owned by individual citizens and corporations in the United States . Or it is real property in Canada which has been mortgaged by Canadians to individual citizens and corporations in the United States . It is several billions in municipal and provincial debentures owned by individual citizens and corporations in the United States . It is common stock in thousands of Canadians companies , and in American plants in Canada , owned in the United States . Because the American dollar investment in Canada does not show up anywhere in the balance sheet of the Canadian government , Canadian cabinet ministers and their advisers never concern themselves with it . For them , it exists only in the obscure but finely detailed publications of the Dominion Bureau of the Statistics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fames E. Coyne , deposed governor of the Bank of Canada . Mr. Coyne started to worry about the implications to Canada of the flood of American capital into the country almost a decade ago . Then he began making speeches about it , and as time passed he became more out- spoken . He was the only vocal advocate of belt tightening and living within the country 's means . In a memo to the government , he urged a sharp curtailment of imports , much tighter money to discourage overexpansion , and other measures designed to generate within Canada the capital needed to develop the country . In the summer of 1961 the government fired the governor and precipitated a parliamentary debate that ended only when the Senate defied the government and gave Mr. Coyne a public hearing . He promptly resigned and withdrew completely from public affairs . In his struggle with the government , Mr. Coyne attracted little public sympathy . The Liberal Party fought to give him a chance to defend himself before the House of Commons , but the Liberals disassociated themselves completely from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers of Canada . So , indeed , did most of its economists . But when the dollar crisis worsened , belated respect developed for Mr. Coyne . This was heightened only three days after the election , when the government seas forced to take drastic action to save the dollar from further decline . It borrowecl $1 billion from the International Monetary Fund , the Bank of England , and the Federal Reserve Bank . It promised the banks to cut its own expenditures by $250 million a year and raise a like amount by imposition of emergency duties up to 15 percent on 53 billion in imports . It fixed the bank rate at an unprecedented 6 percent , and Canada seas given a stiff dose of austerity . Yet , in doing so the government evinced a curious blindness to the cause of its trouble , for it also expressed the hope that the measures taken would restore the flow of foreign capital into the country . The exchange problem If American investors in Canada are to get a satisfactory return on their $17 billion investment , Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States of something better than $1.5 billion a year , instead of a deficit of $600 million a year . The American market must be opened to manufactured goods from Canada , for only in that way can dollars be earned to pay interest , principal , and dividends to American investors . The choice is an impossible One for American industry , since it means American owners of Canada 's manufacturing industry must import the products of their Canadian factories to displace , its the American market , the products from their American factories . Or they can reconcile themselves in the future to operating their Canadian branch plants for fun and experience , but not for profit they can take 110111C to spend . There is an American side to the Canadian difficulty , and that is the side on which the solution must ultimately be found . The investment seed which American industry and commerce sowed in Canada now yields a bumper crop of Canadian dollars . But the crop will not be worth much to the harvesters unless they can discover hose to get their crop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the crop owner 's problem rather than the hired man 's . Meanwhile , the International Monetary Fund loan will tide the government over until midwinter , when the flow of dividends and interest to the United States again reaches its peak . If pressure on the dollar becomes unbearable , the Canadian government may have to take more extreme measures . In 1948 , in a similar balance of payments crisis , the Liberal government practically shut the border to American imports and cut Canadian tourist travel to the south to a minimum . A strong government might be prepared to take such drastic action again . A minority government can hardly be expected to do so . Out of the next crisis may well come another general election which will produce a stable government . No other country in the world today has anything even remotely resembling Canada 's exchange problem , so there is nowhere any Canadian government can turn for direction . One thing is certain : the Canadian balance of payments drama has settled in for a very long run on the international stage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italian stock market suffered the worst slump since the " black week " of January , 1956 . Shares dropped by an average of 26 percent , and the Italian shareholders lost $3.7 million , Although the almost contemporary slumps in the New York and London markets might have had some influence , the Italian debacle was fundamentally a consequence of Mine Minister Fanfani 's turn to the left and of the announcement of the government decision to nationalize the electrical industry . Electrical shares started falling and dragged other shares with them . The svolta a sinistra , or " turn to the left , " had been looming over Italy for the last three years . The development was closely connected to the very composition of the Italian Parliament . Since the end of the war , the Italian political scene has been occupied quite thoroughly and consistently by the Christian Democrats , a middle-of-the-road party backed by the Catholic Church ; by many of those who feared the advent of Communism more than anything else , and who saw in the Vatican the most effective bulwark against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracts those who are afraid of Communism and who do not like the fascists either , those who are practicing Catholics or who have at least a feeling of respect for the moral authority and the wisdom of the Church , and those who are against too daring social reforms or experiments . Government by coalition The trouble with the Christian Democrats has always been that , although they emerged victorious from all the elections , they never quite managed to obtain an absolute working majority , either in the House of Deputies or in the Senate . At present , for instance , in the House of Deputies there are 273 Christian Democrats out of a total of 596 deputies ? about 46 percent . And the Christian Democrats have to grope around among the other eight parties to find support . A look at the composition of the House of Deputies will explain the difficulties the Christian Democrats are still meeting . On the extreme left WC find the Communists , Italy 's second largest party and the biggest Communist Party in svestern Europe , with 141 deputies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with 87 members . All the others are much smaller . Its the center , besides the Christian Democrats , there are 18 Saragat Socialists , very similar to British Laborites ; 6 Republicans , who are a leftover from the monarchy-versus-republic fight ; and 12 independents . On the right there are 18 Liberals , 24 Neofascists , and 17 Monarchists . Fanfani moves left Whenever the Christian Democrats move either to the left or to the right , they gabs the support of some parties but lose that of others . To complicate matters even more , they themselves are far from being compact , but are sharply divided into a right suing and a left wing , plus a few intermediate groups . If , for instance , a Christian Democrat Premier formed a coalition government with the Monarchists and the Neofascists , the party svould split in two , with the left wing going over to the opposition . And if he called the Nenni Socialists in , the right wing would break away . The Christian Democrats have tried all sorts of combinations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the former Vatican librarian , the late Alcide Dc Gasperi , Italy 's greatest post-war statesman , and formed by the Christian Democrats , the Saragat Socialists , the Republicans , and the Liberals . It finally broke up seisms the strain between the Saragat Socialists , who were pressing for social reforms , and the Liberals , who represent free enterprise and the industrialist , became too strong . The present swing of the Christian Democrat pendulum represents the maximum of hose far to the left Italy 's Catholic party dares to go . The government formed on February 22 , 1962 , by Amintore Fanfani , leader of the Christian Democrat left wing , a 54-year-old , pocket-sized , sharp-witted , sharp-tongued university professor of economics , is made up of Ilse Christian Democrats , the Saragat Socialists , and the Republicans . As such , it would not have a working majority and it would fall at the first call for a vote of confidence if it were not for the fact that it enjoys the support of the Nenni Socialists . Nenni moves right This new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible if it had not been preceded and prepared for by two major events . First , as a consequence of the Hungarian Revolution and of Khruslichey 's denunciation of Stalin 's crimes , relations between the Nenni Socialists and the Communists have become very strained . A pact of " unity of action , " which linked the two Marxist parties , gradually faded into oblivion , and Pietro Nenni , a former Stalin-prize winner , was able to pledge his support to a Christian Democrat-led , center-left government , headed by a Catholic Premier . Second , there has been , since John XXIII became Pope , a change in Vatican policies , which allowed a Catholic like Fanfani to come to terms with a Marxist like Nenni without incurring the wrath of the Church or even excommunication by the Holy Office . This does not mean that the Church has changed its ideology , nor that its opposition to Communism has been abandoned , But the Vatican line has become more flexible . The deal Nenni and Fanfani made was , in its broad outlines , fairly simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the working class more to heart , the Nenni Socialists undertook not to renew their engagement ? or , rather , morganatic marriage ? to the Communists . The complete political isolation of the Communists was a fine goal , and Fanfani has achieved it , at least at a top party level . In the trade unions and in local administrations , the two Marxist parties still often collaborate . What re .. mains to be seen is whether the price for the collaboration is too high . On this fundamental point , Italian public opinion is very much divided . Some think that the swing to the left was inevitable , that Italy needs a stable government with a comfortable majority ? which only Nenni 's 87 Socialist deputies can supply ? in order to be able to carry out longterm programs with a certain security . They think that the cleavage between the prosperity of the industrial , progressive , hard-working north of Italy and the poverty of the agricultural , stagnant , depressed south is much too sharp to be endured any longer , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is also a widespread feeling that Italy 's public administration needs to be cleaned up . A number of recent scandals have deeply shaken public confidence . The most sensational seas connected with the building at Fiumicino of the new Rome international airport . It was completed after a great delay , and it cost S98 million , almost double the original estimate . A parliamentary committee of inquiry discovered many serious irregularities in the procedure followed to deal out contracts . It also found that the then Air Force Minister , Randolfo Pacciardi , a Republican , had business connections with one of the chief contractors , Count Giuseppe Manfredi , from whom he had bought seven flats in a residential district of Rome . Bribes , nepotism , political interference , and pressure on the civil service arc quite frequent , and so is tax evasion . ' I ' he feeling is that only a strong government with strong leanings toward social welfare can carry out a cleanup . How much state ownership ? As for the nationalization of the electrical industry , the supporters of Fanfani @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Italian economy is already half controlled by the state . The railways , tloe tobacco industry , the big oil cartel ENI , the telephones , the radio , television , and even the football pools are state owned . Besides , through IRI ( Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale ) , the state has a controlling share in the steel industry , in the Ansaldo and other shipyards , in part of the electrical industry , in Alfa Romeo , in the air company Alitalia , in the shipping company Italia , and in many other Report on Rome big industrial concerns . The IRI group is run efficiently and at a profit , and the supporters of nationalization claim the electrical industry could be too . Others , however . say that Fanfani is playing an extremely dangerous game , that he is making too many concessions to the Nenni Socialists , who are not keeping to their part of the deal but go on flirting secretly with the Communists . They add that the nationalization of the electrical industry is quite unnecessary , and that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Giuseppe Saragat . And they conclude that at the very moment when the Italian economic miracle is in full bloom , when the industrial production is expanding at a rate superior to that of the United States , Russia , and even West Germany , the experiment of a center-left government is the worst thing that could happen to Italy . The disastrous reaction of the stock market seems to prove them right . Although there will be no expropriation , and although the government has given a pledge to transform the electrical companies ' shares into state bonds and to guarantee a dividend not less than that of last year , shareholders were seized by panic and started selling in bulk . All other shares followed the downward trend . The voters approve But while the **29;1453;TOOLONG project , which is expected to become effective by October , has been unfavorably received in financial quarters . Fanfani found some consolation in the political field . On June 10 and II , elections were held in the cities of Rome , Naples , Pisa , and Foggia . They were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played an important part ) and involved only two and a half million voters out of a total population of over fifty million . But still they offered a large enough sample to indicate which way Italian public opinion has been moving . The Christian Democrats lost about 5 percent of their votes , much less than had been prophesied when the plunge to the left seas taken . It meant that the Italian Catholics were not too alarmed over Premier Fanfani 's flirtation with Pietro Nenni . The Saragat Socialists increased their votes considerably , while the Nenni Socialists held their ground . All told , the three main parties obtained the approval of the electorate . There svere other healthy signs . The Liberals , who represent the more moderate and enlightened section of the right , doubled their votes , mostly at the expense of the Monarchists . The Neolaseists , who go under the official name of Nrovimemo Sociale Italiano , made an imperceptible gain , but only thanks to a wild and madly expensive outburst of electoral propaganda . The Communists suffered a slight setback , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ km this respect is the continuous and regular decline of Communist Party membership and of readers of the Communist press . While their electoral strength has been only partly shaken , they arc getting weaker as an organized body ? no doubt a consequence of the isolation in which they find themselves . As far as foreign policy is concerned , most members of the new coalition are anti-Communists . They are also , to various degrees , friends of America , supporters of NATO and of the Common Market , and favorable to a greater political , as well as economic , integration of Europe . Italy 's allegiance to NATO was unconditionally reaffirmed by Premier Fanfani in his June talks With Dean Rusk . But , still , the very fact that Fanfani does not want to antagonize Nenni and his 87 Socialist deputies , who advocate a policy of neutrality , has been leading to a more amicable attitude toward Russia and to an intensification of business relations . Italy 's industrial fair in Moscow was a roaring success . At the end of June , Russian Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Russia of a factory for tractors by Fiat . And Enrico Mattci , president of the state-owned oil company ENI , is buying more and more oil from Russia , despite the protests of U.S. senators and NATO officers .                     