@@494017

Hail Scrawdykel by David Halliwell closed after eight performances . Why then do I write about 117 Because it deserves notice . It is one of a distinguished panel of plays that never had a chance . I am probably omitting somebody 's favorite and including one or two that others love to hate , but a rough listing might be : Jane Bowles ' In the Summer House , Tennessee Williams ' Summer and Smoke and Camino Real , O'Neill 's The Iceman Cometh , O'Casey 's Red Roses for Me , Truman Capote 's The Grass Harp , and more recently , Saul Bellow 's The Last Analysis , Terrence McNally 's And Things That Co Bump in the Night , Joe Orton 's Entertaining Mr. Sloane , and almost any play by Brecht . For all their differences , these plays share common talents or visions , and therefore , by way of the instant , vacuum-packed judgments of Broadway , several common burdens . In its own way , Scrawdyke defines them all . For a start , its leading character does not command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to know on Broadway , is not the way to win audiences or influence reviewers . Known in England as Little Malcolm and His Struggle Against the Eunuchs , Halliwell 's play catches the scruffy young art student , Malcolm Scrawdyke , at that point in his life when urgent panic is about to outrun simple fear . The exterior rim of the story describes Scrawdyke 's public actions . Expelled from art school in the Northern industrial city of Huddersfield , he is after the blood of the teacher he holds responsible . He enlists the support of three chums , Irwin , Wick , and Nipple , each in his way as ineffectual as Scrawdyke . Irwin is terrorized by decisions , Wick falls in romantically with other people 's decisions , and Nipple resides in a private palace of verbal inventions where his projected Great Novel is emperor and fantasy his god . Scrawdyke 's fantasy is quite another matter , not to be taken seriously by Nipple , but a game he can play momentarily , so long as it remains a fantasy . The game and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ messy studio , are the means by which Scrawdyke and his friends can match their private bewilderments against the glaring indignities and aimless cruelties of public life . Seizing imaginary power , they map a campaign to take over the world while , almost incidentally , avenging themselves on the despised teacher . They form a society which , in effect , mirrors the real society they see . First comes the new political party , then the sworn allegiance to the leader ? Scrawdyke ; next an emblem and a flag , then the political rally played to recorded hurrahs , and finally the tribunal trial of one of their own . ( Nipple is tried for paranoia ? whatever he says is held against him ? and he is told ? that he can plead either guilty or very guilty . ) Somewhere amid this mock political action , they manage to stage two other mockeries : the theft of a valuable painting and the subsequent humiliation of their teacher . Theirs is the Absurd State featuring " soaring pyramids dedicated to nothing . " The difference between their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give it a name . The leader of the Great Society , for one example , likes to use the word " compassion " while bombs are dropping in Asia . But the leader of the Party of Dynamic Erection ( that has a familiar Texas ring ) says with touching candor , " Ask me for love and I 'll punch you in the mouth . " There is another difference between Scrawdyke and the society he parodies . When Scrawdyke makes the actual countdown for action ? thirty seconds , twenty seconds , ten , five , four , three , two , one ? nothing happens . Scrawdyke is trembling , but nobody moves , least of all Scrawdyke . In his private monologues at the beginning of each act , he had described his sexual dreams and suggested his confirmed virginity . Now only the confrontation with one real event remains , in this case , the arrival of a girl . Here , unfortunately , Halliwell lets the play take a schematic , awkwardly predictable turn : the girl offers herself to Scrawdyke , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends into the real violence of punching . The scene has the outward force of dramatic action without its inner compulsion , almost as if it was written in order to conform to some alien idea of a play 's ending . Scrawdyke loses all his friends and does n't even possess , as he says , the willpower needed for a mental breakdown . Suddenly his story is too neat and final . Logically , it was a play without resolution , for 5crawdyke had been presenting portraits of the artist as relentless inventor , not really an angry young man waiting to be pacified , but an unplaced person waiting only for the moment when his public and private selves can usefully converge . The play , as it began and continued , can never really end . This submission to convention was not the flaw , however , which murdered Scrawdyke in New York . On the contrary . Had Scrawdyke been more likeable in his actions and relationships , an audience obsessed with mechanical resolutions would have taken his moment of personal discovery into its flinty heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established a highly moral fable in an equally high amoral structure , and this is the sin Broadway does n't forgive . The source of the trouble is a persistent refusal to grant to the playwright the independent freedom of his characters or situations . Beneath the coolness to Scrawdyke and the other plays lies a nagging fear that the playwright is covering every action in his drama with a personal seal of approval . As a mode of popular criticism , this has been refined to make one of the richest veins of comedy ? that of malice and un-manners ? almost impossible . Rogues , pimps , whores , con-men , petty dreamers and extravagant schemers have been virtually exiled from our commodity stage , at least when presented as motivating and leading forces . What is worse , our theatre has almost forgotten how to play them . In this respect , the rejection of Scrawdyke , and the initial rejection of almost all the plays on the list , both serious and comic , can be linked to wrongheaded productions . Their directors , for the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it with nervous spasms known as " business . " The sets were almost always mobbed by objects , crowded with color and detail , all designed to fill the gaps between words . If actors were n't shouting , they were usually doing the fifty-yard dash . Most of the casting was awful . In Scrawdyke , for example , the three young men imported from London were not young enough . Charmless , loud , and more arch than a vaulted ceiling , they never held to the steady rhythm of their author , preferring to play prolonged speeches like announcements , settling back into an unlistening position . Only the single American in the cast , Austin Pendleton , as the stammering Irwin , found the play 's native idiom , wisely electing the life of the role even if he could n't manage the accent . With his chewed lip threatening to disappear behind his teeth , he presented the authentic image of a generation unable to describe its nightmares . In spite of the grinding frenzy within every move of Alan Arkin 's production , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , if only to have given David Halliwell a chance to be heard . Here is a writer who can press images into the service of dialogue , thought merging seamlessly into action ; a writer able to define characters through differing figures of speech ; a writer possessed by verbal energy .                     