@@491434

In his office in Newark , N.J. , Police Director Dominick A. Spina keeps nearly 100 automatics and revolvers , collected over a lifetime of police work and soldiering . Locked in glass-topped cases , these handguns are for display only . In the corner behind Spina 's desk stands a weapon intended for use . It is a short-barreled 12-gauge repeating shotgun  --  the traditional riot gun policemen use to put down disorder in the streets . " We have had our riot , " said Director Spina , a compact , square-jawed man who wears on his right hand a skull-faced silver ring that he took from a German SS officer in World War II . " And I can tell you this " ? he spoke the words very slowly and very positively ? " it will not happen here again . " " We were n't ready last time , " said Spina , whose police force was sharply criticized by a governor 's commission for its handling of the July riots . " We did n't have the protection we needed for our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now , and we will use them . We will do everything humanly possible to keep a riot from breaking out . But if trouble starts , we wo n't make the mistake we made before . We wo n't waste five hours begging people to go home peacefully . Fifteen minutes after the crowd starts gathering we 'll have one hundred men there , armed with shotguns . We will disperse the crowd , and our patrols will keep it dispersed . They can shout and yell all they want  --  that 's their right . But the minute the first brick goes through a window , will start making arrests . This time there wo n't he any fooling around . " Spina 's blunt warning reflects the mood of many lawmen today . No mayor or police commander would seriously question the basic findings of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders that vast projects . " compassionate , massive and sustained , " must quickly get under way to wipe out the inequities that cause riots . But they agree also with the commission 's observation that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community can not , and will not , tolerate mob rule . There must be peace in the streets . At the moment there seems little likelihood that there will be peace in the streets this summer , without the repressive police measures that the commission 's report deplores . As the police arm and armor themselves against the possibility of impending violence , the citizens of the ghetto , heeding Black Power leader Rap Brown 's admonition , " Get you some fire . " have been acquiring weapons of their own . After Newark , a riot in Plainfield , N. J. , was exacerbated when state police searched houses in a hunt for 46 stolen carbines . Since then . Plainfield Police Chief George Campbell reported to a Senate Committee that a huge arsenal of carbines , machine guns and other weapons had been stolen from nearby arsenals . " Their loss , " said Chief Campbell . " constitutes a terrific danger . " Black Power leaders have also been diligent in devising their own homemade devices for harassing Whitey and his cops . The rioter 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Molotov cocktail . In nearly every major city , police intelligence agents have turned up handbills giving detailed directions for making these simple firebombs , often including the curt final instruction . " Light rag ; throw bottle at Whitey . " Ingenuity in making incendiary devices goes far beyond this , however . At the convention of the International Association of Chiefs of Police in Kansas City last September , Maj. Gen. Carl C. Turner , the provost marshal general , demonstrated more than a dozen handmade incendiary or explosive gadgets currently being manufactured in the ghettos . There was also a homemade bow for propelling fire arrows , and a ghetto recipe for making " napalm " out of gasoline , sugar and animal blood . The police and their backup force , the National Guard , are less concerned about ghetto weapons and tactics than they are about the weakness that was revealed in their own organizations when the explosions of arson , looting and murder swept the nation during the tragic summer of 1967 . Then . in 72 cities in 22 states , trivial incidents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Negro , flared into spontaneous and unplanned violence . When the summer ended , 83 persons had been killed  --  nine of them law officers , most of the rest Negroes , including many non-rioters-1,897 others . nearly half of them policemen , had been injured , and property valued at many million dollars bad been destroyed . As the shooting stopped and the fires died down , stunned cities from coast to coast took stock of what they had learned . For both the police and the National Guard , the lessons were embarrassing . In Newark 's great riot the mob began to leave the streets only after the hard-nosed state police had moved in to make mass arrests . In Detroit , where 43 died . it was the steady , disciplined airborne troops of the regular Army , many of them Negroes , who finally brought the mob under control . From these experiences the police and the National Guard each learned a lesson . The police . trained to work singly or in pairs . discovered that they were neither psychologically prepared nor physically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what riot control demands . They lacked the command structure , the weapons , the knowledge of mass-formation tactics which can desver ; e or contain an unruly mob , The Guard units , on the other hand , were too heavily armed for warfare in the streets , where an M-1 bullet fired at a rioter may rip through thin-walled houses to kill an innocent person blocks away . With only two hours of perfunctory riot-control training behind them , they were no more effective than the city police . Panicky , often out of contact with their commanders , they were unable to apply selective , restrained force against a fast-moving mob , in which active arsonists , looters and snipers mingled with shouting , jumping onlookers , most of whom actually did nothing wrong , but were carried away by the turbulent mass around them . At hastily organized seminars in Trenton , N.J. , and Chicago , police and Guardsmen hashed over the weaknesses revealed , particularly in the ordeals of Newark and Detroit , the two cities hit hardest . It soon became clear that lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was responsible for many of the errors , " We thought we were light-years ahead of other cities in our relations with our Negro citizens , " said Detroit 's Police Commissioner Ray Girardin . " Suddenly we found we had a shooting war on our hands , and we did n't know how to handle it . " In Newark the police were somewhat more aware of danger . For weeks a dissident Negro group calling itself Blackman 's Volunteer Army of Liberation had been disrupting meetings of the city 's education and planning boards . With a Black Power conference scheduled to begin there within a week . the state police had set up a Newark commani post . from which they could work in cooperation with the local cops . " Then , " growled Col. David B. Kelly , head of the state police . " the goddamn politicians pussyfooted around and did n't call us in until the mob was running wild . " In New Haven , Conn .. a month later , the political powers did not make this same mistake . Rioting began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor Richard C. Lee had called in the state police and imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew . In the next four days 534 persons were arrested . No shots were fired . No blood was shed , and no charges of police brutality were brought . On the other hand . New Haven 's population is only 93 percent non-white , while over 60 percent of Newark 's is non-white . Surprise , coupled with the size and fury of the quickly i orming mobs , caused great confusion in the riot-torn cities . In Newark , 1,510 persons were arrested . 903 of them in one day ; Detroit hauled in 7. ' ) 31 . Neither city was prepared to handle such a deluge , and all booking and detention procedures broke down . Prisoners gave false names and changed clothes in jail to conceal their identity . In court afterward , few charges could be made to stick , because it was often impossible for the arresting officer to connect an individual with a specific crime . In the future Newark will solve this problem , as New Haven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest teams so that pictures of the cop , the prisoner and his loot can he made at the time of arrest . In both Newark and Detroit dozens of police cars were put out of service when rioters Hung broken glass at tires , and in Newark communications broke down when the high-powered radios of the state police drowned out the walkie-talkies of the Local police . 1 lr-n , when the local cops tried to . . telephone headquarters , they found the snitch ? hoards jammed . New codes for transmitting orders over police radios had to be hastily devised , for rioters monitoring police frequencies were able to anticipate every move the cops made . Shocked into an awareness of its unreadiness to fight a war in the streets , the Guard , under direct orders from the President . launched a crash program to step up its riot-control training from two hours to 32 hours . At Fort Belvoir . Va. , and Fort Gordon , Ga. , regular Army troops simulate riots and demonstrate traditional control methods to both Guard commanders and the police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by surprise , cities across the nation are : ? Sending police undercover men into the ghettos , to look , listen and gather information on what the black militant leaders are saying- with special efforts being made to track down the sources of the wild rumors that often incite riots . ? Stockpiling arms , ammunition and tear gas . and spending huge sums on body armor , helmets and special armored vehicles needed to protect police officers attempting to control an unruly mob . ? Training men in the tactics the military uses to put down civil disorders the massed formations of armed men that can disperse or contain a mob , and the special techniques of killing or capturing a sniper without unduly endangering the innocent . ? Passing new ordinances giving mayors and city managers greater powers to set curfew hours , to seal off certain sections of the city from all traffic . to close up businesses selling guns and ammunition , liquor or gasoline in areas threatened by a riot . ? Keeping the Department of Justice informed of the mood and temper of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington . where phones and Teletypes are manned 24 hours a day . A computer attempts to digest all this information , with a view to predicting riots before they start . ? Holding command-post exercises with their " allies . " the state police and the National Guard . meshing their communications nets , assigning areas of responsibility and setting up the chain of command that will take over when these forces come in to hack up the local police . ? Providing the Department of the Army with details of their battle plans . The Army in turn is coordinating its plans with those of the cities and stockpiling riot-control equipment at strategic depots from which it can be airlifted to any threatened city . And the National Guard is tying in its plans with those of the Army . the state police and the city governments . In the atmosphere of tension that has prevailed since last summer , salesmen of arms and armor have found themselves welcome in police stations across the land . Before the riot at Newark , Police Director Spina was greatly interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wake of the troubles , he hastily equipped his 1.300 policemen with $300.000 worth of bulletproof helmets , armored cars , anti-sniper rifles and " all the tear gas we could ever need . " In Detroit . Police Commissioner Girardin asked for nearly a million dollars ' worth of similar equipment . His request for armored cars was turned down , but he received permission to train and use 1,000 civilian volunteers who would serve as an auxiliary force to the city 's 4,300 policemen , relieving them of the duty of standing armed guard over public utilities and public buildings . All across the country , cities have laid in vast supplies of anti-riot hardware . Chicago spent $168,000 on three helicopters to serve as airborne command posts during riots , and to survey rooftops for caches of bricks , bottles and concrete blocks . New York City bought 5.000 riot helmets at a cost of $100,000 . In Virginia the state police ordered six armored cars costing $30,000 each , although the Advisory Commission warned that displays of excessive force- tanks , for example  --  would probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles the sheriff 's department thriftily built its own armored car for $7,000 by modifying an old war-surplus model , and in Philadelphia . Commissioner Frank L. Rizzo requested two armored vehicles , but was turned down by the mayor . Throughout the country . suppliers of police equipment report booming sales of riot guns , handcuffs and tear gas . These frantic preparations represent less a bully-boy truculence toward the Negro minority than an ulcerating tension , a nervous jumpiness , an almost pathological fear that unless the city stands armed and ready , it may be destroyed . There is something the cities fear still more than a repetition of 1967 . Despite the violence , the passions and the terror of last summer 's riots , police and city administrators now recognize that they were far less bloody than they might have been . They were not the classic " race riots " in which white men and black men fight each other in the streets as they have done a dozen times or more since the Civil War . Confined , in the main , to Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the black man did battle . not with Whitey but with Whitey 's agents  --  the policemen , the firemen and the white owners of slum stores . But lurking in the back of every police commander 's mind today is the cold dread of what might happen if some future uprising should break through his barricades  --  the nightmare vision of Negro mobs looting and burning on Whitey 's side of town , while armed whites counterattack into the Negro ghetto . This is the specter that still hangs over Newark . where white vigilantes have armed themselves . openly declaring their intention to defend their homes and places of business if violence erupts in that city again . It haunts Detroit , where the Dearborn Recreation Department teaches white suburban housewives how to shoot . Indeed , it haunts all the cities of the Midwest , where during and after the Detroit riots the National Rifle Association reported unprecedented numbers of guns being bought by civilians . It was the shadow that hung like a storm cloud over Milwaukee last fall , when Father James Groppi 's open-housing marchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Side . Observers agreed that only the marchers ' own restraint , and the presence of a protective cordon of footsore cops , prevented a bloody battle between the marchers and the frightened and angry Poles . Police from all over the country attending last fall 's police chiefs ' convention focused their main attention on riot control . There was almost unanimous agreement on three points : 1 . The best way to control a riot is never to let it get started . This is primarily the task of the whole community through its social-welfare agencies . But it is also the task of the police department , for the policeman , even though he may only cruise the streets in a patrol car , sees at first hand the squalor and anguish of the ghetto , and he is the first to feel the impact of its anger . 2 . When an incident does occur that threatens to explode into a riot , the police must cool it quickly , using whatever force is needed . Half-hearted measures wo n't work . In both Detroit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautious . Later , over-reaction. horn of fear and anger  --  the wild shooting at snipers , real or imagined , the gunning down of fleeing looters  --  left a legacy of hatred that may take years to dissipate . 3 . Whether a riot is to be prevented through the civilized methods of a police-community relations program . or controlled by force once it is under way . the police commander must have full and complete information on the mood of the ghetto. its goals and aspirations . its angers and frustrations , the identity of its leaders . friendly and unfriendly , and its potential power to destroy , once its fury is unleashed . In every major city in the country today . the police are trying in various ways , and with varying degrees of effectiveness , to meet these challenges . Officers hastily briefed by sociologists and historians on the traditions , the background and the culture of the Negro race . are going into the ghettos not as hard-jawed lawmen but as friends . There they reach out not only to the conservative professional men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have traditionally been the white establishment 's main contact in the black community ( and who have the most to lose in a riot ) . but also to the men Ray Girardin calls " those tough black cats that lean against the lampposts in their undershirts , " glowering with hate as a police car cruises by . They are the ones we missed , " Girardin says , " and they are the ones who wrecked us . " In these community meetings , the officer tries to re-establish the kind of rapport with the people on the block that the old-time foot patrolman had  --  and that was lost when understaffed police departments put their men in cars . In nearly every large city , storefront offices now enable policemen to act virtually as ombudsmen for the Negro community . Complaints against the cheating landlord , the merchant who overcharges , against any situation the citizen feels is unreasonable or unfair . are passed on by the police to the city agencies that can handle them . Accusations against officers charged with being hostile . brutal or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To acquaint the young Negro with the problems the officer faces , ghetto youths are invited to ride the police cruisers with the officers on patrol . As the Negro is brought into closer contact with the police , the policeman is brought into closer contact with the Negro . Police efforts to establish a friendly relationship with the ghetto are matched by their efforts to find out what is going on there . Police intelligence agents infiltrate the Negro community . watching , listening and evaluating the temper of the people . They follow the movements of the more openly hostile Negro leaders , secretly taping their speeches and photographing them for a mug-shot tile that will enable uniformed officers to pick them up quickly when trouble starts . The chief of police must be the best-informed man in town on the causes of civil unrest , " says Inspector Harry Fox of Philadelphia . who ' has 36 men and women prowling the ghettos to keep him informed . On the basis of the reports his intelligence agents bring in. a chief draws up his plans for defending his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . In all the big cities  --  New York , Philadelphia . Pittsburgh , Chicago , Miami , Los Angeles , Kansas City . Washington , D.C. ? the preparations are much the same . In a " war room " at headquarters huge city maps show where protest meetings are being held . where hateliterature is being distributed . where an increase in charges of police brutality . or in cases of malicious mischief , and vandalism against police cars indicates a growing tension . Bearing in mind the danger that a crowd may suddenly run wild , the police commander picks the streets beyond which it must not be allowed to go- the thoroughfares lying between the black ghetto and the white business or residential sections . Within these lines he selects the open areas . the school yards , parks and parking lots into which rioters can he herded and held until the leaders can be arrested and their followers quieted . Outside these perimeters , he chooses the buildings that will house his field-command posts , the open spaces where his officers can assemble out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ammunition may be safely cached before they march in to make their show of force . the buildings where temporary bullpens can be set up to hold the prisoners brought in for booking . He organizes and trains his special teams . The arrest teams will move into the mob under the protection of armed fellow officers , taking into custody those caught in the act of looting . burning or committing an assault . The transportation teams will man the paddy wagons , driving the prisoners to the bullpens where clerks dragooned from all city departments will book them . The anti-sniper teams and the men who will ride shotgun on the fire trucks receive particularly careful training . In Newark and Detroit last summer . snipers tiring from rooftops and apartment windows brought police and Guardsmen to the verge of panic . Their reaction was to shoot at every shadow that moved in a window above street level . In the flurry of random fire , a number of presumably innocent people were killed , including a four-year-old girl , shot when a nervous machine gunner in Detroit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blast from a sniper 's rifle . The new anti-sniper technique is more deliberate  --  and more deadly . When a sniper is located , the streets around the building are cleared as much as possible . Expert marksmen , armed with rifles with telescope sights . and assisted by spotters carrying binoculars , take to the rooftops or high windows overlooking the sniper 's position . If they spot him , they shoot him . If he ca n't he seen , tear-gas grenades are fired into the building to flush him out . If this fails , " hot teams " come over the rooftops or are brought in by helicopter . Dressed in body armor and armed with shotguns. they work their way down through thebuilding. kick in doors until the sniper is found . It is a dangerous and largely unproven method of sniper control . but surely superior to wild . indiscriminate firing . The anti-sniper teams go into action after the shooting has started . If a dangerous situation is properly handled , they may never be needed . Each city now has special quick-striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to make quick arrests and . it is hoped , to break up an angry demonstration before it can explode into a riot . In New York it is the 700-man tactical force ; in Philadelphia a 300-man strike force held ready in buses parked near trouble spots in times of tension . In St. Louis , Chief Curtis Brostron can put 60 men on the scene of ' a riot in 18 minutes , and in Los Angeles a 150-man SWAT fSpecial Weapons and Tactics ) force breaks into four-man arrest teams armed with rifles and shotguns . The bulk of a police force . however , still must be trained in more traditional methods of crowd control  --  the use of the wedge . the diamond , the line-in-echelon formations , by which mobs may be split , fragmented and dispersed . These tactics , developed by the military for handling unruly crowds in hostile countries , are far from suitable for use against " friendly " citizens . for they employ massed men armed with rifles and bayonets , and the police therefore are constantly searching for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can cause a mob to disperse more quickly than can marching men with bayonets . and huge rolls of barbed wire , dragged between two jeeps , can rapidly clear a street . Organizing and arming a semi-military force to light a war in the streets requires only money and a modicum of administrative ability . Knowing how to employ it wisely is far more difficult . What does a police commander do when the mob is actually in the streets ? Does he try to scatter it , or does he contain it behind barricades ? In either case , when does he make his show of force ? How hard does he strike ? To Commissioner Howard Leary of the New York Police Department , whose ' 28,000-man police force can carpet a troubled area with wall-to-wall cops , this is the crucial command decision . " There are no hard and fast guidelines , " he says , " It is purely a matter of feel , of sensitivity to the mood of a crowd ; it is so subjective , so judgmental , it can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however . does spell out his answer . " You use what force is necessary to keep a small incident from flaming into a full-scale riot , and you use it as quickly as possible , " he says . " We 've been accused of using a sledgehammer to mash a butterfly . But who knows how many riots we have kept from happening ? The biggest mistake any police commander can make is to try to handle a dangerous situation with a force of inadequate strength . The sight of a few policemen may inflame the temper of a mob . The sight of great numbers of policemen , coming on in massed ranks . almost invariably will cool it . " In Chicago , Police Superintendent James B. Conlisk , with 12,000 men under his command , shares the view that the police must come on strong when needed . His patrol division is prepared to protect the Democratic National Convention . which meets there in August , from a threatened Black Power takeover , " We can put six thousand uniformed policemen and detectives around the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In all the riot-control manuals the next steps sound simple . As the police or Guard forces come on , en masse , the officer in command shouts through a bullhorn , ordering the mob to disperse . If they tell him to go to hell , he then orders that tear-gas grenades be thrown into the crowd  --  new-model grenades which jump about as the gas jets forth in erratic bursts . and which therefore can not be grabbed and thrown back at the cops . As the gas begins to take effect , the police or Guardsmen , wearing gas masks , advance in diamond or wedge formation against the crowd . Armed with rifles , shotguns or extra-length " riot batons , " they move with a peculiar stomp and shuffle  --  left foot forward , right foot brought up . Rioters who run are allowed to go . Those who try to make a stand are picked up by the arrest teams which follow along within the protecting arms of the formation . Suppose , however . the police have made their move a few minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bricks and firebombs are flying through plate-glass windows . Looter streams are moving in and out of the smashed stores , and rocks and bottles are bouncing off the helmets of the police . What happens then ? Does the beleaguered cop or Guardsman shoot , or hold his fire ? Should a police officer shoot a man who is drawing back to throw a Molotov cocktail through a window ? Should heshoot a looter coming out of a store with an armload of merchandise ? To Chief Walter Headley of Miami , the answer is simple enough . " When the looting starts , " he says , " the shooting starts . " To Commissioner Spina in Newark , even though he keeps a shotgun behind his desk , the answer is no . " I do n't believe in taking a human life in defense of property alone , " he says . " If the rioter 's action menaces the officer 's life , or the life of someone else . then shooting him is justified . " To Chief Herbert Jenkins of Atlanta , . it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you order him to halt , and he keeps on coming at you , you are justified in shooting him . " Chief Jenkins tells his men . " But if he breaks and runs , you had better hold your fire . If you shoot him in the back , you will face a murder charge . " To avoid making this life-or-death decision , police departments , while still putting their faith in the .3S Special revolver and the riot shotgun . are looking with almost desperate eagerness for some non-lethal weapon that will render a rioter helpless without killing him . The most promising device to appear so far is an innocent-looking black squirt can , about the size of a can of shaving cream , which propels a stream of super-tear gas for a distance of 20 feet . Sold under the trade name Chemical Mace , it contains an ingredient that , when sprayed on human skin , sets up a chemical reaction affecting the nerve ends . The person hit in the face by Mace goes down instantly , gasping , choking , his eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mace is not available to private citizens , but some 3,000 local , state and federal law-enforcement agencies are now using it . " It ought to be called ' Instant Apathy , ' " said a policeman in New Haven , where Mace was used effectively last summer . " A man may be trying to wipe up the sidewalk with you . You give him a little squirt , and he sits right down in the street and cries . For half an hour he is as helpless as a newborn baby . After that he 's OK . " Since riots are often triggered by arrests in which force must be used , Mace is looked upon as a great improvement over the billy club as a peacekeeping device . The officer can gas the prisoner the moment he starts to resist , and be gone with him before a crowd can gather . The N.A.A.C.P .. which at first opposed the use of Mace on the grounds that it had not been sufficiently tested , now agrees that it is far more humane than the billy club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively short range , there is still great need for a non-lethal device that can be used at a distance . At Emory University in Atlanta , Dr. William E. Conner isexperimenting on student volunteers , shooting diem with air guns which fire hypodermic darts loaded with tranquilizing drugs . The ideal drug has not yet been found . " The drugs that act quickly enough such as nicotine and curare derivatives ! are not absolutely safe for use against humans , " said Dr. Conner , " and those that are safe do not act quickly enough . " One ingredient which acts quickly and is believed to be safe enough for field use is vinegar . When injected into a muscle , it causes a sudden knotting , an instant charley horse . It is also so painful that Dr. Conner has not been able to test it fully . His volunteers disappeared after the first one shot with vinegar uttered a yell of anguish and announced that he felt as if he had been stung by a wasp the size of an eagle . Dr. Conner is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on himself Dr. Conner discovered that it takes 21 2 minutes to make the victim so sick he can no longer function  --  not fast enough in a riot situation . Many of the non-lethal devices tested for crowd control sound as if they might have been invented by some demented TV comedian . A substance called RioTrol , nicknamed " Instant Banana Peel , " when sprinkled on the sidewalk in powder form , and then wetted down , makes the surface so slippery that a rioter or a policeman ) can not run , walk or even stand on it . A noisemaking device called a Curdler utters a screech of such brain-numbing intensity that the thought processes of all who hear it are disrupted . Sticky nets that may be fired over the heads of a crowd , like those used by wildlife rangers to trap flotillas of sitting ducks , have been tested . So have water pumps which douse a crowd with dyes or evil-smelling chemicals . for the purpose of later identification . Smoke has been found to be efficacious as a psychological weapon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police officer said . " Lost in the smoke , he 's not a part of the wolf pack any more . Also , a man ca n't riot when he ca n't see . " There has also been considerable effort to make deadly weapons less lethal . When possible , the cop is supposed to fire his gun into the pavement in front of a rioter  --  a technique called skip-shootingwhich peppers the rioter 's legs with flattened pellets that do not penetrate deeply . The Institute for Defense Analyses , a private think-tank hired to do a study on weapons for the President 's Commission on Law Enforcement , has recommended that the use of the bayonet be abandoned entirely , and that , instead , the officer be equipped with a three-foot riot baton , for use as a prod instead of a club , or a plastic baton with a can of Mace in the handle . The battery-powered cattle prod is not popular with policemen , since it got such a had press when used m the South . But many experts still consider it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mob . The search for better offensive weapons is matched by the effort to develop protective devices that will enable the officer to function in a not situation without being killed or maimed by the rioter 's traditional weapons bricks , bottles , concrete blocks , broken plate glass or the jagged halves of old 78-rpm records hurled at a cop 's shins or face . The armored personnel carriers the cities have been buying are equipped to carry up to 15 men into the middle of a riot , trundling through the streets , tiring tear-gas grenades , squirting gas from nozzles , or laying tear-gas eggs . One 33,000-pound monster on display at Kansas City can lob gas grenades through apartment-house windows 20 floors above the street , an anti-sniper tactic . 11 is also equipped with the brain-numbing Curdler , and carries its own foam to extinguish Molotov cocktails tossed under it . Ceramic body armor , originally designed to protect helicopter crews fighting in Vietnam , is now available to police , as are hand-held shields that look much like those once used by Caesar 's centurions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a visor to protect his eyes . shin guards , an aluminum athletic supporter and shoes with steel protective plates in the toes , the modern police officer goes on riot duty padded like a hockey goalie , and looking like a man from Mars . a As the police arm and armor themselves in prep-aration for a troubled summer . there is a growing r. suspicion in some quarters that the tactics of the angry minority may be switching from direct confrontation to guerrilla warfare . " Rioting , " writes Dr. Morris Janowitz. professor of sociology at the University of Chicago .                     