@@431663

 | The Great Pesticide Controversy @# @# DURING THE past year more than 700 million pounds of poison have been spewed over U.S. gardens , crops and forests in chemical warfare against hordes of pests that despoil our food and spread disease . We 're winning that battle . No nation has ever eaten so well , or been so healthy . But are we in danger of losing the war ? Are we innocently fouling our own nest , poisoning ourselves and our wildlife friends ? Some scientists protest that we may be doing exactly that . But many other scientists pooh-pooh such fears as exaggerating a molehill of danger while ignoring the mountain of benefit that comes from chemical pesticides . The health of our families and our food supply ? its quantity , quality , price ? are involved in this controversy . Where is the truth ? Are Chemical Pesticides Necessary ? Man has been overwhelmed by insect hordes since Biblical days . In the United States , great clouds of grasshoppers darkened the sky in 1874 , stopped trains ( their bodies caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riddled too-acre corn fields in an afternoon . Congress declared the visitation a national disaster . Boll weevils invaded the South in 1908 , wiped out the great cottonplantation economy , and threw the whole area into a long-lasting depression . Then , in the 1940 's , we entered the " chemical age " ; DDT alone was credited with saving five million lives by controlling mosquitoes that transmit malaria . After the war , laboratories began turning out a whole  | arsenal of chemical weapons for use against pests that plague plants as well as people . In just the past five years , almost 24,000 new formulations have been registered for interstate sale by the pesticide industry , whose retail sales now approach one billion dollars annually . Their severest critics grudgingly agree that pesticides are necessary . But few of us are aware of how dependent we are on them . Without pesticides , food would have to be rationed : Housewives would line up to buy inferior foods , blemished tomatoes , scrawny potatoes and sweet corn pocked with wormholes . The U.S. Department of Agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply , more than 8o percent of our high-vitamin crops . " The price of most food items would double , " says Dr. George Decker , head of the entomology section of the Illinois Natural History Survey . Even with present-day spraying , it would require 120 million extra acres to offset the loss that pests still cause in the United States . Insects alone cancel the production of one million farm workers . " The United States simply could not feed itself without the aid of chemicals , " asserts Dr. Arnold Lehman , pharmacology chief of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration . The world picture would be even more grim . " Without pesticides , millions would starve , " an FAO official says bluntly . A year ago we saw thousands of schoolchildren battle hordes of army worms that threatened to destroy Egypt 's food and fiber crop . The battle was pitifully unequal . Faster than the children could pick worms off the plants and destroy the eggs , millions hatched and attacked with horrifying voracity . Tragedy was averted when the biggest commercial airlift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical insecticide to Egypt . One farmer , with a knapsack sprayer full of this insecticide , did what i000 children could never do . He laid the enemy low with one pass over his fields . The Egyptian Minister of Agriculture told us gratefully , " Without this miraculous tool , we would have suffered severely . " The spread of human disease could not be controlled without chemicals . " For centuries , yellow fever , malaria , typhus , the black plague , sleeping sickness and a host of other insect-borne diseases were dominant factors in retarding the ascendancy of mankind , " entomologist Decker reminds us . " In most of the great wars of history , casualties attributed to these diseases far exceeded those caused by arrows , bullets , shrapnel , bomb fragments and poison gas combined . Modern pesti- cides have been the savior of millions . " Why All the Uproar ? Despite these undisputed benefits , a growing uneasiness about the safety of chemical pesticides has erupted into a nationwide scare . Rachel Carson triggered it with her best-selling 1962 book , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Is man , through careless and indiscriminate use of chemical pesticides , poisoning his environment , killing wildlife and setting in motion undesirable genetic changes in unborn generations ? Angry people in the eastern United States have demanded that state officials cease spraying forests for gypsy-moth control . Bird lovers have fought attempts to save elm trees because the spray that saves elms may kill- robins . One landowner wants mosquitoes sprayed ; his neighbor fears that DDT will kill the fish . President Kennedy appointed a panel of scientists to determine whether Americans were really in danger . After months of deliberation and much internal disagreement , the Presidential panel reported in May that its review of pesticides " brings into focus their great merits while suggesting that there are apparent risks . " The scientists felt that more research and stricter controls were needed . A Congressional subcommittee , headed by Sen. Abraham Ribicoff , has been holding extensive hearings since May to determine how well federal agencies are doing their jobs on pesticide research and regulation , and to see if more stringent laws are needed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups , agriculture and health are having their say ? with many a difference of opinion . But certain facts stand out : Pesticides are poison . Most pesticides are toxic and should be treated accordingly . No qualified authority minimizes the danger of carelessly applied chemicals . Total deaths due to pesticides have been running from 85 to 16o a year ? all from improper use of the chemicals , none from the consumption of contaminated food . Some of the deaths have been suicides . More than half have been accidents in which children got hold of the toxic material . The other deaths have been traceable to careless handling and application of some pesticide , failure to heed the warnings on the label. * Chemicals are dangerous in the hands of ignorant or careless users . In 1959 California , which uses 20 percent of all U.S. pesticides , reported 1100 cases of occupational disease due to agricultural chemicals , mostly among farm workers . But the Public Health Service says that the United States has an excellent safety record overall , thanks largely to careful labeling . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DIGEST October  | and Rodenticide Act of 1947 , labels must describe the specific pests that the formulation will control , crops on which it can be used , how it should be applied ; and must carry warning statements , if necessary , concerning care to be taken in handling or using the material . " Requirements for an insecticide label are far more exacting than for the labels of dozens of.patent medicines readily available at any drugstore , " asserts Dr. J. H. Lilly , head of the department of entomology and plant pathology at the University of Massachusetts . Still , U.S. pest-control operators must improve their safety records , warns Justus C. Ward , director of the U.S.D.A. 's Pesticide Regulation Division . " The average operator takes too many chances with his own health and the health and property of his customers . " Pesticides are in your food . Biggest scare is over pesticide poisons in food . You may swallow minute quantities when you use vegetables from your garden , munch fruit , drink milk , eat fish . But " despite all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do not know of a single instance of human injury , " says Dr. Millard B. Bethel , director of the department of environmental health for the American Medical Association . The federal law which protects you from eating harmful amounts of chemicals is the Miller Pesticide Residue Amendment to the Federal Food and Cosmetic Act , passed in 1954 . It empowers the Food and Drug Administration to set tolerances ( maximum amounts ) of chemical residue which may legally remain on a food crop entering interstate commerce . The established tolerance always has a wide margin of safety ; it 's as little as 1 /loo of the amount that might be harmful to human beings . Food and Drug inspectors , using instruments which can pick up one part of pesticide per billion parts of food , can seize food with residues above the tolerance limit , and fine those responsible . There have been scare reports that DDT has contributed to all sorts of human ills : a virus disease , a psychoneurotic syndrome , poliomyelitis , hepatitis , cardiovascular disease and cancer . Dr. Wayland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Public Health Service , Atlanta , Ga. , discounts such claims : " During years of investigation it has been impossible to confirm the allegation that insecticides , when properly used , are the cause of any disease either of man or animals . " The Food and Drug Administration 's 600-man task force has done a tremendous job in checking the safety of our food , most experts agree . Currently , the field force is tripling its samplings . This means that one percent of fruits and vegetables going into interstate commerce will be inspected . " Is this enough ? " we asked George Larrick , Food and Drug chief . " Enough to help keep our food the safest in the world , " he an- swered confidently . But he has challenged the states to take more interest in keeping food safe . " Basically , this is a state job , " he says . At present , 40 states have laws regulating the use of pesticides . Wildlife has been hurt . Thousands of dead birds , squirrels and other animals were found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six midwestern states . After a DDT spraying to protect the forest around Yellowstone Park , 600 ( lead fish were counted along 300 yards of shoreline . Spraying elm trees has killed many robins in midwestern cities . Birds , flowers , fish , crabs and useful insects were killed when DDT in fuel oil was sprayed on eastern forests to control the gypsy moth . About 90 percent of the complaints against pesticides trace to the three percent of chemicals used in federal and state control programs ? not to those used by farmers . The federal government 's program to control fire ants in the South , for instance , was compared to scalping a patient to cure dandruff . Critics charge that extensive areas were sprayed with heptachlor where there were few or no fire ants , and at a time when birds were near their nesting peak . Bird population was reduced by 85 to 97 percent in one small area in east Texas . " If pest-eradication programs are carried out as now projected , we shall witness , in a single decade , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declares Dr. George Wallace , W. K. Kellogg Foundation zoologist . Many scientists feel that such statements are exaggerated . I ) r . Decker points out : " The area in volved in these losses is insignificantly small . " Furthermore , wildlife bounces back quickly . Some wildlife enthusiasts fear that continued use of chemicals will upset the balance of nature . But the Presidential panel 's report recognizes that man is constantly unbalancing nature ? to his advantage . Dr. Byron T. Shaw , administrator of the Agricultural Research Service , reminds us that under the balance of nature three centuries ago " this whole country provided a skimpy existence for less than a million Indians . " The Search for Alternatives . Manufacturers are now pouring $4o million a year into pesticide research , constantly seeking more effective and safer pesticides . For example , " Mirex " will control fire ants without hurting wildlife , and is only half as expensive as heptachlor , the chemical previously used . " Sevin " kills insects now immune to DDT , yet is less toxic than DDT to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search for other means of pest control goes forward on many fronts . At Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island , thousands of seeds from agricultural experiment stations in the United States and abroad are exposed to radiation to cause mutations , in the hope that more disease- and insect-resistant plants may be developed . Geneticists continue to explore the far corners of the world for especially resistant plant material . Two thirds of the $9 million U.S.D.A. insect-research budget for fiscal 1963 is being spent in an amazingly diversified effort to work out combined chemical and biological controls . For instance , the boll weevil , which does $35o million annual damage , may be eradicated by satanic sabotage of its love life ? through use of one of 50 chemical compounds that induce sterility . Using a similar principle , a brilliant research team headed by Dr. E. F. Knipling , Department of Agriculture scientist , wiped out screwworms in the Southeast . Millions of screwworm male flies were raised in captivity , subjected to cobalt radiation that made them sterile , then released to mate with wild females @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no offspring . The screwworm-fly population died out . Sex is the bait by which U.S.D.A. researchers on the Pacific island of Rota are hoping to eradicate the Oriental fruitfly , one of the world 's most destructive insects . Males , before they mate , are lured from as much as half a mile away to small squares of fiberboard by means of a powerful chemical sex attractant . The snare : the fiberboard is also impregnated with a killing insecticide . Insects , like people , contract diseases , and since the 1930 's scientists have worked to exploit this weakness . Most versatile insect disease yet found is Bacillus thuringiensis . It kills 120 different insect pests , including many destructive caterpillars , yet does not harm beneficial insects , animals , fish or man . Roland C. Clement , staff biologist of the National Audubon Society , hails this new development : " This is what we have been looking for in this area . " Rachel Carson told a Congressional committee : " I hope you will give full support to research on these new methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely eliminated . " Dr. Knipling agrees that while conventional insecticides must remain our No. 1 weapon for the present , far more money and manpower are needed for work on insect diseases , on the sterility approach and on developing insect-resistant plants . Where Do We Go From Here ? Most scientists agree that we need more thorough inspection of food both at state and federal levels , more research on residues and their longrange effects on humans , and stricter controls over use of chemicals , especially in area-wide spraying . Equally important are certain things we should not do in the emotion of the moment : 1 ) We must not sacrifice proven benefits because of unproven fears . 2 ) Red tape and excessive regulation must not tie the hands of research chemists , who are urgently needed to help meet the greatest challenge of the loth century ? producing enough food for a world in which half of the people are hungry .                     