@@248208

Much of the hesitation about employing a strong policy against Castro has been based on the fear of distressing repercussions in Latin America . Yet last week the Organization of American States , meeting in Washington , took little time to make up its mind . A smog of cigarette smoke clouded the wood-paneled room as delegates from 20 OAS nations heard the choice : approval or disapproval of the unilateral U.S. action on Cuba , and yes or no to a U.S. resolution calling for a united hemisphere stand to eliminate the threat of Communist offensive arms in Cuba . <P> As Latin Americans rose to speak and vote , U.S. Secretary of State Dean Rusk looked squarely at each ambassador . Said Guatemala 's Carlos Urrutia Aparicio : " This is no hour for limp diapers and half-measures-we move now for history . " One by one , 19 nations voted " aye " to the resolution . Only little Uruguay , lacking instructions from home , abstained . And when the word came from Montevideo , Uruguay made it unanimous . <P> Tangible Menace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long , patient road for the U.S. , and a signal victory for Dean Rusk . Time after time in past conferences the U.S. had urged on its neighbors the need to confront Castro and Communism . Yet always before , the key nations of Latin America had ducked a commitment . Lingering prejudice against Yankee intervention and the fear of left-led masses back home turned last January 's Punta del Este conference into a weary marathon . Patiently , Rusk had listened to the arguments from Mexico , Brazil and the others . Doggedly , he wheedled and compromised for endless days to win the necessary two-thirds majority ( 14 votes ) for the blandest sort of condemnation of Castro 's dictatorship . But this time , faced by the tangible menace of Russian missiles , the U.S. decided to act in its own self-defense , and then to ask for hemispheric approval . Latin America 's response was a general sigh of relief and a willingness to follow U.S. leadership . <P> Off the Fence . The doubtful nations were Mexico and Brazil , two of the hemisphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balked at taking a hard line against Castro . Any muscle flexing by the U.S. inevitably recalls to Mexicans the days when the U.S. sent troops into Mexico and U.S. ships bombarded Veracruz . But now the Communist invasion of the Caribbean was a clear and present danger-to Mexicans as well as Americans . Mexico 's President Adolfo Lopez Mateos got advance notification of Kennedy 's speech while he was in Manila on his way back from an Asian tour . He put Mexico decisively on the U.S. side . When he returned home two days later , he told a cheering crowd in Mexico City 's main plaza : " We are in the lines of democracy . We will fight for peace and liberty . " A high government official put Mexico 's feelings more informally : " You Americans did n't know how to get Latin American support before . Any country admires guts . ' '                     