@@494843

Vietnam The Eleventh Hour by ' Frank C. Child A highly-placed US representative in Vietnam has put it succinctly : " We are here for one purpose ? to hang on to a piece of real estate . " To this end , we have spent over $2.5 billion since 1954 for massive economic and military aid to the government of Ngo Dinh Diem . We continue to support Diem even though the development of democracy has been minuscule , economic progress has flagged , the government 's attitude toward the US is more correct than friendly and , most importFRANK C. CHILD returned last summer from Vietnam after two years with the Michigan State University Advisory Group . He has traveled extensively throughout Vietnam , served as a consultant to a number of Vietnamese and US agencies , and is now a Visiting Professor of Economics at Stanford University . antly , the portion of the country under Diem 's control has been shrinking . Our response to this deterioration has been to reaffirm our backing of Diem and to increase our military aid ? or as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ? to provide " more of the same , but better . " That we shall see more of the same seems assured ; that it will be better seems unlikely . It has become clear that Diem can only postpone defeat ? he can not win . Barring a heavy commitment of US troops in Vietnam , an unlikely and unwise move , no amount of US aid will extend the life expectancy of the Diem regime beyond 18 months . We desperately need an alternative . South Vietnam is a police state with all the normal accouterments of a police state ? secret police harassment , arbitrary arrest and police brutality , political DECEMBER 4 , 1961 prisons , economic favoritism , government-sponsored and controlled social organizations , and authority and power based upon personal loyalty . Diem 's defenders argue that under present wartime conditions , Western-style democracy would lead to anarchy and be exploited by the Viet Cong Communists . This position , while essentially correct , begs the real issue . From the standpoint of stated US policy , the shortcoming of Diem 's regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a failure . It has neither of the two saving graces of an " acceptable " dictatorship : it is neither benevolent nor efficient . It has managed to alienate virtually the entire population by its tyrannies , large and small ; it has not managed to provide satisfactory administration of routine government affairs , minimal economic progress , nor effective military security . It is commonly held that effective public administration in underdeveloped countries is frustrated by a lack of trained personnel and leaders . This is not the case in Vietnam . The country has a reasonably good supply of highly educated people who could provide adequate leadership in public affairs . The police state features of the regime , however , have made it difficult or impossible to mobilize these resources . Appointment to responsible position is based upon personal loyalty to Diem . The more venal element of the educated elite has thus been attracted to government office . While the routine affairs of government are neglected , government officials exploit their position for personal gain . In their zeal to please Diem , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deputies of the National Assembly ( the Saigonese call them " Diem 's trained seals " ) were hand picked and gained office in the fraudulent elections of 1959 . The presidential election of 1961 was a travesty . As a result , those Vietnamese who place a high value on democratic procedures , including many of the Western educated elite , have disassociated themselves from the regime . In return the government frequently prohibits them from using their skills in private endeavor . Harassment by the police ( including stake-out of homes , ransacking of offices , arbitrary arrest and confinement ) has immobilized those who express any criticism or dissent and even those who fail to be vigorous in their support of Diem . They have been effectively intimidated and are inarticulate and disorganized . Until recent months , it was a cliche that " Diem is okay but he gets bad advice from the people about him . " More recent opinion labels him either a fool or a knave . ( Can he really be ignorant of the situation in his country , or within the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to identify unfavorable reports or criticism with disloyalty have effectively insulated him from the unpleasant facts . He lives alone in the presidential palace , surrounded by sycophants . He dares leave his residence only if the streets are cleared and he is accompanied by a large military entourage . ( In contrast , it is reported by non-Communist observers that Ho Chi Minh travels freely throughout North Vietnam and is greeted with obvious affection by the population despite the drabness of daily life in the North . ) All but the most minor military command appointments are based upon personal loyalty to Diem ? not loyalty to Vietnam . Young , able officers are passed over to the benefit of political hacks . Morale in the lower ranks , especially since the battle is n't going well , suffers . When ranking officers are competent and succeed in building an effective fighting unit ? a unit with esprit de corps and trust in its commander ? Diem sees it as a threat to himself rather than a threat to the Viet Cong . The commander is then transferred , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troop movements not previously cleared with his office . " Hot pursuit " of the Viet Cong ? which has no arbitrary zones of action ? is prohibited . The military is further handicapped by the lack of cooperation of the rural population , whose greatest desire is to be left alone rather than be caught between opposing groups , lectured , taxed and perhaps physically injured alternately by the Viet Cong and the Vietnam Cong Hoa forces . But in guerrilla warfare , indifference is intolerable . It affords the Viet Cong easy mobility , concealment and supply . Diem 's Remoteness from the Country To most peasants the central government is something far away in Saigon to which they are expected to pay tax tribute but from which they receive no return save the periodic appearance of government representatives who bring the latest government directive . ( Actually , the rural population bears little of the tax burden in Vietnam . ) Cooperation with these officials will incur Viet Cong reprisals from which the government can not protect them . Any limited goodwill gained through the land reform and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dishonesty of civil servants , army brutality , forced labor service , the breaking up of religious festivals , a policy of undermining village councils , and harassment of minority groups . It is hardly surprising , therefore , that a 150,000 man army , 50,000 civil guards and thousands of police were unable to contain the 7,000-8,000 Viet Cong that roamed the countryside in 1960 . ( Recent estimates place Viet Cong strength at 15,000 while the army of Vietnam now boasts 170,000 men and 6o,000 civil guards . Since the army is well equipped and the Viet Cong have limited supplies of more ancient equipment , the manpower ratio understates the advantage of Diem 's army . ) Diem can not even take credit for apparent economic advances in Vietnam . At the end of the " war of independence " the population turned to peaceful pursuits . Rice land was cultivated ; rubber plantations were worked once again ; communications and industry were refurbished . Output could only rise . At least until early 1961 the Viet Cong did not interfere seriously with production and trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources but by lack of effort and an inept administration . The rich and the government hoard their resources rather than invest in economic growth . American aid is administered in a fashion which guarantees the economic and political position of the rich mercantile class which is most vigorously opposed to economic progress . A 3 percent annual population growth and a grossly unequal distribution of income together with modest increases in national output portend falling living standards and further popular discontent . Is Diem Worth Saving ? The clock is at the eleventh hour . The Viet Cong has long been entrenched in the Mekong delta . It has had the ability to take , and hold for short periods , any particular area or city . It has now extended its operations , on an increasing scale , into the mountains and into the northern coastal plain . As " incidents " become larger and occur closer to Saigon the government intensifies its efforts by further mobilization and further repression of the population . Diem has not and can not mobilize the population , yet nothing short of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials who have continued to support Diem as the only available leader in the fight against the Viet Cong were visibly shaken last May when Vice President Johnson , visiting in Saigon , characterized Vietnam as a " bastion of freedom and progress " and compared Diem favorably to Winston Churchill . These men feel strongly that internal reform and new leadership are prerequisite to a successful military effort . Given their present sense of isolation within the government , the apparent lack of official American understanding of their situation , and the lack of " conditions " attached to continued US support , all drive them to despair . It may already be too late . Projecting the present trend , South Vietnam will surely fall to the Viet Cong in 12-18 months . Perhaps , as a number of US representatives in Vietnam have said , we have no choice but to play out the game with our present partner . If this conclusion is correct , we might be well advised , therefore to devote the next year to " minimizing our losses " by disassociating ourselves from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another choice : it is to reorder the priorities of our proposals for Vietnam . Reform ? political , economic and administrative ? is the crucial prerequisite to effective use of aid and the services of technicians . Reform should be the prior condition for the granting of further aid . US representatives in Saigon , and presumably our officials in Washington , have consistently rejected the suggestion that we attach " strings " to our assistance on the grounds that we can not interfere in the internal affairs of a friendly country . This is fatuous argument . We clearly interfere extensively in Vietnamese affairs . Hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent and hundreds of technicians have been sent to Vietnam to insure that the situation there will be different than would otherwise have been the case . We have simply given up the right to influence the way in which the situation will be different as a result of our assistance . But we are assigned the responsibility for what happens anyway . We might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not a single new technician should be sent to Vietnam before we see tangible outward evidence of " good behavior " by the Diem Government . A " hard " US line will certainly be welcomed by responsible Vietnamese , in and out of government . This course of action carries the serious risk that Diem will refuse ; he may choose to travel alone to oblivion . But it is the only course of action which offers any chance of success so long as Diem remains in power . If we can convince him that we are not bluffing , he may even acquiesce . There remains , perhaps , one other alternative . Last November a group of colonels and majors led some paratroops in a sort of coup d'etat . It was a " sort of " coup . in the sense that their goal was not to displace Diem but to replace certain cabinet members and other advisers and to induce him to eliminate political control over the military establishment . Confident of their own ability to defeat the Viet Cong , they demanded the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They wanted to be apolitical . Indeed , their limited objectives and their lack of political affiliation were the crucial factors in their defeat . The coup leaders did not " go for broke . " They had victory in their hands but ceased their attack and settled for negotiations . The incident is a symptom of the discontent within the military establishment . The basis for this discontent remains . It is conceivable that another military coup will occur and even succeed , provided ( 1 ) that the leaders go all-out militarily and actually seize power and ( 2 ) that they establish appropriate connections among opposition political leaders . For there are able and intelligent men in Vietnam who could provide effective leadership and even capture the imagination of the population . A military coup may be the only means by which this leadership could be brought to the fore . 