@@205267

Few men alive have suffered more for their God and their convictions than Josef Cardinal Mindszenty. 71 . Archbishop of Esztergom and Roman Catholic Primate of Hungary . During World War II , he was jailed by the Nazis for protesting against the roundup of Hungary 's Jews . After the war . he fought the Communist takeover of his country , and in 1949 was tried and sentenced to life imprisonment on trumped-up charges of treason , espionage and black marketing . The Western world bled for the gaunt , tortured prelate , mechanically confessing his guilt for nonexistent crimes before an unfeeling judge . Briefly freed by the 1956 Hungarian uprising , Mindszenty fled to the U.S. legation in Budapest , and there he has stayed , a stubborn symbol of Christianity 's incompatibility with Communism . <P> Mindszenty has willingly , even eagerly , accepted the sacrifices demanded of him by his faith . Now he is being asked to make one more : to give up his exile , at the request of the Pope . <P> " Active Neutrality . " Getting Mindszenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John XXIII 's strategy of making Roman Catholicism " actively neutral ' ' in the cold war . John believes that his goal of world peace is compromised by such symbols of intransigence as Mindszenty-and the Hungarians have pointedly hinted to the Vatican that they want Mindszenty out . Accordingly , Franziskus Cardinal Knig of Vienna , a skilled , diplomatic archbishop whom the Pope has used on other delicate missions , is arranging to visit Budapest , possibly within a month . He will gently inform Mindszenty that the Pope wants him to leave , and . if Mindszenty agrees , may escort him to the Austrian border and freedom . <P> The Hungarian Communists would like Mindszenty to ask for amnesty-a face-losing gesture that neither the cardinal nor the Vatican is inclined to make . Church officials would like the Hungarians to offer Mindszenty a pardon and restore him briefly to his primatial see-but the Hungarians have evidently refused . Thus the Vatican will probably settle for having Mindszenty slip out and stay out . the formula used with Ukrainian Archbishop Josyf Slipyi when he was released last February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pawn of these delicate negotiations leads a spare and lonely life inside the drafty old building at Szabadsag Ter 12 in Budapest . Legation officials admit few visitors , and the guest list for the Mass that he celebrates on Sundays is forwarded to Washington for clearance . By all accounts , the cardinal remains chipper , although one U.S. visitor who heard him preach recently says that his mind tends to wander . At night , only he and an American duty officer occupy the legation . Outside , three black sedans of the Hungarian secret police are on around-the-clock alert ; one always has its motor running , in case the cardinal should try to escape .                     