@@493987

A century ago , Robert Lowe urged on the House of Commons the " absolute necessity of educating our masters . " Professor Heller 's book is largely a firsthand narration , and an entertaining one , of the attempt to teach politicians and the public in this country the , ' new " economics . The need was embarrassingly great ; in 1961 , President Kennedy ordered Heller " not to return New Dimensions of Political Economy by Walter W. Heller ( Harvard ; $3.50 ) from an international economic meeting in Paris until I had discovered the secret of European growth . " In fact , the " secret " had been taught in American classrooms for 20 years . Heller claims that the lesson has been learned : " John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson stand out as the first modern economists in the American presidency . Their administrations were largely free of the old mythology and wrongheaded economics which had viewed government deficits as synonymous with inflation . . and government debts as an immoral burden on our grandchildren . " One can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the politicians ' economic enlightenment . Kennedy , says Heller , " recalled with Advising Our Rulers by Alex Campbell some admiration Roosevelt 's and Eisenhower 's abilities to talk balanced budgets even in the face of repeated deficits . " The economists advising Kennedy , including Heller , were several times admonished to temper advocacy with golden silences , " where politics has necessarily overruled economics , " to use Theodore Sorensen 's revealing phrase . Not only were Kennedy 's economists occasionally abjured to be silent ; they also had to be " prepared to serve as a lightning rod for the angry charges generated by offended vested interests and prejudices " - a function Heiler ruefully calls " as convenient for presidents as it is uncomfortable for advisers. - Lightning-rod Heller had to take his consolation from the occasional presidential pat ; " Walter , " said Kennedy one day , " I want to make it perfectly clear that I resent these attacks on you . " This narration does not prove that , under Kennedy and Johnson , the dimensions of political economy differ greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who sighed to Louis XIV , " I begin to DECEMBER 17 , 1966 doubt whether the liberty I take is agreeable to your Majesty . " Order , welfare and the aggrandizement of France : those were Colbert 's aims . Heller remarks that modern American presidents require the advice of economists " to achieve great societies at home and grand designs abroad . " He adds that " value judgments are an inescapable , obligatory and desirable part of the life of an economic adviser " ; but his own narrative suggests that here too he is treading on unsafe ground , just as Colbert did . Colbert deplored both " the disease of war , " and that Louis wasted money on gambling . Louis did not listen . A White House economist who preferred the war on poverty to the one in Vietnam would find his silence preferred to his advice . When it comes to value judgments , American economists are no more welcome to today 's ruling politicians than the atomic physicists were to Secretary of State Tames F. Byrnes , who was annoyed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's use of the Bomb . The United States economy is not as complex as an atomic bomb . But directing it calls for at least as much expertise as flying a jet . In both cases , the crew has to work out very large sums at very great speeds , and a crash can be the high price of failure . Heller is justly proud of the economic advisers ' achievements since 1961 . " Gross national product advanced by 8218 billion , or by one-third in real terms . Over seven million added jobs were created , bringing the unemployment rate down from nearly seven percent to under four percent . " And so forth . These are creditable accomplishments . But a running refrain of the book is " until Vietnam intervened , " suggesting that , but for Vietnam , the economic problem would be easily soluble . This seems questionable . If Vietnam had not intervened , the economists would still be grappling with conundrums , and difficult and important value judgments would still have to be made . Thanks to the advice of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy doubled after 1961 . But so did corporate profits after tax , whereas the weekly take-home pay of the average manufacturing worker rose only 18 percent in a period of immensely profitable productivity . Labor 's share of the national income was static until 1965 , and it slipped thereafter , though profits continued to rise briskly . This unhealthy capital boom impels Heller to comment that " extremism in the pursuit of productivity through private capital spending can be a vice . " The government might have taxed the swollen corporate profits further to enlarge its relative spending on general welfare in step with the expanding national income . But it did not do this . Heller observes that " federal expenditures on an administrative budget basis had already dropped from 17 percent of GNP in 1955 to 15 percent in 196566 " - which he adds is a thumping $14-billion drop in relative terms . Of the $7 billion extra accruing each year to the federal government , thanks to the increased rate of economic growth induced by the economists , the government has spent about $4.5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An even graver blemish relates to unemployment , which Heller rightly attacks as " a fundamental evil " and " an affront to human dignity . " The economists ' original , benign intention was to see how far they could " melt the barriers to employment for the unskilled , the non-white , the very young and the very old . " To bring unemployment first below four percent , then perhaps even below three , a high rate of real economic growth was and is deemed essential . But when the economy became " overheated , " the first remedy that was applied was a ruthless , old-fashioned tightening of the financial garrot . The Federal Reserve bankers were permitted , last December , to grimace like witch doctors through their discount window . One unintended result is the collapse of the building industry . The government , advised by its current crop of economists , now proposes to behave toward the country like Charles the Second 's physicians , who thought that the way to cure the King was to bleed him . Heller blames the " overheating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not easy to grasp why bankers believe that these costs will be best met by strangling the entire economy . Meanwhile , the rate of unemployment is still far above three percent , and may soon be back to four , or even higher . Yet the Europeans no doubt explained to Heller in 1961 how they consistently manage to hold unemployment to a negligible figure . Deliberate slowing of the growth rate does not commend itself as a solution to anything . But constantly speeding it up may be equally unwise , especially if this results in polluted cities and other ravages that require big federal spending to repair . Raising the money required may call for still faster growth ; in this way we might find ourselves going faster and faster merely to stay in the same place . Acknowledging the problem that Professor Galbraith first indicated , Heller nevertheless links an intrinsically desirable end , more schools , with higher productivity ( " the big pay-off will come from basic education " ) . Only in passing does he remark that " at bottom , growth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political economy . A third of the book is taken up with an examination of state and local needs , and how to pay for them , in a brilliant discussion of techniques that would require a review to itself . There are occasional stylistic exuberances , like tax packages with cutting edges . Also , monetary and fiscal tourniquets get tightened in an overheating economy , and ideological roadblocks melt away " when the cost of fulfilling a people 's ing horn of plenty ? instead of robbing Peter to pay Paul . " These are trifling flaws in an excellent compendium of practical economic wisdom . Politicians including would-be presidents should have well-thumbed copies for years to come .                     