@@478420

Robert Havemann , the scientist , could never be compared to Galileo , but Robert Havemann the heretic is more remarkable . He has refused to recant . Prof , Dr. Havemann is no longer a professor , although he still carries the title . Since the East German regime removed him from his chemistry chair at East Berlin 's Humboldt University in March of last year , he has been made head of a chemical research institute at Adiershof outside Berlin . He and his family still occupy one of East Berlin 's better flats on Karl-Marx-Allee ( formerly Stalinallee ) , and Havemann stilldrives his own car to his country home at Griinheide . Such amenities are rare in the German " Workers ' and Peasants ' State . " But the professor is no longer allowed to infect students ' minds with the notion that an essential ingredient of such a state is freedom of opinion and information , " Throughout history , " Havemann once told an overcrowded university lecture hall , " reactionary regimes have tried to keep people in ignorance . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not what to think . Man 's thought is the one thing that is really beyond any kind of orders . " Havemann was accused before the East German Communist party central committee of wanting to throw the regime 's official ideology overboard . He was quietly told he could leave East Germany , which would have enabled the Communists to brand him an " enemy of the people " like other East German intellectuals who have fled to the West . But the lean , nervous prothe East German Party congress and the farmers ' congress . This sets the matter straight . I think that is clear . What is clear is that Ulbricht is exploiting the power struggle in the Kremlin to his own advantage . A Yugoslav diplomat in East Berlin remarks , " He would never have dreamed of saying such things three or four months ago . Since Khrushchev 's overthrow Moscow has no one who can get the satellites back in line . Even the SED Socialist Unity party now feels more self-confident . " This observation is confirmed by Politburo member Erich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who told the Party central committee last December , " Even our enemies ... have had to admit that the SED and Ulbricht have emerged from the aforementioned events i.e. , Khrushchev 's ouster not weakened but strengthened . " Four days after the Soviet premier was deposed , the SED issued a communiqu ? expressing " deep concern " and obliquely challenging the reasons then given in Moscow for the change . Since then the East German Communists have repeatedly been more explicit in detailing Khrushchev 's mistakes than Moscow has dared to be . One of the worst in their eyes was the Soviet chieftain 's planned visit to Bonn . The East Germans are reassured because the new premier , Aleksei Kosygin , is unlikely to take up Chancellor Erhard 's invitation until he has tried to mend some fences nearer home . Exploiting the Kremlin n the Sino-Soviet rift Ulbricht has suddenly stopped parroting Moscow 's diatribes and taken up the unaccustomed stance of an elder communist statesman urging moderation on the disputants . For almost two years the East German regime had outdone the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations with China last November , Ulbricht suffered a sudden attack of humility : Of course , the Chinese People 's Republic will make decisions and will develop politically and economically according to its conditions . But I say very frankly , our knowledge does not suffice to comment in detail about these questions . It is enough for us to master the tasks in the GDR German Democratic Republic . By thus soft-pedaling the Chinese issue , the East German boss appears to be moving away from the Soviet position and aligning himself .81 with the Polish and Italian Communist parties in calling for new unity efforts . However he exploits the tactical situation at any given moment , Ulbricht still ranks as Moscow 's man in Germany . Other East German Communists are less reliable . For the first time , Party members are showing antagonism to Big Brother in Moscow . " We 've been able to adopt very little from Russian experience in building communism , " the director of Leipzig University 's Institute for Marxism-Leninism told me . " Conditions are very different between a highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country like Russia . There it takes a long time fm changes to seep down from the top . " The same man boasted that East Germany had made the transition from the " dictatorship of the proletariat to socialist democracy in fifteen years , whereas it took the Russians almost forty years . " The East German Communists insist they have already done many of the things the late Palmiro Togliatti , the Italian Communist leader , urged the Russians to do in his now famous testament written before his death last summer . " We normalized our church-state relations much sooner than the Soviet party , " a leading SED academician says , " and we never conducted overtly atheistic propaganda as they did . " Togliatti would turn over in his grave if he knew the East German comrades were now claiming his " revisionist " ideas for themselves , but the fact that Ulbricht has endorsed the Italian leader 's call for reforms reflects the ideological shifts taking place in the SED . On a less elevated plane , the visitor to East Germany today hears disparagement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondingly high . ( I was even given the keys to the Magdeburg cathedral when I told the watchman I was American . ) " Of course our collective farms are nothing like kolkhozes , " a Leipzig history professor says . The Russians were very slow in informing us about Khrushchev , " another Party member complains . " I wonder when people here are going to wake up . " a Rostock doctor asks , " We 're building ships for the Russians at 1949 prices , so they can turn around and sell them at a profit on the world market . " A sociologist recalls , " Sociology used to be taboo here because the Russians said it was an American invention and there could be no social problems in a socialist society . Now our Party people realize we do have social problems , and the Russians are coming around to see what we 're doing about them . " " I 'm sorry I did n't learn Russian , " a young 82 STIRRINGS BEHIND THE WALL East German radio commentator told me , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely because we identified Russian with Communism . Our young people are still leery of any ideology . " Russian is compulsory from the fifth grade through the second university year in East Germany . But , as a Rostock mother of three says , " Young people seem to have an aversion to the language . They refuse to learn it . " One Party member sums up the development of recent years this way : " Our Party people no longer take Russia as the model in everything . They may not say so publicly but they say it more all the time in closed discussions . " German Communists are , after all , Germans . Most are imbued with historical feelings of superiority to the Slays . The fact that these long-suppressed feelings are beginning to find expression may be the most important development in East Germany since the 1953 uprising . No one expects the SED to amputate the Russian hand that holds it in power , since the regime relies on the Soviet troops garrisoned outside every city of importance in East Germany . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will never have a popular national government as long as it must be maintained by force in the face of a stronger and far more prosperous West German democracy . Even with the changes now under way , an East German Kadar . Gomulka , or Gheorghiu-Dej is not likely if only because East Germany is no country except in the narrowest political sense . The Widening Gap For the East German regime today , to endure is to succeed . The longer it exists , the more it is accepted at home and abroad as a permanent if obnoxious reality . The wall has stopped East Germany 's exodus of human beings . For the first time a factory manager is reasonably sure of finding his work force intact Monday morning . The large-scale import of black-market East marks from West Berlin has been stopped . The economy has been stabilized , even if at a low level by Western standards . Most important , ordinary East Germans have begun to come to terms with the regime . As Christa Wolf remarks , " ' Before the wall there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face difficulties here . Now there 's no way out . People have to think things through and come to some conclusion for themselves . " A doctor puts it more bluntly : " The choice now is between boycotting the regime completely or joining our hospital committee and trying to protect the interests of doctors and patients and keep the Party hotheads in check . At least we let the Communists know they ca n't make a red corner out of our hospital . " In East Germany the wall is the watershed . All time is expressed in terms of " before the wall " or " after the wall . " Accommodation to the regime is easiest for the young . They may resist learning Russian and absorbing communist ideology , but they have never known their country at peace except under communist rule . Even those who dislike the regime speak of " our republic . " The partition of Germany is becoming a commonplace . " My children regard West Germany as a foreign country , " Christa Wolf told me with a hint of defiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children are brought up , but few parents can counteract the steady diet of anti-Western propaganda in East German schools . A new third-grade primer , for example , tells the story of a fictional former East German landowner , a count with a ridiculous-sounding name , who writes from West Germany to his former tenants warning them against stealing stones from his castle wall for a new cow barn . The now happily collectivized peasants meet to express their indignation at the count 's threats . They warn that he plans to make war to regain his confiscated land . This prompts a suggestion that young farmers should enlist in the " People 's army . " Finally the villagers decide to write a stiff letter telling the count the land no longer belongs to him and never will . One elderly farm lady asks that the letter be brought to her bedside so she can sign it . She recalls her firstborn died one winter in the bad old days for want of a roof over their hovel . " What can I tell my children , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know if this kind of thing is true ? If I tell them it is n't , that creates doubts in their minds and trouble for them at school . And yet we know it is n't true . " Such dilemmas are not new in totalitarian societies , but they are particularly painful in East Germany . The people of that unfortunate country know they are the real losers of World War II . " But we are sick of being pitied , " a Dresden dentist told me . " We 're sick of being called ' the Zone ' and having the West Germans weep crocodile tears over us . " Sometimes the West Germans even forget the tears and brazenly flaunt their prosperity in the faces of their Eastern countrymen . At fair time in Leipzig , well-upholstered Ruhr businessmen and their expensively dressed wives roar through town in Mercedes limousines , hardly aware of the embittered looks they get from ordinary East Germans who must stand and wait outside . The West Germans have lost all ethical values in their lust for prosperity , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are widespread even among educated East Germans . A young Dresden architect told me he wanted to continue designing schools in East Germany " because if I were over there in West Germany I 'd have to earn my living building villas for the Krupps and Thyssens . " A schoolteacher from the Erzgebirge says , " Our school system is better because in West Germany only children from certain social strata can go to school . " There is also widespread misunderstanding and mistrust of Bonn 's political motives . I never met an East German who did not impute the worst motives to Bonn for originally proposing to stop new anti-Nazi prosecutions when the twenty-year statute of limitation expires in May . The Communists have convinced most East Germans . among others , that West Germany is a nest of former Nazis . As differences and resentments multiply , contacts between the two Germanys grow more difficult , Chancellor Ludwig Erhard , like Konrad Adenauer before him , professes to believe contacts will keep alive the impulse for reunification . But Adenauer was always skeptical and Erhard has wavered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat to sever relations with any country that recognizes the East German regime , Ulbricht is making headway in his quest for international acceptance , as evidenced by his recent trip to the UAR . East German trade missions are operating in London , Paris . and Brussels . The U.S. Commerce Department recently approved a $13 mu -- lion deal involving the use of American processes for a synthetic fiber plant to be built in East Germany . Last year more than five thousand American tourists visited East Germany ( not including one-day trips to East Berlin ) . Like other capitalist foreigners they were lodged in newly built special hotels , given meals the average East German dreams about , and permitted to buy gasoline for one-third the usual price . The East German foreign ministry wants American news media to accredit correspondents to East Berlin as Reuter 's already does . The regime is improving its wretched image in the outside world by such measures as allowing pensioners to travel West . As they say in East Germany today , " Life begins at sixty . " But at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Bonn government will have to redeem the pledge it has made to " discuss many things if our brothers in the Soviet zone are able to pursue their lives as they wish . " East Germans are still far indeed from being able to pursue their lives as they wish , but the end of police terror , the easing of some travel restrictions , and improvements in the standard of living are making it increasingly difficult for Bonn to ignore the communist regime . Most West Germans now realize that reunification will not be achieved by free all-German elections . The alternative is a prolonged and painful dialogue with a somewhat less repressive East German regime . If West Germany and its allies in Washington were to accept such a dialogue as the practical basis of their policy , they could do much to aid the cause of the young East German technocrats and liberal intellectuals who are trying to liberalize the regime . " As things now stand , " a Czech correspondent in East Berlin says , " the SED refuses to get rid of even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fears such a move would be exploited by the hard-liners in Bonn as a sign of communist weakness . This helps keep the present aging government lineup intact . " Half of East German policy , like the editorial content of the Party organ Neues Deutschland , is reaction to Bonn . A more adroit West German policy could embarrass the communist diehards as much as Bonn 's own hard-liners are embarrassed today by changes in East Germany . Doubly isolated from its own people and from other members of the Soviet bloc , the East German regime realizes it must reform . Instead of denying the existence of change in East Germany , the West could accelerate the pace by giving the Communists some alternative to total dependence on Russia . With West German elections due in September , Erhard is not likely to take any initiative until the votes are in . But President Johnson has won his election and has the power to reanimate Western policy toward East Germany in a way that could confront the Russians with a new and even less congenial set of circumstances in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              