@@203556

Mark Twain once said : " When I was younger , I could remember anything , whether it happened or not . " Last week NBC 's Project 20 movingly remembered what happened to Mark , from his Hannibal , Mo . boyhood in the 1840s to the day of his death , exactly 50 years ago . Mark Twain 's America followed the technique of Project 20 's earlier and equally successful Meet Mr. Lincoln , used some 1,000 old photographs to bring back the patch of U.S. history Samuel Clemens helped needle into place . The pictures of the Old West , which attracted Twain as both reporter and prospector , were so penetratingly authentic that they easily got the drop on Hollywood , by comparison made farcical charades of Gunsmoke or Have Gun , Will Travel . <P> Just as effective were the pictures of scenes back " East , " where Mississippi River boats were even more fantastic than the legend they left behind . Director Donald Hyatt contrasted long , sweeping shots through their chandeliered salons with pointblank stares into the close-set eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt , the show followed Mark Twain following the innocents abroad , set the Eton-collared little Lord Fauntleroys of late 19th century America against the Huckleberry Finn of then and all time . Like a big frog always about to make a prizewinning jump , Sam Clemens stood out against his background : as a young man with lean cheeks , darkish hair and misleadingly humorless eyes , or as a snow-headed Connecticut Yankee , strutting in the cap and gown he had worn when Oxford University conferred upon him a Litt . D. : " I like the degree-but I 'm crazy about the clothes . " <P> In and out of popularity since his death , Mark Twain is now on the crest of a revival that is spreading fast through show business and publishing . M-G-M is about to release a wide-screen version of Huckleberry Finn ( with Eddie Hodges as Huck and Pugilist Archie Moore as Jim ) . Before season 's end a total of four major TV shows will have documented or dramatized various parts of the writer 's life . From Cambridge , Mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out books on Twain . Actor Hal Holbrook has already given more than 1,200 performances of his one-man show , Mark Twain Tonight ! , in more than 250 cities . An added measure of Mark Twain 's enduring success is financial . Although he nearly always had to scramble for money , had miserable luck as an investor ( he sank thousands into a futureless typesetting machine , turned young Alexander Graham Bell away from his doorstep without a cent ) , the author 's estate last week , as reported to a Connecticut probate judge , was worth a figure approaching half a million dollars . In 1959 Mark Twain earned $57,691-mainly for his daughter Clara , now Mrs. Jacques Samossoud of San Diego , Calif.                     