@@488085

their shoulder poles . The American sailors and the Chi  --  nese population are far apart culturally , but the Chinese are patient and acquisitive With shore patrols and mili  --  tary police sitting on the whole area the open clashes which might be expected in such an incongruous situation have not occurred . Wanohai is also one of the patriotic strongholds , and the movement 's newspapers , depart  --  ment stores , schools and union offices are to be found on every large street But the patriotic Chinese have boxed themselves off politically trom the servicemen , and often a left-wing union office peacefully occupies the upper floor of a building that houses a sailor bar on the street level . It pays for Britain to profess that the R &R; pro  --  gram is militarily trivial and that , in any case . if the U S. troops were forced to leave Hong Kong they would sim  --  ply " go somewhere else " Harold Wilson has managed with this argument to divert the London anti-war demon  --  strations away from the Hong Kong R @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U S military command , which must offer its w arriors a chance to soothe their pains and cares , R &R; in Hong Kong has a straightforward military function which can not easily be spread around to other ports As the Hanoi Vietnam Courier put it on February 3- " The gigantic military apparatus of the USA possesses enormous means supposedly capable , if not of inflating chockablock the morale of the GIs. at least of prevent  --  ing such a rapid sinking as we have witnessed . Substan  --  tial material privileges have been granted to those in Vietnam pay hike , rest and recreation in reputed and most attractive cities in the Far East and the Pacific in  --  cluding Hong Kong , Bangkok , Singapore , Manila , Taipei , Honolulu , Yokosuka , etc " The annual number of R &R; arrivals In most of the cities on Hanoi 's list is less than Hong Kong 's 220.000. and with massive Japanese anti  --  war protests to climax in 1970 , and clearly discernible centrifugal tendencies in SEATO lands , not many of themcould support a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logistics of locating play space for the men is the problem of finding ports for the ships to which they are attached . All of the Seventh Fleet 's power  --  house types  --  carriers , cruisers and nuclear subs  --  call on Hong Kong for the R &R; visits of their crews . The Enter  --  prise , the world 's largest warship , with more than 5,000 men . arrived in May 1968 for its third visit , and many of the Fleet 's other nuclear-powered carriers have been to Hong Kong . The same nuclear subs which cause violent mass protests on the Japan mainland and in Okinawa be  --  cause of the radioactivity they are alleged to impart to the local waters , often tie up at buoy number A 11 on Hong Kong harbor 's central fairway. without even the possibility that contamination will be mentioned publicly in the col  --  ony The freedom to bring in the whole range of nuclear-powered vessels is a special advantage afforded by Hong Kong , and if the composition of the American military force in Asia shifts further toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might value still more an invitation to put in at Hong Kong . Last August , Donald Stone , vice chairman of SNCC , was asked to address a mass rally in Naha , Okinawa . He encouraged the people under U S. military occupation there to persist in their efforts to rid themselves of the huge American base , no matter how many dollars it has been pumping into their sadly depressed economy . It would " make whores of your women , pimps of your men , and it will seduce your souls Once you begin to flirt with American dollarism you are lost . It will in the end mean the death of all that is beautiful , vibrant and alive in you . " Stone 's eloquent plea to the Okinawans would strike home to many of those British and Chinese who have been taking R &R; blood money in Hong Kong . But it will not trouble their hearts in the night , because it could not be printed today in any newspaper in the Crown colony . We get used to thinking that certain groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our society , Chil  --  dren 's " rights " are hardly even discussed  --  they are kids after all The rights of high school and college students are suddenly very much in the forefront and many question whether they should have the freedom of real people . Blacks still must struggle daily to maintain the glimmer of recognition which they have won during the last decade I have no poll data on the point , but I have a hunch that most people put government employees in this cate  --  gory public servants are Just that  --  servants to us all . And THE NATION/October 20 , 1969 servants do not deserve the privileges of their masters . The present Hatch Act , limiting the political partici  --  pation of government employees , is a good example of law based on the assumption that some people merit fewer rights than do others . The Act states very simply : " No officer or employee in the executive branch of the Federal government or any agency or department thereof , shall take any active part in political management or in political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons in the Civil Service since 1907 ( under Civil Service Rule IV ) The Hatch Act was passed during the depression , in the wake of criticism that WPA funds were being used for political purposes . In addition to ex  --  tending coverage , the Act provides stiff penalties for vio  --  lators What does taking " any active part " mean ? The law specifies that it does not include voting or expressing opinions . For the rest , however , employees are barred 411 from activities that the Civil Service Commission " has heretofore determined " ( before the passage of the Act ) should be prohibited : serving in any capacity for a polit  --  ical party ( including as a delegate to a convention ) , soliciting contributions , addressing a political club or meet  --  ing on a partisan matter . poll activity ( including driving voters to the polls ) , becoming a candidate for office , dis  --  tributing campaign material , initiating or circulating party nominating petitions , organizing a political meeting . So the government employee knows that he does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the law merely assumed that he should be denied these rights  --  giving no clear rationale for specific denials  --  the em  --  ployee is faced with an impenetrable " mishmash " of rules and regulations . In this connection , I recommend Pam  --  phlet 20 , " Political Activity of Federal Officers and Em  --  ployees . " Written as an authoritative source of informa  --  tion on the subject , it is a welter of confusion . The gov  --  ernment employee must wade through the provisions of Civil Service Rules , the Hatch Act , coverage of the Act , prohibited activities , and the criminal code on political activities . Permitted activities are not mentioned . Indeed . until very recently , the Civil Service Commission did not even list permitted activities on its warning poster at election time . Surveys show considerable ignorance of the " do 's and don't 's " ( e g .. 45 per cent of those enjoined thought they could drive voters to the polls ) The result is inactivity for the timid ( " when in doubt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bold . To say that the Hatch Act is confusing and am  --  biguous. and that its implementation is too negative . is not to say that government employees should be able to participate without restraint in political activity . It has long been recognized that the public has a right to im  --  partial administration of government business . However , if one starts from the assumption that government em  --  ployees have in principle the same political rights as any other group of citizens . one automatically becomes cau  --  tious about restrictions , weighing each one carefully in terms of the Constitution , the advantages to be gained for the public interest , the effect on the Civil Service . That viewpoint protects against blanket prohibitions or the blind acceptance of past practices A revision of the Hatch Act , based on the recognition and protection of employee rights , is sorely needed . An employee should be able to find out precisely what he can do in politics , what he ca n't do . what he need not do , and why . Every effort should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Civil Service without limiting the rights of employees For example , the criminal code now protects employees from coercion or intimidation for political purposes . Section 602 of Title 18 provides a fine of $5.000 or three years ' imprisonment for any official or employee who solicits or receives polit  --  ical contributions from a fellow employee We all know of , or have heard of , violations of this section of the law ? political dinners being the most common device  --  but who knows of any prosecutions ? Complaints must be re  --  ferred by the Civil Service Commission to the Depart  --  ment of Justice , with accompanying evidence for criminal prosecution . John W. Macy . Jr forme chairman of the Civil Service Commission , summarized the experience under this provision in a hearing before the Commission on Political Activity of Government Personnel : " To my knowledge there have been very few cases . ... I am un able to cite any . " Leo M. Pellerz ' , Corrner counsel of the Civil Service Commission , pinpointed the difficul  --  ty : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very difficult . . . . A criminal provision imposes on the De  --  partment of Justice a burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt " The Civil Servi , : e Commission has recommended that the Hatch Act be revised to strengthen the prohibitions on coercion and use of official authority for interfering in elections . This would involve unifying some of the pro  --  visions now spread across the Hatch Act , the Civil Service rules and the criminal code . It would also provide a civil penalty for coercion . whether in solicitation of funds or services . Instead of " burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt , " Pellerzi testified , " a civil provision imposes upon the Civil Service Commission a burden of substantial evi  --  dence and it makes a tremendous difference in your ability to prosecute violations . " Effective protection from coercion would reduce the need to limit employees ' rights , since a major evil would be controlled . The present theory appears to be that . since coercion is not effectively regulated , an employee 's only protection is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service Commission . When asked to do something , he can hide behind the law . Such a procedure shackles the employee ; to be protected lie must sacrifice political rights . Surely there must be a better way to insure im  --  partiality in public administration Serious effort should be made to restrain those who would coerce. rather than all civil servants . Though the philosophical and constitutional rea  --  sons for changing the Hatch Act are indeed compelling . other arguments have merit Government performs more functions , is more a part of our lives , with every passing day ; and no prediction is safer than that government will continue to expand . Intelligent , competent and imagina  --  tive people are needed to staff government at all levels . Will such persons be attracted to the service if they must needlessly sacrifice political rights ' The spread of the federal government implies a greater quantity as well as a higher quality of employees Current provisions of the Hatch Act extend coverage to those in state and local government " whose principal employ  --  ment is in connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal loans or grants " Estimates vary , but the current conservative guess is that federal grants-in-aid will quadruple in the next five years , from $15 bil  --  lion to $60 billion . Most state and local employees may soon be covered bY the Hatch Act  --  indeed , we may all be working for the government eventually ! It is fascinating to contemplate a democracy in which no one could run for office or participate in campaigns . The existing Hatch Act officially differentiates between partisan and nonpartisan activities . Another reason for re  --  vising the law is that such a distinction can not be made . Employees are permitted to run for nonpartisan local pub  --  lic office if the issues involved are not identified with a national or state political party . Many partisan elections in this country are labeled " nonpartisan " ? for example , elections to the Chicago City Council are legally nonpar  --  tisan , but any one in that city can give you the party breakdown of seats . Even when an office is less closely identified with political parties  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are seldom nonpartisan . Education is cer  --  tain to be a part of every party 's platform , and of every legislative , gubernatorial or Presidential candidate 's speech Though it is always dangerous to predict how the Su  --  preme Court will act , an additional argument for revision is that the present law would probably be declared un  --  constitutional if a case ever got to the Court . The Hatch Act was upheld in United Public Workers v. Mitchell ( 1947 ) by a 4 to 3 decision , the majority viewing its provisions as a proper exercise of power to protect the integrity and neutrality of the civil service . The decision was narrow , however , and issued by a " short " Court . Still in contention are the rights of employees under the First Amendment  --  speech , press , assembly and petition . Con  --  sidering the Court 's concern in the past two decades for First Amendment freedoms , it seems plausible that the Hatch Act would not survive today . The recent California supreme court decisions may anticipate U.S. Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Alameda County was ruled unconsti  --  tutional in 1964 and the state provisions were ruled un  --  constitutional in 1966 . In both eases , the majority argued that the restrictions were too broad and too vague , thus violating the First Amendment . If one were to project the California court 's argument to the national situation , it would en snmethine like this Coneres can not lightly restrict First Amendment freedoms as a condition for public employment . It can do so only if it establishes com  --  pelling cause , and even then other means for achieving that cause must be unavailable . These are reasonable con  --  clusions , but they have not guided the development of legislation in this sensitive area . Preservation of an impartial civil service is , indeed , a compelling cause . Evidence on the bad effects of the spoils system is available in the record books or in the con  --  temporary management of a good many cities . Testimony in Chicago and Cook County disclosed that " city em  --  ployees who are patronage appointees must man their precinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re  --  frain from opposing the party line in any open or blatant or embarrassing way . " The chairman of the Cook County Civil Service Commission testified that absenteeism among workers in a county hospital was at least 80 per cent for two days before an election , on the day of the election , and on the day after . Thus some regulations are necessary to preserve the civil service merit system . The question is how to accom  --  plish it and yet preserve the greatest possible degree of freedom for employees . Reasonable men will differ on precise prohibitions , but if they agree that political rights should not be denied without elaborate justification , the result will be a vast improvement over existing regulations . The immediate prospects for change are not good . A tw elve-member Commission on Political Activity of Government Personnel , established in 1966 , issued a re  --  port calling for major revision . The commission had con  --  ducted hearings , surveyed government workers , reviewed the complex legal questions , studied regulations in other nations , analyzed everything written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are all published and available to Congress , but no commission report has ever enjoyed less Congressional attention . Legislation was in  --  troduced in the House and Senate in 1968 , but no one seriously thought anything would be done in an election year . The case for change is so overwhelming that one nat  --  urally asks why nothing happens . The reasons are not hard to find . Members of Congress are instinctively cau  --  tious about any legislation proposing reforms that would affect the election system . They want to hold their seats , and few of them really know how they won them  --  though in answer to any such question , they will recite the formula for their last campaign . Since they are so in  --  secure . any proposal for change can bring an attack of nerves . Campaigning for re-election is difficult enough , they argue , without changing the rules of the game . So , as with legislative redistricting , or electoral college re  --  form , or campaign finance regulations , or any number of ballot changes , Representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government em  --  ployees by weighing the implications for their districts and states They know how things work out under the present law , any change is a gamble . Will employees organize against them because of their stands on issues affecting the civil service ? Will they run their own candidates against the incumbents ? Are they likely to support one party ? Which party would be more hobbled by enforce  --  ment of laws against coercion ? This prudence , combined with the existing political split between the White House and Congress , produces the ultimate formula for inaction . It is difficult enough to change the election system when one party is in charge . But give the White House to a veteran Republican like Richard M. Nixon , and the Congress to a majority of tough partisan Democrats , and the result is no result . So the underclass m American politics  --  government employees  --  is destined to remain just that for the time being . They can never enjoy full rights of citizenship if the integrity of the merit system is to be preserved . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction of denying rights , whereas we have long held that in a democracy the error should be in the other direction . Reduced freedoms for some should never be a substitute for inadequate information , ignorance and uncertainty . The issue is complex and politically sensitive , but Congress should face the tough task . It should make protection against coercion effective , clarify the bases for prohibition , emphasize rights where possible , unify the scattered provisions bearing on the subject , abolish the distinction between partisan and nonpartisan , make penal  --  ties coincide more flexibly with violations , and increase the budget for enforcement . It would be unfortunate , but regrettably typical , if Congress waited for the Supreme Court to declare the Hatch Act unconstitutional before taking such action . 