@@488108

Mr Mucha , one of Czechoslovakia 's most distinguished writers , is the author most recently of Living and Partly Living ( to be published by McGraw-Hill this month ) , an account of his stay in a Czech prison during the Stalin era . He was sen1 tented to six years , spent some time in solitary confinement , and later worked in a coal mine He was in Prague during the occupation and left shortly thereafter for London . This article was translated by Ewald Osers . London I still ca n't understand how it happened . And why it happened . Or maybe I can just understand why  --  but not how . I am still Walking about like a man who has seen a ghost in bright daylight  --  something hideous and unreal , compounded of shadows and smoke Or of shadows and poison gas . Because this ghost can kill When did it all start ? In May , 19687 In January , 1968 ? Or in December , when the power which had been concentrated in Novotny 's hands was snatched from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the exact source of a river ( a few interlaced springs on a vast mountain meadow ) It really began two or three years ago when the shell enclosing the living body of the nation was irresistibly getting thinner , rather like an eggshell getting brittle just before the hatching of a chick . There still was the will of dictatorship , but tewer and fewer people were prepared to carry out senseless orders . There was the machinery of suppression , but fewer and fewer people dared to use it . And a year ago , when at the Writers ' Congress things were openly said which everyone had long known and said in private , it took the government of the day several months to decide to punish the insubordinate intellectuals . Within a much shorter time it was compelled to revoke its sanctions , and in a still shorter time the government , until then all-powerful and infallible , had fallen . Maybe some tank units in some Byelorussian or Ukrainian garrison received even then their first stand-by orders . The tragedy began to take its inexorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deformed communism like curare . In Poland they were still able to neutralize the spontaneous movement of the young toward freedom by inciting the workers and by the well tried formula of anti-Semitism , but in Czechoslovakia it did not work . The workers , when urged to resent the intelligentsia , knew perfectly well that the students were their own children , remembered that they had often tightened their own belts to send them to college , and decided that it was in fact the low intelligence of the leaders that had brought the country to the verge of bankruptcy . Attempts to fan anti-Semitism failed even more quickly in a small country which had just been watching and admiring Israel 's courage . Thus when the Novotny wing tried to retrieve the situation , it misread the temper of the people and lost the gamble . I believe that the crisis in the Communist world , which culminated in the occupation of Czechoslovakia on August 21 , was inescapable . The old guard in the central committees of all the Communist countries still employed a way of thinking and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poverty-stricken proletariat . That dissatisfied and poorly educated mass  --  and at one time that was a correct description  --  provided nothing but strength Intelligence had to come from elsewhere , and with it an iron discipline . A totally different situation exists today when a worker has a tar better education and a higher living standard than did a schoolmaster or official fifty years ago The authorities are no longer dealing with an easily manipulated mass but with a large number of independently thinking individuals And the moment man starts thinkmg , his first indispensable need is freedom Tragedy thus became inevitable those in power , who should have kept their fingers on the pulse of the people , lost their touch , they failed to see the essential transformation of the working class and drove it into battle against itself , against a spontaneous need for freedom which they saw as counterrevolution . In Czechoslovakia , a traditionally industrial country with an excellent educational system , the average worker even before World War II was on the level of an intellectual in many an agricultural country today In Czechoslovakia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  all power to pass into the hands of the workers , because any intelligent worker could , without particular difficulty , take on the job of a factory manager or a minister . Needless to say , this had disastrous results But on the other hand , the Czechoslovak working class was the quicker to realize where the mistake lay . Ever since January , when the Novotny wing was eliminated , we have known that we were playing with fire . Not that we thought our policy was wrong but we remembered only too well the reaction of our own neo-Stalinists or old-type Communists , or whatever one wants to call them , to similar manifestations elsewhere . We were just hoping that our neighbors ' fears and antagonisms would be controlled by reason , and that , once we had proved to them that our road was right , they would be able without any further fear to adopt whichever features of our experiment they chose . We knew that the people in those countries were on our side . It was quite possible that their own situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , made the danger even greater , but Dubcek believed in the force of human reason . He believed that it could conquer even the fear of losing power . It did not . In the middle of a joyfully peaceful summer , just as we thought the main danger was over and that we would now get a chance to prove we were right  --  in that terrible , evil , incredible night of August 20-21 , the darkness suddenly and strangely came to life . I had just got back to my home on Hradcany Square , directly opposite the castle and the President 's residence , when the noise of a fast-moving car , disturbing the nocturnal quiet , seemed to repeat itself with a strange regularity . It was not alarming , just irritating The government and the President often gave receptions in the evening , so there was nothing particularly striking about it . Then came the aircraft . The deep engine drone of low-flying machines One , two , three , ten , twenty . Some night exercise , I thought . I dialed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Sure . Eight o'clock , " the girl repeated . " You know that the Russians are occupying the country ? It 's just been announced on the radio . " It was fantastic Occupying ? Why , what , whom ? For a while one 's mental images tried to fall into some logical pattern . The drone of the aircraft grew louder , the cars were arnving faster . Suddenly these unconnected items connected into a plot . It was not yet real ; just a plot in one 's mind , triggered by the sounds . Some troops movingalong some roads to some other city . Not to Prague ; that was impossible . To some other city Then a frightful , frightening memory blended in . March 15 . Hitler 's occupation . Concentration camps . Executions . It was impossible . And outside the dawn was breaking , the square outside the castle was empty  --  in two or three hours it would be full of cars , tourists , children , lovers  --  and only up in the sky hung the drone of invisible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which before long would be engraved on all hearts spoke of Warsaw Pact troops . Of how they were occupying Czechoslovakia and how it was too late for any resistance And then came the words we had heard so many times ? Keep calm . Keep calm . There was a fierce roar and clanking . I turned to the window . An enormous tank was entering the square at a furious speed , followed by another , and a third , and a fourth , and like antediluvian monsters the whole column raced round the square , and around again , and behind them came tracked vehicles full of soldiers . Most of the tanks had their hatches open and the crews were looking out at the buildings . The square was dead . The tanks took up position in front of the castle , traversed their guns to point at the seat of the government . A tank blocked one entrance into the square , a tracked infantry carrier blocked the other The nightmare had taken on substance . It was not any more real or any more comprehensible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Under my window a cordon of soldiers formed up , with red paratroop berets and submachine guns slung over their shoulders . Well-turned-out , well-dressed soldiers . They were waiting for something to happen . Nothing happened . We were an occupied country . Prague woke up to a bad dream . Nobody understood  --  and when they had understood they understood even less . A city that was free yesterday was to become unfree at the touch of a button . The truth proclaimed , pursued and defended only yesterday was to be abolished . A group of quislings were to come marching out of the castle gates to welcome the invaders with the traditional bread and salt But truth was not silenced and no one came marching out of that gate . The city filled with young people , from 14 to 22 or 25 , and there began one of the strangest occupations in history Everyone knew at once that the nerve center of the country was the radio . One crowd therefore spontaneously made for the Radio Center and , without weapons , placed itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calm . Let your weapon be passive resistance . Do n't be provoked into bloodshed . That 's what they are waiting for Do n't be provoked ! " The words rang out from all the loud-speakers in the streets , and from all transistors . The tanks stopped , alarmed . The human bodies would not let them pass Obstacles appeared  --  an overturned bus , some automobiles . Immediately above their heads a reporter was giving the world a running commentary of the battle for the Radio Center . It was an absurd performance ? part Havel , part Gogol A squad of Russian soldiers entered the building , ripped two telephones from their sockets at the reception desk , camped down in the foyer and lit cigarettes Their officer set out on a tour , and on two floors he locked the office doors . One did not have a key , which put him out a little , but at least he had tried . Then he reported back to his commanding officer with the pride of a mission successfully accomplished Except that he had omitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And so , while he was taking a rest , an account of his exploit was already being broadcasf to the world and the radio continued to function . Out in the street a type of defense was taking shape that was to develop into an art in the next few days . Coordinated by the radio , the young people conducted not so much a passive as a nonviolent resistance , a technique they had perfected in their dealings with a progressively less tough police of their own . Above all , they were treating the occupiers with ironical contempt . " What arc you doing here " they would say to them , Jovially slapping them on the back . " ls that a way to go visiting . ' " The education of the Stalin era boomeranged in an unexpected way The young people , into whom Russian had been drilled in grade after grade , were able to communicate with the unhappy invaders . In Russian script they wrote on the pavements , on trees , and even on the tanks themselves Go twine . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1938 ; Prague 1968. las is not Vietnam Home , dogs . But in front of the Radio Center the situation was more tense . The tank crews , faced with the crowd , panicked. 362 They opened fire . First over their heads ; then at the people and into windows Flames leapt up . One tank was on fire . Then another . And the caf ? across the road . And another building . Some dead were lying on the pavement . And wounded . When an ambulance came to pick them up the tanks maneuvered so as to bar its way The sound of firing also came from Wenceslas Square . One burst hit the young people on the museum ramp . And still the radio went on reporting each incident , its reporters driving through the city with their tape recorders , the cameramen shooting dramatic sequences  --  under machine-gun fire if spotted  --  and a few streets farther down other crowds of young people were pushing round tanks and infantry carriers , arguing with their crews . " Explain their mistake to them , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from windows and doors and loudspeakers voices were calling out to the invaders in their own language . " Halt ! " a soldier shouted at a young girl in the square outside the castle She was on the way to buy her groceries round the corner . She handed him her shopping bag and money " All right , stupid  --  you go and do my shopping for me ! " He dropped his eyes and turned round . A short distance away a group of young people stood around the tank which was blocking the way into the square . One of the soldiers helplessly shrugged his shoulders and wept . A little later a girl of about 17 , in a miniskirt and with long hair , placed herself in front of the tank and read out , in Russian , an appeal to the occupying , forces . Vltava radio , the station operated by the Russians in the hope of winning over the public , broadcast an interview with the mother of a Russian soldier ; she was proud that her son had hastened to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father had been killed Prague radio replied That mother would do better to dry the tears of the mothers of the young people whom her son perhaps had shot dead without any reason Abruptly , like an icy wind sweeping over the suiface of a lake , the square was transformed into a battlefield . The lazily strolling soldiers scuttled to the trees , dropped down on their knees , machine guns started barking , and an anti-tank gun jerkily maneuvered on a piece of lawn where only yesterday children had been playing . Then came the crack of tanks firing , then more machine guns , then again the sharp crack of cannon fire , and finally the " Urra " of a charge What were they capturing ? 1 do n't know . I could not see any farther because of the trees , and I could not move any closer And a little latei , only a short distance away , mini-skirted girls , contemptuously indifferent , were telling the troops to go home , sticking up posters , and chalking swastikas on their tanks . Then a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their leader , bearded and long-haired , was carrying a Czechoslovak flag spatteied with blood " You 're killing children , " they weie shouting in Russian " Here 's the blood of one of our friends . " The sun was shining , the girls had put on their prettiest dresses , over the city reverberated the peal of church bells THE NATION/ October 14 , 1968 and the wail of sirens in protest against the occupation , and the soldiers , uncomprehending in their steel boxes , were hungry and thirsty " Not a crust of bread , not a drop of water for the invaders , " the slogan swept the country . Stupid brutal force had lost the day . Facilities which had once served totalitarianism  --  the apparatus of the Comtriunist party , the network of municipal radio transmitters ? everything now turned against the invaders and forged the whole nation into a perfectly functioning army of unarmed resistors It was pure Kafka-like , the whole of Prague with its narrow streets , its gargoyles and its churches . It was inzomprehensible , terrifying and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on the other a tank crew in tears . On one of the bridges a friend of mine was stopped by a soldier who released the Safety catch of his submachine gun and ordered him to go back . When he tried another bridge he was again stopped , but this soldier was merely scrounging cigarettes . " Are n't you ashamed ' " an old woman asked a head sticking out from a mountain of steel . The head stared at her open-mouthed " Pardon me . " I said " Would you move your tank a little so I can drive out ' ' ' . The tracks clanked obligingly . He let me through and then backed his tank again to its original position .                     