@@494874

Half a century ago when Albert Bigelow Paine published his vast biography of Mark Twain , the critic Stuart P. Sherman recorded that after several days ' reading it , he went around for several more days under the impression that he was Mark Twain . Almost as vast , Mark Schorer 's Sinclair Lewis : An American Life could bludgeon a reader into a similar daze . If not , it is due to two drastic differences : where Paine wrote piously , Schorer writes caustically ; and , second , Paine had as subject a far more gifted writer and a far more attractive personality with whom the reader could identify . Sinclair Lewis ' life is appalling . But reading it has the fascination of a puzzle , of the outrageous , of an extraordinary success and terrifying ruin . Whatever reservations one may have about Schorer 's job ? and I have a couple ? one must say first of all that this Sinclair Lewis is a magnificent example of research and writing . It comes out of nearly a decade of examining published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonetheless its nearly goo big pages never flag with fatigue ? the verve of lively prose is sustained ; and ? what is perhaps even more admirable ? the ordering of this mass of data into narrative has been accomplished with masterly brilliance . The god-awful question which may nevertheless be asked is : Was it worth it ? And this is permissible because Mark Schorer himself implicitly raises it . How justify hundreds of detailed pages recording the life of a man whose biographer defines him as " one of the worst writers in modern American literature " ? And whose biographer at times treats him with contempt ? The defense would seem to be in that Lewis , after all , accomplished something special , something unique , in his time ; and perhaps further in that ambiguous subtitle , " An American Life . " There is , as I have said , the fascination of the story . Are we to take it as representative ? And if so , of what ? Of American writers who , instead of achieving full maturity , peter drearily out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of loth Century American materialism on creative genius ? the fast buck more seductive than the masterpiece ? the ease and rewards of conforming more attractive , after all , than that different drum ? ( One of Lewis ' most curious delusions was that Thoreau had a profound influence on his life . ) There is indeed evidence , perhaps insufficiently emphasized by Schorer , that Lewis ? according to his own limited lights ? felt the serious obligations of writing as art , and plenty of evidence , perhaps overemphasized , that Lewis loved the enormous amounts of money he made . And so , typically , he came a disastrous cropper over a " persistent conflict of values " ( Schorer 's phrase ) and at the very end of his life this rich , famous Nobel Prize winner could compulsively cry out , head in hands , " Oh God , no man has ever been so miserable ! " Lewis was a type . We have all known in childhood days , at least , one or another boy of whom Lewis as a boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlarged the Moon-calf , the " different , " characteristics to the point of monstrosity . Readers of this biography are less likely to feel that here is a " representative " life but rather here , by the grace of God , is a man not quite similar to any other who ever walked the earth . The point about him which never ceased to be true is this : from childhood on , Lewis was an outcast , rejected by one group after another ; in self-defense he had to despise them ( and there came the satire in his best writing ) and yet , such was his nature , he desperately longed to belong ( and there came the sentimentally obscured focus of his worst writing ) . Out of both , of course , there came too the muddled tragedy of his life itself . It is startling to realize how young , how rawly new , was that Sauk Centre , Minnesota , into which Harry Sinclair Lewis was born on February 7 , 1885 . For it had been only in 1857 that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put down stakes . Growth had been rapid , there were houses and schools and a public library and lawyers and a couple of doctors ? one of whom was Harry 's father and toward the other of whom Harry felt so much more simpatico that once as a man he tastelessly asked the old doctor if there had n't been some sinning around Sauk Centre in 1884 . But growth and all , it was an outpost of American igth Century , in part primitive and most certainly provincial ; a very long way for a boy to go , even given 45 years , to the Royal Court of Sweden . In short , an extreme example of the petit bourgeois town without precedent for understanding so peculiarly endowed a youngster as Lewis . He was a poor little misfit , and he was obnoxious . He was a know-it-all . He would never shut up . He would do anything , even to eating grass , to call attention to himself . The filthiest tricks were played on him by the other kids . As he grew into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had almost no real friendships , he was no good at games , he swam badly , he could n't dance , he loved girls uselessly and from afar . And he was unbeautiful ; an exceptionally bad case of acne raddled his face throughout his youth , permanently scarred it , and was but preliminary to skin cancer that further scarred and inflamed a countenance many thought repulsive . ( In photographs it is impressive because of its terrible loneliness . ) As Schorer says of Lewis , 17 , departing for college , " he had found so little human kindness . " Save that he got far more human kindness than he ever gave , the essence of Lewis ' life does not vary thereafter . At Yale , where he was known as " God-Forbid , " he got some human kindness from the faculty , but nearly none from other undergraduates . And the thing is , years later he was snickered out of a Left Bank cafe in Paris : for what was he to the avant-garde gathered there but an inconsequential best-seller ? And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that pock-marked jerk . " ' Schorer , wondering why Lewis dedicated a novel to Edith Wharton who was not a friend of his , might consider not only that Mrs. Wharton was a novelist of distinction , she was also a great lady , top drawer : the dedication made , so to speak , an attachment , however pathetically tenuous . No , Lewis moved through all those strata of bourgeoisie , intellectuals , literati , the rich , and he never fitted anywhere . He " began his retaliation , " says Schorer , in his diary , before he was 16 . As his retaliation proliferated like poison ivy up the tree of his life it became utterly dismaying ? and , of course , an aggravation of all his discontent . Late in life he was to list friends he had lost , and Schorer can add a great many more to the list . He was a gauche and noisy bore who drank much too much , created scenes , and ? still ? would never shut up . He wore out his first , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she tried to preserve even when the patience required surpassed that of the dead . Ugliest of all , he was not merely parsimonious with his two sons , he was coldly disregardful of them . A friend of mine who worked with Lewis on that best known unwritten novel of our times ? Lewis ' labor novel ? told me , " Lewis is the most selfish man in the world . " So in this biography he seems to be . Then when he took a beautiful young mistress we get the true beginning of a story adumbrated earlier in his life , the story of incessant , pathological flight . It is consistent with his sense of not belonging , but it is almost mad . Lewis turns to acting in the theater , turns to public debating , turns to teaching and lecturing , drops most enterprises soon after he picks them up , and he constantly changes residences ? at large expense buys and furnishes one house after another and then lingers only briefly in any place . His writing worsens , as he seems aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pocket from Cass Timberlane before the book is even published . He drives himself on and on in what seems a wild and often drunken exasperation with living . More and more alone he travels in Italy and finally , a sodden wreck , dies on the outskirts of Rome in 1951 . " Elmer Gantry , " says Schorer , " is a work of almost pure revulsion . It seems to shudder and to shake with loathing of that which it describes . " Too strong a statement to make about Schorer 's own book , Sinclair Lewis ; yet this book ? exemplary in its frankness , its warts-and-all ? approaches at times too near revulsion . Let me cite just two instances . When the English portraitist Nevinson recalled Lewis ' story that his creative faculties " would dry up , " I ca n't believe in Schorer 's right to suggest this was Lewis ' playing the serious artist . When the correspondent Frazier Hunt remembered showing Lewis some horrible , drunken , poverty-ridden slums in Glasgow and Lewis cursed and wept , I think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either the system or the poverty that so disturbed him , or was it the prophetic mirror of understood : his own horrid human degradation ? " A man can be a fool without being a phony . Sinclair Lewis was ? in the broadest sense of the word ? a fool . For what he had to the point of genius was the gift of mimicry . In his life and in his work . One astounded onlooker once told me of an evening in New York when Lewis , annoyed by an obnoxious Englishman 's condescension to all American literature , suddenly inquired if the visitor knew of Such-and-Such a novelist ? Lewis making up the name . No ? Whereupon Lewis rapidly but extensively outlined novel after novel by this allegedly fine American until Yes ? Yes ? the Englishman did begin to recall one or two of them . Lewis did that sort of thing all his life . He impersonated , in costume and out . Dorothy Thompson recalled an occasion when Lewis even , impromptu , did parodies of various poets ' styles ? until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course he would at times carry his antics to uninterruptible monologues that tired people into stupified , irritated boredom . If we go back to the best of the books , Babbitt , it is this gift which supremely we find there : the gift of flawless imitation of speech , given a mocking edge . Again and again in Babbitt as family talk , or lunchroom talk , or Rotary speeches , or whatever , go on , we think : " How good ? how wickedly good ? this is ! " And we may recall that an entire book , The Man Who Knew Coolidge , was made from such as this ; that even as late as Kingsblood Royal at least a few pages of whites ' comment on Negroes flash with it . But we do not , finishing Babbitt ( or , less , Main Street and Arrowsmith ) , quite feel that outburst of " How good ! " The whole , as intent and execution , is not as in focus , not as uncompromised , and is some 