@@493584

" The garden 's full of furniture and the house is full of plants , " Michael Flanders used to sing , thus putting his finger on one of the ruling cliches of contemporary domestic architecture , namely that nothing should actually be something , such as a dining room or a kitchen , but everything should flow and merge into something else , including the outdoors and the indoors . This last merger has been made possible by the perfection of glass as walls , or , " There 's no place safe to dress , " as Donald Swann used to reply . Not surprisingly , the glass wall has found its way into institutions as well as houses . A whole sub-language of architecture has grown up devoted to producing permanent awnings ? horizontal or vertical baffles shading the glass ? to allow glass to take its omniverous course . The momentous discovery that the way to cut down on overexposure caused by glass is to cut down on glass may be just around the corner . The art museum , too , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been that art museums are part of the general advance section of culture and glass is decidely advance , therefore glass is the only truly fitting substance . Ignored has been the simple truth that the backs of most pictures are not particularly inspiring to look at . The glass walled museum has brought the freestanding , movable partition into its own and forced the development of a whole rhetoric of flexibility . In spite of the rhetoric , most arrangements of free-standing , moveable partitions tend to stand freely but unmoved in the positions they are first given for exhibition after exhibition , for all the world as if they were the old , inflexible galleries of the classical temple and Renaissance palazzo that once dominated museum architecture . And the proliferation of glass boxes for small museums has unexpectedly revealed a virtue in the old temples and palazzos . Except for the Puritanically modern soul , those forms were ennobling in a curious way . They may not have been the best machines for looking at pictures , but they placed the experience of looking at pictures within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Florentines . Even without the his THE NEW REPUBLIC torical reference , the old-time museum architecture imparted nobility to looking at art through its sheer profusion of space . The great hall of the Metropolitan , the rotunda of the National Gallery are not the waste space they were once denounced as ; both spaces announce to the visitor that he has come to one of the high places of the spirit , that he may now commune with giants , that this is their temple . The problems of art museum architecture - what to do about glass ? and how to make space evocative as well as efficient ? ? have been brilliantly solved in Philip Johnson 's just opened pre-Columbian wing for the Bliss Collection at Dumbarton Oaks , Washington . Two special conditions have contributed to the possibility of such a building . The Robert Woods Bliss Collection contains very few flat pieces that should be exhibited on walls ; there is a large piece of Mexican fresco and a vibrant Inca feather mantle . The rest of the fabrics are more advantageously seen from both sides and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are no plans for special exhibitions . Small changes will be made from time to time , but the collection is really a finished work , the result of fifty years of very perceptive hunting and finding by Mr. and Mrs. Bliss . Hence , flexibility is irrelevant . The building is therefore essentially a showcase for several hundred superb , three-dimensional works of pre-Columbian art . Another condition of the enterprise is that Mr. and Mrs. Bliss , beginning 1972 , were among the very first collectors anywhere to recognize the aesthetic value of the pre-Columbian material . That recognition has shaped the collection completely . There is n't a single piece that is only of ethnological value . There are no shards . There is a lot of small gold , intricately worked , a lot of larger stone , massively simple . Everything demands and amply repays close attention . For such material the building is a beauty , not only making such attention easy but echoing the fascination of the objects in itself . There is no competition between the container and the things contained , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building even as it leads the body and eye to object after object in the collection . Attached to the main Dumbarton building , housing the Byzantine collection , the " wing " is really an independent pavilion open , through glass , to the surrounding gardens and , by way of an unroofed court , to the sky . The basic unit or room is circular , constructed of eight pillars , which support a bronze ring , which supports a shallow dome . There are eight such rooms , each opening into the next , the pillars shared by neighboring rooms , the exterior curved glass . The eight rooms form a square of circles , with the open court , with fountain and pool , in the center . The inside areas between circles are glassed and contain each a potted palm set on a bed of blue-black smooth stones . The pillars are of close-grained Illinois marble in a soft texture picked up in the drapes . The domes , like all domes , are resonant vaults and amplify your voice as you pass beneath the center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teak set in long narrow wedges like the spokes and interstices of a wagon wheel . This motif is repeated in the floor of the pool , where it is done of slate set on edge . Looking from one of the circular rooms across the little court , you see the rippling surface of the pool reflected in the glass before the palms , so that the water seems to be splashing over the blue-black stones . What I am getting at is that every single prospect pleases in itself and every one is on the small , intimate scale of the works on exhibition . The outside-inside business is equally enchanting and especially appropriate . You can look from one circle across the pool court through another circle to the surrounding , rather closed in , garden . The green and the water sounds faintly suggest the Central American jungle origin of much of the material . More important , they connect with the character of the institution . Besides being Harvard 's center of Byzantine studies , Dumbarton Oaks has long been a completely enchanted garden , created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its growth . Lacily revealed from the formal gardens , the pavilion strikes just the right note of a garden building , while from the inside the glass allows the special history and joy of Dumbarton to be always present . There may never be another fully legitimate and fully accomplished use of all-glass walls in an art museum , but this one perfect example redeems what has gone before . 