@@210339

As vaudeville shows go , it might have been conjured up by Ed Sullivan on an LSD binge . Right there onstage in living , quivering color , a formation of UFOs performed an aerial ballet . A chap in fluorescent lemon leotards wrestled with a space-age cobweb . Next came a drill team of Martian types outfitted with glowing lampshades , then seven creatures in baggy sacks who squiggled like giant amoebas in heat-all to the otherworldly twaaang , ratatatat , whizzz and kapow ! of electronic music . It was called Vaudeville of the Elements , Choreographer Alwin Nikolais ' latest excursion into the twilight zones of modern dance . <P> Nikolais offers no explanations for what he calls his " esthetic Rorschach . " He prefers instead that each viewer see what he will see . More than dance , it is an ingenious melding of motion ( often frenetic ) , shape ( usually grotesque ) , color ( always striking ) , light ( constantly changing ) and sound ( super-stereophonic ) into new and fresh dimensions that bedazzle and often trick the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dancers in hooped robes froze into off-center angles that looked gravitationally impossible , then somehow contorted their bodies to look like snails , then toadstools . By the projection of silhouettes on a backdrop , a slip of a girl was transformed into a creature of menace , revealing refinements of line unnoticed in the round . In the final act , the ten-member company , chattering like chimps , cavorted about the stage with sections of aluminum tubing , which they suddenly fashioned into a 16-ft. - high Tower of Babel with flags emblazoned IBM , A.M.A. and CBS . The results were at once fast , funny and evocative glimpses of man as both the victor and the victim of his environment . <P> Out of This World . Long regarded as a pioneer in modern dance , Nikolais has had to blaze his trails in the relative wilderness of Manhattan 's Lower East Side , where even the off-off-Broadwayites rarely penetrate . Vaudeville was staged last week in the troupe 's permanent home , a small ( 348 seats ) theater nestled between a drugstore and a Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institution primarily devoted to neighborhood social work . Despite this isolation , Nikolais has built a big following that now affords him the luxury of a 21-week season and an increasing number of performances on tour , on TV , and at such uptown palaces as the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center . <P> Nikolais , a mild-mannered ex-pianist , studied dance with Martha Graham and Hanya Holm before forming his own company in 1956 . Now 54 , he no longer dances , but concentrates on developing a theater of the " total happening , " in which " man is taken out of this world and put into the universe . " From that vista , the view is sometimes self-conscious and distorted , but the message comes through . Says Nikolais : " We 've got to make our peace today with a lot more things than our fellow man . "                     