@@493800

Congress and LBJ Goodwill , goodwill , shed its benign light over the President 's background meeting last week with a half-dozen reporters . The lesson for the day is this : Let us patiently take counsel together , and do n't shove . Mr. Johnson has no wish to get into a real crunch with Chinese Communists , nor with our allies in Europe , nor with the new Congress . He would unite , not divide . But soon this powerful man , so given to sweet talk and the widest possible consensus , will be obliged to inform the country and the 89th Congress specifically how , and at what speed , he wishes to move America forward toward the Great Society so vaguely sketched during his campaign . The Congress is ready , indeed eager to learn from him . With a majority of 135 Democrats in the House and 36 in the Senate , the President should have the votes he needs for almost any sensible , progressive proposal . For example , it is estimated that he can command a reliable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( He is even better off in the Senate . ) The House , moreover , is preparing to make it even easier for Mr. Johnson to gain prompt and favorable decisions . At long last , the Democratic leadership in that body appears willing to modernize its methods of operation . Under prodding by the Democratic Study Group , and most notably Representatives Morris Udall of Arizona and Frank Thompson of New Jersey , the leadership is expected to support a number of procedural reforms at the Democratic caucus which meets on January 2 . These include denying membership in the caucus to Representatives John Bell Williams of Mississippi and Albert W. Watson of South Carolina , both of whom endorsed the candidacy of Barry Goldwater . The Rules Committee roadblock , or rather the power of its formidable blocking tackle , Chairman Smith of Virginia , is sure to be lowered or removed by the adoption of a circumventing 21-day rule . This will mean that after the 21-day period , any bill stalled in Rules can be brought to the floor for a vote . There is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has passed both the House and Senate to proceed to joint conference . Finally , we anticipate a reduction of the number of names required for a discharge petition , possibly a decision that appointments to the powerful Ways and Means Committee be approved by the entire Democratic caucus , and an alteration in the ratio of Democrats and Republicans on Ways and Means to reflect Democratic gains . All such reforms will have the effect of strengthening the hand of Speaker McCormack , and indirectly the hand of the President ; and very probably the decisions of the Democratic caucus on January 2 will be made by secret ballot , another innovation . The reformers will not be unopposed . There will be objections from old-timers like Eugene Keogh of Brooklyn , who get along all right with things as they are . But reform has the votes . In the Senate , there is an altogether different sort of change in the wind . Here the Democrats are discussing not rules , but their party leadership . Who is to succeed Hubert Humphrey as Majority Whip ? To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russell Long of Louisiana . That very fact reflects the belief that with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the blocking this year of Senator Everett Dirksen 's move to frustrate the Supreme Court 's decision on reapportionment , such men as Russell Long have been liberated from their bondage to the race issue . If , as it is assumed , no new comprehensive civil rights legislation is likely for another decade , ancient battles that have dogged and distorted legislative deliberations can be put aside . The civil rights battle can and will move out of the Congress and into the Executive and the courts . But Russell Long ? The man who fought the Civil Rights Bill , voted against the test ban agreement , has been " soft " on oil and gas regulation , and is from one of the six states that went for Barry Goldwater ? Would not the very symbolism mock the November mandate of the voters , and even rob the liberal cause of a measure of its victory ? Perhaps . But symbols are not always the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clinton P. Anderson ( D , N. Mex. ) , and Paul Douglas ( D , III. ) ? who are supporting Long 's candidacy ? have some new legislation in mind . There is Medicare , truth-in-labeling , further tax cuts , to name a few . Anderson and Douglas seem confident that the Senator from Louisiana would go along with such measures , that he would be a faithful supporter of most anything the President desires . Senator Long has already picked up votes from Western liberals , some of whom in the past have been too taken for granted , or so they have said , by the liberal leadership in the Senate , and who would , moreover , enjoy , for a change , being wooed by the South instead of vice versa . In the minds of certain of Mr. Long 's backers , and it may be shared by the President , there is the thought too that it would be wiser to bring into camp Southerners whose natural instincts are progressive on economic and social questions ; better to have them in than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly claim for him an unflawed record , but they do point out that he was the successful floor manager this year of the tax cut , and that it was largely through his efforts that a Social Security bill ruling out Medicare was beaten in the Senate . But the Louisiana Senator does not have the field to himself . There are three other contenders for the position of Whip , the foremost being Senator John Pastore of Rhode Island . Pastore 's voting record is judged near to perfection by most liberal standards . He reflects the interests of Eastern urban areas , and in fact it is that very preoccupation with urban problems which may hurt him with colleagues whose interests are largely rural . The other two candidates , Senator Mike Monroney of Oklahoma and Senator Edmund Muskie of Maine are late starters in the race . Although either could emerge as a compromise candidate , their chances are not rated high as of this moment . Pastore would give regional balance to the Senate leadership . It can be claimed on his behalf that his area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1960 , and gave Lyndon Johnson over 13 million of his 43 million votes . But the Northeast sends only io Democrats to the Senate and Pastore , whose tongue is sharp , has often wounded liberal egos , while delighting the galleries . Mr. Monroney , a man with a fine public image and a moderately liberal record and lots of friends on the Senate floor , suffers the disadvantage of having labored for 12 years under the shadow of the late Robert Kerr , and he has only recently come into his own in Oklahoma after helping to turn back the bid of the GOP 's popular football coach , Bud Wilkinson . Senator Muskie is from Maine , not yet Democratic enough for party regulars . Russell Long is not Whip yet , but a bit of arithmetic shows that 20 Senate Democrats come from the South ( his natural allies ) and 17 from the Far West ? 37 out of 68 . Mr. Long is n't going to get all of these votes , but he need only match every loss with a populist-minded Midwesterner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the first Southern Whip since 1947 . To repeat , all of this jockeying suggests that a new era may be shaping up , one that began to emerge after the passage of the Civil Rights Act . There is a new suspicion , or perhaps hope , among Senators that the final solution of Mississippi may lie in a revival of populism shorn of the racial overtones that disrupted that movement at the turn of the century . It is still a bit difficult to imagine Russell Long ? though he is the son of Huey ? walking hand in hand in the South with civil rights workers to build an agrarian radicalism that could overthrow a white supremacy Establishment , but it is not impossible . We may underestimate the strength of John Pastore , who has valuable friends among Western colleagues on the powerful Appropriations Committee , and Mike Monroney , whose person-to-person campaign has encouraged him . And , in the end , the White House may quietly pass the word that would end the contest . But as of now , it seems that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for poor people , is the front runner ? thanks to the backing of key members of the liberal bloc . It is a symbolism that liberals from the teeming industrial centers that provide the ethnic and racial blocs that win national elections for the Democrats find distressing . But whether it is Mr. Long or another , it is plain that in advance of the inaugural of Mr. Johnson and Mr. Humphrey , the Congress will have made itself ready to receive its marching orders . Congress will be waiting to catch the President 's signals and carry out his plays . What then is the pleasure of the coach ? on employment , education , excise tax , mass transit , urban housing and medical care for the aged ? Fair Shares Competition is what makes the wheels of free enterprise go round , but who would imagine that there would be bitter rivalry about picking up bits of vehicles ( and the dead and injured ) after highway accidents ? Such however would appear to be the case in Colorado . The Florence chamber of commerce has complained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other emergency vehicles from Canyon City , whenever such grisly services are required for automobile crashes that occur in Fremont County . Canyon City is in the west of Fremont County and Florence is in the east . The feeling in Florence , according to that city 's chamber of commerce , is that Canyon City is being favored , and that Florence 's auto repair shops , ambulance services , doctors , and its St. Joseph 's hospital , are being slighted . One proposal at present is that the county be divided in half by a line drawn down the middle , so that each town is assured of getting its fair share of the accident business . At any rate , that 's how the Pope divided the New World between Portugal and Spain . Alvin Johnson at 90 Alvin Johnson , best known for his many decades as President of the New School for Social Research , was a New Republic editor for seven crucial years , 19171923 , and left a permanent imprint on this journal . A brilliant economist ( he taught at Stanford and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and distinction not often found among men of his erudition . Our files contain hundreds of articles of his which combine felicitous expression and solid common sense . His equable temperament appeared , in those early days , to be reflected in the slow spiral of smoke from his always present pipe , which often seemed to exert a magical calming effect on stormy quarrels in editorial conferences . The New School which he helped found in 1919 today has nearly io , 000 students ; while some of them are candidates for AB , MA , or PhD degrees , the great majority follow Dr. Johnson 's aim from the beginning and study for the sheer pleasure of it . In its classes hundreds of retired professional men and women sit beside youngsters in its more than 500 courses , many of them in subjects never taught anywhere until Alvin Johnson introduced them . Practicing the educational theories they preached , he and his remarkable wife successfully educated their seven children at home until they were of college age . Beginning in 1933 , he rescued from Nazi tyranny large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teach in many institutions . Some of the best remained in the " University in Exile " which today , as the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science , enrolls about a thousand candidates for advanced degrees . With all this , Mr. Johnson has found time for many other things . He was largely responsible for the first New York State law requiring equal opportunity in employment . He edited the great Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences . He has written his autobiography , Pioneer 's Progress , and several books of essays , and ? beginning at 85 ? he returned to an early love and produced several volumes of fiction . Now , having celebrated his Both birthday last week , he is at work on a new book .                     