@@478176

Mrs. Viguers is editor of " The Horn Book Magazine " and co-author of " A Critical History of Children 's Literature . " She has also been a children 's librarian , has three children , and teaches at Simmons College . I n 1903 Edith Wharton wrote an essay which began : " That ' diffusion of knowledge ' commonly classed with steam heat and universal suffrage in the category of modern improvements has incidentally brought about the production of a new vice ? the vice of reading . " People who can not read creatively but who read mechanically , who " make it a rule to read , " and for whom the " pennyin-a-slot or touch-the-button books , which require no effort beyond turning the pages and using one 's eyes , " are especially designed , Edith Wharton considered a potential danger to the body of letters . Still extant are people for whom reading is no more extraordinary than breathing ? and just as necessary ? but they are becoming rare . If the present trend to give children only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be almost extinct by another generation . The need for words to communicate recent astonishing developments of science and technology may be responsible for the preoccupation with reading as a practical necessity . Also mechanized entertainment has taken time that in the past was spent in reading . More significant , however , than either of these reasons for the decline of reading as a reflex action is that relatively few people grow up seeing around them the kind of books that human beings of any age turn to naturally . Too many juvenile books are bright packages containing very dull material . The " mechanic &; reader armed with a high conception of his duty " has invaded the general domain of letters today and , collaborating with the prospector and the merchant , has staked his claim to the field of children 's books . And children who might be natural readers have been cut off from the opportunity to cultivate the art of reading . Controversies over techniques of reading , publication of books that are " curricula-oriented , " artificial tricks and gadgets devised to persuade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the categorizing by grade or age even of books for reading outside of school ? all emphasize reading as a purposeful activity directed toward a specific end . Reading is no longer taken for granted as one of the natural privileges of life , not to be noticed and thanked God for except after deprivation , as one would notice and be grateful for a sudden breath of sea air after months of city streets . Exploitation of children did not end with child labor laws . It is thsir exploitation , not as a labor force E u t as a market , that has had the deadening effect on the reading habits of this country . No doubt children are being exploited as consumers in many ways , but since only in childhood do books make any deep impression on the human personality , exploitation in this area is a major destructive force . Probably the most gullible people in the world are mothers and fathers . Because parenthood does not automatically make them knowledgeable in all areas affecting physical growth and mental development , they must depend on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHILDREN 'S BOOKS children every advantage , parents are quick to take suggestion from anyone who poses as having more knowledge than they . They listen to the loud voice of the mechanical reader , invading literature and promoting the " penny-in-a-slot or touchthe-button books . " They accept the idea that they need not trouble about what their children read . Just leave it to the experts and follow the signs . And the first signs say , " Jost Beginning to Read Books , " " Easy to Read Books , " and so on , even the asininity " Beginner Books . I Can Read It All by Myself . " One of the numerous desecrations of literature in the name of encouraging young children to read is a recent publishing of Andersen 's " Ugly Duckling " in a book retitled The Funny Baby ( Follett ) and retold in " just forty preprimer words . " Lure for Writers Some writers are as ingenuous as some parents . Although they may have warm memories of books they read as children and want the best for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole are stupid little monsters who must have books with limited vocabularies and limited horizons . Authors apparently respond with excitement when they get some such communication as this : " We are starting a superb new series of books for children written within limited vocabularies to meet the modern child 's needs , and , since children should have the best , we are asking some of the great masters of English prose and poetry to write these hooks . We hope you will be one of them . " The na ? ve writer thinks he is making a great contribution to childhood , the na ? ve parent is impressed with the writer 's name on a spectacular-looking but wholly ineffectual book , and the child is the loser . For the older child help may come from a branch of a prominent book club . " Pleasurable reading at home is an absolute essential for doing well in every subject your child studies in school , " says the promotion , which then asks , " Is it possible to make a youngster enjoy reading ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about it sensibly . Under a simple subscription arrangement it is possible for CHILDREN 'S BOOKS your children to receive at regular intervals books about history and science written by many of the most celebrated writers of our time . This is a commonsense plan designed to help parents who are anxious to instill in their children an abiding love of reading . " And even book lovers who happen to be parents ? for whom reading is a means of communication with great minds , a source of joy and spiritual growth as well as intellectual stimulation ? will settle for " a commonsense plan " for their children . A commonsense plan to instill in your child an abiding love of reading ! The mechanical reader would catch a sunset in a nylon net . Promotion for this plan boasts that , since 1950 , twenty-five million copies of the books in its two informational series " have been received and devoured at home by eager readers . " Undoubtedly these books have given several million earnest parents a comfortable sense of having done their duty . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adults found their way into the world of literature along this dull path . Gold in Series Countless series of hooks , sometimes written as fiction but all patterned to inform , have given parents something to clutch at when buying children 's books : Great Events Series , Landmark Books , All About Series , and all the rest are indicative of the gold to be found in publishing for American children , who are mightier numerically than ever before . And children must learn . A work of art , whether a painting , a sonata , or a children 's book , can not be achieved by command or assignment . Creative geniuses may be few , but there are a number of talented and many adequate writers of children 's books . The vast gold deposits in the very numbers of children who must be educated and informed have been so great a temptation , and competent writers so readily found , that the resulting trend to let textbook-type material supplant books as literature is not surprising . Children are not going to discover what reading really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Funways to Learning series instead of to the high adventure of The Hobbit ( Houghton Mifflin ) , Banner in the Sky ( Lippincott ) , Daughter of the Mountains ( Viking ) , or the wealth of great legends and fairy stories . information showered upon children may help them develop a useful crust of knowledge , but true education begins in the heart and only the shaft of a creative work can pierce so deep . From patterned , contrived writing the one thing children are likely to learn is that books are synonymous with duty , to be endured while parents and teachers have the upper hand , but one day to he rejected joyfully . Such hooks may have carried the school curriculum into the ubiquitous family room . but they have not liberated the child 's mind to escape on its own business . There are informational books ? seldom found , however , among the labeled series ? that are accurate , authentic , and creatively written and illustrated . Among those published in 1963 is such variety as Russell Davis and Brent Ashabranner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Little , Brown ) ; Dorothy Sterling 's Forever Free ( Doubleday ) , which chronicles the long , continuing struggle for freedom and puts in perspective the Negro 's role in history ; Jeannette Covert Nolan 's The Shot Heard Round the World I Messner ) , which delves into the lives and personalities of the men behind the events at Concord and Lexington ; Katherine Shippen 's remarkable story of archaeology , Portals to the Past ( Viking ) ; Anthony Ravielli 's scientific picture book , The World Is Round ( Viking ) ; and Jewels for a Crown ( McGraw-Hill ) by Miriam Freund , the story , illustrated with brilliant pictures , of Chagall 's Jerusalem windows . But books like these are buried under the mounds of slight material , profusely illustrated and flashily bound in book form . A good young people 's encyclopedia would serve children far better . Sold by the Pound The books adults are most inclined to notice . and often admire , are the tremendous oversized volumes so conspicuous in bookshops . ( " They should he sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pretentiousness and important names may sell books to adults , but those qualities do not endear books to children . The Beatrix Potter hooks in the diminutive authorized editions have never been supplanted in the affections of young children . Though small and modest , these books are examples of humor , dignity , and complete lack of condescension in writing and illustrating for children . Unfortunate is the child who must become acquainted with Andersen 's tiny Thumbelina in a volume almost ten inches wide and thirteen inches tall . A Radcliffe-graduate mother might be impressed that an essay by hair Dinesen introduces the collection , but her children care not at all . Howard Pyle 's Merry Adventures of Robin Hood was one of the few books Theodore Roosevelt was reputed to have taken with him on his big-game hunting expeditions . The publishers , however , never used his name or picture to sell the book , It has continued through the years to stand without help and to be a reward in itself to the reader whose very special meat it is . Huckleberry Finn . Jane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important names endorsing them or self-conscious introductions or afterwords addressed to teen-agers . Such books need only to be available and they have been , in good editions , for many years . To have a choice of editions of favorite books is good , but five or six editions of Little Women or Haas Brinker or Black Beauty are quite enough . More are evidence that publishers are wearing blinders : deliberately oblivious to what is already available , they are galloping toward the commercial carrot at the end of the stick . A direct result of the mass production of books to fit labels and the creation of labels to entice the unwary buyer has been a lowering of the appreciation and status of all children 's books . The term " juveniles " with its nonliterary connotation is applied to all books for children , from the feeblest easy readers , the " cutest " picture books . and the dullest allabouts , to the truly inspired books , written and illustrated with talent and power . No wonder thousands of people . who would never attempt other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No wonder some authors admit with an air of apology to having written a children 's book . No wonder few educated parents will take time to read children 's books . No wonder few newspapers or magazines regularly review children 's books , and those that do consider brief annotations sufficient . Almost never is an important book given the dignity of a real review by a reviewer with adequate background to evaluate it . ( We need people like Mary Mapes Dodge , editor of the long-loved-andlost St. Nicholas . When Kipling suggested he might write something for her magazine , she asked him , " Are you sure you are equal to it ? " ) The best children 's books are long remembered and become part of the personalities of their readers because they make demands on the imagination and creativity of those readers and because they are read in the most impressionable years . Miss Hickory ( Viking ) , The White Stag ( Viking ) , Charlotte 's Web ( Harper ) , The Borrowers ( Harcourt ) , Koller Skates ( Viking ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trumpeter of Krakow ( Macmillan ) , My Side of the Monntain ( Dutton ) come quickly to mind . All were published for children . All can be enjoyed by adults . All make demands on readers of any age . None was written or published to be a learning experience . Each is a work of art ? to make a work of art a part of oneself is to make life richer forever after . More than Merchandise C children whose parents are not able to buy them books but who often use public libraries fare better than the ones whose mothers pick up children 's books in the supermarket or keep their children supplied with the latest in a familiar series . Unless adults are willing to take time to be informed on good children 's books before buying , they would serve their children better by making possible frequent visits to a library where they have the help of a good children 's librarian . Personal ownership of books merely because they are cheap is more profitable to the publisher than to the child . Business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ segments " of publishing . Because children 's book departments are sound business , new companies have been formed to publish only children 's books ; and long-estabIished companies have , for the first time , been adding juvenile departments . Sound business need not be harmful to the consumer . Companies that take pride in publishing only a few , but good , children 's books each year have managed to survive . Their books will be enjoyed by continuing generations even while they are assets on the financial records . No longer is there doubt about the profitability of producing anything needed by children . What should not be forgotten is that books are more than merchandise and that books in childhood have power . Worth Digging For This is not news to people working with children and books . Some of them were no doubt surprised one morning last August to find this headline in the New York : Times : " Nations ' Destiny Linked to Books . Children 's Reading Tends to Shape Countries ' Outlook , Psychologist Suggests . " The obvious had at last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being noticed by the general public , adults blast forth with articles announcing that children 's books are trash . Or they bemoan that children 's hooks today have none of the power , beauty , and excitement of the ones they remember . The good books do exist in encouraging numbers , but it is almost a full-time job to find them . Under the haystack of easy-to-reads , the overly cute , the proliferation of a Dr. Seuss , and the repetitious anthropomorphism , can be found , among 1963 publications alone , such picture hooks as Bruno Munari 's handsome Zoo ( World ) ; James and Ruth McCrea 's The King 's Procession ( Atheneum ) , with its gentle story and beautiful bookmaking ; Leo Lionni 's givimtny ( Pantheon ) , with its unusual treatment of lights and shadows and the wetness of the deep-sea world ; RoCHILDREN 'S BOOKS bert McCloskey 's Bu ? t Dow ( Viking ) , with its tall-tale nonsense and spectacular armada of rainbow-hued whales ; Sorche Nic Leodhas ' Scottish tale , AU in the Morning Early ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Adrienne Adams ' richly colored illustrations for the old Provencal carol , Bring a Torch Jeanette , Isabella ( Scribner ) , Under the load of blown-up fairytale books can be found the work of artists like Felix Hoffmann and Paul Galdone , creating from folk material picture books having spontaneity and humor and sometimes great beauty . Compared with the overiliustrated books that some artists seem to use as opportunities to show off , Andersen 's Wild Swans ( Scribner ) , illustrated by Marcia Brown , shines out in beauty and integrity . The pictures flow from the story itself . And using only warm gray with strokes of black and tones of coral the artist has put her imagination and creativity completely at the disposal of the story . In " On Three Ways of Writing for Children , " C. S. Lewis says that the only way he could ever use " consists in writing a children 's story because a children 's story is the best art form for something you have to say , " and later that he would be " inclined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story that is enjoyed only by children is a bad children 's story . The good ones last . " Nothing seems to me more fatal , for this art , than an idea that whatever we share with children is , in the privative sense , " childish " and that whatever is childish is somehow comic . We must meet children as equals in that area of our nature where we are their equals . Our soperiority consists partly in commanding other areas , and partly ( which is more relevant ) in the fact that we are better at telling stories than they are . The child as reader is neither to be patronized nor idolized . Mr. Lewis ' stories of the mythical world of Narnia are examples of books that are not left behind with the outgrown trappings of childhood . There are others who approach writing for children as an art demanding their best : Rumer Godden , Scott O'Dell , Madeleine L'Engle , Rosemary Sutcliff , Ruth Sawyer , Geoffrey Trease , Elizabeth George CHILD It E N 'S BOOKS Speare , and Meindert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1963 , of which the following is but a sampling , that seem to have qualities of permanence . Harry Behn 's Faraway Lien ( World ) is an unforgettable evocation of life three thousand years ago . Erik Christian Haugaard 's Hakon of Rogen 's Saga ( Houghton ) has excitement , reality , and the power of a Norse epic . Two fantasies have almost gemlike perfection of detail : Elizabeth Enright 's Tatsinda ( Harcourt ) and Edgar Parker 's Dream of the Dormouse ( Houghton ) . Little-known incidents in history have inspired such unusual books as Elizabeth Coats-worth 's story set in Abyssinia , The Princess and the Lion ( Pantheon ) ; Hester Burton 's tale of Lord Nelson 's time , Castors Away ! ( World ) ; and Elizabeth Horton de Trevifio 's story of a mute Indian boy and a beautiful deer in seventeenth-century Mexico , Nam ' , the White Deer ( Farrar ) . There is strong reality in such historical tales as Barbara Leonie Pi-card 's Lost John ( Criterion ) , a story of outlaws in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Patricia Beatty 's At the Seven Stars ( Macmillan ) , a novel of eighteenth-century London and of the conspiracies to overthrow George IT ; and in Annabel and Edgar Johnson 's story laid in the Colorado of goldrush days , A Golden Touch ( Harper ) . The style of Gwendolyn Bowers ' Brother to Galahad ( Walek ) shows the author 's complete immersion in the sources of Arthurian legend . Edward Ormondroyd 's Time at the Top ( Parnassus ) has its present-day heroine stepping back into the nineteenth century , but gives original treatment to this device . These books , written for reading , not for informing , come close to being works of art . Behind the annual publication of the occasional excellent , original hooks and the few hundred very good books are children 's book editors who possess creativity , wide knowledge of books , and understanding of their responsibility to children . As long as these editors have the freedom to be discriminating , there will be a core of important books each year to pass on to new generations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             