@@477536

An interesting current development in education is the use of television for instruction ? both in classrooms and in the home . Evidence that a shortage of qualified teachers is developing coincides with the need for some way to meet the awakened interest in mathematics , physics , chemistry , and education in general ? from the elementary school to the college level . Many educators , in studying the twin problem , are thinking more and more about the possibilities of Educational TV in their teaching programs . In transmitting TV lessons and lectures from place to place , various means are available . Closed circuit Educational TV systems between schools may be required . Or connection between broadcasting stations in different cities . Or a hook-up between closed circuit systems and one or more broadcasting stations . Whatever distribution of TV is needed , in city , county , state , or across the country , the Bell Telephone Companies are equipped to provide it . They have the facilities and years of know-how . And the on-the-spot manpower to insure efficient , dependable service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has provided the closed circuit ETV networkwhich successfully serves thirty-six schools in Washington County , Marvland , In Louisville , Kentucky , telephone company facilities now connect five elementary schools . In New York State , they serve a high school and seven other schools in the Cortland area . In San Jose , California , they link four schools with the campus of San Jose State College . And in Anaheim , California , eighteen schools are served by TV . The largest of the many current educational TV projects is called Continental Classroom . The Bell System is one of the business organizations which support it . In this great " classroom , " about half a million people get up early each weekday to view a half-hour lecture on Modern Chemistry on their TV sets at 6:30 A.M. This 32-week college course goes from coast to coast over Bell System lines . The Bell Telephone Companies believe their TV transmission facilities and know-how can assist educators who are exploring the potential value of educational television . They welcome opportunities to work with those interested in this promising new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Nikita Khrushchev explained to a Soviet audience after his trip to the United States ? have the scientists and resources For successful exploration into space . The reason they have not equaled the achievements of the Soviet Union , he said , lies in the defects of their government , of their capitalistic system . Viewing our space and missile programs , we might easily conclude that our government is inexplicably engaged in an effort to prove Khrushchev correct . For most of the indignant words said recently about the " missile lag " and our " inglorious second place " are all too true . The sugar-coated explanations offered by the American leadership only deepen the impression of a gross national failure . Briefly , the situation is this : It is six years since the United States discovered the urgent necessity of intensifying its effort both to develop long-range military missiles and to further the exploration of space . The two aims , as we shall see , are indivisible . During this period ample warning has been given of the Soviet Union 's huge strides in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems and lofted its own earth satellites . A " new " government agency , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , has been set up to direct and co-ordinate space projects . A multi-billion-dollar industry has grown out of this work . But no concerted effort has yet been made to counter the Soviet advantage . The United States ? as General Medaris noted before retiring as the Army missile boss ? is now roughly five years behind in the development of space vehicles . Our relative strength in missiles is little better . In its 1960 budget the Administration has committed the country to several more years of inferiority in what is acknowledged as the ultimate military weapon : the intercontinental ballistic missile . Although the Secretary of Defense estimated that the Russians have three missiles to every one of ours , their real superiority is more likely double that . If this were the result of a spectacular Soviet scientific breakthrough , it might be understand . able . It is not . As Khrushchev so rightly con ceded , the United States has Icing had the nece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years before the appearance of Sputnik ? the Army first began fruitlessly asking the White House for permission to put up a space satellite . But the talent and the materials ? all ready , willing , and able ? have been handcuffed by executive mismanagement , apathy , and a feckless Micawberism almost unparalleled in our history . This has not only exposed us to military danger . It has , for the first time in all our history , turned this country away from the challenge of a new frontier . This article has been written out of a sense of fear , alarm , and national shame . I am not a technical space " expert , " and I am aware of the tendency to dismiss anyone discussing such matters without a " doctor " or at least " general " before his name as equivalent to the scoundrel who practices medicine without a license . Yet space is only one of the complex and partly technical issues which must be decided not by specialists , but by the public debate of ordinary citizens . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the spring of 1958 , six months after the appearance of Sputnik , I went to Washington as a part-time special consultant for the newly founded House Committee on Space and Astronautics . The mood in Congress at that time was one of deep , honest concern . A permanent blue-ribbon committee was set up quickly to consider the space and missile problem , chaired by John McCormack , the House Majority Leader , with Joseph Martin , then Minority Leader , as the ranking Republican member . Its sense of urgency was reinforced by the testimony of the specialists already at work on space and missile programs . We received the impression ? which turned out to be correct ? of a group of talented and dedicated men engaged in the frustrating task of trying to wake up their fellow citizens ? and their government . Our hearings went quickly . Both houses of Congress passed a bill for a new space agency in record time . With all too trusting an attitude , Congress gave the President virtually a blank check for cleaning up and redirecting the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1Vhite House , later proved to be the chief stumbling block . This accusation against the Eisenhower Administration by no means absolves its predecessor . The Truman Administration fostered space and missile developments to a degree . But it displayed little or no imagination in assessing their potential . It was not that the facts were unavailable . The Air Force signed its first contract for a study of a long-range missile in 1946 . By that time the Army had already installed Wernher von Braun and the German V-2 missile experts at a testing range . In 1948 the first report of James Forrestal as Secretary of Defense noted some research work on an earth satellite . But the United States in those days was still recovering from the heady illusion of its early atomic lead over the Soviet Union . Those on high scarcely thought of planning ahead for a less comfortable military future . In 1953 , however , the picture dramatically changed . Scientists at the Atomic Energy Commission reported a thermonuclear breakthrough which permitted a devastating amount of explosive to be packed into a small warhead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a drive for the fastest possible ballistic missile program . The Truman Administration might have taken refuge in the then limited scientific knowledge : the only available warheads were too big to be lifted by any feasible missiles . But after 1953 , such an excuse was no longer tenable . Every available fact pointed to a speedy development of missilery and space exploration . There are five specific reasons why this development barely sputtered off the launching pad : ( 1 ) a mania for reorganization as a substitute for executive direction ? coupled with a disastrous emphasis on " public relations " ; ( 2 ) the cult of scientists-know-best ; ( 3 ) budget worship ; ( 4 ) inter-service and inter-org-anizational rivalry ; ( 5 ) an unwise and unworkable distinction between " military " and " civilian " efforts . These factors all grew out of one overridingdeficiency : a lack of decision in the White House and the Secretary of Defense 's office . Each of the failings can still be corrected . But the time margin for doing so has dangerously dwindled . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roughly sixty governmental committees and organizations concerned in one way or another with space and missilery . Some are new , some old . Some are military , some civilian . But they all cling tenaciously to life and authority . The three services have had their own space and missile programs from the beginning . Although the Air Force has lately been assigned most of the so-called " military " space mission , the Army continues to hold onto some part of it . The latest organization ? the National Aeronautics and Space Agency ? has expanded in less than two years from roughly 8,000 to 18,000 . But its forerunners and their affiliates are still there , and woe to the contractor , the military administrator . or any man with an idea who neglects to touch all the bases . in one year , 1957 , the Air Force 's leading space and missile officer , Lieut . Gen. Bernard Schriever , spent some 200 days appearing before various committees ? only a few of them Congressional . Dr. Walter Dornberger , the former German V-2 general , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make no less than 678 presentations before various groups , in his six-year efforts to get the Air Force 's Dyna-Suar project ? the basic step to a manned space vehicle ? off the drawing boards . One way to get order and decision out of this bouillabaisse would be to break through normal service and departmental systems with a centrally controlled project like the wartime Manhattan Distrfet , which made the atom bomb . But this involves admitting a national emergency ? the very thing the Administration has been unwilling to do . Instead it has reshuffled existing agencies and their responsibilities every time a new process is discovered , or a new kind of missile needed . Washington seems actually proud of such constant reshuffling , like a compulsive executive who feels he has done a day 's work in rearranging the piles of papers on his desk . A typical reorganization effort was the transfer to the new space agency of Wernher von Braun 's Army Ballistic Missiles Agency at Huntsville , Alabama . The decision was made by President Eisenhower last October at a meeting of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bold step forward . Actually , it settled almost nothing . It left open the question of how much of ABMA would go to the new agency . It gave no firm mandate to NASA for the speedy development of the Army 's Saturn , the 1.5 million-pound rocket cluster which holds the most immediate , if not the only , hope for matching Soviet propulsion . It did divorce the most successful single group of space technicians from its long-standing command and logistical support by the Army ? a dubious gain . On September 2 , 1959 , the able staff of the military subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Organization published a report on the progress of the missile effort . Its tone was patient and objective , its implications disturbing . The record , as the report unfolded it , was not merely an account of inter-service rivalry . Underlying the continual changes . and counterchanges in administration ( e.g. " in March of that year 1956 Secretary of Defense Wilson appointed a Special Assistant in Guided Missiles , thus recreating a post he had abolished three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Defense Department should run the missile effort directly , or leave it to the services . This confusion was never resolved , either by Secretary of Defense Wilson or by his successor Secretary McElroy . And what little action either took seemed disturbingly negative . ( " Let 's clean up this Democratic mess " was the only mandate one of the first " missile czars " received . ) The temporary departmental organ , the Advanced Research Projects Agency , was founded to co-ordinate the military missilery effort among three services . It has dragged on long after its important work projects have been parceled out to the Space Administration or the Air Force . Arid ARPA was not alone . " Is it good sense and sound administration , " the subcommittee asked , " to have conjointly an Advanced Research Projects Agency , a Director of Guided Missiles since transformed into the head of the Civilian-Military Liaison Committee , and a Director of Defense Research and Engineering , with their associated technical panels and advisory committees , all seeking on behalf of the Secretary of Defense to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? . . . Within the military programs , the subcommittee found a pattern of hasty improvisations growing into unwieldy institutions . A prime example is the dependence of the Air Force on private contractors to do its military decision-making . In 1953 the hard-pressed Air Force staffasked two brainy scientific administrators , Dr. Simon Ramo and Dr. Dean E. Wooldridge , to set up a corporation to mastermind the contractors working in the ICBM program . This decision was based on a report of a committee , in which , incidentally , Ramo and Wooldridge were the prime movers . Since then , through successful corporate reorganizations ? and mounting corporate profits ? the Ramo-Wooldridge company and its " independent " affiliate , Space Technology Laboratories , have continued to act as a kind of outside brain . They decide , as Dr. Ramo said : " how big the missile should be , what warhead it carries , what accuracy it can be expected to have , how to get that optimum accuracy , etc . . . . " There is nothing sinister about this . Drs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . They have agreed to numerous safeguards to avoid making capital of their privileged position . But the spectacle of a private profit-making company rendering national decisions makes the old Dixon-Yates concept look as harmless as a Ford Foundation research project . OPERATION SALVE T trast , has displayed a violent do-it-yourself H E new Space Administration , in conmentality ? enough to recall Admiral Rickover 's general comment that " if we keep on getting every agency in the government set up with all of its own facilities , pretty soon we will not have enough space for cemeteries . " NASA 's boss , Dr. T. Keith Glennan , may not have brought a heavy administrative record with him from the Atomic Energy Commission , but he has yielded to no bureaucrat in his zeal to gobble up manpower and facilities . Yet he views his charter as a restricted one . His philosophy has been to do as much work as possible within the agency ? and rely on private contractors , or other government agencies , as little as possible . The Air Force , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highly-touted Project Mercury , for a year and a half before it was turned over to NASA . ( At the House hearings in early 1958 the new deputy head of NASA had brushed off a similar man-inspace proposal as a circus stunt ? " like shooting a lady out of a cannon . " ) After protracted studies , NASA turned over work on the Mercury space capsule to a new and untried contractor , dismissing the old ones . The result , inevitably , was an eight months ' delay . The reason for NASA 's parochial attitude lies in the agency 's origins . Instead of setting up a new organization ? a Manhattan District , or a commission like the AEC ? as many in Congress hoped ? the White House asked permission to entrust the " civilian " space effort to a body already in existence , the National Advisory Council on Aetunautics . NACA was a good , gray , research organization , but neither its tradition nor its leadership was suitable for the type of operational agency which Congress hoped it would become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We do not conceive our job as taking us into operational systems . . . . " When the Congress was readying its first hearings on the Space Act of 1958 , there was a brief orientation session with one of the Washington officials who were pressing the President 's proposals . In a tone of patronizing popular contempt , he explained why the space program had been drafted at that time . " The people in this country , " he said , " are getting hysterical about the Sputnik business . We thought we 'd better give them something to salve their mood . " If nothing else in the missiles and space program has fulfilled its potential . " Operation Salve " has succeeded magnificently . For two years the U. S. public has been led to believe that everything is doing just fine . This intensive propaganda effort , one can assume , resulted from a high-level conviction that the public could not be trusted to hear any bad news . The first Soviet successes , for instance , brought assurances that if Russian " thrust " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superior . When Russians proved the virtue of their guidance mechanism by hitting the moon ( after the U. S. had failed ) the tune was changed . The Washington experts then pointed out the superior " sophistication " of American hardware and lauded our triumphs in " miniaturization . " ( They did not explain that we had to miniaturize because we lacked the propulsion for heavy equipment . ) By virtue of repeated press releases ( NASA 's public relations staff rose in one year from one to 281/2 ) the public was led to believe that the seven U. S. astronauts of Project Mercury were on the point of going into space any minute in 1959 , although it was highly doubtful that any non-Russian astronaut would make a real space journey before 1961 . As chief of NASA , Dr. Glennan became a past master of the salve technique . Headlines like " Administrator Admits Lag in Propulsion but calls for ' Sane Course ' " correctly report thetenor of his message . Other Washington administrators have displayed equal skill . The Pentagon 's Director of Research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy phrase when he called the Soviet lead in space propulsion ? ' more a question of acute embarrassment than national survival . " Glennan topped York . admittedly , when he told the country that the Soviet moon rocket achievement , Lunik III , leaves this country " no further behind than it was yesterday . " In October , President Eisenhower called the U. S. progress in military missiles " remarkable . " The ICBM , he noted , was " operational . " ( How many ICBMs ? as distinguished from the short-range IRBM ? are operational , the President did not say ; but those Americans who know the true number sometimes have difficulty sleeping nights . ) In the same month the Vice President ? almost the only Administration leader to worry about space ? loftily warned against anyone using the space lag as a " political " issue . If this happened . Nixon said , " the only recourse we would have would be to go into past history to find out why we fell behind . " Unfortunately for Mr. Nixon 's premise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaging to the Eisenhower Administration than to anyone else . THE CULT OF SCIENTISTS-KNOW-BEST N TOT long ago there was a meeting at the Pentagon to discuss some particular of our hundred-handed space program . A lieutenant colonel was there , in full uniform , to give the presentation . His superiors respectfully introduced him as " doctor . " ( It seems that he had , somewhere in the past , acquired a Ph.D . ) A general who was present stamped out of the meeting . " They thought , " he said , " they were impressing the audience by calling this guy doctor instead of lieutenant colonel . I got mad . " If this case was extreme , it was not untypical of the awe in which Washington holds its doctors these days ? an ironic commentary on the Administration which so ineffectually opposed Joe McCarthy 's anti-intellectualism . If a government science official did not have the forethought to write his doctoral thesis , he often manages to make do with an honorary degree as a substitute . Dr. Glennan of NASA , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B.S. from Yale . The scientific administrator from Massadmsetts Institute of Technology , Dr. James R. Killian , brought doctor-worship to a new high in Washington during his incumbency as the President 's Scientific Adviser . His successor , Dr. George Kistiakowsky , has a going tradition to continue . " You want to see where this city is run from , " said a Washington military man as he stalked past U. S. science 's social stronghold , the Cosmos Club , " just go inside and look at those two or three tables having lunch . " No one would quarrel with the proposition that scientists are indispensable in a scientific age . But unfortunately , the scientists have been drifting into the role of policy-makers . It is a role for which they are only rarely fitted . In abdicating so much of its authority to this new race of scientific " advisers , " the Eisenhower Administration is making the classic confusion between the mechanic and the driver of the vehicle . Nor is it wise to place blind trust in the scientist when he is speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none other than Dr. Vannevar Bush who assured Congressmen shortly after the end of World War II that any instrument like the ICBM was an " impossibility . " Yet the Washington doctors go on influencing and sometimes controlling policy , in default of strong executive action . It is a peculiarity of some scientific minds that they enjoy running things , but dislike being held accountable for MARK VAN DOREN SAY WHICH THIS afternoon I think I 'll pile The apple wood that David split ; Ch rake and sweep the dirt floor Down cellar ; or , if the wind dies , Assemble the last mountain of this year 's Leaves , and drag it off to rot in rain And snow while no one notices ; or climb And shut the attic louvers ? it is time ; Or stuff the window cracks ; or clear The strainer by the pond ; or hang The tools where they belong ; or ? oh , my lucky Stars , the list is endless ; I am rich ; I can say which Of all these good , clear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to you . their actions . For this type of mind the present Washington scene is made to order . It was Dr. Killian , for instance , who laid down the law about the " civilian " use of space , ruling out military applications before the possibilities had been adequately explored . But no one in Congress was able even to question him about what may well be a rash decision . The reason ? As the President 's adviser , Dr. Killian was automatically covered by the doctrine of Executive privilege , as the Eisenhower Administration most broadly interprets it . Unlike a Cabinet officer , he was not accountable to Congress . BUDGET UEISER ALLES N EWCOMERS to Eisenhower 's Washington are understandably surprised by I le sacramental character of the word " budget . " The man from the Bureau of the Budget , in most government programs , is the man who calls the turn . During the hearings of the House Committee on Space and Astronautics , the accent on " budget " was apparent in almost every statement from members of the Executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outlining the new space agency drawn up by the Bureau of the Budget . The Budget experts also pegged the new program at a minimal level of financing . The result was a paradox . Congress was painfully anxious to give the new space program every penny it needed . The committee to which I was attached , made this abundantly clear . Yet the budget estimates presented were worked out with the caution of the controller 's office in a small-time factory ? hardly the mentality expected of people supposed to trail-blaze a new and only partly known frontier . In the fall of 1959 , after the Soviet Lunik bounced itself off the moon , the Administration leaders of Operation Salve were able to criticize Congress for having lopped something under $30 million from the latest appropriation of some $485 million . This particular action of Congress was ill-advised . But there was a huge irony in the sudden howls of criticism coming from voices so long mute on the subject of further money needs . At the 1959 appropriation hearings Dr. Glennan , as Dr. Dryden before him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usual assurance : " At the present state of our development 1 think we have the money to carry through this program on an urgent basis ... . " This budget-watcher 's philosophy does not necessarily save money . There is much sense , on the contrary , in Wernher von Braun 's assertion that dragging out a program tends to make it more expensive , and in addition you are likely to wind up with an obsolescent vehicle . For example , work crews on the critical Atlas program have yet to go on a double shift . Moreover , the really big waste is being caused by lack of purpose at the top ? and sheer sloppy administration . Since 1945 roughly $2.3 billion has been spent on missile projects which were scrapped or used only in an extremely limited sense . Most of this money could have been saved if decisive action had been taken in the 1950s on selecting or rejecting various programs . THE INTER-SERVICE MAYHEM F R 0 M the start , inter-service rivalry ? " bloodletting " would be a more accurate term ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( The Big Navy admirals are content to build up their own dubiously effective carrier force on the side lines ; the undersea Navy 's own brilliant contribution to missilery ? the submarine-based Polaris missile ? is so obviously indispensable that even the Air Force has rarely questioned its value . ) The Army-Air Force contest has long been far nastier and more destructive than the rough but friendly football game which the defenders of autonomous services like to depict . The extreme was reached in the development of two rival missiles ? the Army Jupiter and the Air Force Thor ? and their rival air-defense systems , Nike-Zeus and Boma ' . Each service withheld information from the other and treated the other 's representatives as virtual spies . The Army circulated a written memorandum on the virtues of Nike among members of Congress , while the Air Force divulged results of a top-secret test which showed the Nike performing unfavorably under simulated attack . Each service charged mismanagement . " In the Army 's view , " as the House Operations Subcommittee report noted , " the failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device in the missile 's motor when the Army did in March 1958. led to the destruction of four Air Force missiles at a cost of many millions of dollars and the loss of national prestige , since the Thor Able of August 1958 failed in the Free World 's first lunar probe a t tempt " Such tooth-and-claw rivalry flourished largely because of inaction in the office of the Secretary of Defense . Charles Wilson . for one thing , allowed both services to build their respective ICBMs for a full year , before deciding which service was to operate them . His successor , Neil McElroy , made so many overseas inspection tri , v. , according to bitter jokers in the Pentagon , that it became virtually impossible even to find him ? let alone force a decision From him . The cost of this rivalry has been staggering . Whatever competitive gain resulted was more than canceled out by the millions thrown away on processes already obsolete or defective ? which could have been avoided if there had been ans. real sharing of information . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council . This body has not been known for its activity ? at this writing it has not yet appointed the permanent secretary provided by law . When events forced the Council to bestir itself , the decisions rendered were often contradictory , e.g. the 1959 verdict to send von Braun 's organization to NASA directly reversed a Council edict of the year before . The rare meetings of the Council , incidentally , are hidden from both Congress and the public by the now-familiar excuse of " Executive privilege . " THE MYTH OF CIVILIAN VS . MILITARY A MAJOR part of the confusion in the space effort has arisen from the glib and unworkable distinction between " civilian " and " military " components . In particular , the President 's insistence on this distinction has been fanatic , his one piece of enthusiasm in the whole space picture . This insistence played a large part in grounding the Army 's Redstone-powered satellite for over two years , while scientists of the Office for Naval Research worked on the ill-starred Vanguard satellite ? a precocious technical development with no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( The Vanguard , incidentally , had cost the country $111 million by the beginning of 1959 ? as against an original scientific estimate of S20 million . The successful Army Explorer satellite cost all of $5.9 million . ) In a press conference early last November , President Eisenhower gave a revealing look at this philosophy . " Now , for the life of me , " he said , " I can not see any reason why we should be using or misusing military talent to explore the moon . " Moon exploration , the President explained , " is something that deals in the scientific field . and to give this to the Air Force or Army or Navy , it just seems to me is denying what we really ? a sort of doctrine in America . You have given to the military only , only what is their problem and not anything else . The rest of it stays under civilian control and that is the reason for having this agency NASA . " The President 's intention in trying to separate " military " from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the experts called before Congress , not one has been able to make a satisfactory distinction . Most of them have wisely testified that any generic separation is impossible . What the attempted distinction sometimes amounts to is an effort to keep the military on the missile pads and out of space . But the same principles govern both space exploration and missile-firing . The same discoveries are vital to both . One of the most provocative spokesmen for a military effort in space projects as well as missilery is Brig . Gen. Homer A. Boushey , the Air Force 's Director of Advanced Technology . Boushey makes the point that military satellites and space weapons " at least for the next twenty years " will be of primary importance to the defender . Out in space , he suggests , may lie the one possibility of neutralizing the appalling offensive capabilities of nuclear missile warfare . In other words , space vehicles may provide a deterrent against aggression more stable and enduring than any known system of retaliatory counter-weapons . Boushey lists the following possibilities for military space use : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an almost instantaneous early warning system against missiles ( there are no adequate anti-missile warning systems at present ) ; ( 2 ) manned space platforms ; and ( 3 ) " defensive " satellites capable of attacking any object in space or of constituting a constant mobile deterrent against attack . He has also broached the possibility of a military deterrent base on the moon ? an idea that brought down the White House 's disapproval and either howls or smirks from many scientists . Yet the moon could be the perfect place to locate a system of really massive retaliation . It could not be knocked out in advance . Why ? Because it would take a good forty-eight hours for any earthly-located weapon to travel to the moon ? and it would be observed from the moon at the moment of firing . On the other hand , weapons could be directed from the moon to earth in far less time , thanks to the moon 's lighter gravitational pull . Is this fantastic ? Many sober , scientifically intelligent Air Force officers do not think so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the urgent demands of the earth-sited missile program ? our national survival may depend on its success in the next two years . But the point that Boushey and others make is that the two programs are not conflicting . One naturally flows from the other . And with the Russians so close to lunar exploration , this country can not afford to dismiss military uses of space out of hand . All of the space projects mentioned above have , of course , civilian uses . The gains from the uses of satellites in navigation , communications , and weather forecasting would be tremendous . Satellites might anticipate , also , some of the problems the world is about to face in matters like the split-second scheduling of jet airliners . In sum , the " military " and the " civilian " applications of space and even of missilery can no more be separated from each other than can " military " and " political " power , which in an age of such fearful war potential , come inevitably to be seen as one . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too destructive to be used , as long as ? and this is an important qualification ? the non-aggressor party possesses enough deterrent strength . Where total warfare is accounted impossible , the equivalent of military pressure is exerted by the very fact of a country 's technical and scientific achievement . A so-called " scientific " achievement like the Soviet Sputnik amounted to a military-political victory . Sputnik symbolized what the strategists call a force-in-being , which admitted of no competitor . The effect in sensitive areas , like the Middle East and Eastern Europe , was enormous . The Russian moon probe has reinforced this political-military lead . Where two systems of great military power are locked in a bitter , but bloodless struggle ? and looking for allies ? a glance at the chess board can have the same effect on a neutral as two years of World War II . At the moment , whatever the experts in Operation Salve say about " overall U.S. scientific superiority " ( which presumably includes advances in American dental equipment and swimming-pool construction technique ) , the American side of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? THE basis for a successful space and missile effort is not another series of scene-shifting government " reorganizations . " We do need purpose , authority , urgency , a sense , as General Medaris put it , that we are " in a race . " We have had enough broadcasting of our achievements . We now need a few honest words about how and where we are behind , from the people in authority who should have said them long ago . Of first urgency is a massive speed-up of the military missile program . This should not only embrace as yet untested missiles like the Minuteman , but should include our operational ICBMs as a stopgap . The time is fast coming when we can no longer count on the Strategic Air Command as a deterrent against the missiles which Khrushchev boasts are on his assembly lines . In the field of space , two specific projects should receive top priority besides the much discussed Mercury project . They are : ( 1 ) the Air Force 's Dyna-Soar , the forerunner of a manned space vehicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1.5 million-pound thrust rocket cluster . The Saturn is the prelude to big-league space exploration . The 1.5 million thrust Nova motor , now under development by NASA , will have to be clustered itself to get into interplanetary space ? and the lessons learned in the Saturn duster are essential for any further steps . The Saturn , furthermore , is necessary for the space stations and heavy satellites in warning and reconnaissance systems . Space is the highway of the immediate future , as surely as Mahan 's " broad highway " of another day was the sea . Its control will be equally decisive . If any reorganizations do occur , Dyna-Soar , Saturn , and a few projects like them must continue unimpeded beneath the scaffolding . NASA in its present form and under its present leadership has not succeeded in becoming the directing agency of the space effort . Either it should revert to the status of a smaller research agency , dependent for support on the military services ? as many experts suggested to Congress ? or it should be integrated into a large new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an officer of Cabinet rank , with a Cabinet title . It should incorporate both civilian and military components , in the knowledge that no real separation is possible . The military set-vices do need a real reorganization , with different services built around the tactical needs and possibilities for armed force . The division of the services in the missiles field has only highlighted the fact that the present system is fast becoming archaic . The military themselves are aware of this . Lieut . Gen. James M. Gavin 's proposals in his recent book offer firm guide lines for such a reorganization . In its September report , the subcommittee of the House Government Operations Committeethought this service reorganization problem pressing enough to warrant a merger of the Army and the Air Force ? the Navy 's function remains separate and still capable of departmentalizing . Said the subcommittee : ... The logic of new weapon technology has virtually destroyed the traditional basis for services organized around strategic land , sea , and air missions . . . Land-based strategic missiles , whether organized in squadrons or battalions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The strategic missile with nuclear warhead is the decisive weapon of the next decade . In its land-based aspect , particularly , it calls for a single military organization to develop , produce , and deploy the weapons . IS COMPETITION NECESSARY ? T HE U. S. is not in the space business as a scientific hobby . The ringing words of Dr. Killian , " the compelling urge to explore the unknown , " might make a good motto for a college mountain-climbing society ; but an urge , however noble , is not a firm base for national policy . Bluntly stated , the United States must make a major effort at space conquest because the national interest demands it . Khrushchev does not share the President 's view that space exploration is not " competition . " His crude saber-rattling shows his awareness of its political-military importance . To ignore this is as dangerous as if we had railed to develop nuclear physics in the 1940s . The exploration of space , like nuclear physics , is beyond the point of individual discoveries in the laboratory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . Its results have been concrete enough to justify a major national effort . If the expenditures for future big space programs are huge , they arc not insupportable . They can be made up partly from the clear economies of a sensible command . setup . Ultimately , if some kind of gradual disarmament can be achieved , the money now given to necessary , but unproductive , military costs could be diverted to the peaceful purposes of space exploration . But let 's not enjoy our peace before we win it . The surest way to win it is to march into space first . A sure way to lose it is to continue at our present hop , skip , and crawl ? allowing the Soviet Union to command this new realm , and inciden tally proving Khrushchev 's boast that there is nothing inherently wrong with Americans or their machines : it 's just the " capitalistic system . " 