@@494559

Electing Presidents The latest fashion in reform is changing the way we elect our Presidents . Senators Bayh and Yarborough , The New York Times , The St. Louis Post-Dispatch , among others , have taken up the cause . Why that is so , and what alternatives to the electoral college might be preferable , are questions that deserve careful examination . Under the Constitution , it takes an absolute majority of the vote in the electoral college to make a President . If no one obtains such a majority , the House of Representatives is to choose a President from among the three men who had the highest number of votes in the electoral college . But action in the House is to be by states , one state , one vote ; and each state is to cast its ballot in accordance with the wishes of a majority of the members of that state 's delegation in the House . If a delegation is tied , the state does not vote . Now , this is hardly the way one would wish to see a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of November 5-6 , when for a time the prospect threatened . Nor would one wish to see the obscure men who constitute the electoral college break a deadlock by breaking the commitments they undertook prior to the election to support one or another candidate . This also can happen as the Constitution now stands . Both dangers were averted on November 5 , but the closeness of the result has added to the pressure that has been building up for some time now for a basic change . Great popular and Congressional support has been gathered behind a proposal , which originated in a special committee of the American Bar Association and has been sponsored by Senators Bayh and Everett Dirksen , to abandon the present system entirely , and substitute a popular election , with a 4o percent plurality of the popular vote being sufficient to elect , and a runoff election between the two top candidates being required in the event that no one obtains 4o percent . Assuming that the same three , and no more , candidates were in the running , such a system would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night this month . We would not have had a President until the exact total national popular vote was known with absolute precision and finality . And then we would scarcely have had a President with a mandate any more firm than Mr. Nixon 's is now . No electoral system can alter the reality that the nation is closely divided , when that is the reality , although our present system has the virtue of somewhat disguising it . It is a very daring and improbable assumption , however , that only the same three men would have been in the running under a system of popular election . The electoral college has the effect of choking off most splinter candidacies , because unless they have , as in George Wallace 's case , a regional base , they are likely to be wasted effort . Their popular ; votes will not register in the electoral college ; hence all they can hope to do is spoil it for one or the other major candidate . On election day and after , they count for nothing . In a popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can hope to keep any candidate from gaining 4o percent of the popular vote , and the aim of each splinter party can be to place itself in a position to bargain away its support for the runoff . Entry of splinter candidates would therefore be made enormously more profitable and more likely than it is now . The two-stage election , with its runoff , would most probably be typical , the major party nomination would in itself not amount to much , there would be little or no inducement to unity in each party following the convention , coalitions would be formed not at conventions but during the period between the general election and the runoff , and it is extremely doubtful that the two-party system under which we have operated , in the main , with great benefits in stability and moderation of government , would long survive . Popular election would have another consequence that ought not to be regarded lightly . We now by custom rather than Constitutional compulsion , but by very well-entrenched custom ? award the total electoral vote of each state to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ narrow , in that state . The consequence has been that each major party candidate in modern times has directed his efforts chiefly at gaining the vote of the large industrial states , which have thus been the decisive arena of the Presidential election . This in turn has greatly enhanced the influence in Presidential politics of cohesive urban groups prone to bloc voting . For quite often , in a closely contested election , such groups swing the large states with their rich electoral prize . In theory , these states can elect a President who has fewer popular votes than his runner-up in the electoral college , and this theory has shaped the strategy of Presidential campaigns , and determined the distribution of power among various groups in our national politics , even though no minority President has in fact been elected in this century . Congress is the institution where , consistently , the less industrialized , less urbanized , less pluralistic regions of the country have an edge , have their bit of disproportionate political power . That is because each state has two senators regardless of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be precisely apportioned in accordance with population , because it can be gerrymandered , and because the seniority and committee systems tend to favor homogeneous constituencies inthe smaller states . It has been thought a fortunate circumstance , rendering the entire federal government more representative and more responsive , that in the electoral college a countervailing disproportion tends in the other direction , toward the industrialized , urbanized , heterogeneous states , in which racial , ethnic and other minority groups have the clout they lack in Congress . Popular election of Presidents would change all that , would weaken that clout , without at the same time changing the essential nature of Congress . Such things can not be calibrated with nice mathematical precision , but the probabilities are that the popular election of Presidents would work a diminution of the political power of racial and other minority groups in the nation 's major urban centers . And that is hardly a wise objective of national policy . Abolition of the electoral college also seems a mega-response to the relatively mini-anxiety that George Wallace caused us all on the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be dealt with without uprooting the present system . Horse trading in the electoral college , or independent action by obscure electors in violation of their commitments to candidates , can be prevented by simply abolishing the college and the electors as physical entities , and awarding the electoral vote of each state , reckoned as at present , to the winner of a plurality of the vote in each state . The case of failure by anyone to obtain a majority of the electoral vote can be provided for in several ways . To begin with , the Constitution could be amended so that a plurality of , say , 4o percent of the electoral vote should be enough to elect a President . We might then run the risk of not infrequent election of the loser of the popular vote , and it is a risk that may seem prohibitive . Representative Jonathan Bingham of New York has suggested a runoff election within the present electoral college system . The Johnson Administration proposed election of a President by a joint session of Congress , with each Senator and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution , but plurality Presidents elected by popular vote are not ideal either , and a popular runoff following upon a first popular election is , as we have said , an open and notorious invitation to splinter candidacies and the demise of the two-party system . First Hawk in the Aviary The Washington weekly , Human Events , which is capable of regarding Barry Goldwater in his nicer moments as a dangerous radical , is " extremely pleased " with the President-elect 's choice of retired Ambassador Robert D. Murphy tolbe his communicator with President Johnson and Secretary Rusk on foreign policy matters between now and the inauguration . Soviet officialdom is reported to be wary of the appointment but draws no conclusions from it , preferring to judge Mr. Nixon by his " future acts . " This is wise , considering the fact that five successive Presidents ? Roosevelt , Truman , Eisenhower , Kennedy and Johnson ? have grieved Mr. Murphy by failing to share his hawkish views to the extent he would have liked . But he is one of Mr. Nixon 's chief advisers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the incoming President trusts and respects him , and a note on Bob Murphy 's view of the world with which President Nixon will be dealing is therefore appropriate . It is a very tough view , as Mr. Murphy makes clear in his Diplomat Among Warriors , the autobiography that he wrote five years ago . Two of the highlights in it tell of Ambassador Murphy 's roles in the Berlin airlift of 1948 and the Korean War settlement in 1953 . He wanted to break the Soviet land blockade of Berlin with military force and considered the airlift , generally thought to be a triumph of early prudence in the nuclear age , " the one occasion in my long career where ( sic ) I feel I should have resigned in public protest against Washington 's policy . " He regretted President Truman 's refusal to rely upon the A-bomb monopoly then possessed by the United States and believed that the peaceful alternative " caused Soviet leaders to downgrade United States determination and capability , and led , I believe , to the subsequent Communist provocation in Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Mark Clark 's political adviser , Mr. Murphy held that in seeking a negotiated end of the Korean war " we were being bluffed out of a well-earned victory . " He explained , " The United States had the military capacity to drive the Chinese ' volunteers ' back into Manchuria , but for various reasons we were hobbling ourselves . We had greatly superior air forces .... We had naval strength , and the Chinese had practically none . We had nuclear weapons , and the Chinese had none at all . " Recalling a costly failure to take an enemy hill position with conventional forces , he wrote that " The horde of badly equipped Chinese soldiers could have been forced to evacuate if the United States had been willing to utilize all our resources , including atomic weapons . " Ambassador Murphy worked hard and , he tells us , loyally for the settlement finally negotiated . Mr. Nixon , who is pledged to support President Johnson 's current effort to bring about a negotiated end of the Vietnam war and to bring that war to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should be interested in one of Mr. Murphy 's remarks about the Korean experience . " When your adversary is aware of your anxiety to conclude negotiations , " he wrote , " you are distinctly at a disadvantage . " Money Muddle Tennyson , thou should'st be living at this hour ! The poet could so easily have adapted his well-known lines to the latest world financial scare : The only difficulty being that the " relic of barbarism , " as Lord Keynes called gold , is doing better than the French franc , the pound sterling or even the almighty US dollar . Only weeks after the central bankers solemnly decided to hold the dollar value of an ounce of gold at $35 , that value again shot up to over $40 . Mr. Vorster of South Africa is doubtless rubbing his hands but Henry Fowler probably wishes Mr. Nixon would get a move on about appointing a Secretary of the Treasury . More humiliating to the bankers than gold 's irresistible bursting of their fetters is the uncurbed scamper after German marks . Something like Si-billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes of making a killing when the exchange worth of the mark was revalued upward , or the franc 's value was officially declared to be down . The fever spread to ordinary folk . Frenchmen were observed stealing across the German , Belgian and Swiss borders , to swap their depreciating francs for other currencies . Sober British merchants put avoidance of loss before patriotism and rid themselves of shaky pounds in exchange for marks , Dutch guilders , Swedish kroner , even Italian lire . That , of course , made the pound shakier still . However , Prime Minister Wilson 's financial plight was several shades less parlous than General de Gaulle 's . The General passionately feels that a fallen franc is lower than a fallen woman . He gambled about $3 billion in gold and dollars on trying to defend the virtue of his currency . Then , the franc 's honor still under attack , he risked another major domestic crisis , workers ' strikes and student upheavals , by announcing a $400-million austerity cut in the French budget . The governments last week closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the tangle . They fell to quarreling almost immediately . Some wanted De Gaulle to devalue the franc , others demanded that Chancellor Kiesinger raise the exchange value of the mark . Because lowering the exchange rate of the franc might , on a domino theory , threaten the pound and the dollar , the main twist at Basle was on the German arm . Everyone was out of step except the Germans , who do n't have inflation , do have full employment and have a trade surplus instead of a deficit . Therefore , the argument seemed to run , it was up to the Germans to aid their neighbors , by buying more , selling less , acquiring still more F-4 Phantom supersonic fighter-bombers and other military hardware , and generally getting themselves decently into debt instead of staying so stubbornly in the black . The nub of the problem is that every country save Germany is failing to make the " new economics " work and is suffering inflation without full employment . The solution may be to find out how the Germans do it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meant Was .. . On the main points of postwar foreign policy the President and Mr. Nixon agree . The surprising thing is that they were so sloppy in the way they said so . In Phase I , after their Armistice Day meeting at the White House , Johnson left it to Nixon to explain orally what they had decided . Nixon , who often overstates and sometimes misspeaks himself , said that , " with regard to Vietnam and other matters , " he had assured Johnson in each instance that he could " speak not just for this Administration but for the nation , and that means for the next Administration as well . " Even Johnson 's closest advisers thought he had obtained a blank check . One said : " I 've always thought Johnson had the Indian sign on Nixon . I guess he just talked him into it . " Phase II was an inevitable press conference in which Nixon said he had obtained Johnson 's assurance that Nixon would be consulted on any foreign policy decisions to be taken in the next 6o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval of Johnson Administration decisions led many to conclude that Nixon was claiming a veto over all important foreign policy moves during the interregnum . The New York Times called it a veto in fact if not in name . Phase III was Johnson 's press conference , called to explain that he still was President and would be calling the tune until . Jan. zo . He said the only purpose of their arrangement was to keep Nixon and his aides informed . Unidentified Nixon aides agreed but went on to make the original point that any Johnson action that would require implementation after Jan. zo would not amount to much unless Nixon concurred . All this confusion could have been avoided if Nixon and Johnson had followed the practice of recent Presidential transitions and had put their arrangement in writing , either in an exchange of letters or in a joint statement . In this case , one of the lawyers who normally would have advised on how to do it , called it a simple matter that needed no special study . That was before the chain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encyclical on birth control , liumanae Vitae , has provoked a grave moral crisis within the Roman Catholic Church . Laymen and clerics alike have attacked it for its absence of scriptural or theological justification , for its crudely materialistic notion of natural law ( as a French Catholic said : it is difficult to believe that salvation is based on the thermometer or that damnation is based on rubber ) and its cruel indifference to social realities or the dilemmas of married life . The question in many minds is whether the encyclical is the first of many steps backward from the era of Pope John and the second Vatican Council into a reactionary phase reminiscent of the Church 's suppression of the modernist movement early in this century . The November 15 pastoral letter of the American bishops does little to set these fears to rest . Although it is milder in tone than many expected , the letter follows a subservient , tough line . The bishops call contraception an " objective " evil , but add that Catholics who do n't follow the Church 's teachings should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can count this as a victory of sorts . The statement does not , however , speak to the main issue raised by the encyclical : freedom of conscience within the Church for those who can not agree with it . Vatican II 's eloquent defense of liberty of conscience has been scrupulously echoed in many of the bishops ' statements on birth control in other nations notably Canada , Belgium , France , and Germany . But the American hierarchy glosses over this central point with some lofty quotations and a vague , half-hearted sanction for responsible dissent by scholars and theologians . This is not an academic matter . A group of Washington priests disciplined for their stand on birth control by Cardinal Patrick O'Boyle maintains that the bishops ' letter vindicates them . But as of now there is no machinery by which they can make the Cardinal back down . The same thing is happening all over . It is therefore ominous that the hierarchy chose to ignore a petition of some 300 priests from all parts of the country asking for guarantees of due process in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between religious and secular affairs are never entirely apt , yet it is hard to resist the parallel between what is happening in the Church and what is happening in politics . In both a new constituency has appeared , seeking to make institutions more responsive to human needs . It is better educated , more sophisticated , more concerned with moral judgments . But in politics and in the Church , the apparatchiks do not find change to he in their interest . ( The warmest supporters of Humana ( ' Vitae are men whose careers depend on ecclesiastical preferment . ) The question , in politics and in the Church , is whether pleas for blind loyalty mixed with threats can still be made to work . Curiously , the American bishops pointed to this parallel in their moderate statement in favor of selective conscientious objection to the war in Vietnam . That war , they said , " typifies the issues which present and future generations will be less willing to leave entirely to the normal political and bureaucratic processes . " How true . Nor should such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the bureaucratic likes of Cardinal Ottavigni ; or Cardinal O'Boyle , the Mayor Daley of American Catholicism . Drugs and the Law James P. Kay , a 23-year-old Maryland student , was sentenced last month by a county court to six months in prison for illegal possession of amphetamines ? drugs available legally by prescription and sold in millions of doses annually . His sentence will begin in February after he has completed the fall term at the University of Maryland . Samuel Williams , a 32-yearold Seattle Negro , on November 13 appealed to the Washington Supreme Court his conviction and 20-year sentence for selling ( for a dollar ) one marijuana cigarette to a 16-year-old boy . Philip Weidner , 28 , was given a two-year suspended sentence for possession of marijuana in Wisconsin . He was placed on probation on the condition that he would attend Wisconsin State University during the day but spend his nights for a year in the state reformatory . He also must pay all court and attorney costs and submit to psychiatric examination and treatment . Playboy magazine reports in its December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 2o-to-4o year term for selling to a police informer a quantity of poinsettia as marijuana . Poinsettia is neither illegal nor a drug . But since the defendant and his buyer both thought it was grass the court ruled that the narcotics laws applied . These four recent cases give a good idea of how arbitrarily and badly the drug laws are enforced across the country . In the Maryland case it was James Kay 's misfortune , and that of seven other young men sentenced the same day , to be made an object lesson in a peculiar educational program the court and the state 's attorney are conducting in Prince George 's County , where drug arrests involving minors have increased nine-fold in three years and where about 20 percent of the grand jury indictments in the past six months have involved drugs . Unusually severe punishments are being meted out in a medieval experiment in deterrence , which , since drugs and the law have become weapons in the war between the generations , serves to escalate the conflict . Drug users will now become more flagrant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesson that will be learned is not that drugs are bad but that the laws and the men who enforce them are . All four cases give the lie to frequent statements by enforcement officials that drug laws are not intended , no matter how they might be phrased , for use against users and penny-ante amateur dealers . When former Commissioner of Narcotics Giordano testified before a Senate committee last spring in support of federal penalties for possession of LSD , he said the law would merely make it possible to get the goods on large traffickers in illicit drugs who could not be caught actually selling anything but who could be nabbed in possession of drugs . Unfortunately , the courts and ambitious prosecutors , such as State 's Attorney Arthur Marshall , in Prince George 's County , Maryland , can not be relied on to handle drug law in this way . And there are on the books a number of state and local laws whose inflexibility precludes punishment that in any sense fits the crime . A judge in Washington , for example , has no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affix a minimum 20-year sentence whenever there is a conviction for sale of marijuana to a minor . Even within jurisdictions , practices are so inconsistent and unfair as to encourage flagrant disregard for the law . Until recently , persons tried in Federal Court in the District of Columbia could choose the judge who would try their cases . The bulk of cases went to a single judge who had become something of a hero in the drug community for his lenient sentences ( suspensions with probation ) . In affluent Montgomery County , Maryland , police are on such cosy terms with parents that as a courtesy they sometimes will phone them to tell them that their children are suspected drug users . In the suburbs , police apparently consider it their role to serve in loco parentis . It 's an interesting concept of law enforcement unheard of a few miles away in Washington , where black kids buy drugs . Taken together , these cases and enforcement practices would seem to constitute a compelling argument for uniform drug laws , with scaled down punishments , consistently administered @ 