@@485341

ONCE AGAIN disaster has struck from the air , bringing grief to hundreds of families and a deep feeling of shock to everyone in the nation . At least 132 persons were killed , including several bystanders : a street sweeper , a church caretaker , two Christmas-tree vendors. - Several buildings were demolished , a dozen others set on fire . In the height of the melee , police found it necessary to rope off ten blocks of the city . Law suits and insurance claims may well aggregate close to $150,000,000 . Without question , the Brooklyn-Staten Island crash constituted the worst air disaster in the history of commercial aviation . One wonders how such a tragedy could have happened . There is more at stake here than this single crash , 516 however fateful it turned out to be . It may be that our air-safety system tself is at fault . If this is so , and unless the fault or faults are remedied , similar tragedies are bound to recur with increasing frequency as air traffic continues to burgeon . WITH all possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CAB ) sped to the crash sites in Brooklyn and Staten Island . Eleven other agencies from various government units also sent men to assist . By law , the Federal Aviation Agency ( FAA ) is responsible for the safe conduct of air traffic and the promulgation of safety rules . But when accidents occur , it is the CAB , an entirely different agency , that is charged with determining the cause . Civil-aviation agencies have not always had this clear-cut division of responsibility . Until The NATION recently , the CAB not only made the safety regulations , but also investigated accidents . But a system which establishes a single body to act as both legislator and judge is obviously bad . The CAB , acting as judge , was not likely to feel that the CAB , acting as legislator , had at any time been at fault . In 1958 , all this was changed . When the FAA assumed the powers of the now-defunct Civil Aeronautics Administration , it was given absolute powers to make safety and traffic rules . It has unquestioned responsibility for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( IFR ) . The CAB has been left with the primary job of investigating accidents after they have occurred . Are the safety procedures laid down by the FAA adequate ? That is the larger question which the current inquiry into the Brooklyn-Staten Island tragedy must establish . All such inquiries include certain routine investigations . the qualifications of the crew members involved ( health , certifications , etc. ) ; whether the crew members complied with all regulations and had the legally required rest periods prior to their flight ; the mechanical condition of the planes and any log-book history that might prove relevant ; weather conditions at origin , destination and en route ; clearance , routing and the amount of fuel on board the plane or planes , and a host of additional relevant aspects of the flights . In Brooklyn and in Staten Island , more ' delicate and time-consuming investigations have begun . Skilled engineers and technicians are gathering every bit of wreckage of the two planes . They are hunting for instruments , recorders , bent pieces of metal . Reconstruction procedures may enable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts . Also being investigated are the electronic transcriptions of the clearances given the planes and other important bits of conversation between crew members and airport officials . Today , all communications from controllers to pilots are recorded for just such eventualities . Putting all the information together , December 31 , 1960 including the last known geographical positions of the planes , their air speed and the ' strength and direction of local winds , it shoUld be possible to compute where the collision occurred . It may be many months before all fragments of evidence are collected and finally conjoined . Here are some of the things that the CAB investigators will discover . PROMPTLY at 7:40 A.M. on the morning of Friday , December 16 , TWA 's Constellation Flight 226 originated at Dayton , Ohio . An hour before scheduled departure , Captain Wollam and his crew arrived to begin preparations . While the engineer checked the plane , the pilots reviewed weather , Winds and other pertinent information . The dispatcher 's release indicated that after its usual stop at Columbus , the flight would continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the East ? a condition relatively common during the winter months . Hours earlier , TWA 's New York dis-patcher had , reviewed weather conditions and forecasts and had ' computed the fuel required . The captain , making his computations independently , determined how much fuel he would take . On this point , the captain is the ultimate judge , except that he may not take less fuel than the ' amount specified by the dispatcher . When the flight left Columbus , ' it had sufficient fuel to fly to New York , to circle for some time in the holding pattern , then to return westward ? if need be ? to land at an alternative airport , still with plenty of fuel on board . On the ground at Dayton , the pilots planned their flight . Taking account of wind , fuel requirements and weather , they selected the best route and altitude . On their flight plan , they indicated their air speed , desired routing and other pertinent information . This was transmitted by teletype to the Airways Traffic Control Center in Indianapolis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic and reserved a specific altitude for the flight . When the plane departed the lamps at Dayton and Columbus , the control-tower operator relayed clearance to the pilot . At Columbus , the clearance may well have read something like this : ATC clears TWA Flight 226 to the New York LaGuardia Airport via Victor airway 12 to Harrisburg , Victor 162 to Allentown , then Victor 5 , ViCtor 123 . Cross Roscoe at 3,000 feet , then maintain 17.000 feet . Maintain runway heading for two minutes after take off , then radar vectors to Victor 12 . The pilot acknowledged the clearance by repeating it back to safeguard against the possibility of error . As the plane broke ground , the Columbus tower operator relayed the time to Indianapolis Aitways Traffic Control . Seconds later , the Indianapolis controller alerted Pittsburg Center that the flight would be entering its area midway between Columbus and Pittsburgh . At Philipsburg , Pennsylvania , the flight was " handed off " to a New York controller . Because of the tremendous volume ' of traffic in the New York area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has jurisdiction over traffic on the route ' from the vicinity of Philipsburg to Allentown , , where control is normally again shifted . About this time , the plane comes under radar surveillance , and still another controller has jurisdiction . On a flight from Columbus to LaGuardia , the pilot may be in contact with a dozen different control-leis , each responsible for a particular bit of airspace . ApproaChing New York from the West , it is usual to begin the descent above Allentown or thereabouts . Then the pilot is cleared to a rel-517 atively low altitude , sometimes to a holding pattern close to the airport . Sometime later , he is shifted to the LaGuardia Approach Controller , who gives him authority to commence approach . Once the plane is clear of clouds , or nearing the airport boundary , still another controller gives the pilot clearance to land . Reports presently available indicate that Flight 226 was cleared to Linden , N.J. , to maintain 5,000 feet . Preliminary reports do not indicate whether jurisdiction had yet been transferred to LaGuardia . MEANWHILE at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight to Idlewild Airport , New York . Veteran Captain Sawyer made careful preparations for his flight , planning his route and receiving clearance . In this connection , it is important to note that both TWA and United had long ago filed flight plans for all of their flights . Even on the dearest day they operate under instrument flight rules ( IFR ) , thus requesting that airways traffic control reserve for them a particular bit of airspace for every flight . While the FAA does not require it , other lines , too , follow the conservative practice of always flying IFR . This gives the double protection that comes from the pilots ' ability to see some planes in the air , plus the ground controller 's ability to allocate airspace . Under bad weather conditions , all planes must fly in accordance with IFR . But on clear days , if every plane in the sky requested an IFR clearance , the system would be totally unable to accommodate them . Normally , jetliners approaching New York start descending from their cruising altitude ( usually 29 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vicinity of Allentown . The standard clearance is over Robbinsville , then northeast on the airway to Preston , New Jersey . From that point , there are several routes to Idlewild at the disposal of the ground controller . Newspaper reports indicate that this jet had been cleared to 6,000 feet , then to descend to 5,000 . From as far west as Allentown jet flights are under radar surveillance . Apparently this flight was cleared to Preston , where it might be instructed 518 to turn into the holding pattern before being allowed to proceed . At 10:37 A.M. , the DC-8 crashed in downtown Brooklyn . Minutes later the disabled Constellation plummeted onto Staten Island . Even before all the evidence is gathered , there are strong indications that the system broke down . Here are several things which might have occurred . There might have been radar failure . Since these- devices are electronic , they are subject to the same limitations as a radio tube or a light bulb . It is true that controllers have stand-by sets , but when one instrument gives out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention to another . In a closely-timed , critical situation , even a momentary failure might be sufficient to invite disaster . Equally possible , and a good bit more probable , is that the radar set was " acting up . " Radar is a marvelous device , but it too has limitations ; in snow or thunderstorms , reception may be impeded . In crowded terminal areas , even momentary loss of contact may be serious . Sometimes jets arriving over Preston are cleared to Idlewild via the Hempstead low-frequency range . This ancient audio facility is none too.good even in the best of weather ; in snow-static conditions its signal may be unintelligible . Such ranges have been known to " swing " and give false indications that tend to lure a pilot out of position . In this day and age there is really no excuse for using such antiquated radio devices . But the FAA sometimes still requires that they be used . The possibility of human error can not be ruled out . At the end of a hectic day of radar-watching , more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct a plane to turn left when he really wanted it to turn right . If he is watching two or three closely timed situations , it is not impossible that he may momentarily lose his attention , or he may miscalculate a bit . Through , this inadvertence a plane may continue on its last assigned heading when it should have been directed to turn . Pilots , too , can make errors . Because of faulty instruments , poor communications or inadvertence , a pilot may drift off course . But if this should occur , the radar controller should be able to spot it immediately and help the pilot return to course . In this case , if either pilot actually did stray off course , there should be clear evidence of the fact . The controller 's warning to the pilot should be recorded on the controller 's tape . But here again another fact would be important : Did the warning come soon enough ? Eventually all these bits will be put together and the investigators will determine the proximate cause of this particular crash . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the actions thereafter taken will determine the likelihood of further accidents due to faulty traffic control . This happens to be the first collision involving pilots both of whom had filed flight plans and were flying in accordance with IFR . But the hazard of additional mid-air collisions is much too great . In a sense , it makes little difference whether there was a mechanical failure or human oversight in this instance . The fact is that the traffic-control system is so fragile that it allowed such an accident to happen . IT IS ironical that such well-operated air lines as United and TWA have virtually no control over the collision hazards to which their planes are exposed . They may give their pilots the best possible training and insist on the highest maintenance standards , but in matters of traffic control , they are completely in the hands of the FAA . To a railroad man , this situation may seem strange indeed . When two trains collide , there is little doubt who is responsible : It is the railroad itself or some of its employees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus responsible for its traffic . Progressive railroads long since installed Centralized Traffic Control systems ( CTC ) which make collisions all but impossible . Understandably , air lines can not each have its own system of traffic control ; because of the tremendous number of planes in the skies and the complexities of modern-day traffic , utter chaos would reign . But the amazing thing is that the FAA has not yet developed a fail-safe traffic control The NATION system . On the best-equipped railroads , if an engineer dies or a controller steps out for a cup of coffee , the worst that can happen is that the trains stop running . No train p. proceeds unless there is absolute certainty that the track is clear . The fail-safe elements in the system guarantee that nothing will happen if any part of the system fails . On the airways , no similar system is in operation . If the radar quits , or a radio fails , too much is left to chance . For far too much of his flight , the pilot is at the mercy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiently the individuals and the machinery directing him from the ground are operating . Today some traffic controllers work under near-impossible conditions . They must make tremendous United Nations THE Fifteenth General Assembly ended as it began , seized with the Congo problem . In the intervening three months , the question was brought , up , dropped and brought up again in the Security Council , the Assembly and ? most frequently ? in the corridors . In the closing days of the Assembly , Secretary General Hammarskjold told the delegates : " The item to which this debate refers is called ' The Situation in the Congo . ' I do not believe that anybody is in doubt that for some the real issue might better have been called , ' The Situation in the United ' Nations . ' " What had begun as a promise for a brave , new world for the newly independent Congo ended in bleak failure as the Assembly rejected both of the two final resolutions dealing with the deteriorating situation in Leopoldville . The cold , war had claimed another victim , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire . In the course of the debates , he was attacked openly by the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc ; sniped at by some African numbers of important decisions under the pressure of insufficient time . The job of coordination between one controller and another is enormous , and the coordination is not always accomplished . It is not surprising that some controllers develop ulcers . Others worry so much about the possibility of making mistakes that they quit the FAA . It has not been many weeks since some officials in Washington were talking about the necessity of developing a supersonic airliner cruising at four times today 's commercial speeds . But the pilots of the land can only hope that it is not developed too fast  --  at least not until our horse-and-buggy traffic-control system is thoroughly overhauled and is equipped to handle , the planes we already have . nations that are in the painful , confusing period of transition from colonials to responsible world citizens ; and , most distressing of all , undermined by the United States , which acted at times as if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hammarskjold was right when , in the course of the speech quoted above , he said that the Soviet aim was to " create conditions for a radical change of the administrative structure of the U.N. Organization and , with that in view , to corrode whatever confidence there may be among Members in the integrity of the Secretariat , " the United States did all in its power ? however unintentionally ? to foster that end . The fact is that the Secretary General , who until this session of the Assembly opened had been generally considered as permanent a fixture at the U.N . as the flags flying in front of it , will in all probability not succeed himself when his term ends in 1963 ? if he does n't resign before . The United States failed to save Mr. Hammarskjold ; and , by the same token , it encouraged rather than hindered Soviet ambitions to intervene in the Congo . America 's open ( and successful ) machinations to seat President Kasavubu as the Congolese delegate in preference to Lumumba , despite many African doubts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations . " Is the U.N . a tool of the United States and the former colonial powers with which it is allied ? " they asked themselves . " Are n't we better off , struggling along on our own ? " African votes on the two final resolutions are illuminating . On the Afro-Asian resolution , which asked for U.N . ' s armed intervention to throw out the remaining Belgians , convene Parliament and restore Lumumba to power , only nine of the twenty-six African nations voted for , the lest abstained . On the U.S.-U.K. resolution , which in essence asked for a blessing on the status quo , not one of the African nations voted for , four voted against and the rest abstained ( the resolution lost by one vote ; the U.S. loss , measured in terms of African prestige , was immeasurable ) . Clearly the Africans are saying : " Hands off Africa ? and that means everybody ! " So , between Belgium , France , the United Kingdom and the United States on the one hand , and the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stymied in the Congo . What a strange conjunction of forces ! Of course , Western motives are clear . France 's reason for keeping the U.N . out of the Congo can be spelled out in the one word , Algeria ; Belgium 's , in the Congo 's production of 70 per cent of the world 's industrial diamonds , 60 per cent of the cobalt , 10 per cent of copper and tin ; Britain 's , in Kenya , Tanganyika , the Central African Federation , etc. ; and America 's in NATO and the paralysis of a lame-duck Administration . Soviet motivations are perhaps less clear , but probably no less invidious ; and , whatever they may be , they impelled the Kremlin to share , with the hated West , the responsibility for undermining the U.N . The Congo question will reappear when the Assembly session resumes in March . One can only hope that a clearer and more adroit Congo policy will by then have emerged from the new Administration in Washington ? and that the Congo will have withstood its present chaotic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 