@@478706

As the television network librarians begin to tally and rack this season 's last cans of film and tape , it is possible to predict with sad certainty what next year will bring . Except for more old movies , next year 's commercial television will be the same as this has been The same green tendrils of hope will grow into the same weedy crop of formula-written , formula-directed shows , ranging from pseudo-Westerns through cast-iron fantasies , to what Variety once called hix pix . This prediction is also valid for 1968 , and the year after that , and the year after that , ad infinitum . Why ca n't commercial television be improved ? After all , its diseases seem to be no mystery . Everyone knows it is infested by evil advertising men who befoul the programs with their greedy touch . Their dupes , the sponsors , are for the most part a group of well-meaning , affluent bumblers ? misguided souls who need instruction in cultural responsibility from you , me , Goodman Ace , and David Susskind . The networks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , natural enemies of everything that is fresh and intelligent . To make matters worse , all three idiot species are being bamboozled by a fourth : the audience researcher , a charlatan who has persuaded them he can take a continuous count of the nation 's many millions of television viewers , either by telephoning the homes or bugging the sets of a thousand or two families whose identities are shrouded in mystery . By contrast to these fools and villains , there are a few exemplary sponsors who , out of the sheer goodness of their enlightened hearts , pay for the programs you and I like . And waiting in the wings is a benevolent government , needing only stronger prompting to move onstage and straighten out the mess . If these familiar figures of cocktail-party folklore even came close to representing the actualities of commercial television , there might be some hope for improvement . But they do not . They are a collection of wishes , falsehoods , and semi-truths , embodied in explanatory myths . As we shall see , it is not because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the more complex realities underlying them that commercial television is as amenable to reform as the adult Bengal tiger . The Myth of the Evil Adman 's Influence While it has become fashionable among intellectual liberals to lay the sins of our materialism at the doorstep of the advertising agent , today 's television programming is one sin he can rightly disclaim . He has virtually nothing to say about it , There was a time when he was a grand panjandrum of programming , but that was thirty years ago , in the heyday of radio , when advertising agencies literally produced the programs their clients sponsored . In 1940 , for example , A. D. Lasker , the head of Pepsodent 's advertising agency , could decide whether Bob Hope , popular star of Pepsodent 's radio show , would get the thousand-dollar weekly raise he was asking for . In 1967 , Johnny Carson , popular star of The Tonight Show , who earns over $200,000 a year , need not even say hello to an advertising agent . Although the business patterns of radio carried over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the television networks succeeded in taking away from the advertising men the controls they had historically exercised over program material . In this , the networks had no choice . Not only were television shows far more difficult to produce than radio shows , but television itself was rapidly growing into a business far more vast and risky ? a business in which the profits ( and the eventual existence ) of a network depended not on its ability to cozen sponsors but to deliver measurable audience . Programming ? the means of doing this ? could not be left in the hands of outsiders , semiprofessionals , men to whom entertainment was only a sideline . For the same reasons , production of television shows shifted from Chicago and New York to the foothills of the Santa Monica mountains . The moviemakers out there were not only the most expert producers of mass entertainment but also the most efficient . The money put into a live production is gone the moment the floodlights die , but films can be sold and resold , again and again , both here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it loses money on its first run . Robert Eck is an associate copy director of one of the country 's busiest advertising agencies , based in Chicago . He has written advertising for eighteen years and previously worked for Sears and served in the Signal Corps ( radar ) . Nowadays , the networks make a practice of inviting advertisers and their agencies to preview the prototype films of such series ( the pilots ) , but that 's about as far as it goes . Admen do not put programs on the air , do n't materially change them once they 're on , and do n't take them off , The Myth of the Audience-counting Charlatans Nothing about television has been the subject of so much childish pique and wishful thinking as the rating services which undertake to measure television audiences . Inside the business , they are hated and feared , because their tabulations can make a man a potential millionaire or a failure in a matter of weeks . Outside , they are distrusted by many egocentric citizens who refuse to believe that the viewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own and , by the same token , the nation 's . These are the people who , in the words of a disgusted research director , " think you have to drink the whole quart of milk to discover it is sour . " The plain truth about audience counting is that nobody in his right mind would spend millions out of a private , corporate , political , or charitable purse to propel images into an uncharted void . Even the BBC uses random samples of its audience for guidance . And while random sampling can always be attacked because it only approaches perfection , so can a literal head-count . The more heads that must be minted , the more chances there are for human error in interviewing and arithmetic . This is why the Bureau of the Census sometimes prefers random sampling to a total count . The standard , though far from the only audience sample in the television business is that of the Nielsen Audimeter survey , which measures audience continuously by means of a recording device attached to television sets in some 1,400 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . First , it assumes that whenever a set is turned on , so are its owners , which is usually , but not always , true . Second , families who are not keenly interested in television generally refuse to let the Nielsen people install Audimeters in their sets . Third , not all Audimeter recordings reach Nielsen headquarters in Evanston , Illinois , in time for inclusion in the tabulations . Fourth , the Nielsen sample has an admitted statistical error of three points . Of course , the networks , the advertisers , the agencies , all of whom employ statistical experts , are fully aware of the weaknesses of the Nielsen figures ; but they also know that these figures are considerably better than none at all , so they use them in a fairly uninhibited fashion . The two most important aspects of this use seem to have escaped public notice : ( 1 ) Both the men who run the networks and the men who run the companies that use network advertising know that everyone uses the same audience figures and that , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inadequacies as are they . For competitive business purposes , the inadequacies of the ratings tend to wash out over a period of time , just as would the inadequacies of a short deck in a poker game . ( 2 ) The audience count is not a popularity contest or even primarily a guide to the judgment of network executives . It is part of a financial measurement . For each dollar a businessman spends , he wants a comparative measure of what it has bought . In the case of advertising audience , his measure is cost per thousand people reached . He started using this measure long before network television , or even network radio , existed . To find which of several newspapers or magazines gave him the most for his money , he divided the cost of putting an ad in each of them by the number of thousands of people who bought copies . Now he does the same for television , dividing the cost of a minute commercial ( about $40,000 in prime evening time ) by the number of thousands of viewers who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every thousand people my commercial reaches ? a dollar-and-a-half , a dollar-seventy-five , two dollars , two-twenty-five ? " It is on the answer to this question that television shows succeed or fail , far more than on the gross figures of the Nielsen or Trendex ratings . The BBC , of course , would never use its audience figures in this way , but the BBC has no stockholders and requires no profits . The Myth of the Bumbling , Unenlightened Sponsors A shocking thing has happened to most old-fashioned television sponsors . They hare disappeared . In their place is a heartless scheme called a scatter plan . Except in moments of extreme frustration , nobody in the business ever wanted a sponsor to vanish . A few years ago , in fact , the networks would only sell the commercial use of a weekly show to a regular weekly sponsor or , at most , to two alternating sponsors . However , the supply of companies with enough advertising money to buy television time this way is limited . NBC and CBS , then the undisputed leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertisers without undue difficulty . But it was a different matter for ABC . Lacking the programming , the audience , and the stations to get all the large sponsors it needed , ABC began selling off its unsponsored time a la carte , offering smaller advertisers the chance to buy a minute here and a minute there . What began as pure expedient has since grown to be the dominant trade practice , transformed into the scatter plan , a sophisticated purchasing device that permits the advertiser to purposefully scatter his commercials among different shows on the same network . Most television advertisers , including the biggest , are delighted with the scatter plan because it permits them to reach a wider number of viewers ; it offers them more likelihood of reaching the kind of viewers they want to reach ; it lets them suit their expenditures to the season ( as the barrage before Christmas or June graduation indicates ) ; and it averages their risks . Sponsored shows may turn out to be unwatched turkeys ; scatter plans do not . That 's why probably three-quarters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annually ? is now paid for by scatter plans . It 's not unusual for Procter &; Gamble , one of the country 's three or four heaviest television advertisers , to have commercials for its products on thirty to forty shows . A booming pharmaceutical firm such as Miles Laboratories may have commercials on half that number . A scatter plan is born when an advertising agency tells the networks that one of its clients is in the market for television time , and describes the nature of the desired audience . If a client is a breakfast-food maker , he will usually want a family audience , which he can get by scattering his commercials among such early evening shows as Lassie , Daktari , The Andy Griffith Show , and Lost in Space . If he makes floor wax , he will pick daytime shows that appeal more to women than to children . The businesses that make stickum for false teeth and mine gold out of tired blood want to talk to older people , which means they prefer such shows as Candid Camera , What 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The scatter plans submitted by the networks 48 THE REAL MASTERS OF TELEVISION are almost never bought before being subjected to a process of juggling and horse trading : " Look , the way it is now , the price is all wrong . A dollar-fifty-four a thousand . And you 've given us four minutes on Make a Bet , which we all know is a dog . Tell you what , though , we 'll take two of those four minutes on Make a Bet , if you 'll give us the other two minutes on a Lucy re-run . " If the suggested changes are made and the plan bought , a housewife in Houston will see a new commercial while watching a re-run of I Love Lucy . She will never know or care that somewhere up North , an agency man is telling his client , " On the basis of the Nielsens , we are getting daytime women for a dollar-forty-seven a thousand . " and that she is a .147-cent daytime woman . For all his arrogant foibles , the old-time sponsor usually took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apt to be a manifestation of his vanity than an accurate reflection of the show 's intrinsic worth , but it did exist and it could be appealed to . It has been replaced by the depersonalized processes of an audience market , in which viewers by the millions are counted , sorted , graded , and sold to specification at so much a thousand head . There is not much to be gained by writing a letter of praise ? or disgust ? to a scatter plan . The Myth of the Exemplary , Enlightened Sponsors Most of the fast-vanishing breed of real sponsors remaining on television arc distinguished by their benignity . They sponsor fine programs and regularly receive Good Boy Medals in the form of various trophies , plaques , and journalistic commendations , accompanied by the wistfully spoken hope that other advertisers will take the hint and become good boys , too . This , alas , will never be . The good sponsor is a rare bird not only in its sponsoring habits but also in its generally peculiar business characteristics . Unlike the bulk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a huge natural monopoly whose profits will not be even slightly affected by the way it uses television . The Hallmark Hall of Fame is the darling of one of the last of the old school of owner-managers , a rough-hewn multimillionaire named Joyce Hall , who can do pretty much what he likes . What he likes is to sponsor inoffensive plays of proven worth , elegantly produced . The extent to which this has helped Hallmark sales will never be known since greeting-card sales do not respond to television advertising in the directly traceable way sales of many household products do . Other " cultural " sponsors are often companies with small advertising budgets who use the opportunity afforded by public-affairs or cultural-uplift shows to buy television time cheap . Prior to each season , the networks plan for and underwrite the costs of a number of thoughtful pieces of reportage and a few well-intended dramatic shows , knowing even as they do it , that low audience forecasts will make it necessary to sell them off to commercial sponsors at a loss . A startling insight into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of the Arthur Miller play , Death of a Salesman , one of the most impressive shows of 1966 . It was produced by David Susskind and sponsored by Xerox Corporation , a company that in May 196G , received a trustees ' award from the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences for its contributions to the betterment of television programmang . However , Susskind was not paid to produce Salesman by this exemplary sponsor , but by CBS , in whose vaults the completed tape reposed for some months while CBS vainly sought sponsors ? and while the asking price kept dropping . When Xerox at last bought the telecast of the play , they got it for what can be described in today 's market as a song . The financial realities behind Death of a Salesman are : In other words , the real sponsor of Death of Salesman was the network , which cut its losses by selling the ostensible sponsorship to Xerox , a company whose enormous profits and lack of need for broad television audience eminently qualify it for the role of patron of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we shall probably see fewer rather than more good sponsors in television . In the case of the authentically benevolent sponsors , the by-guess-and , - by- God judgment of old-line management will give way to the facts-and-figures quantification of Harvard Business School graduates . The rest of the good sponsors are dependent on the willingness of the networks to produce and sell good shows at fire-sale prices . Since the networks ' recent profits have been phenomenal , we *The critical and popular success of this televised Miller play doubtless encouraged Xerox to sponsor Miller 's The Crucible , now scheduled for showing May 4 . That same success has probably also encouraged CBS to insist that this time Xerox shoulder a larger share of the cost . can assume their current willingness to absorb losses for the sake of prestige is about as high as it is ever going to be . Any reverses in profit will probably be reflected by the departure of some of those good sponsors who are only good when the network helps them be . The Myth of the Stupid Bureaucratic Networks and Their Frightened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the minds that control it are so small you could put them in the navel of a flea and still have room beside them for a network vice-president 's heart . " When Fred Allen said that in 1952 , he was suffering from an illusion still shared by millions who assume from the nature of most television programming that the networks are in the communications and entertainment business . They are not . It is true they deal in communications and entertainment . It is true that millions of words are annually printed to describe television programming . It is also true that from time to time , a network president will strike a Belasco pose . But the fact is that , unlike a Belasco , a Merrick , or a Bing , he collects no subscriptions and has no box office . He gets every cent of his money from advertisers . The network he operates is a gigantic , electronic medicine wagon with a Hollywood cast , whose entire reason for being lies in its ability to gather millions of men , women , and children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ networks ' business is the audience-delivery business , and if their vice-presidents are frightened men , they have good reason to be . They are involved in a unique and frightening enterprise . Their customer , the typical television advertiser , is a maker of package goods . His products ( soda pop , soap , prepared foods , etc. ) cost little , are bought often , and are used in every home . His audience requirements are limitless and unrelated to cultural or socioeconomic levels . He wants as much audience as he can get as cheap as he can get it . This customer 's principal audience supplier , the network , knows that for its part , the more scatter-plan audience it can deliver per dollar of production and telecasting charges , the lower the advertiser 's true cost will be , the more he will tend to use the network for his advertising , and the more money the network will make . What this has led to is unparalleled in the history of publication , radio , theater , or motion pictures ? a quest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is impossible and absurd . The mechanical rabbit each network is chasing is no less than total share of total audience : all the television viewers in the United States . No network will ever catch the rabbit , but they can not stop themselves from trying . The consequences of the chase revealed themselves drastically for the first time during the 1959-60 season , a year that gave the lie to the irreparable optimists who thought , and still may think . that television , properly used , can slowly lift the tastes of the masses , shaw by shaw , until 25 million American families commonly spend evenings of Shakespeare in their living rooms . In 1959 , NBC and CBS were sufficiently rich and successful to try to inaugurate a process of cultural uplift and were , in fact , presenting a fairly wide spectrum of regular programming which ranged from Playhouse 90 to the equally well-rehearsed $64,000 Question . ABC , unfortunately , was poor , insecure , and ambitious . In the fall of 1959 , under the guidance of a shrewd , personable sales executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows distinguished by stylized violence and unstylized gore . Its many new copsand-robbers shows included the renowned Untouchables series , as well as Hawaiian Eye and The Detectives , while five new Westerns brought its total number of Westerns to a total of ten a week . This move was righteously criticized in press and pulpit but , in terms of the multitudes Of viewers it could deliver to advertisers , the 1959-60 season proved the turning point in the fortunes of ABC . As an audience-delivery system , it suddenly moved up from a low third place to a close second , forcing NBC and CBS to compromise their programming standards so rapidly and completely that by spring of 1961 , 011ie Treyz had what must have been the extreme pleasure of salting his competitors ' wounds . In a speech delivered in April of that year , he accused NBC and CBS of slavishly copying ABC 's grand new program ideas and coolly suggested they stick to their own lasts . Of course they were n't about to follow Treyz 's advice . He had taught them a lesson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the audience-delivery business , you do not have the luxury of setting either your standards or those of your audience . Instead , they are set for you by the relative success of your competitors . Since then , the pursuit of total audience has been conducted with tactics not always successful but usually pragmatic and cunning . In genera ! , the networks have learned how to deftly mass-produce the predictable novelties and uncomplicated heroes , clowns , and villains that have always delighted the mass of humanity . There is nothing new about Tarzan , who joined the NBC program lineup in 1966 . He made a fortune for his creator , Edgar Rice Burroughs , fifty years ago , probably because in fashioning him Burroughs hit on a simple heroic archetype of great antiquity . Tarzan 's essential character ( such as it is bears a striking resemblance to that of Enkidu , the nature-boy of the five-thousand-year-old Sumerian story of Gilgamesh . In the words of the epic , Enkidu is " the strongest in the world , he is like an immortal from heaven . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eats grass ... He fills in the pits which I dig and tears up my traps set for the game ; he helps beasts escape and now they slip through my fingers . " Zane Grey , Gene Porter , Conan Doyle , and most of the other turn-of-thecentury popular novelists could have been highly successful television writers . Moreover , if you bother to examine such popular home entertainment devices of the ' thirties as The Saturday Evening Post and Collier 's , you will find a blueprint for most of today 's nighttime programming in the form of serial episodes built around a few continuing characters : the Mr. Glencannon sea stories , the Ephraim Tutt law stories , the Perry Mason and Nero Wolfe detective stories . Westerns were an editorial habit . Other program materials can be traced to the once-popular , now vanished , pulp magazines that specialized in war , Western , crime , and science fiction . In the circumstances , it is inaccurate to complain that the audience-delivery systems are subverting the popular taste . What they are doing is accommodating it better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example is the TV version of the Western . Western films have been a foolproof staple of the entertainment field ever since Elace Tracey silently gunned down Silk Miller in Hell 's Hinges , fifty years ago , because they can be filmed with cost-cutting speed and almost invariably make money . Su it is hardly surprising to find a lot of television time given over to the horse opera . What comes as a slight shock is to realize that many of television 's so-called Westerns ? including the most popular ? are n't real Westerns at all . From time to time , a posse may still puraue the villains up the draw , a stage may be held up , there may be gunfights ; but for the most part television 's Western heroes are concerned with Human Problems . The badman is as frequently reformed as killed . Often he is completely missing from the script . For purposes of audience delivery , the trouble with the authentic Western is that its appeal is restricted to grown men and small boys ; so a bastard form has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marshal Dillon of Gansmoke is Dodge City 's resident sociologist and Ben Cartwright , the patriarch of Bonanza , is kindly , wise , old Father Barbour in chaps . Underneath the outward semblance of the violent morality play that men and boys find relieving and pleasurable , the sagebrush soap opera presents the emotionally manipulative , self-conscious interplay of communal and family personalities women enjoy . The hero may , in fact , be an entire family , because the show is intended to attract entire families . The immense popularity of Bonanza , champion of this new breed , testifies to the fact that the constant attempt to deliver larger audiences has made American commercial television the most awesome mechanism of mass entertainment ever devised . Week in and week out , Bonanza draws audiences far larger than the total population of most European countries . A number of other shows draw almost as strongly ; and during the prime evening hours , the average number of viewers attracted by the combined offerings of the three networks can be estimated at around 70 million . That is quite a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achievement that the networks have failed is to spit into the wind . In their own terms , at least , they have been a resounding success . Today , as they settle into their mature business practice , we can confidently expect them to continue chasing the uncatehable rabbit with the sharpened skills and elastic agility born of bitter but rewarding experience . Theirs is an infinite pursuit which has in it small room for cultural dabblings . The Myth of the Benevolent Governmental Power During his tenure as crusading chairman of the Federal Communications Commission , Newton Minow , with strong support from the press , managed to badger the networks into carrying slightly more public-service programming . He also managed to convey to the public the impression that the federal government was capable of improving the quality of commercial television . That is mostly a false impression . Not only is the power to regulate program content specifically denied the Commission under section 326 of the Federal Communications Act ; it is doubtful that any such power could exist because of the practical difficulties that lie in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign at a traffic intersection , and require everyone to come to a full stop before crossing , is a perfectly workable arrangement . But to put up a sign saying " good judgment , " and to pass a law requiring everyone to use good judgment before crossing , verges on nonsense . Yet the problem of defining good judgment at an intersection is trivial beside the problem of defining good judgment in the construction of the 7,000 hours of programming each station broadcasts in the course of a year . What the government can do ? and has done very little ? is encourage alternatives to commercial network television . With Minow cheering it on , Congress did pass a law requiring that all new TV sets be capable of receiving ultra-high-frequency signals . This was done in order to stimulate establishment of UHF stations , but whether these will ever provide an attractive alternative to the networks remains to be seen . The two UHF stations in my area fill their time with ancient , sub-B movies , sportacasts , travelogues , old BBC programs , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , improve educational television by approving the Ford Foundation plan to form a nonprofit corporation to manage the forthcoming domestic communications satellite . This plan would give educational television its first national hookup free , plus a badly needed $30 million a year out of the satellite 's commercial revenues . Again , by encouraging that fifteen-year-old orphan , pay-TV , the FCC might help create a desirable alternative to present commercial programming . A year ago , after studying the 1965 petition of Zenith Radio Corporation ? which , with RK0 General , has been running a long-term pay-TV experiment in Hartford , Connecticut ? the Commission declared itself ready to authorize national pay-TV , subject to comment from those affected by it . At this writing , it had not acted , but favorable action was expected . The common denominator of these alternatives is that all of them ? UHF , satellite communications , pay-TV ? are products of advances in a sophisticated and rapidly accelerating technology . This technology itself eventually may supply the most flexible and practical alternative to commercial television in the form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There now exists a small recorder which uses ordinary quarter-inch audio tape to record and play back both color and black-and-white television programs . Invented by Marvin Camras of the Illinois Institute of Technology 's Research Institute , it is capable of recording or playing two hours of unbroken material and could be made to sell for less than $300 . In essence , the video recorder ( and someday there will be even easier and cheaper forms of it ) is an alternative not only to commercial television , but also to pay-TV , for widespread ownership of recorders would result in a video recording industry and in the sale , rental , and library loan of recorded television programs of much the same general range as today 's audio recordings . The effective differences between commercial television , pay-TV , and video recording can be put this way : no matter how much you might like to see a special television production of Der Freischfaz , you are not likely to see it on commercial television . In the improbable event that it does appear , it will do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it will be thoroughly fractured by commercials . Your chances of seeing it on pay-TV would probably not be a great deal better . If it should be programmed , there would he no commercials , but you would have to watch it on one of the few days it was being presented . With video recorders and recordings , your chances of seeing Der Freisehiitz would be quite good . You could rent it without any commercials and watch it any time of the day you pleased . Unfortunately , however , this agreeable prospect lies some distance in the future ? by five , ten , or fifteen years . Right now , the large electronics firms are too busy making color sets for the multitudinous majority who dote on commercial television to worry about making recorders for the minority who do not . And until video recording or some other alternative is realized , we will continue to be stuck with commercial television , which will continue to grind its repetitive , skillful , profitable way . Television reviewers will angrily scold , instructively praise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advances over mediocrity . Television executives will count their cultural contributions and discuss their frequently magnificent public-information programs . Do not be deceived . Critics and defenders alike are symbiotically linked to the great audience-delivery systems . Those systems are married to cost-perthousand , compelled to the pursuit of total audience , and ? with factories in Ilollyvvood , main offices in New York , gala introductory promotions each fall , and franchised dealers throughout the country ? are among America 's biggest and most successful mass-production businesses . Ask NBC to give you just two unbroken hours of fine , honest repertory one evening a week for thirty-nine weeks . If they will , General Motors will build you an Aston Martin .                     