@@247609

It has been known for a century that a foreign body in the uterus can prevent conception - at least in animals . But how could such a process work and be put to safe human use ? Even though modern medical men have no sure answers , the cautious and respectable Planned Parenthood Federation of America announced last week that its medical advisers are now giving " strong , though preliminary " approval to the newest form of birth control . Information accumulated from more than 10,000 women during 90,000 woman-months of observation , said P.P.F. 's medical committee , " indicates that the modern intrauterine contraceptive devices are both safe and effective . " <P> Said P.P.F. 's president , Dr. Alan Guttmacher : " Intra-uterine devices are being subjected to as much scientific testing as the birth control pills . " And it appears that they are almost equally effective . If their sponsors ' hopes are fulfilled , IUCDS , as they are called , may soon be the most useful and prevalent contraceptive . They cost only pennies to manufacture ; the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge , which may be nothing at a health station in India or the fee for an office visit and examination in the U.S. A woman who wants another child can usually become pregnant within a cou ple of months after the IUCD 'S removal . Most important , IUCDS can be left in place for months or years without thought or attention . <P> Silk to Silver . The man who did most to demonstrate the effectiveness of IUCDS did not live to see the dawn of the new age that he pioneered . German Gynecologist Ernst Grfenberg , born in 1881 , began inserting rings in the wombs of his patients in the 1920s . He first used rings made of surgical silk , but soon switched to silver wire . The insertion of wire required dilatation of the cervix , but Dr. Grfenberg reported few complications and fewer unwanted pregnancies . Yet when other doctors decided to follow his example , there were many complaints-mainly excessive bleeding and inflammation in the pelvis . The rings fell into disrepute . After Dr. Grafenberg settled in the U.S. in 1940 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Research went on elsewhere . The late Dr. Willi Oppenheimer of Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem , who began working on the devices in 1930 , thought that something like the gut used in surgical sutures would be less likely than metal to cause bad reactions . He went back to Grfenberg 's rings made from the surgical silk . His 329 patients had a few unwanted pregnancies , but no miscarriages and no malformed babies . There were no cases of permanent sterility , and no diseases , including cancer , that could be attributed to the ring . In Yokohama , Dr. Atsumi Ishihama recorded a total of 19,000 women fitted with IUCDS ; his choice was a ring made from a spiral of metal or plastic , and with a disk in the center suspended from three points .                     