@@442077

TE first six months of the Kennedy Administration have been hectic . There has been a high degree of improvisation , of trial and error , yet there is a pattern now visible in the Kennedy program , though its effectiveness is as much in doubt today as were the first results of the Roosevelt program nearly three decades ago . In the domestic field , Kennedy 's pattern was evident even before his inauguration . The program which the 87th Congress has produced was foreordained in the Kennedy task-force reports and in the President 's messages to Congress . It is essentially a middle-of-the-road effort to " get this country moving again , " as candidate Kennedy so often said last year . The longer-term measures , both those enacted and those so far stalled in the Congress , will have to be in effect for some time before they can be adequately evaluated . But none are radical departures from the moderate welfare measures which began under F.D.R. and which the Republicans in the Eisenhower years concluded were here to stay . How many of Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions of the present Congress , the one this year and the one which will meet next January , will depend on a number of factors , among which the state of the federal Treasury is a prime consideration . Kennedy is relying on an upsurge in the economy which will bring in , at present tax rates , enough added revenue to finance his program . The belief is that it can all be done with nothing more than creeping inflation , though the conservative economists and politicians in Washington are highly skeptical of this . But if revenues are on the increase , the result undoubtedly will answer the cries of " How will you pay for it ? " which have been hurled at every new spending measure . In the past couple of years , there has been a growing acceptance of the thesis that the federal government has a major responsibility for improving the public sector of the economy ? schools , highways , hospitals , and public works of all kinds which individuals alone can not handle and which states and local communities are unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local real-estate taxes in every corner of the nation have accelerated this process . The cost of the space program Spending for domestic needs is only fractional compared with the soaring costs of defense and space activities . There has been a lot of grumbling at the idea of embarking on a multibillion-dollar program to send Americans to the moon when so much remains to be done for Americans here on earth , including their protection from the Communist threat . Yet , from the moment the President said , in his second State of the Union address to Congress on May 25 , " I believe we should go to the moon , " it was only a matter of time before the program would be voted . No Congress , certainly no Congress as closely in tune with a President as this one is with Kennedy , could turn its back on such a public presidential commitment . The money involved in the moon effort alone was estimated by the President at from seven to nine billion dollars over the next five years . But the scientists who produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no more than an educated guess , that the total could run far higher . Past experience in spending for both defense and space indicates that the bill will be a shocker by the time it is all paid . Only sustained economic growth can provide the money . The decision to try for the moon , however important it may be in terms of both science and military potential , represents , above all , a psychological move . The Soviet success in the first Sputnik shot , compared with the initial foot dragging on the part of the United States , demonstrated how badly our government had misjudged the psychological factor . As Kennedy saw it , when the time came to make up his mind about going to the moon , there really was no choice ; it has to be done , and an effort has to be made to get there before the Communists do . Mobilizing for economic development In international affairs , the Administration has embarked on what could be the single most important move it is likely to undertake in all its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economics of the free nations of the world , first by creating the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , and second , by launching the Alliance for Progress for Latin America. , The O.E.C.D. , an outgrowth of the machinery of Marshall Plan days , was initiated by the Eisenhower Administration , with the then Undersecretary of State , Douglas Dillon , now Kennedy 's Secretary of the Treasury , playing a leading role . Dillon 's successor at the State Department , George Ball , has become the Kennedy Administration evangelist for O.E.C.D . This is an organization of the United States plus Canada and eighteen Western European nations , the North Atlantic Treaty Organization group plus the neutrals : Austria , Ireland , Sweden , and Switzerland , as well as Spain , a non-NATO member having its own military arrangements with the United States . Japan , the industrial power in free Asia , is aligned with O.E.C.D . through the Development Assistance Committee , a grouping of the ten major industrial nations of the free world plus the European Economic Community Commission , which runs the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do , and they have now for many months been under the most intense pressures from Washington , is threefold : to rationalize and improve their own economic development , to rationalize and increase by a major factor economic and technical assistance to the underdeveloped nations in the southern half of the globe , and , finally , to increase world trade among all free nations . The Alliance for Progress is a Latin American measure with similar goals ? chiefly to improve the lot of the Latin masses and do so with increasing rapidity . One of the Administration 's aims is to relate the O.E.C.D . effort to the Alliance for Progress program , and this was stressed , among other things , in the Kennedy-De Gaulle talks in Paris early in June . European union ? Central to this global economic reform effort is the development of the Common Market in Western Europe . The speed with which it has moved has astonished all but its most enthusiastic backers , such as Jean Monnet , long known as " Mr. Europe . " The critical issue for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Market . Here far more than economics is involved , though it is the pressure of economics which is driving the Conservative government of Prime Minister Macmillan toward membership . Basic to the Common Market dream , in the minds of Monnet and others , is political unity , the development of a United States of Western Europe . The Coal and Steel Community broke ground ; the Common Market is carrying the idea much further . The Franco-German ties of De Gaulle and Adenauer , on the one hand , are central to economic unity for the six Continental nations which make up the Market ( France , Germany , Italy , and the three Benelux nations ) , but , on the other hand , He Gaulle 's nationalism opposes the logical political unity . Washington hopes that the Common Market will become so strong , the process so irreversible , that it will lead ultimately to political unification , though this may have to await post-De Gaulle France . At any rate , the trend is in the right direction . British membership in the Market would mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always rejected . Yet the economic power of the Common Market plus the shadow of the Sino-Soviet bloc , both politically and economically , cry out for Britain to take the plunge . The United States has officially said it is friendly to both the Common Market and the European Free Trade Area , the grouping of seven other countries which Britain hastily drew together once the Market was a reality . The problem for the political neutrals is difficult , but , viewed from here , not impossible . The key nation is taken to be Switzerland . If the British join the Market , it is felt , the Swiss will have to . And if the Swiss do , then the Austrians and the Irish and the Swedes will be able to . Only Finland , associated with the Free Trade Area group by special permission of Moscow , will be left dangerously exposed . All of this line of argument contains a high degree of optimism . But unless the free world can better coordinate its own economy , both within the developed nations and in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Latin America , Communist penetration will be inevitable . The tangled maze of new international alphabetical agencies may seem dry as dust to the mass of Americans ; yet , in their success ? and this includes the manifold banking and trading agencies , such as the World Bank and the U.S. Development Loan Agency ? lies the hope of the free world . On this front , the Kennedy Administration deserves good marks . The President 's talks American foreign policy , however , includes political as well as economic and military factors . The President 's long , intimate talks with General de Gaulle produced a new sense of Franco-American communication , which has lasted far beyond the last trumpet call of the ceremonial visit to Paris . The true test will be in the hard work of finding methods of consultation on world political problems and methods of solving the dilemma of nuclear weapons for NATO . Fortunately , there was no effort at Paris or after it to cover up the Kennedy-De Gaulle differences . Likewise , there was no effort to cover up the Kennedy-Khrushchev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that Khrushchev , convinced about the eventual triumph of Communism , will keep up the pressure on the United States and its allies . Berlin will be the focal point this summer and fall . Eventually there will be another East-West conference , but if the Americans have their way , the topic will be Germany and Berlin , not Berlin alone , so that at least Khrushchev will be put in the position of having to refuse a free-elections plan for all of Germany , just as the West will refuse to buy his so-called " free city " proposal for West Berlin . No one here can see any light at the end of the Berlin tunnel . Central to the avoidance of a conflict is an appreciation by Khrushchev and his associates of Kennedy 's determination to fight , if necessary , to protect West Berlin . Official Washington , from the President down , hopes that Khrushchev knows how dangerous it would be to create a direct confrontation of power between the two major nuclear nations . The troubles of the Reds Washington and , indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of the problems their own leaders must deal with . The secrecy the Communists can maintain often covers their own internal difficulties . One of these is the agricultural fail . ' ure in Red China . One does not ' have to take the word of refugees arriving in Hong Kong ; the fact that Peiping has bought nearly a half billion dollars worth of grain from , Canada and Australia with sterling hard to come by is proof enough of the catastrophe in Red China . Moscow 's own criticisms of Soviet farm deficiencies only add to the problem , for the Soviet Union is not in a position to meet the needs of its major ally . Add to this the ideological differences between Moscow and Peiping , differences which are very real in terms of how to proceed to destroy the free world , and one sees that the . Reds have their own problems . If ) Washington can rationalize and im-prove its economics , if it can achieve closer political consultation and pot-icy making , if it can improve its ability to cope with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends , if it can create a sense of hope and movement among the masses of India and Pakistan , of Brazil and Bolivia , if it can sustain the United Nations as an instrument to protect the small from the pres- , sures of the large , free men every- I where will take heart . Perhaps the most that can fairly be said after the first half year of the Kennedy Administration is that it has made a start in this direction . Cuba and Laos were setbacks , but they were peripheral to the main problem , and , fortunately , the Administration knows this , however much it wants to keep Laos at least neutral and however much it wants to contain Castro 's Cuba . Rough times are ahead , but as the Administration 's efforts begin to come into focus , there is some reason for hope . rruz sleepy , impoverished Negro republic of Haiti nestles between Generalissimo Rafael Trujillo 's Dominican Republic and Fidel Castro 's Cuba in the Caribbean Sea . Although Haiti has provoked a few headlines in the past half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government on the Roman Catholic Church , most Americans watching the Caribbean , waiting for the inevitable explosion , fixed their attention on Trujillo and Castro . But Haiti has a dictator , Francois Duvalier , as tyrannical as his neighbors . This spring Duvalier maneuvered an election that shocked even those familiar with the long tradition of cynical Latin American elections . Duvalier dissolved the two houses of the Haitian National Assembly in April and called'for elections to a new , unicameral legislature . Since he allowed only one candidate for each of the 58 seats and all campaigned on a pro-Duvalier platform , the election stirred little interest or enthusiasm . Duvalier , however , wanted to drum up a massive turnout , and his army and government trucks herded huge numbers of Haitians ? and , in fact , foreigners , French priests , and prisoners ? to the polls on April 30 . The voters , if they could read , were astonished to find that the ballots listed an additional line over the name of the single legislative candidate in each district . The extra line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five days later , the government informed the people they had re-elected Duvalier to a second six-year term as President , although his first term had two more years to run . The government listed 1,320,748 votes for Duvalier and none opposed . Although the election had its comic aspects , it can not be dismissed as the ridiculous joke of a ridiculous man . Duvalier staged his election as a show of power , not of democracy . He knew that any announced campaign for re-election , either now or two years from now , might revive the bitter outbursts of opposition that plagued him last fall . His unannounced election avoided that and helped maintain our State Department 's image of him as the only source of stability in Haiti . Duvalier 's troubles began last November 22 , when students of the University of Haiti went on strike to protest the jailing of some of their leaders months before . Duvalier declared martial law , expelled Roman Catholic Archbishop Francois Poirier on charges of aiding the " Communist " students , wiped out the student organizations , attacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agitators with death , and threw a host of underground political opponents into jail . Although the strike lingered on for four months , the crisis ended with the President still in control . But the scope of Duvalier 's retaliation ? against students , unions , the Church , and the underground ? revealed the scope of Haiti 's discontent . Duvalier 's difficulties were compounded by the assassination of the Dominican Republic 's Generalissimo Rafael Trujillo on May 30 . Haitian exiles long have hoped for an anti-Duvalier , democratic Dominican Republic that might permit them to mount an invasion . As soon as the news of the assassination reached Port-au-Prince , Duvalier rushed troops to the border and anxiously awaited developments . Bitterness and gloom The Haitian intellectual sees in the United States , perhaps unrealistically , the source of cure for the inner rottenness of his land . At the same time , perhaps unjustly , he views the United States as the sole source of power for the regime of Duvalier . America gives the Haitian his vision of a democracy he never has known . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Haitian feels and knows every day . The result of this confusion is bitterness in the hearts of those who seek freedom for their hapless land . Haiti , once the richest colony in the French empire , now ranks among the world 's poorest nations . No Latin American republic has a per capita income lower than Haiti 's $70 a year . It has the greatest population density in the Western Hemisphere ; its arable land , only 13 per cent of all the land area , holds 2314 persons per square mile . Malaria , tuberculosis , venereal disease , and yaws rack the people . Doctors outside the capital find that almost everyone has intestinal worms , which cause anemia , malnutrition , and general debilitation . Literacy and education , so essential for democracy , are the privilege of a few in the towns . Almost 90 per cent of the population of three million is illiterate and takes little interest in the political intrigues , skirmishes , and shifts in the capital . About 600,000 children do not go to school because there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every ten elementary school teachers have had any professional training . Yet , despite this woeful shortage of trained personnel , graduates of teachers colleges can not get jobs in Haiti , because politicians appoint unschooled teachers in their stead . This corruption can tear the heart of anyone trying to help the Haitian people . At an orphanage in a remote village , an American doctor refused to hand over stocks of protein preparation for fear the orphanage director would sell the food rather than feed it to the children swollen with malnutrition . A year ago , the United States suspended a sorely needed $4.3 million irrigation project because the Haitian government had fired a capable engineer on the project , replacing him with two political appointees . Members of the underground have a simple solution to the problem : replace Duvalier with an honest man . " If the head is corrupt , the whole body is corrupt , " one of Duvalier 's secret opponents recently said . But an outsider , knowing that Haiti has lived its whole history wallowing in corrupt administration , can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secret terror Duvalier , a mild-looking , ailing doctor and sociologist , came to power in 1957 in an election controlled by the army . Dark-skinned and middle-class , he was expected to champion Haiti 's black , impoverished masses . In a negative sense , he has done so , for most of his terror has struck the light-skinned , intellectual professionals and businessmen of the middle and upper classes . But this affliction of pain on the light-skinned has done little to alleviate the suffering of the dark-skinned . Duvalier 's instruments of terror have been the army and a bizarre , secret , recently disbanded organization known as the Ton Ton Macoute . The thousand cagoulards , or hooded men , of the Ton Ton Macoute had beaten and killed Haitians at night and destroyed their shops and homes while cloaking themselves as private ruffians rather than functionaries of the government . In this way , Duvalier , emulating a favorite device of the late Generalissimo Trujillo , tried to disassociate his regime from some of the terror it had fostered . And he created a private army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been particularly brutal in his successful attempt to wipe out a free press . On the night of January 6 , 1958 , for example , Mme. Yvonne Hakime-Rimpel , editor of the newspaper Escale , was abducted from her home in the presence of her daughters . The Ton Ton Macoute took her to the St. Martin woods , usual trysting place for lovers , beat and molested her , mutilated her sexual organs , and abandoned her , half dead . The regime then shut down Escale , and six months later , the newspaper Le Patriote . Duvalier 's ascendancy over the army was a remarkable achievement , for the Haitian army usually has controlled the President , not the other way around . Duvalier accomplished the turnabout by a continual series of , surprise promotions and dismissals , until a staff dependent upon him administered the army . And to ensure that the army would not regain its power , Duvalier organized a civilian militia to balance army strength . The U.S. marines Opponents of Duvalier put the responsibility on our government , no matter what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. marines from 1915 to 1934 is a minor incident in American foreign policy , but it overwhelms all Haitian history in the twentieth century . The marines , sent by President Woodrow Wilson to bring order out of financial and political anarchy , built hospitals , roads , sewage systems , and telephone lines . But , despite these tidbits of physical improvement , Haitians have bitter memories of the occupation , during which marines killed 6000 Haitians while suppressing guerrilla rebellions . Many Haitians now feel they live under the second occupation , for once again U.S. marines walk through the streets of Port-au-Prince . In response to a request of Duvalier 's , the United States has assigned a small detachment to his army . In addition , under an agreement signed last September , the United States is shipping small arms and other military equipment to the 5000-man Haitian army . The United States maintains that it is merely helping a small country to take a place in the defense line of the Western Hemisphere . But such aid to a country as weak as Haiti must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that American aid holsters Duvalier , not the defenses of the hemisphere . Despite possible exaggerations in Haitian charges about the American role in the regime , the fact remains that Haiti is ruled by a tyrant and the United States does its best to keep him in power . But would removing this prop under Duvalier bring freedom to Haiti ? Haiti abounds with problems that can not be solved by the removal of Duvalier alone . Without thorough reorganization of the land , for example , Haiti never will step forward , no matter who leads . Unlike the rest of Latin America , Haiti does not have lavish plantations tilled by impoverished serfs . The huge Haitian estates were parceled to the serfs soon after the country 's revolution against France in 1791 . Now almost every Haitian peasant ? still impoverished ? has his own tiny plot of land , which he tills and lets become eroded , leaving Haiti without the rich crops that only plantations can produce . The role of the Church Haiti also weakens itself with the conflict between the black masses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the respectability of the Catholic Church and the fervor for the comfort of Vodun . Throughout Haiti 's history , Catholicism , while nominally professed by many , has been truly embraced only by the mulatto elite straining to move as far as possible from the black masses . Until 1860 , the Vatican refused to recognize the republic , and the natives , never rooted in Catholicism , drifted away . A concordat with the Church was signed in 1860 , but by that time Haitians had committed themselves to Vodun , known in the United States as voodoo , and Haiti became a Catholic state in name only . The priesthood has been overwhelmingly foreign and white . Even today , after years of nationalistic agitation for a Negro priesthood , the country 's Catholic clergy comprises two hundred Frenchpriests , one hundred American , Canadian , and Belgian priests , and only a hundred Haitian priests . But despite its comparatively few native adherents , the Church , through its status as the state religion , has maintained considerable influence , particularly in the schools . The state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and almost half of Haiti 's few thousand secondary school students attend them . There also is much Catholic influence in the public University of Haiti : it operates a seminary to train priests ; for years the editor of the Catholic newspaper La Phalange , which Duvalier shut down this year , was the university rector ; many of the students , usually light-skinned , prepare for college in Catholic schools . It is easy to see why Duvalier , a nominal Catholic but an admirer of Vodun , struck out at the Church when the university students began their strike last November . In the view of the dark-skinned Duvalier , the students were the children of his enemy , the mulatto elite , under the influence of a foreign element , the Catholic clergy . By banishing the archbishop , and later a bishop and several important priests , Duvalier attacked the elite without too much fear of reprisal . The Church 's excommunication decree bothered the leaders of Haiti much less than one might expect in a Catholic state . Since 1791 , no man or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give the country political stability . One native historian counted at least sixty-nine rebellions between 1806 and 1879 . A tradition grew where strong men , backed by an army , assumed the presidency and remained in power until other strong men slapped together a bigger army .. In the ten months between the overthrow of President Paul E. Magloire and the election of Duvalier in 1957 , a half-dozen provisional governments , manipulated by the army , rose and fell . The program of the underground Problems like these add to the hopelessness that suffocates discussions with members of the underground . Speaking perfect French , sipping rum , reclining in comfortable chairs in ornate homes , the dispirited underground leaders seem very far away from the Creole-speaking peasants suffering from elephantiasis , intestinal worms , anemia , or malaria . The underground 's basic program actually has but two elements : it is anti-Duvalier and anti-American . And this , of course , makes Haiti ripe for a Fidel Castro . Faced with such a situation , the United States has a difficult choice to make . Why destroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tyrant could take his place ? Fortunately , there now is a framework within which the United States can move to end the terror of Duvalier . ' That framework has been created by the historic meeting of the hemisphere 's foreign ministers in San Jose , Costa Rica , in 1960 and by the recent pronouncements of President Kennedy . Kennedy , in his March 13 speech to Latin American diplomats , expressed some new concepts of foreign aid . The President said the Latin countries must " modify their social patterns so that ' all , and not just a privileged few , share in the fruits of growth . " If this is not done , he stressed , " no amount of help will advance the welfare of the people . " He clearly was talking about U.S. economic aid and Latin social and economic reforms . But it would not be difficult to apply his principles to U.S. military aid and Latin political reforms . In the case of Haiti , adherence to the Kennedy principles would destroy Duvalier . The State Department could withdraw all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until the Haitian government underwent political and social reforms . If need be , the State Department could justify its action by submitting to the Organization of American States a bill of particulars defining the terror and corruption of Duvalier . Surely the United States has every right to withhold bullets from murderers and money from thieves and promise more and more help to all others . That kind of policy will not guarantee freedom and progress , but it is the only , slim hope for some improvement in Haiti . FOR America , and , for that matter , for any other nation of the Western enclave , the shock of political upheaval in Asia is always dulled by distance ; we are at least five thousand miles away from the scene of the crime . Hence , when French Indochina ceased to be French , when there were revolutions in Southeast Asia , and , more particularly , when Laos began to disappear behind the Asian iron curtain , the West usually did little but express dismay and regret . For what are considered to be sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the apathy of the populace ? the West allows these countries to go their way ; or , rather , to go the way the Eastern bloc wishes . Understandably , after Korea , there is no rush to turn them into major battlefields . Yet the pattern of events is disturbing . Despite the nominal financial and military good will which we lavish on these territories , we are still waving them good-by as they pass over to the opposite camp . Where has the mistake been made ? By studying Thailand a little closer , to observe it while it is still with us , something can be learned ; it proves to be a tragicomedy of misunderstanding in which the leading actors fondly imagine they are taking part in the same play . Faces and masks The word that means " free " ; Thailand , the " free land . " The name breeds confidence , and the outward signs are encouraging . Here is a nation complete with King , gracious Queen , Prime Minister , and Cabinet . We may be excused for believing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis . But , living there , one soon discovers that Thailand is controlled by its army , and any resemblance between parliamentary government as we know it and as it exists in Thailand is purely coincidental . This barrack-dominated type of government is a prime example of the way in which Southeast Asians give their own particular twist to what we suppose are familiar forms . It can not be stressed too strongly that in these very differences between the West and the Orient lies the explanation for our hurt surprise ; the reason why we are caught off guard at the time of political debacles and why the United States , after all it has given , is reduced to being the victim of ingratitude . What do we suppose Thailand to be ? A land of temples ? Of neat-figured dancers ? These , of course , can be seen if one is willing to go out of one 's way to see them . But , in fact , Thailand is almost entirely devoted to agriculture , and traveling through its miles of flat , rice-sown land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bejeweled dancers are rare . The average Thai house is built of wood and is mounted on stilts ; window spaces are filled by matting rather than glass ; and inside , overcrowding is the norm . Nevertheless , compared with China , Thailand is a relatively spacious land that can amply feed its population . Bananas , coconuts , mangoes , and pineapples grow in haphazard , tropical abandon , except close to Bangkok , where orderliness has set in . Townships are lively , small , and few . Over 80 per cent of the population is occupied in rice growing , farming , and forestry ; the production of tin , rubber , and silk forms an important but secondary group of occupations . And though mountains are found at the perimeter of the country , it is best to think of the country in terms of the featureless flatness of fertile , mud-colored plains that alternate with unkempt forest . That is the true face of Thailand . Thai resilience There are no fortunes to be made in this part of the world ; by the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a water buffalo , of planting and harvesting by hand is completed , profits are not large , despite the richness of the soil . Imagine , then , the effect that a foreigner has . His presence has already implied that he has sufficient wealth to travel . He has money in relative abundance , and even if he were to turn Report on Thailand his pockets inside out in an attempt to buy friends and influence the people , he is not one of them . He remains divided from them by a civilization , a way of thinking , and a method of getting and spending . How can he conceivably communicate the immensely subtle ideas of democracy and what the West regards as freedom ? How can he stress the urgency of fighting for his idea of liberty ? It is so much easier to win over these people if the foreigner can promise the division of wealth concurrently with the division of labor . The Communist preacher has a relatively simple task . Everyone understands the meaning of money ; likewise , the meaning of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority of land workers in thrall . Yet , whoever is out to capture the body and soul of Thailand will encounter a deceptive form of resistance . The country possesses a remarkable degree of resilience that cushions the influences that impinge on it . Thailand has , so far , bowed before strength , absorbed it , and recovered . For instance , China , India , and Indonesia have all cast their artistic influences into the Thai melting pot . From this an individual style has been produced , such as the uptilted wings that decorate the eaves of the temples ? " pieces of sky , " as they are known . More recently , the summer palace of the King was designed by an Italian . The result is that an exquisite Thai pavilion rests , in the middle of a carp pool , on a base built in the Monte Carlo baroque style . Nothing is completely indigenous to the country , but through the years much has become characteristic . Lessons in politics The story of its art is analagous to the way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in due course , forgets the originators once the facts have been reinterpreted in a Thai manner . The Chinese minority in Thailand is lashed by a blind , spiteful prejudice that has its roots , as is usually the case , in ignorance . That the Chinese are the shrewdest of shopkeepers and businessmen and possess a natural talent for forging ahead endears them to no one ; they are used as scapegoats . The Thai people are jealous of them , the governing officials suspicious of them . Yet the Thai race itself was originally an emigrant body from South China . From the Japanese , the Thais learned that the West is not invincible . During the last world war , the Thais managed to retain their title of " free " with superb naivete . After a show of resistance that lasted only a few hours , Thailand allowed Japanese troops to enter . Then , to make perfectly certain of being on the right side , Thailand declared war on the Western Allies , On the defeat of the Japanese , peace was made with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , as in Malaya , a few facts had been learned . The West was proved vulnerable ; at one stage of the war , the Allies had been soundly beaten . Thus , the automatic respect and fear that were once accorded the Westerner were diminished . Western influence ? At the present time , the influence of the Western enclave is dominant . Though most of Thailand 's rubber and rice go to Far Eastern countries , the majority of its import trade is carried on with the United States , Great Britain , and Japan . Textiles , petroleum , iron , steel , and chemicals are brought in , and Thai currency is notably healthy . But , as usual , Thailand has put up its natural barriers that allow a foreign influence to go so far and no farther . Although the visitor may he dismayed at the degree of Westernization that has overtaken Bangkok ? the featureless office blocks , the ugly boulevards , the plethora of automobiles and would-he imposing monuments ? what has happened is that the city has taken on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Life on the innumerable canals remains the same , the temple precincts are unchanged , and outside Bangkok the tractor has by no means ousted the buffalo , and kite flying is still more popular than baseball . The economic factors act as a preservative . The absence of coal and oil , the railroad locomotives that burn logs , roads that threaten to jerk one 's spine through one 's neck ? these are all factors that contribute to keeping Thailand relatively untouched . Powers , thrones , dominions The number of saffron robes that catch the eye indicate that Buddhism is a solidly entrenched influence ; young men of any class are still likely to spend a three months ' period of inculcation in the tenets of the faith . Yet , despite the vogue that Oriental religions enjoy in the San Fernando Valley , by the time Buddhism reaches the Thai farmer , it is a fairly simple affair . Prayers to fish and trees , an affection for spirit houses , and fortunetelling priests ? their wisdom often based on sheer common sense are typical traits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there is no " or else " tacked onto the precept " Be good . " Climatic conditions of the most punishing kind doubtless keep the will from veering too far toward right or wrong ; 90 per cent humidity is a god that is hard to thwart . Buddhism is a popular religion , and its priests are respected . On holy days the temples are thronged , but the casual crowd characterizes the national attitude toward its faith  --  reverence coupled with an easygoing air , service under the lightest of yokes . In the last analysis , it is the army that rules supreme , a supremacy that is nevertheless weakened by the rivalry that exists among the military elite . Yet the military factor is constant , and bribery , too , will always be present on a nonchalantly immodest scale . It is the clique in control that varies . Two interesting points emerge . The first is a likely misconception : we may imagine that , because the military are in the saddle , the Thais are a nation of fighters . The reverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the graceful withdrawal has always proved a far better proposition . Their very physique , their small but beautifully formed frames and their nimble movements , givesthe lie to any pretensions toward a militant character . Second , because the Thais have become used to the spectacle of power passing from the hands of one faction to another in a series of melodramatic incidents , an active interest in politics is , practically speaking , denied them . Such matters are left to the military ; civilians could easily be hurt . It would , then , be optimistic to suppose that the much broader horizons of world politics are of great interest to the Thais . While European newspapers cried havoc when Laos was invaded , Bangkok basked in the peace of the ostrich ; Laos was a foreign affair . If Thailand went to war , it would be , at best , to keep Thailand itself free , or , at worst , to keep the current clique in power . That our sympathy and big guns are automatically with them is a factor that combines the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not necessarily theirs . Moreover , concessions may be forced on Thailand by powerful neighbors who look greedily at its ample rice bowl , and if they are , we ought not to be greatly surprised . It is Thailand 's way . There is the moral : it applies , in this instance , to Thailand , but also to all Asia . The nature of the people is too often disregarded . It is not that they differ from us only in their standard of living ; as a glance at Thailand will show , the differences go much deeper . In preference to strategists and automobiles , Western exports worthier of us and preferred by the Thais would be teachers , tractors , and a large measure of tact . How , one wonders , can a country such as Thailand survive , forming , as it does , an unwitting buffer state between two vast pressure groups ? Certainly it would be foolish to expect Western heroics and political morality from so individual a nation . We have to be prepared to let the small man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always possible to buy him up , lay down his policy , and iron out his characteristics ? and , of course , others may do it before we do . Yet , perhaps its seeming frailty and its clinging to the word " free " at any price will , as they have in the past , guarantee Thailand 's survival .                     