@@488143

Mr Cloward and Mrs Pin en are members of the faculty of the Columbia University School of Social Work . The " urban crisis " has clearly become a full-blown ? political crisis . Just as clearly , national elites are responding by fashioning the outlines of a plan to forestall further violence . The plan features public subsidies to ? induce private enterprise to redevelop the ghetto  --  at both high profit and low risk . Political leaders are stumbling over one another in ? their haste to promote corporate intervention in the ghetto . Senator Kennedy has proposed tax advantages for large-scale investors who can be persuaded to build low-rental housing , at profits of between 12 and 19 per cent Another Kennedy bill would extend similar tax benefits to big employers who agree to locate in ghettos and hire local residents Senator Javits , focusing on 6 somewhat smaller entrepreneurs ( tax advantages work best for big investors ) , is calling for a " domestic development bank , " funded by public and private capital , ? from which redevelopers could borrow at low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romney toured seventeen urban slums across the nation ( in nineteen days ) , and Rockefeller has proposed a quasi-public " New York State Urban Redevelopment Corporation " ( to be launched with $50 million of public funds ) which would work with local , state and federal agencies to promote private investments in ghetto housing and industry . Recently , the President announced that ? the nation 's major life insurance companies were pre- . pared to invest $1 billion in redevelopment  --  thus initiating a " creative private-government partnership , " accordIHE NATION/ October 16 , .1967 ing to The New York Times . What makes this partnership attractive to insurance companies is the promise of federal rent supplements to guarantee a return from low-income tenants , and changes in FHA policies to insure private investments in " high risk " areas  --  i e. , ghettos . The new urban program is being pressed by an alliance of political and corporate leaders , with representatives of labor and traditional civil rights organizations bringing up the rear In New York City , Mayor Lindsay actively cultivates business leaders through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walking tours in Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant by such notables as Gerald L. Phillippe , chairman of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , and Christian A Herter , Jr. , vice president of the Mobil Oil Corporation . A comparable council in Detroit , formed after the riot , is headed by Joseph L. Hudson , Jr , president of one of the largest department stores in the country , and includes the top officials of General Motors , Chrysler and Ford . Cleveland businessmen have created a revolving fund to provide " seed money " and to guarantee loans for ghetto rehabilitation . In Pittsburgh , the Allegheny Housing Corporation draws on funds from PPG Industries , U. S. Steel , Rockwell Manufacturing , Westinghouse Electric and Alcoa , among others . The Urban Coalition which met recently in Washington brought together 800 national political leaders , mayors , officials from labor and civil rights and such stalwarts of corporate enterprise as Andrew Heiskell , chairman of Time Incorporated ; Henry Ford II , chairman of the Ford Motor Company ; David Rockefeller , president of the Chase Manhattan Bank , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The urban alliance could have substantial economic impact . Public subsidies for the ghetto are now pitifully 365 small . By using public funds to guarantee profit , however , huge private investments can be turned toward the ghetto . The $1 billion promised by the insurance companies is Undoubtedly only a beginning , and at that it is three times the amount allocated for public housing in this fiscal year . These benevolent proposals are much at odds with the mood of the electorate . Most Americans , the pollsters say , believe blacks are not badly off , and regard riots as simply a breakdown in law and order , spurred perhaps by " outside agitators . " The popular view is reflected in Congressional carryings-on , especially in the House , where measures for riot control and punitive welfare amendments are passed eagerly , while even innocuous proposals for rat control are resisted . How do we account for the " statesmanlike " responses of elites at a time when the wider public seems goaded to new expressions of rac-ism ? The answer is not difficult to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in domestic racism . Historically , racism helped to perpetuate a caste system that produced a surplus of cheap black labor . That surplus was used against white workers , chiefly to undermine wage levels ; more directly , blacks were hired as scabs and goons to impede efforts by whites to unionize . The resulting antagonism between blacks and whites was one aspect of a history of pervasive conflict among ethnic groups in America , leading them to turn upon one another rather than against oppressive classes , thus accounting in good measure for the absence of a cohesive working class . However , antagonism has been most acute between poor blacks and whites . Nor has that conflict subsided : it now extends beyond the labor market , erupting in bitter struggles to control neighborhoods , schools and city government . With automation and the corporate management of markets , low-skilled and low-paid labor has become a relatively unimportant factor in the profits of much large-scale urban enterprise . Consequently , racism is no longer needed to depress wages and inhibit unionization . The racist attitudes of the working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ghettos they help to produce have become anomalies  --  vestiges of an earlier era of industrial organization . Indeed , racism is beginning to exact some costs from corporate enterprise . Violence in the cities disrupts the civic stability on which huge , bureaucratized enterprises depend . Note , for example , that department store owners are prominent in the spate of local committees and commissions formed in the wake of the riots . Nor is it any accident that insurance companies , faced with huge losses in property damage , are at the forefront in proffering investment funds for redevelopment of charred ghettos . Now , too , there is the promise of profit to be made in removing poverty . Redevelopment promises to be a huge business , running into billions of dollars  --  provided that public funds and public powers are employed to eliminate risk and guarantee profit . Far-seeing corporations like Litton Industries and U. S. Gypsum have been alert to these possibilities for some time , undertaking research and demonstration projects ( often put forward as " civic " activ-366 ities ) to explore cost-saving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product within reach of the ghetto market . Industry 's technical explorations have not accomplished much to reduce costs , but that does n't matter : public subsidies will bridge the gap . For their part , politicians are in trouble , and the alliance is a way out . Urban disorder has made them vulnerable ; they must act to end it or face defeat at the polls . However , they are not free to indulge the outraged sentiments of their working- and middle-class constituents , for repression would alienate blacks all the more and might lead to worse violence . Blacks are also becoming a major electoral force in the cities , a fact which can not be ignored much longer . Nevertheless , white racism prevents political leaders from securing legislative approval for programs to pacify the ghetto . The corporate alliance solves this dilemma : relatively small amounts of public ? money can be used to stimulate relatively large private investments . Furthermore , programs carried out under corporate auspices will neutralize a great deal of opposi ? tion : this is , after all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , it should be noted , has the most to gain , for he is in the deepest trouble . With rapidly escalating costs in the Vietnamese War already creating presssure ? for an unpopular tax rise , he risks political disaster by calling for even higher taxes in order to placate rioters . I Opening the ghetto for private investment permits him to avoid the antagonism of the electorate toward both blacks and taxes , while continuing to pay for the war primarily from current revenues . The new program , in brief , is impelled by the threat of disruption and the promise of profit . It will work to curb violence , and to secure gains for political and corporate leaders alike . The ghetto is also likely to be somewhat better off economically for being absorbed into corporate spheres . Who , then , can reasonably object ? Well , clearly peace groups should . If the President succeeds in avoiding substantial tax increases , the task of shoring up weakening electoral support for the war will be considerably eased . Grass-roots black activists also have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of corporate power in the ghetto . The economy of the ghetto is now run by relatively small entrepreneurs who are somewhat vulnerable to local pressure , such as consumer boycotts and rent strikes . The new managers of the ghetto will be huge quasi-public development corporations ( like the New York Port Authority ) insulated from effective political control and endowed with powers to issue bonds , condemn property , and form webs of relations with private investment companies , large-scale contractors and management companies . Industrial firms will spin off new subsidiaries to exploit opportunities for subsidized profit in employing ghetto people . And predominantly white unions will absorb these workers , thus neutralizing whatever potential that separate Negro unions might have had as an instru ? ment of ghetto power . The ghetto has nothing much to offer which corporate enterprise needs  --  skilled labor , entrepeneurial skills or raw materials . It is even too poor on its own to attract corporate products on any large THE NATION/October 16 , 1967 scale . Governments will thus convert the ghetto to a subsidized market , and life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are likely to emerge , nor will the ghetto have the resources to influence the operations of outside corporate enterprise . The greatest danger to blacks is that the new corporate role will help to erode the power of municipal government , and this at a time when the black is about to obtain control of the city . Lyle M Spencer , president of Science Research Associates ( a subsidiary of IBM ) , glowingly comments on the new corporate alliance : the " military-industrial complex , " he observes , is about to be superseded by a " social-industrial complex . " ConsiderTHE NATION/ October 16 , 1967ing the influence the former exerts in national life and foreign affairs , who can doubt that the latter will possess comparable influence over city government and the ghetto ? Impending changes in the relations of federal and local government will mesh well with corporate intervention , further weakening the traditional powers of city government . The federal government is beginning to use the vast resources of its grants-in-aid programs to create metropolitan-wide administrative agencies to cope with pollution , blight and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the metro bureaucracies will supersede local government as channels for federal money . Since these new administrative complexes will be largely removed from popular control , the blacks of the ghettos  --  even as they reach electoral majorities in the cities  --  can not hope to influence them greatly But the metro bureaucracies  --  manned by an emerging class of planners and technicians  --  will find congenial counterparts in the corporate world . In other words , just as black majorities come to power in the city , much of that power will be usurped by an alliance of national corporations and political leaders , as well as by federal-metropolitan bureaucracies . There is not likely to be much opposition to these developments , however . Churchmen and union leaders have already given their blessing . Traditional civil rights leaders have special reason to be pleased , for their symbolic hegemony over the ghetto has been undermined , on the one side by the failure of the Johnson Administration to keep concessions flowing , and on the other by the growing challenge of spokesmen for black nationalism . It was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President and leaders of the insurance business to announce the billion-dollar pledge of corporate funds to the ghetto It is possible to imagine that militant leaders in the ghetto will resist the intrusion of corporate giants , but it is much easier to see how their resistance will be overcome . The new corporate imperialism will be mediated through a host of intervening subsidiaries and management sti uctures , many located in the ghetto itself . Advocates of " participatory democracy , - " decentralization " and " black control of black affairs " will find these themes turned against them as they are invited to endorse and participate in the new corpoi ate subsidiaries . Even now business leaders in some cities are cultivating black activists , often over the protestations of local politicians befuddled by the curious twist in alignments . If grants-in-aid were to be funneled through city governments , as in the past , and not through quasi-public and private cm porate structures , black municipal leaders could convert these funds into the jobs , services and facilities required not only to improve economic conditions but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , local government would serve blacks as it has served other groups by providing a base for power in state and national affairs Once absorbed in local corporate subsidaries , however , blacks will become instruments of national corporate power . Their economic lot will be improved somewhat , to be sure , but their longterm economic prospects depend on their potential political power , and that will be diminished . 367                     