@@493511

What Freeman 's Up Against by Asher Brynes Part of the business of a Secretary of Agriculture is to do those things which will deliver the farm vote to the Administration that appointed him . This job has grown more difficult in recent years . Farmers are the only large group of small enterprisers still functioning on the production side of the American economy ; other family businesses are concentrated mainly in retailing and the service trades . Furthermore , the drive for efficiency in farm production ? a belated response to what has been going on a long time in US industry ? has led to a rapidly accelerating trend toward crop specialization . Today there are 26 major types of farms irrespective of size . Few commercial farmers have the time to bother with kitchen gardens . Their wives shop in small-town supermarkets that are exact replicas of similar establishments in suburbs and cities . Since the farm vote is now so cut up into commodity groups , a Secretary of Agriculture has to deal with their grievances one by one . Furthermore , since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been teaching farmers how to keep books , not only because this helps them qualify for bank loans and other credit , but because efficiency depends on knowing which cows yield less milk , which hens lay fewer eggs , and which fields grow thinner crops . All this cost accounting has led to increasing separation and specification of farm interests . Each group knows precisely where the shoe pinches . So it is no wonder that Orville Freeman says that farmers in general will have to speak with one voice if they are to make themselves heard . " If it the farm interest speaks with a Babel of voices , then I fear the Congress will be inclined to say that no one speaks for agriculture and nothing can be done for those who can not agree among themselves . " Mr. Freeman himself has to speak for all US farmers not only when he talks to Congress about agricultural legislation , but also when he is negotiating export terms on their behalf with the Ministers of Agriculture of the Common Market countries . This is a very serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseas . The situation is particularly acute in the expensively price-supported farm products : we export half our production of wheat , cotton and rice , and 4o percent of our soybean production ; a third of American grown tobacco is shipped abroad . All told , American farm exports amount to the yield of about 6o million acres of our farm land . This , let me point out , is equal to the combined agricultural area of the United Kingdom and West Germany , and almost as large as the acreage under cultivation in France . Puny as it may seem in comparison with US farm production , however , the output of French agriculture is gigantic in the Common Market area . What is more important , France has an unrivalled capacity to expand farm production inside that area . There are more than 3o million acres in pasture in France , many of which could be put to the plow if the Common Market hiked the price of a hardy grain like wheat ( which grows practically anywhere ) enough to make production increases profitable . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble with their farmers last year . A potato rebellion in Brittany led to the actual seizure of the provincial town of Morlaix by men with pitchforks , who , in a symbolic gesture , broke into the polling places , tossed out the ballot boxes , and made a bonfire of them . Incidents of this kind multiplied throughout Western France from Finistere to Toulouse . At that time the Minister of Agriculture , M. Rochereau , hastened to confer with Premier Debre , and both tried to soothe the fractious farmers with rhetoric . The farmers were unappeased , however , and both Rochereau and Debre have been removed . The wrathful farmers felt so strongly about M. Debre that they voted him out of public life altogether in the recent election . If Debre , a co-founder of the Gaullist regime , went down at a time when de Gaulle himself won by a landslide vote unparalleled in France 's modern history , it behooved all other French politicians to take notice . And the present Minister of Agriculture , Edgar Pisani , shows a lively grasp of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law establishing the principle of parity between the incomes of French farmers and industrial workers . This parity principle ? the basic shibboleth of agrarianism the world over ? has also been written into the preamble to US price-support legislation for the past generation . But it is in abeyance in our country because of the sheer impossibility of doing it by state action in an era of such rapid advancement in agricultural technology . Productivity on the Farm Until the missionaries of the Marshall Plan brought the gospel of productivity in farm as well as in factory to France in the late 40 's ? just before the Korean War gave farm prices in the Western world an additional skyward boost ? French agriculture slept behind an impermeable tariff barrier . Ten acre farms were cherished for what seemed good reasons . A numerous peasantry was thought to stabilize the social life of a country addicted to volatile politics . Besides , a nation should at least be self-sufficient for food in time of war . And country people make the best soldiers , since they are accustomed to hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Roman armies that beat all corners in the ancient world ; they were Swiss pikemen who pushed down the armored knights at the end of the Middle Ages . They made up the rank and file of the nation-in-arms , the Napoleonic invention with which the French almost conquered the Western world . In the presence of the more numerous Germans on the other side of the Rhine , the peasantry of France has represented a factor of not inconsiderable security as well as stability . In the postwar period farm modernization changed this somnolent picture . The number of tractors owned by Frenchmen rose from 35,000 to over 800,000 andcombines ( harvester-threshers ) from z6o to more than 6o,00o ; fertilizer use has risen 300 percent . What this means is that most French farmers are now operating on what amounts to a cash basis . They ca n't retreat to a subsistence level any more . And very large numbers of them owe money on these expensive machines . One of the marvels of the new agricultural technology , in fact , is that it has broken down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is equipped to supply more of the Common Market 's needs for foodstuffs and ? this deserves emphasis ? must plan to do so because of the complications created by this wave of modernization . The question to be determined is : how much is " more " ? And what effect will " more " have on US foreign sales ? At the present rate of production French farm output is rising much faster than the growth of her population . By 1965 ? if present plans work out ? exports of farm products from France should rise by about two-thirds . These plans include exports of large tonnages of wheat and feed grains into the European market in which the US has a stake . The so-called Pisani decrees which came into force last August provide for the further consolidation of French farms to achieve the higher efficiencies required . Semi-public land buying companies representing the government and the French farm organizations are to go into operation in each of the 90 departments of France . They will have a prior right to purchase almost any farm land that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regulate the amount of farm land that any person may buy on his own account ; and finally , uncultivated land whose owners are delinquent in tax payments may be seized and deeded to neighboring farmers who , in the commission 's opinion , may put it to better use . The goal of all this effort is the creation of a prosperous French agricultural community of commercial farmers . When M. Pisani talks tough to his fellow-Ministers of Agriculture in the European Economic Community and to Mr. Freeman too , he is in fact dickering for the extra income from exports which he needs to support these ambitious plans . French farmers are still so numerous and influential that they were able to force even de Gaulle 's hand recently and compel him to breach his economic austerity program by raising the French support price for milk . This is what Secretary Freeman was up against when he sought so strenuously to dissuade the Economic Community from building higher barriers against the flow of American agricultural products into its area . Somewhat over a year ago ( September , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is seeking to expand its cash sales of food and fiber to Western Europe and " other prospering areas . " At the same time , he continued , it is moving large amounts of food and fiber to underdeveloped countries , " some . as gifts , some with only token payment . " He went on to say that , " If we are to achieve our goal of a world that is well fed and well clothed , we must match our progress in agricultural trade . . . helping underdeveloped nations to rise from poverty and mutually removing barriers to trade . " US donations of food to the poor were not to be seen as mere charity ; they were creating new markets . The EEC countries would share these markets with us when the new countries grew to maturity and were able to pay for their needs in hard money . Let the Atlantic partners cooperate in supplying the world 's needs for food instead of restricting markets for the sake of short-term gains . Trade War within the West ? Planning for the long-run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such grounds the English did away with their variable tariff levies on wheat imports ( the " Corn Laws " ) over a century ago and inaugurated a period of trade liberalization and prosperity that suffused the Victorian Era with such a golden glow that the reflection of it in this country was called the Gilded Age . But it appears to be easier , politically , to take tariff protection away from aristocratic landowners than from voting farmers . Despite the passage of our Trade Expansion Act this year Freeman returned to Europe last month in an even worse bargaining position than he had been in when he spoke to the Europeans in September , 1961 . On the 19th of November he addressed the Ministerial Committee on Agriculture of the OECD in Paris , repeating portions of the older speech but with a new emphasis on the just-approved Trade Expansion Act ? which gave President Kennedy wide powers to negotiate agreements for the mutual reduction of tariffs . What worried Freeman was not how much farmers get paid , but basic economic relationships between the nations : how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous farm surpluses in Western Europe . Freeman invited the Ministers of Agriculture of the Common Market countries ( and Pisani is by far the most influential figure among them ) to impose a degree of supply management ( officially defined as " the adjustment of farm production to amounts that can be used " ) upon their agricultural economies ? as we are trying to do to ours . " I can not emphasize too strongly the need to include in any international commodity arrangement , " he said , " effective measures of supply management . The productive capabilities of our agricultural industries simply exceed possible outlets forthe forseeable future . " This is true of US agriculture today and no doubt will be true of the agriculture of the Common Market countries , including France , in the future ? but it is not what M. Pisani is willing to plan for his own farmers now . He hastened to reject the idea that the Economic Community should cut back its plans for more farm production within the member countries , including France , in order to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports . The principle of a Common Market had been accepted and supported by France , Pisani argued , because it offered an opportunity to export more of the nation 's farm products . Before the EEC was organized the six nations who now compose it had protectionist agricultural policies ; they discriminated against each other 's farm products . Now , he went on , all have agreed on a mutual policy favoring lower agricultural tariffs . They were thus moving toward a solution of their own farm problems . In the process of adjusting the old tariff barriers that impeded trade among the six Common Market nations , they could not take into account the difficulties that such actions might cause " in every other country in the world . " The Common Market nations still have troubles enough of their own . As for Freeman 's bid for the maintenance of the American farmer 's historic percentage of export sales in the EEC area , these " traditional currents of trade " as Pisani put it , were not more worthy of being preserved than the Common Market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it contradicts his own description of EEC policy and is erroneous in fact ? was that US exports of food products on special terms to certain African countries which traditionally had been linked to Europe by trade , were endangering that relationship . This was an obvious reference to the shipment of American donations of food stuffs to countries such as Algeria . At the present time the French are supplying far more aid than is the US ; without the money they are putting into Algeria , it would collapse . The US share in this effort amounts to the donation , through private agencies , of some 45,000 tons of foodstuffs a month , about enough to feed a third of the Algerian population . If , as Pisani claims , actions of this kind by third parties ( the US ) imperil Europe 's old trading relationships , then all the talk about trade expansion through the mutual lowering of tariff barriers or of an Atlantic economic partnership is so much hot air . Freeman and Pisani ' are trying , each in his different circumstances , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administrations . As things stand , the pressures on each impels him to bid for margins of advantage ? and in this particular play Pisani has somewhat the better hand . 