@@269048

In its theology , Manhattan 's famed old ( founded in 1825 ) Broadway Presbyterian Church is conservative : its ministers have always been evangelical , fundamentalists who adhere strictly to the Westminster Confession . By contrast , the Presbytery of New York-a group of ministers and elders from Manhattan , The Bronx and Staten Island who form a sort of churchly senate-tends toward liberalism ; influenced by the open-mindedness of Union Theological Seminary , it is one of the forward-looking branches of the United Presbyterian Church . Over the years , the presbytery has more and more frowned upon the Broadway Church , especially since the church serves the city 's intellectual center : Columbia University is across the street ; Union Theological is just a few blocks away . <P> Last week the presbytery moved in on this stronghold of fundamentalism and stirred up a fuss that threatens to shake the entire church . By a vote of 73 to 27 , the presbytery-exercising its power to intervene in hiring-firing matters that are normally left to congregations and their elders-voted to oust Broadway 's minister , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office were the church 's ten pro-Merriam elders , who were replaced by a presbytery-appointed commission . Merriam was asked to remove his personal belongings from the church-and even to refrain from attending Sunday services there . A substitute preacher-Dr . Paul Franklin Hudson , formerly of Indianapolis ' Second Presbyterian Church , and something of a stormy petrel himself ( TIME . Nov. 24 ) - was picked to be temporary pastor . <P> If theology seemed to be at the heart of the presbytery 's action , the immediate cause was the personality of lean , intense Stuart Merriam . Born in Schenectady , Merriam , a bachelor , graduated from Toronto 's Knox College and acquired a doctorate from New College in Edinburgh . His first call , in 1957 , was to the First Presbyterian Church of Portsmouth , Va. , a rundown , impoverished church with a congregation of 500 . Merriam doubled the church 's property , added 100 parishioners to the congregation , put on an impressive range of new youth activities-and began to create a reputation for unorthodoxy . Although fundamentalist in his theology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pulpit against Virginia 's racial segregation . His orations were notable for their scholarship-and for their shock value . Once he was photographed at a church bazaar sitting backwards on a donkey and wearing a Japanese lantern for a hat . <P> In March 1961 , after a two-year search for a minister , Broadway Presbyterian 's congregation voted to " call " ( invite ) Merriam as their next pastor . Despite misgivings about his fundamentalism , the presbytery approved the choice and almost immediately found reasons to regret it . Merriam brought his huge German shepherd Blitz into the pulpit at a children 's service . He earned a brief notoriety by tape-recording a telephone conversation with a State Department official about the problems of an exile from Iran , then playing the tape-including the official 's off-the-cuff criticisms of Iranian corruption-to a reporter . Merriam apologized for his bad judgment , but the presbytery began to gather charges against him .                     