@@478779

Does the bombing of North Vietnam make sense ? Is it likely to bring the war to an earlier end ? or is it making peace negotiations more difficult ? Is it worth what it costs , in terms of lives and planes lost , and political damage both in this country and abroad ? What would be the probable results if it were stopped ? On the other hand , what could we expect if it were stepped up , to destroy the remaining strategic targets in North Vietnam , including the cities of Hanoi and Haiphong and the airfields near the Chinese border ? Week by week these questions are becoming more painful and divisive . They are cutting across every sector of American life , creating passionate differences within the political parties , the intellectual community , the civil-rights movement , the armed forces , and the Administration itself . They touch the lives of every American in Southeast Asia , their families at home , and uncountable millions overseas . For this reason , they may have a decisive bearing on the next election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on America 's future standing in the world . To some people , on both sides , the answers seem clear and simple . Within the peace movement , thousands of decent , responsible citizens like Dr. Benjamin Spook feel that the basic issue is a plain matter of morals : Bombing people is wrong . Many would add that it is doubly wrong when a big , powerful nation bombs a little , weak one , and worse when white people bomb colored ones . At the opposite extreme stand equally conscientious citizens like retired General ( " Bomb ' em back to the Stone Age " Curtis Le May . They argue that all-out bombing is the - - - - - - - quickest way to end the war ; therefore it is stupid to the point of immorality not to get it over with ( and thus save lives ) by hitting the enemy with everything we 've got . The position of the Johnson Administration , as I understand it , lies somewhere in between . Its policy is to strike carefully selected targets ? transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steel and cement factories , airfields , troop concentrations , and the like ? with two purposes in mind . One is to slow down the flow of men and weapons into South Vietnam from the North . The other is to put pressure on the Hanoi government to open peace negotiations , or to begin a tacit de-escalation of the war . ( Secretary of State Dean Husk has repeatedly pledged the United States to stop the bombing if North Vietnam will only give some indication ? by word or deed ? that in return it will stop sending its troops into the South , or make almost any other gesture toward reducing the level of conflict . ) This policy inevitably results in the killing of a good many civilians , since strategic targets often lie in or near populated areas , and some bombs inevitably fall wide of the mark , especially when a plane is trying to dodge heavy antiaircraft fire . Nevertheless , the Administration apparently has earnestly tried , so far , to keep civilian casualties to a minimum . It has rejected the extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in World War II against such targets as Tokyo , Hamburg , and Dresden ? in spite of heavy pressure both from its right-wing political opponents and from some ( though by no means all ) of its own military advisers . To many people , including myself , all three of these positions sound like oversimplifications of a heartbreakingly complex problem . We are just as appalled as Dr. Spook by the results of the bombing . We wish that . America had never got involved in this war , and we are just as eager as General Le May ( and Dr. Speck to get it over with . We would be as delighted as Dean Husk or President Johnson* if the enemy would agree to peace negotiations , or to a mutual scaling-down of the level of conflict . But we are not convinced that any of these results can be achieved either by stepping up the bombing of the North , or by stopping it completely , without expecting anything from the enemy in return . Some of the Administration 's critics do not believe that Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least one chance for opening such talks ( during the cease-fire for the Tet holidays last February ) was sabotaged by Washington , and they conclude that Johnson and Rusk want to carry on the war indefinitely ? presumably because they arc wicked or stupid . or both . I can not believe this . Johnson is sometimes devious in his tactics and not altogether candid in what he says . But , in the many years that I have known both him and Rusk , I have never seen any evidence that either man is stupid , or any more wicked than the rest of us , including their critics of the New Left . Of course they make mistakes ; that is inevitable for all men in high office , operating as they must in a fog of uncertainties and under great pressure . But it is naive to blame such mistakes on sheer malevoknee . Besides , the war obviously is Johnson 's greatest political liability , and the main obstacle in the way of all his domestic programs . He has everything to gain from an early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that the Administration 's present policy is likely to accomplish its purposes . We feel that we simply do not have enough of the essential facts to arrive at a rational judgment ? and we do n't know any way to get them . Moreover , we are not certain that anybody in the government has looked carefully at all of the facts available to it ( and to it alone ) and then has balanced carefully all of the factors ? military , diplomatic , psychological , and political ? which ought to go into the making of a sound decision . Maybe the Administration 's present policy is based on just this kind of analysis . If so , it has never been made public . We have never been told , in detail . the facts on which its bombing policy is based , or the line of reasoning by which it reached its conclusions . The resulting doubts and confusions are responsible , it seems to me , for much of the malaise which besets this country . Millions of Americans ? perhaps a majority ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't know how to judge what course is right for the country ( or , as so often The suggestion outlined here is a lineal descendant of a directive issued by President Roosevelt on September 9 , 1944 . In it he asked the Secretary-of War to set up a Strategic Bombing Survey to make " an impartial and expert study of the effects of the aerial attack on Germany . " The survey which resulted from that directive eventually covered Japan as well . It was directed , not by military men , but by a panel of independent consultants . of such stature that they could not be suspected of covering up military mistakes or of defending the record of the Roosevelt Administration . The chairman was Franklin D'Olier , president of the Prudential Life Insurance Co. ; the vice-chairman , Henry C. Alexander , head of the Morgan Guaranty bank ; the secretary . Charles C. Cabot , distinguished Massachusetts lawyer and overseer of Harvard . Among the other members were economists such as John K. Galbraith and social scientists such as Rensis Like ? t . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred specialists , ranging from engineers to diplomats . The report of the committee ? supported by more than two hundred detailed studies ? was candid in appraising both successes and failures of the air war . It was thoroughly covered by the press , and its recommendations were received with re , spect in Congress , the White House , and the Pentagon . They formed a basis for much of the country 's postwar military policy . A similar survey ought to be extraordinarily useful today . It could not be conducted in the same fashion , of course , because the surveyors would be unable to make on-theground studies of the effects of bombing raids in North Vietnam . Nevertheless , they should be able to collect quickly very significant amounts of information by making their own aerial photographs , questioning prisoners and defectors , interviewing journalists who visit North Vietnam , and talking to neutral diplomats . In addition , they should have complete access to American intelligence files , and be authorized to talk freely and in confidence to anyone who might be useful , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in 1944. the study should be run by men independent of the government , and of such a character that they could not possibly be regarded as Administration spokesmen . The panel might include such men as Dr. James Conant ; George Kennan ; Leverett Saltonstall , former Republican Senator from Massachusetts ; economist Paul Samuelson ; scientist-businessman Dean Wooldridge ; banker Serge Semenenko ; lawyers Bethuel Webster and Lloyd Garrison ; and Far Eastern specialists such as Lucian Pye , Edwin Reischauer , and John K. Fair-bank . As before , the panel should be authorized to hire whatever technical staff it might need . The mission of the Bombing Survey would be to make " an impartial and expert study of the effects of the aerial attack " on North Vietnam ? and to report its findings as soon as possible to the whole nation . In no other way , so far as I can see , can we hope to get reasonably reliable answers ? answers which would command general acceptance ? to questions such as these 1 . How effective is the bombing in holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam ? Our field commanders acknowledge that they are facing more hostile forces , equipped with better weapons , than ever before ; but they insist that the rate of infiltration would be even greater if it were not hampered by constant air attacks . How much greater ? Would that extra margin be important enough to justify our losses of all kinds ? in planes , men , propaganda ? as a result of the air campaign in the North ? Are there more efficient ways of striking at the enemy supply lines ? perhaps by shifting the air attack to routes in South Vietnam and Laos which are not so heavily defended by antiaircraft installations , or by building a fortified line across the peninsula ? ( The latter strategy reportedly has had some support , or at least indications of interest , from Secretary of Defense McNamara , even though it might take a hundred thousand infantrymen to man such a line . It also has been suggested by General Cao Van Vien , chief of staff of the South Vietnam armed forces , who argues that bombing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bombing of industrial targets really the best way to persuade the Hanoi government to start negotiating ? A few years ago , some of the highest strategists in the Pentagon were predicting that the enemy would sue for peace when the first bomb dropped on North Vietnam soil . They were wrong . They may have been misled by their own experience in World War II , when air attacks unquestionably did help break the will-to-resist of both Germany and Japan . But those were heavily industrialized countries which simply could not function once their factories , railroads , and electrical systems were destroyed . North Vietnam never had much industry to begin with , and most of it has now been wiped out . It might be able to keep on functioning , and fighting , indefinitely regardless of the bombing ? since most of its citizens are peasants who are too dispersed to be attacked effectively from the air , and practically all of its military supplies come from Russia and China . Under these circumstances , maybe the bombing merely strengthens its will-to-resist , as critics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some conclusions on this point , through a study by an impartial team of political psychologists and Far Eastern specialists . Such conclusions certainly would gain wider public acceptance than the assertions of either the New Left or the air generals ? both of whom are less than infallible in their judgments about mass psychology . 3 . Since most of the designated targets in North Vietnam already have been pretty thoroughly battered , is continuation of the air campaign worth what it costs in purely military terms ? At this writing , we have lost more than six hundred planes over North Vietnam . Each of them costs more than $2 million ? aside from its expensively trained crew . Often a sortie succeeds only in knocking out a few feet of rail line or highway , which can be repaired overnight , or in destroying a couple of trucks . At what point , then , does the bombing campaign begin to do more damage to us than to the enemy ? 4 . On the other hand , perhaps we should expand the campaign to knock out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Vietnam 's imports are channeled . So far , the White house has refrained from bombing , or mining , the port , for fear that would mean the destruction of Russian ships ? which might bring on a direct confrontation with the Soviet Union . Is this fear realistic ? Is it indeed likely that Russia would respond by , say , sending its own pilots to defend North Vietnam ? or by opening up a second front in Korea or Berlin ? Might such action force the Soviets to patch up their quarrel with China , as some diplomats predict ? Could it bring on a nuclear war ? In any case , how should we calculate these risks against the possible gains ? ( Because right-wing opponents of Mr. Johnson probably will make the bombing or blockade of Haiphong a campaign issue , a nonpartisan , authoritative statement about it well before the 1968 election would be particularly useful . It is significant that Representative Gerald Ford , the Republican leader in the House , already is demanding the maximum use of American air power against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic costs of the air campaign ? For example , we reportedly have some thirty thousand men servicing air bases in Thailand . Their presence inevitably causes friction with the local people . ( The quartering of foreign troops in America was , as we all remember , one of the grievances which brought about our own revolution . ) The Communist attack on Thailand already has begun , with the infiltration of guerrillas into the Northeastern provinces ; and they are exploiting cleverly the anti-Americanism created by our " occupation forces . " Is the military value of the Thai bases great enough to offset this political damage ? Again , the air war is stirring up resentment and fear among the Japanese ? whose nerves jump , understandably enough , whenever a bomb fails on Asian soil . Our mutualdefense treaty with Japan comes up for renewal soon , and may be seriously jeopardized by this feeling . A similar revulsion among our European allies and the unaligned nations is harder to measure , but clearly is not negligible . How much do these factors count in the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look promising ? For instance , a group of Republican Congressmen , led by F. Bradford Morse of Massachusetts , recently proposed a gradual reduction of bombing attacks against the North , to be carried out in five carefully calculated stages ? on condition that the Hanoi government would scale down its own military efforts in step , without opening formal negotiations . North Vietnam has always insisted that it would never negotiate until the bombing stopped , permanently and unconditionally . In the beginning this probably was simply an example of the standard Communist ( and Oriental ) tactic of demanding that the other side give up all its best horses before the horse-trading even starts . By this time , however , ' Hanoi is so deeply committed on this point that it may feel unable to back down without losing face . Consequently some maneuver like that suggested by the Morse group might give Hanoi a chance to start a tacit and mutual scaling-down of the conflict , without public embarrassment . Is it worth trying ? There are many similar questions which no layman can answer with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present inflamed state , many critics of the Administration will be reluctant to accept any answers given by the Pentagon or White House . They would find it much harder . however , to reject the conclusions of an independent and impartial Survey , buttressed with detailed studies . Such conclusions ? whatever they might be ? should go a long way toward unifying public opinion in this country , and disarming hostile criticism abroad . And if the Survey should present . well-documented reasons for a change in bombing policy , that would give Mr. Johnson an opportunity to shift course with the least possible political disadvantage .                     