@@477630

WHEN I was a boy , in my late teens , I used to tramp about in the summer in the mountains of North Carolina . They meant to me , I believe , what mountains have always meant to human beings : grandeur , tranquillity , the strength of permanence . I had not reckoned upon the cleverness of our species . The proposal to create a new harbor in Alaska by blowing out a section of the coast with a hydrogen bomb suggests that talk of moving mountains with atomic energy ? such as we heard from Vishinsky when the U. S. S. R. produced an atomic explosion ? is more than rhetorical . Indeed , our scientists have already lifted a mountain a few inches into the air , all in one piece , with an underground nuclear explosion . We can not today look upon the noblest mountain with any certainty that it will outlast even us . It may be in the way of a planned twelve-lane , coast-to-coast , gradeless super-highway , or it may have to be leveled for some other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps . Then , waiting for it beyond our lifetimes , will be the teeming , insatiable consumers of the next century , starved for living spare and raw materials , including the minerals of which the mountains are storehouses . If even the most imposing geological formations are not proof against the pursuit of the ever more mobile and abundant life by our ever multiplying throngs , what is ? Based upon what I see around me , my guess would he ? very little . Ten years ago my wife and I did what millions of others have done and moved out of town . We were willing to pay the price of all the inconveniences for the chance to plant a tree and watch it grow and bring up our children in a house that could well be home to their children too . We have moved twice since then . We have learned that life on the fringes of a metropolitan area is like life in a frontier settlement of early America or a modern Israeli kibbutz ? with the difference that the news of imminent disaster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the headlines of the newspaper : Alternate Route for Inner Loop Debated . . . Commercial Zoning Extended in Three Areas .. . Jaycees Seek New Industry for County . ? . Route 123 to be Widened .. . Recently the fall of a centuries-old white oak was described in the paper by a neighbor of mine , a writer , Scott Seegers . He told how the mighty , old tree refused to move even after its bole had been cut through and how stubbornly it resisted all efforts to topple it . But the memory of the Father of Our Country had to be honored by a highway , and the tree , which quite possibly had looked upon Washington himself , had to come down . Ahead of the George Washington Memorial Parkway a swath several hundred feet wide is being cut alongside the Potomac through forests , farms , and estates . It has already reduced the ageless bluffs across the river from Washington to a series of great slag heaps . This speedway is only one of our advances in the field of transportation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to Washington as a park by the Glover and Archbold families will be gutted from end to end by a four-lane highway unless the legal action taken by the donors can pre-57 vent it . We also have U. S. 240 , a super-highway which has been hearing down upon the nation 's capital out of western Maryland for the past five years to an accompaniment of controversy as to what its route of invasion of the District of Columbia should be . Should it plow through the fine residential area of Cleveland Park ? Or should it be brought behind bulldozers ten abreast through the forest glades along the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal or through those of Rock Creek Park ( which , in the memorable words of one of the commissioners concerned , would " develop the park and make it a better place for people to take their children " ) ? Then we have the international airport at Chantilly , Virginia , the runways of which will be the equivalent of a twenty-four-foot-wide highway a hundred miles long . For this facility , fourteen square miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 250,000 trees pushed into piles , doused with oil , and burned . Those who live under the projected flight patterns are awaiting their introduction to the screams of jet aircraft . Progressiveness being a national characteristic , I am sure the inhabitants of other metropolitan areas are as familiar as we around Washington , D. C. , with the chronic anxiety of not knowing where progress is going to strike next . We all have in common the new Interstate Highway system . This project , if it lives up to expectations , will wipe out 100,000 homes . It will be Sherman 's march to the sea on a continental scale . It is of a battlefield that you are irresistibly reminded as you watch the bulldozers and graders at work . There is the same sweep of muddy or dusty devastation , impartially unsparing of the works of nature and man . A BAD BARGAIN I T HAS been said that for the present generation of Americans the principle of the " greatest good of the greatest number " really means the " greatest pleasure of the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes have the impression of a people who have heard on good authority that the world is about to end and are bent on getting all they can while the getting is good ? especially in the way of sensation . Our record of crime , delinquency , and vandalism is the world 's most shocking . We spend prodigally on self-indulgence and parsimoniously on the nation 's future ; as Kenneth Galbraith has observed , if we had a bigger national incomewe should probably spend the increment not on better schools , parks , and national defense but on raising the car quota per family to three . The cost of an hour-a-week television show providing only a transitory distraction can amount to as much as we pay the entire faculty of a large university or a couple of thousand elementary school teachers . We seek to lose ourselves in material possessions , entertainment , alcohol , and the fascination of sex . Like tenants on a short lease , we waste the resources of our country , litter it with papers , cans , and bottles , deface it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forest annually . From almost any highway the United States presents an appearance of abundant wealth combined with trashiness and neglect . There can hardly be another country in the world which has offered . its inhabitants so much and received so little from them in return . If we act like the inhabitants of a world under sentence of destruction , it may be because that is what we are ? and I do not mean destruction by atomic war . We have always heedlessly plowed under the past together with the natural treasures of our continent , but the pace of change has been quickening . Never before have we had such reason to feel that what surrounds us and gives continuity to life lingers only on borrowed time . The truth of our situation is slowly dawning ; we did not know what we had bargained for when we set material expansion as the supreme goal of our society . Conservationists ? whom experience has made rather defensive ? generally describe their purposes modestly and even apologetically . They are for the preservation of historical values , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values . But what they are ultimately concerned with is what men live by . Their object is to preserve their country as something more than a political and economic expression , to preserve a world that we can feel 58 AMERICA THE EXPENDABLE we belong to and can expect to endure . This does not require making an end of change and progress ; it does mean introducing a steering wheel and some brakes before the machine runs away with us . What the conservationists are up against is enough to discourage all but the dauntless . The encroachment of urban civilization upon the legacies of traditional America proceeds unchecked and at a dizzy pace . By the year 2000 , according to a study by Jerome P. Pickard for the Urban Land Institute , the city will dominate every section of the country ; of the ten super-metropolitan areas , New York will have a population of 23 million , Los Angeles 20 million . As August Heckscher , Director of the Twentieth Century Fund , points out , " The modern city has burst its walls , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thousand points penetrates the rural community . The proliferation of the city takes place tinder the guidance of no standards , at the whim of private interests . " Villages and towns rich in associations for Americans as individuals and as a nation are being swallowed up , are vanishing . And for what ? " Extended urbanism " ? to quote Mr. Heckscher again ? " has given him the rewards neither of intimacy nor of isolation . " We have hatched a Minotaur , and to slake its appetite we have to feed it a million green acres a year ? twice the area of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park . The shrinking remainder of the country ? that which escapes the city 's spread ? will be increasingly overrun . We already have 70 million motor vehicles , and by driving them 700 billion miles , as we are expected to this year , our population of 180 million will saturate more country , probably , than 600million pedestrian Chinese . The number of cars we drive is continuously increasing , and as demands for ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and wider lanes , broader shoulders , and more elaborate cloverleaves , the motorcar becomes an ever more voracious consumer of land and of whatever happens to be on the land . U. S. 66 , the monster which is to sweep through Arlington with eight lanes on its way from Washington to the Shenandoah Valley , will have within seven miles of my house one interchange taking over sixty acres and another eighty . The planned 41,000-mile Interstate Highway system will gobble up two million acres . Of the $20 billion to be spent on roads this year in the entire world outside the Iron Curtain , over half will be spent in the United States . And the highways arc only the beginning . With them comes the vast and tawdry infrastructure of the motor age ? the gas stations , bar-grills , tourist cabins , outdoor movie theaters , auto-wrecking lots , and roadside menageries ( " Pit of Death ! Man-killing Monkeys ! " ) . PREMATURE PREGNANCIES AND CORONARIES M U C H is being made over the growing amount of leisure in American life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us . The time we save with the latest in labor-saving machinery we characteristically spend in filling our lives with more noise and movement . According to the pollsters , the number of Americans who claim to he reading a book is only half the number who own an automobile . Leisure , contrary to what we may believe , is not what is left BY over after a forty-hour week : it is a spirit , an outlook on life . Charles Morgan defined it when he observed , " The party had that quality of ease and leisure which is peculiarly Italian , none of the guests having an axe to grind , an appoint . ment to keep , or any desire to excel . " It was n't an American party . Whatever we may profess , our religion is in fact a cult of contemporaneity , its object to be up-to-the-minute , up-with-the-Joneses . Cronus , the god who consumes his own children , is our deity . An embattled minority may save the cable cars of San Francisco and prevent the construction of giant apartment-hotels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , but it is a thousand times more typical of us to let the double-decker buses that had come to symbolize New York he scrapped because the other kind is a shade cheaper to operate and to let the picturesque houses bordering Lafayette Square , in front of the White House , go down to make way for more government office buildings designed by and for robots . We pay a price for condemning the familiar to extinction to make way for the new ; we condemn to extinction something of ourselves . To witness the disappearance of that which we belong to and which belongs to us and to acquire a feeling of homelessness is the fate we reserve for ourselves . Ours is a society that is cruel to the old . We provide the old with welfare services and miracle drugs to prolong their lives while sweeping away the world in which they had a place . The idolatry of age that is found in traditionalist Asian societies is replaced among us by an idolatry of youth . I do not mean that we sacrifice much for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't ? but that we make a fetish of youth . Advertising and popular entertainment on the screen and in magazines is directed largely at our preoccupation with youth and its physical attributes . The only product I recall of which the consumer is show " ' in the advertisements as being unmistakably past his twentiesother than.those related directly to age , like insurance ? is the Cadillac . But here , I am told , the reason for showing the proud possessor as a man in his forties or fifties has to do with the unconscious identification of the motorcar as a symbol of sexual vigor , a consideration to which wealthy men past their prime would presumably be peculiarly vulnerable . Pregnancies in high school , coronaries in middle age ; we are determined to force the pace . We can not wait . We pursue time ? hut only to find that we never have enough . Sustained attention is becoming difficult for us . The media in which our society chiefly expresses itself are given over to trivialities or what may be grasped on the run ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and motion pictures . In some quarter of a million hours of television broadcasting in the past decade it has been impossible to schedule three consecutive hours for a complete play of Shakespeare 's . The parochialism of time , as Van Wyck Brooks calls it , has invaded our schools and the humanities have been crowded to the side by technology and community adjustment . ( An early product of progressive education , I was graduated from high school without having had an hour 's instruction in history , American or other . ) " Our silent past , our deafening present . the constant pressure about us of unlovely circumstance , " Henry James exclaimed for this goes back some little time . What James had in mind , and more besides , is described in the current phrase , " Thc Rat Race . " It is a powerful and graphic analogy , and at first thought it seems a remarkable one for the most privileged people in the world to have hit upon to describe their existence . Perhaps on second thought it is not so remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formula , " All power to the Soviets . " With us it has been " All power to the individual , " and so far our formula has worked better . We have dazzled the world with our productivity and standard of living . These have come about , we explain , because we have supplied the individual with unprecedented opportunities and incentives . That is true . It is also true that by making material success a measure of worth and by depriving ourselves of any excuse for not succeeding each of us has the same chance , more or less , as the rest of us , has n't he ? ) we put the individual under terrific pressure to succeed . It works , to be sure . Our output is sensational ; our rats really race ! if the individual does not succeed , of course he is left with the cruel fact of his human failure . If he does , there is still a catch . He is left with the question of what ? apart from individual gratification ? it adds up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone through ? If the experience of mankind teaches anything , I think it . is that human beings find fulfillment when the focus of their lives is outside themselves , in something greater and more lasting than they are , something that can give meaning and perpetuation to their otherwise brief and not always joyful existences . It tells a good deal about the human race that in London during the bombings , when the needs of the nation were paramount to all , the incidence of nervous breakdowns declined . That which is " superior in force and continuity to good and evil fortune can alone " ? in Joseph Conrad 's phrase ? " give us the feeling of an enduring existence and of an invincible power against the fates . " Men who achieve this feeling achieve it generally through a sense of relationship , deep and real , to the quest for truth , God , or Country , with all that Country implies ; it was of the " national spirit " that Conrad was writing . And what about Americans ? Are we not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has risen steadily since the founding of the country and is now up to half . The churches are bulging . We have amended our Oath of Allegiance to the Flag to make us one nation " under God . " On billboards and on stickers on loaves of bread we urge our fellows to attend religious services . One of our most popular syndicated columnists is a divine who tells us not only how faith can move mountains but how it can make you the owner of a big hotel . We distribute more American flags than ever before through our veterans ' organizations . The base of the Washington monument is now encircled by a veritable wall of American flags . We have become so alert to un-Americanism that an unguarded remark made in college can get you into trouble twenty-five years later . Where once we marched to war singing the flippant ditties of " Yankee Doodle " and " Dixie " we now solemnly intone the elevated phrases of " God Bless America " ( " My home , sweet home " ) . BY That the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ? may not be doubted . Whether we are finding it is another matter . When a choice must be made between a new highway and the preservation of the integrity of a community or a masterpiece of nature , we seldom hesitate to embrace the highway . When the Pennsylvania Turnpike bypassed Bedford , The Rotarian tells us , despair settled over the three thousand inhabitants , but Bedford was made a turn-around terminal and now well over a thousand trucks a day pass through the town ? When the choice is between the interests of future generations in an unspoiled seashore and a real-estate developer 's opportunity for profit , we can be counted upon ninety-nine times out of a hundred to let the developer have his way . " Take what you want and pay for it , " says God ( a Spanish proverb tells us ) . What do we want ? A country in which nothing is too garish , ugly , crowded , or dislocated , provided somebody is making money out of it ? A country in which everything that could give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the ever-faster buck ? If so , therf , will be a price . It will be , I think , a continuing rootlessness , homelessness , and emptiness at the core of American life . It will be more of the tension and anxiety that are so striking to visitors to our country and that somehow we can not relieve with the mounting billions of cigarettes we an-nually smoke . Within two hours ' drive of where I live is the Shenandoah National Park . This is a tract of over 180,000 acres from which the Blue Ridge Parkway extends southward through the George Washington National Forest . Eventually , after also passing through several state parks and the Pisgah National Forest , it will reach , when completed , the Great Smoky Mountains National Park . Together , these reservations form a protected zone of forest , meadow , and mountains that is unbroken for five hundred miles . Within it there are no compulsively driven throngs , human or vehicular , no goading and peremptory traffic lights ( or any need for them ) , no frenzied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention . Some of the same effect may be found in certain parts of American towns which have escaped commercial exploitation and retained the character and dignity they have had for generations ? certain streets of New England whaling towns , for instance , or the heart of Savannah around Forsyth Park . Only here in the Shenandoah the sense of serenity is greater . In a national park you do not fear to form an attachment to what you see lest you return to find it bulldozed out for a gas station . You feel as if you had escaped the battlefield of a war you had been fighting and losing . You have for once the feeling of being at peace with your surroundings . A hope of " getting away from it all " ? somehow , sometime ? is part of the American dream . The drive to get away from the civilization we have built is today sending us to the national parks in ever greater numbers . It is also bringing tourists from the hinterland of America to the historic places of the Atlantic Seaboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , a million Americans are expected to visit Europe annually , an amazing number considering the costs of the trip . In all these pilgrimages , I suspect , there is a common motive . It is a longing to regain something we feel we have lost in our pursuit of the future . What we seek is reassurance that existence has other dimensions and values than those of the transient and harassing present . We seek it in the changeless mountains and forests , in the New England fishing villages and medieval French towns . We have a hunger for that which is enduring , which is rooted , - which=-belongs , as we should like to belong , for that which men have made not to see how much they could get out of it but to see how much they could put into it . There is a fine irony in this . We go to ever-greater lengths to recapture precisely those things that we happily raze to the ground when we find them near at home ? to make way for more of what we flee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the feeling of an enduring existence " requires unremitting battle , with the hope of winning only a small part of the time . When a landmark of our history or a spectacular remnant of our natural grandeur is threatened with destruction for even trivial or perverse reasons , the struggle to save it can be exhausting . It took conservationists years of effort to defeat the scheme to flood Dinosaur National Monument and use the impounded waters partly to bring more land under cultivation at a time when we are burdened with $9 billion in farm surpluses . A state-wide , even nation-wide mobilization was necessary to save the virgin forests of Porcupine Mountain State Park ( which Michigan had acquired fifteen years before to preserve them " for all eternity " ) from copper mining ? which was to have been subsidized by the taxpayer while the Department of State worried about the shrinking markets for the copper produced by our allies . The plan to level over the bed of the historic Chesapeake and Ohio Canal and convert the wooded corridor which it occupies beside the Potomac into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Supreme Court justice and other angry citizens hiked the 160-mile length of the canal to call attention to its value as a park . In another recent case the popular addiction to highways proved invincible . The Adirondacks arc to be invaded by a " Northviiy " which will bring their fastnesses within a beer-can 's throw of whizzing millions who are not content with having almost all the rest of the country to whiz through . " We can not hallow this ground , " said Lincoln . The question is , can we refrain from desecrating the battlefield of Gettysburg with subdivisions and Bar-B ? Qs ? The field of Antietam , soaked with the blood of more brave Americans than any other plot in the world ; was saved only by Congressional action- atthe last minute . The conservationists may well be fighting a . losing battle . Perhaps we must plunge on - to- some ultimate reckoning . But there are some grounds for hope , some indications that a stand can be made . The ferocious slaughter of wildlife following the Civil War led to the federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that now afford the survivors some protection . The ravaging of the wilderness led to our incomparable system of national parks which , starting with Yellowstone in 1872 , now encompasses 24 million acres , including some 130 national monuments and historical and battlefield parks . The threat to historical sites has called into being at least 800 organizations to protect them ; that is the present membership of the National Trust for Historic Preservation . Thanks to these organizations , 22 cities now have ordinances protecting historic sections and 50 others are said to have such ordinances tinder consideration . Three recent developments in Congress could be indicative of a growing public concern . One was the act authorizing a higher payment under the Interstate Highway system to states forbidding billboards along the right-of-way . The differential is a small one ( one-half of one per cent ) but it establishes a principle . A second was the creation by Congress of the Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission which will inventory our remaining unspoiled areas under the chairmanship of Laurance Rockefeller . The third is the Wilderness Preservation Bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion by roads and buildings . A few years ago a publication of the Audubon Society of the District of Columbia contrasted the virtually parkless suburbs of Washington with an equal area of London , where , in addition to innumerable smaller parks , there are 37 parks of over 50 acres each , of which 13 are of 200 acres or more , Hyde Park having 363 acres and Epping Forest over 5,000 . Since then , two of the jurisdictions ? Fairfax and Montgomery Counties ? have voted for multi-million-dollar bond issues for parks , and the prospects of saving a minimum of green areas while there is yet time have radically improved . There is plenty of evidence of a growing nation-wide interest in zoning laws , planning bodies , and acquisition of parkland . It would be remarkable if there were not , in view of the specter that has been conjured up for us of a super-megalopolis of the future that will engulf the entire Atlantic Seaboard from Massachusetts to Virginia . THAT specter calls up an ugly truth , how- ever : What we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the American past by the bulldozer and the wrecking crew is nothing compared with what we shall see in the future , no matter what actions we may take to control the evils of urban sprawl . We are adding three million to our population every year , and every year ? unless something happens to lower the birth rate or raise the death rate ? the number will grow larger . The parks will offer no refuge from the future 's hordes ; you will merely meet them there in different clothes . Not only is our population expanding but so are income and mobility . Annual visits to state parks rose from 75 million at the end of the war to 237 million in 1958 , the increase from 1957 to 1958 being 9 per cent , In The Crisis in Outdoor Recreation , Marion Clawson of the Ford Foundation estimates that by the year 2000 the demand upon our national parks and forests may well be forty times what it has been in the recent past : a projection of the current trend shows the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world 's population there is yearly added a number greater than the population of France . If the estimated one-third of a billion inhabitants of the world at the time of Christ had increased at the rate at which the world 's present inhabitants are increasing , P. K , Whelp-ton tells us in The Population Ahead , we should now have a million persons for every square foot of the earth 's land surface . By reducing mortality rates without correspondingly reducing birth rates , science has opened up for mankind a fate as ghastly as the trick it has up its other sleeve ? atomic annihilation . One important difference is that to escape the latter we need only refrain from using nuclear weapons , whereas to escape from being drowned in the flood of our own numbers , positive and perhaps drastic action is required . As for what the action should be , the issue was posed sharply last November when the Catholic Bishops of the United States came out with their statement on birth control " United States Catholics believe , " they said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morally , humanly , psychologically , and politically disastrous approach to the population problem . " Those who disagreed with them were accused of " promoting a moral evil " and the United States was warned not to let itself be terrorized by the " ' guesstimates ' of special pleaders with respect to the population explosion . " The Bishops implied that the solution lay in migration and in " increasing the acreage or the acreage yield to meet the food demands of an increasing population . " The pronouncement was followed by a brief flurry of controversy , and not much more . It is hard to think of an occasion on which our statesmen and editorialists have showed to worse advantage than they have in their pussyfooting on the issue of the population explosion . It is much as if they had been acting on the premise that the Communist threat would go away if it were made unmentionable . The two issues are not only of a comparable seriousness but closely related . Only the blind could maintain that China 's overpopulation had nothing to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of population increase in the underdeveloped countries of the Free World does not tend to negate the value of our economic aid and vastly complicate the problem of satisfying the ever-mounting demands of their inhabitants for a better life . In Kerala , in India , we have recently had an illustration of the sequence of overpopulation , unemployment , poverty , Communist success at the polls , attacks on Christian institutions . ( The Catholic Church is especially strong in Kerala . ) If the population of Africa is going to rise to 517 million and that of Latin America to 592 million by the year 2000 , as George Washington University predicts , we may face scores of Keralas . May the Bishops not have to ask themselves what it shall profit us if we shalt gain all these souls and lose the whole world ? STOPPING THE SWARM I-1/LE the Population Reference Bureau declares that " unless population growth is controlled in some underdeveloped countries , world chaos is inevitable " and two eminent scientists ? Philip M. Hauser , a University of Chicago sociologist and Sir Julian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of every practical method of birth control to save the world from political and social catastrophe , our President declares that " as long as I am here " our government will never " have a positive political doctrine in its program that has to do with birth control . " What the opponents of birth control may not fully understand is that many of us are aghast at the senseless , runaway proliferation of population not only because of the effect among the less fortunate peoples who even now go to bed hungry but because we happen to love our own country . Our nation spends $40 billion a year to insure itself against invasion from another country . We should like to see it spend sonic tiny fraction of that sum to insure itself against an invasion from another time , against being overrun by the teeming masses the future could spawn . Let us recognize that one invasion could be as destructive as the other , not only of the outward character of America but of all else we value ; for surely we can not assume that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town meeting and the assemblages of Revolutionary Virginia will still flourish when a human being is only one 500-millionth or a billionth part of a human mass packed into super-cities like monster , crawling bee swarms . If that growth is to be forestalled , a determined and resourceful effort must be made , and made soon , to develop simplified means of contraception and effective incentives to hold down the size of families . There seems to be little doubt that we are on the way to a solution of the contraceptive problem . As for the other ? if women from Patagonia to Manitoba and from Santa Monica to the Kurfiirsteudamm can be shamed overnight into raising or lowering the hemlines of their skirts at the whim of a Parisian designer , it should be possible to build up social pressures that will restrain parents from heedless multiplication . About 2.2 children per couple will maintain the population in the United States . Do we need many more ? Raymond B. Cowles , a zo-ologist at the University of California , said of the population explosion , " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no rational solution can he achieved in time to avert disaster to both wildlife and man himself . " Let us hope that he is wrong and that once again we can rally at the eleventh hour in defense of what remains of our homeland . Thomas Griffith , the foreign-affairs editor of Time , in his book , The Waist-High Culture , speaks of Americans today having a " sense of blighted intentions . " Convinced of our discontent with the noise , speed , hypocrisy , and triviality of our society , Mr. Griffith believes that nothing less is required than " a revolution of goals , a change in what we value , what we preserve , and what we pursue . " Perhaps never before , even in the depths of the great depression , have doubts about the direction of our civilization been so widespread among us . And from that , more than from anything else , we may draw encouragement .                     