@@214628

Returning to Santiago from a visit to neighboring Peru , Chilean Foreign Minister Gabriel Valds hastily summoned U.S. Ambassador Edward Korry . In Lima , Valds had held two long talks with Juan Velasco Alvarado , leader of the military junta that seized power last fall . Subject : the approaching showdown between Peru and the U.S. , which neither nation really wants . Soon after his junta overthrew President Fernando Belaunde Terry in October , Velasco expropriated the U.S.-owned International Petroleum Co . As a result , the U.S. , under a congressionally imposed retaliation called the Hickenlooper Amendment ( TIME , Feb. 14 ) , would have no choice in six months but to cut off aid and favored trade with Peru unless " appropriate steps " were taken toward a settlement compensating the oil company . <P> Velasco , reported Valds , was finally beginning to realize that the U.S. actually intended to invoke the amendment and that the two countries were on a collision course . With 350,000 sugar workers immediately dependent on exports to the U.S. , Peru 's previously adamant president was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' message , relayed to Washington from Santiago , contained four face-saving provisos for the sovereignty-conscious Peruvian junta . Velasco would receive a U.S. emissary , but that representative must be 1 ) a high-level personage , 2 ) President Nixon 's special representative , 3 ) armed with discretionary powers to negotiate broadly , and 4 ) willing to come to Lima . The Administration has been increasingly concerned over its disintegrating hemispheric relations ; at his press conference two weeks ago , President Nixon ruefully admitted that imposing the Hickenlooper Amendment would have an anti-American domino effect all over South America . Therefore the President speedily agreed to all four considerations . Off to Lima last week flew John N. Irwin , 55 , a Wall Street lawyer who served briefly in the Eisenhower Administration as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Affairs and who helped to negotiate new treaties with Panama covering the Panama Canal . <P> Peruvians received the President 's representative cordially and prepared to get down to serious negotiations this week to head off the Hickenlooper deadline of April 9 . To demonstrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference and made a point of answering questions from U.S. correspondents . <P> Not Willy-Nilly . " We want to converse , " the retired general said somewhat nervously , standing in khaki army uniform behind his desk . Velasco praised the U.S. as " a just nation " and suggested that " immoral companies " were the real barrier keeping the two countries apart . How would the spread be resolved , he was asked , between the $120 million that the IPC is asking for its expropriated properties and the $54 million that Peru up to now has been prepared to pay ? " Courtappointed appraisers will decide what the property is worth . " Was the $690 million that Peru insists it is owed by IPC subject to modification ? " Yes , naturally . We are not acting willy-nilly . " With that , the two sides retired for private discussions to defuse the crisis .                     