@@431677

 | Hope for Brain-Injured Children UNTIL Todd Herendeen was five months old , he was an alert and seemingly normal baby . Then early one morning his parents were wakened , not by Todd 's usual gay gurgles , but by an ominous thumping . Racing into his room , they found him blue and rigid , his head thrown back , his eyes rolling , his right arm flailing convulsively against the bars of his crib . For more than two hours , doctors at the Lower Bucks County Hospital in Bristol , Pa. , struggled to bring his convulsions under control . When they finally succeeded , Todd 's right arm and leg lay limp and paralyzed . His convulsions made it apparent that brain damage was present . In time the paralysis faded . But , as the months passed , Todd fell ever farther behind a normal baby 's pattern of development . The Herendeens ' life became a nightmare of visits to specialists in a desperate search for help . When Todd was a%Z , he could totter only a few steps before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all . Yet , today , Todd is as capable as any average seven-year-old . He still has a barely noticeable limp , but he can race his bike " no-handers . " He is usually first to the top on the monkey bars in his school play-  | ground . He is in the second grade ? right for his age . His reading level is normal . His writing is legible , his spelling outstanding , his vocabulary phenomenal . You would have to hunt far to find a happier , heartier youngster . Crawl and Creep . The most important fact about Todd Herendeen is that his recovery from the effects of brain damage is no isolated case . Hundreds of other brain-injured children have traveled the same path toward normal or superior development , under an unconventional , and controversial , form of medically supervised home treatment . This treatment was developed by a dogged group of physicians and therapists at the Institutes for the Achievement of Human Potential , in Philadelphia . There Dr. Robert Jay Doman , a physician specializing in physical medicine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carl H. Delacato , a specialist in education , had become increasingly dissatisfied with results achieved with massage , whirlpool baths , walking frames , crutches , braces , wheelchairs , and other traditional methods of physical therapy . In 1956 , rigorously analyzing the records of their last Too cases , they found that barely one third had achieved moderate advances . Another third had just held their own . A shockingly large number of youngsters had lost ground . The Doman brothers and Delacato then made another evaluation : of brain-injured children who had been kept at home with virtually rehabilitation training . These youn sters had been left to crawl or cr as best they could upon the fl Against all expectations , many the untreated tykes had made gai Some crawlers had begun to creep some creepers had learned to sta A few , in fact , had made more pr ress toward normality than cony tionally treated children . The Domans and Delacato pondered these reports of gains scored by the untreated . If they could cover why these advances occurr they might find the key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review of all that science learned about how the brain develops in normal children and how injuries ? before birth or later -- effect its functioning . Developmental Profile . The mans and Delacato devised a ch on which they could record a bra injured child 's level of development in terms of mobility , language , a manual , visual , auditory and tac competence . The record , which they called a developmental profit would indicate the level at which a child 's development had b blocked and point to the portion the brain ( medulla , pons , midbrain or cortex ) in which the injury centered . But it could do more they believed . If an effective way treating such injuries could be developed , the profile would serve a  | means of measuring progress and guiding the course of treatment as children moved through various levels of achievement toward normal development . In 1957 , the Domans and Delacato intensified their search for a method of treating not the visible results of brain injury but the injured brain self . In a normal child , they knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erve messages to the area of the rain that governs these moveems . Repeated successes gradually lilt up movement-controlling cit. - tilts within the brain and thereby established a reflex pattern that peritted the child to make coordinated movements without conscious a planning . But how could this natural process re-established in the brain of an injured child ? Substitute Cells . The late Dr. Temple Fay , professor of neurosurcry at Temple University School of Medicine , had recognized that most rain injuries did not involve the destruction of all cells in the injured area . He had suggested that it might possible to activate the millions of tirviving cells to take over the functions of the dead ones . " Jumping into the blue sky of theory and hypothesis , " Glenn Dolan recalls , " we decided to devise a group of patterning movements . With these , we would manipulate the limbs of a brain-injured child so .1 to carry him through the patterns to movement normally the responsibility of the damaged level of his brain . If we repeated these patterning procedures over and over ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the injured area of our patient 's brain would eventually receive the sensory messages our exercises were feeding into it . Gradually , the injured child would acquire the ability to carry out the movement patterns he had been unable to perform . " The trio spent weeks perfecting the details of their patterning exercises . One of them would lie prone on a table , while the other two and several therapists manipulated his legs , arms and head . Thus they learned how to reproduce the rhythmic movements of a normal child 's basic crawling patterns . After that , they tried the procedures on infants and children to make certain that every movement could be so gently imposed that even a patient with taut and spastic muscles would not feel pain or suffer injury . Finally , they tested how long each patterning session could be carried on without tiring a patient . When the children were not being patterned , they were given complete freedom to move about by being put on the floor . Crucial Test . " There was only one way to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brain-injured , " says Dr. Doman . " We had to put our theory to the crucial test of actual practice . " That test , in which they were  | joined by famed neurologist Dr. Eugene Spitz , * was the most rigorous they could devise . At his clinic at Philadelphia Children 's Hospital , Dr. Spitz described the project 's purpose to the parents of his braininjured patients . He stressed its experimental nature , told them how much hard work they would have to do if they enrolled their youngsters in the test , and that he could promise nothing . Parents volunteered to cooperate . Eventually 76 children , with every major type of brain injury and every level of retardation , were enrolled . Each child brought to the Institutes received a day-long series of examinations to determine the exact degree of his disabilities . The next day , under medical supervision , therapists taught parents how to perform the patterning exercises . Later , in their own homes and with the aid of relatives or neighbors , they put their youngsters through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a day , seven days a week . And every two months , they brought their children back to the Institutes for an assessment of progress and for instruction in more advanced patterning exercises . Crawl , Creep , Walk , Talk . At the end of two years , a detailed analysis was made of the children 's records . Not one child had lost ground . Ten remained at the same level as when they started treatment . But 66 made advances ; 17 were walking normally , including two who , at t start of the experiment , had been able to turn over by themselves . A 18 more were also walking , thou not perfectly . As these children advanced ward normal mobility , many a began to improve in vision , heart and manual dexterity . Although they received no speech therapy , percent of those who could not spe at all at the start of the program began to talk . Before the experiment ended , a number had acquired a vocabulary ? and the ability to use it fully normal for their age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medical Association published a report on the two-year stu describing the theory behind t patterning treatment , the procedu used and their effect on the children 's mobility . Since then , a nu ber of physicians prominent neurology and rehabilitation ha criticized patterning treatment both theoretical and practic grounds . Some deplore abandonment of braces and convention muscular exercises . Others declare that the new treatment can not properly judged until controlled experiments make possible an accurate comparison between patterning a more orthodox rehabilitation methods . Still others , skeptical at first , ha visited the Institutes , checked records , observed patients and concluded that the new technique  | effective . So many , in fact , have referred patients to the Institutes that a waiting list had to be set up . Over the last four years , by more than doubling its staff , the Institutes have been able to accept nearly 1100 children on referral from 450 physicians . Among the most enthusiastic proponents of the patterning technique are physicians whose own children have recovered from the effects of brain injury under the treatment . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Thaine E. Billgsley of Monterey , Va. , suffered massive brain damage which left him unable to speak , see , or move his arms and legs . After two years of patterning therapy , Gary has relearned to creep , to crawl and to stand , though he can not yet walk normally . His lost speech and sight have returned . He reads with his peers and does cursive writing unaided . He recently passed his tender-foot tests and joined the Boy Scouts . Two-year-old Rita Stack , daughter of Dr. and Mrs. William Stack of Cheltenham , Pa. , could not walk , talk or even sit up because of brain damage following an attack of meningitis . But two months after her treatments started , she uttered her first words . A few months after that , the started walking . Today , this , sight-year-old is in the third grade rid rates at or above par for her age n every major skill area . " Tommy Has Started to Read . " continued research in the new therapy has resulted in the developrent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immobility , for example , many brain-injured children fail to develop the deep-breathing habits essential to supply adequate oxygen to the brain . To overcome this , a small transparent mask is worn over the child 's nose and mouth for 6o seconds during each waking hour . " By thus rebreathing his own exhaled breath , " Dr. Doman states , " the carbon-dioxide level of the blood is temporarily raised and the respiratory centers in the brain are stimulated to a reflex of deeper and more regular breathing . " The observations of alert parents have also led to refinements in the basic technique . Until he was three , Tommy Lunski , whose brain had been injured at birth , could barely crawl and could not speak . Then , under patterning therapy , he began to make rapid physical progress . On his second visit to the Institutes , he was up on his knees and creeping . But the Domans were incredulous when , before he was four , his parents announced , " Tommy has started to read . " Picking up a pad , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomato juice with his hamburgers at lunch . " Tommy gazed at the sentence , then repeated it word for word . Still unbelieving , Doman said , " You must have made Tommy memorize that . " He wrote , " Tommy 's father owns a bar and drinks a lot of beer , " and handed the pad to the boy . Solemnly , the fouryear-old read out the new mes140 THE READER 'S DIGEST sage , adding , " And that 's why Daddy has a big fat tummy ! " In the hours that followed , Tommy plowed through third- , fourth- and even sixth-grade reading tests without error . Then , while the astonished witnesses discussed the implications of his performance , the little boy picked up a magazine and lay down on the office rug to read . Soon the Domans and Delacato found that half a dozen of their supposedly too-young-to-read patients had actually learned to do so while learning to creep or walk . They encouraged other parents to expose youngsters to alphabet books and picture-readers , as the Lunskis had done for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in patterning therapy , it falls not upon the injured children but upon their parents . Instructors at the Institutes emphasize the importance of never skipping any part of the daily patterning schedule . For large families this poses no great manpower problem . But for many parents , neighborhood volunteers have solved the problem . Perhaps the greatest outpouring of neighborly help has been that provided eleven-year-old David Posnett of Buckingham , Pa. , who was smashed back to infancy by a speeding automobile in 1961 . Mrs. Betty Molesworth called a neighborhood meeting and induced ten women to drive daily to the Institutes for a two-week course in patterning therapy . Then , each serving as a team captain , they combed Bucks County for additional volunteers , whom t trained . Eventually , David 's little army strangers-turned-helpers number 240 . During more than three ye the volunteers arrived at the Posnett farm five times a day as regularly clockwork . Helping David eme from paralysis and advance tow normal boyhood proved to be a warding experience . No one n remembers how or when it star but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would say , " Thank you , David . " New Advances . In the hope making patterning therapy avail to the brain-injured everywhere , Institutes two years ago establish teaching branch to train such sons as physicians , physical , sp and occupational therapists . To workers trained there have made new techniques available at Lo Research Center in Chicago Western Pennsylvania United Cerebral Palsy Center in Spring Ch near Pittsburgh , and at Les Pa Rehabilitation Center in Memphis . Other centers are planned . " As these independent centers into full swing , " says Glenn Do ? we hope to eliminate our waiting list at Philadelphia . But more important is the fact that physicians will be independently supervising and observing more patients . Out of their work sh come new advances in both th and technique that will provide increasingly effective help for brain-injured. ?                     