@@488106

DEAR SIRS : In youi editorial about the new censorship of schoolbooks in California ( " Clean Minds , " Sept. 30 you speak in passing of the " much more open , realistic and healthy attitudes toward sex " among young people in America today Certainly their attitudes are more open , and possibly more realistic , but are they healthy ? Those in a position to know say that interest in sex among students has declined steadily and radically in the past two or three years The attitude seems to be that sex has no more meaning than other bodily functions , ingesting , defecating , etc . Is this healthy ? Is it what we want ? We used to think the pill , considered sexually rather than procreauvely , would help to liberate and heat up people who were formerly repressed or inhibited , but maybe all it is doing is to add sterility , in the broadest sense , to frigidity. another case of technology destroying cultural values Hayden Carrot ! , Alaska write-in Lyndonville , Vt DEAR SIRS In 1964 , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many others have come to wish they had Later , he tried valiantly to tell us the truth about Vietnam , and events have shown how right he was Having lost a close race for renomination , he has just announced plans for a write-in campaign . The Peace Movement now has muscle ' money and manpower No one deserves our full support more than Ernest Gruening Let 's do everything humanly possible to encourage the Senator With his opposition split two ways , an all-out write-in effort would have an excellent chance . Senator Gruening has brought to Washington a rare combination of sophistication , character and brilliance The United States can ill afford to lose the services of this great man William A Pierce , M D. knife in Hubert Lake Orion , Mich DEAR SIRS In The Bitter Legacy of LBJ " by Carey McWilliams , The Nation , Sept 9 you suggest that " if they the Democrats did not elect Richard Nixon . . . it was through no fault of Lyndon Johnson , Mayor Daley , or the happy nominee . " wonder if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true that the industrial-military complex runs the country , perhaps it is also tiue that they like Nixon and have suggested as much to their boy It is the only supposition that makes sense of the following ( 1 ) Beating up the press Unprecedented ' Especially for politicians at election time ( 2 ) Polarizing the young Certainly Nixon is at least as warlike as LBJ and Humphrey , but Hubert gets the bitterest anti-war demonstrations . ( 3 ) The chrome-plated , neon lighted steam roller , which nobody needed , and which no experienced politician uses publicly unless in a desperate situation  --  which nobody was in at Chicago ( And on coast-to-coast television ' ) ( 4 ) The public repudiation by LBJ of every attempt by Hubert to gather back the moderates and liberals Surely even amateur politicians know better than this , and whatever else Johnson is , he 's no amateur Perhaps at lowei levels , the Democrats are unaware of being scuttled , but by now , even Ebullient Hubert must suspect that that uncomfortable feeling between his shoulders is a Texas bowie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' 68 The World Series is traditionally the halfway mark between the conventions and the election and , having reached that point , we may assess the scandals of the campaign with some confidence . ( 1 ) Vietnam . Down to the conventions it promised to dominate the campaign , and indeed it is still much on the voters ' minds . But it is not really being discussed . During the week of September 30 , Humphrey belatedly broke the ice , but the water was so shallow that he did not get his ankles wet What he said was touted by his public relations staff as a major announcement , but it was obviously a concoction made up under pressure to " do something " about a lagging campaign and to project an image of Humphrey thinking for himself Poor as Humphrey 's performance was , it shines by comparison with Nixon 's on the same topic . Nixon has refused to discuss Vietnam at all , on the ground that he does not wish to interfere with the negotiations going on ? or rather standing still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility that accounts for this reticence but his hope that the voters have forgotten ( or never heard of ) his warmongering in 1954 , when he backed Admiral Radford and other early hawks in the scheme to relieve the French garrison at Dienbienphu , with nuclear bombs if necessary A major scandal of the campaign is that Humphrey so far has let him get away with it But then , Humphrey has so much hawk in his own past that his caution is understandable . Wallace 's position on Vietnam hardly warrants serious discussion His support comes from a section of the electorate that equates any kind of negotiation and compromise with " appeasement , " yet he must reach out for votes among that greater mass which wants to see an end of the war , win , lose or draw . So he touches on it only briefly while bellowing for " law ' n order , " segregation without racism , and castrating the Supreme Court . It peace can not be had at the conference table , Wallace would inquire of the Joint Chiefs of Staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they knew ! ) and if they said yes he would leave the rest to them . ( 2 ) Atmosphere One of the scandals of ' 68 is the tone of the campaign . Why is it , really , that there is so much unfocused anger and resentment for a man like Wallace to exploit ? Is n't it precisely because that anger and resentment have not been focused against legitimate targets , as they would have been in meaningful politics ? Who , for instance , is explaining inflation in terms that make sense ' ) Who says out loud that the finagling with the costs of the Vietnamese War has had much to do with what is happening in the cities , with the stalemate in civil rights , with discord on the nation 's campuses ? Or take law and order , which appeals most strongly to a large and fearful portion of the electorate . Neither Nixon nor Humphrey has attacked Mayor Daley , neither has denounced the lawlessness in the South on the issue of desegregation . Because both have preferred to evade THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this area , they have let Wallace stand forth as the protagonist of orderly government and the strong man who will make the streets safe . ( 3 ) The Collapse of the Future . All three candidates belong to the past  --  different pasts but all jogging along abandoned roads . Not one of the candidates holds out any realistic hope for the future ; when they refer to it at all , it is high-flown rhetoric . That is why there are no slogans in this campaign . Since the turn of the century , from the Square Deal of Theodore Roosevelt to the Great Society of Lyndon B. Johnson , slogans have played a symbolic role in the bidding for votes . Slogans can be deceiving in whole or in part , but they do indicate a determination to advance . This time there is no such determination , only a desire for office . Nixon 's talk of the " Forgotten American " is not a slogan , only a meretricious appeal to a largely fictitious sense of injury . All three Presidential contenders are mired in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Muskie implied , to inspire confidence . What the campaign looks like , then , at this point , is that one would rather see Edmund Muskie succeed to the Presidency than Spiro Agnew The Pentagon Speaks Stories by John Lannan in the Washington Star and Victor Cohn in The Washington Post ( September 20 ) disclose an incipient conflict between administrative scientists connected with the Pentagon and scientists who receive Pentagon grants but insist on voicing their opposition to the Vietnamese War and urging others to do likewise . In one of the publications of the American Mathematical Society , a number of mathematicians inserted paid advertisements urging colleagues to be " responsible for the uses to which your talents are put . We believe this responsibility forbids putting mathematics in the service of this cruel war . " Among the signers were Drs . Jervey Neyman , Lucien LeCam and Peter Bickel of the University of California , all working under grants from the Department of the Army In due course they received sharply admonitory letters from Dr John W. Dawson , chief scientist of the Army Research Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutually acceptable decision to terminate our present association when your present support expires appears to be consistent with both our positions . " The Navy was less peremptory . Dr Peter King , chief scientist of the Office of Na ? al Research , revealed that letters had been sent to five people involved in four Navy contracts . He refused to identify the recipients but paraphrased the contents of the letters : " It has come to our attention that the signers of the advertisements may have strong personal feelings about Department of Defense support . In the light of that , do you want to continue to work for us ? Our concern is in what that announcement really means " Dr. K. C. Emerson , deputy for research in the Army 's Office of Research and Development , took much the same view as Dr. King ( thus a view different from Dr. Dawson 's ) . Still more divergent , Dr. William J. Price , chief scientist in the Office of Aerospace Research , said that although his office had on its payroll persons who had signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such letters . Faced with these conflicting positions , Dr. John S. Foster , Jr. , Department of Defense director of research and engineering , issued a formal statement of policy . " Some members of the research and development community , " he wrote , " have disagreed with government decisions while they contributed significantly to the country . " Such being the case , he urged that the military " take all necessary actions to preserve our mutually beneficial relationships with the academic research community during this period when there are potentially divisive pressures . " Scientists are far more important to the Pentagon ( and to science-based corporations ) than the Pentagon is to them . Thus scientists who insist on speaking their minds are not only protecting scientists in general against censorship ( both those who agree with them and those who do not ) , but are helping measurably to preserve freedom of speech for all citizens , at least so long as the divisions within the country remain within present levels of acrimony . Labor Pains Whether he knows it or not . George Meany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that led to the departure of Dr Grayson Kirk from Columbia University : the serfs are demanding a bigger piece of the action and the " establishment " is not responding . First of all , Mr. Meany is confronted with the " protest movement " of Walter Reuther who , with the aid of the Teamsters , has set up the Alliance for Labor as a means of restoring to the labor movement some of the social idealism it seemed to radiate in the 1930s . Like some other labor leaders , Mr. Reuther is miffed that Meany did not bother until September to secure AFL-CIO ratification for his unqualified endorsement of Humphrey last April . Meany , of course , has clamped down hard . Some of the unions ? International Chemical Workers and United Rubber Workers , among others  --  that had at first been inclined to join the rebellion are now holding back . For the moment the rivals are observing a false truce ( they have both endorsed Humphrey ) but there will be interesting post-election developments . The Reuther schism is , however , merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faces . In California , many unions are in revolt against the arbitrary handling of political endorsements . The Los Angeles County Federation endorsed Jesse Unruh for re-election to the Assembly in which he serves as Speaker ; the State Federation rejected the endorsement . In disgust , Unruh has said of the State Federation  --  which purports to represent 1.5 million organized workers but really represents itself  --  that it " has n't enough political muscle in the state legislature to get a Mother 's Day resolution passed . " Joseph Kraft reports from Flint , Mich. , that many union members resent the action of the leadership , not on any one issue but again because of the handling of political endorsements Much of the sentiment for Wallace reflects this resentment . Yet despite mounting evidence of disaffection , Meany keeps redoubling his efforts for Humphrey , minimizing 356 support for " dovish " Democratic Senators who have excellent labor records and cracking down on all who refuse to knuckle under to his dictation . By his stubborn adterence to the old coalition politics he is assuring further dissension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a perilously exposed position when the new Congress convenes . Infatuated with " law and order , " he seems to have forgotten the Memorial Day Massacre in Chicago , when the wrath of the police was directed not at students and hippies but at men who were trying to form trade unions Unfortunately it will be organized labor , not George Meany , that will pay the price for this lapse of memory Identity Crisis The rebellion against Meany is an aspect of the general crisis that confronts organized labor in all the industrially developed countries . During past times of economic deprivation , labor leaders in these countries have been able , often for fairly long periods , to induce the rank and file to follow political leadership of which it did not fully approve and support programs some of which it detested  --  all as the price to be paid for more jobs and better wages . In today 's affluent societies , however , a section of the rank and file feels itself in a position to reassert some of its ancient prejudices . The leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large section of the membership enthusiastically endorsed the racism of Enoch Powell . If they had hung out more in the workers ' pubs , they would not have been so taken by surprise . Nor is there any reason for surpiise that a significant section of American labor supports the racist views of George Wallace For seventy years , organized labor in California constituted the spearhead of the anti-Oriental movement . Much the same feeling has long characterized organized labor 's attitude toward Mexicans ( in the Southwest ) , toward Negroes and , at an earlier period , toward European immigrants . Periods of prosperity bring out the always latent chauvinism in the labor movement , which derives from job competition in economies of scarcity . In today 's affluent societies , labor faces an " identity crisis . " It can no longer indulge in its ancient fantasies without placing the gains it has won in jeopardy . It must decide , therefore . just what is the true function of a trade union in the post-industrial societies . The crisis has become acute because the leadership has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of unionizing the organized , that is , of aligning the membership against the traditional trade union scourges  --  war , racism , and " law and order " ( police-state style ) . Reducing the Profile Either the State Department and the Pentagon have begun to listen to The Nation ( which we would like to believe ) or they have on their own begun to take a tougher line against diplomatic-military blackmail . At any rate , the government of Francisco Franco is not finding our negotiators such easy marks as in the past . THE NATION/ October 14 , 1968 in 1953. the United States and Spain entered into a twenty-year defense pact calling for the establishment of multi-billion-dollar American bases in Spain . An initial ten-year period was to be followed by two five-year extensions , unless either country desired to withdraw from the agreement . This provided a source of income and opportunity for extortion which Franco 's Fascist regime was not likely to overlook . Without the pact , the position of Franco 's government might have been untenable ; Uncle Sam 's complaisance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1963 for five years , with a " sweetener " of $100 million from the U.S. treasury Franco had no intention of settling for any such bagatelle this time around Flanked by military advisers , his foreign minister , Fernando Maria Castiella , sat down with Secretary Rusk , likewise supported , and with traditional Spanish punctilio requested a $1.2 billion raise , to be spread over the last five years of the lease . Making good use of his superlative imperturbability , Rusk came back with an offer of $100 million . The Spaniards were gradually worn down to $700 million , but that , they averred , was their rock-bottom price , and on September 26 they broke off negotiations . According to a handout from the Spanish Embassy , " Everything points to a renewal . " This press release attempts to " sell " the American public . Besides expatiating on the boon the bases represent , it alludes to the injuries the Spanish have suffered from our presence : " The third of the bases , Moron , near Seville , is the takeoff point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft operating in the Mediterranean . It was a tanker based at Moron that collided with a bomber over Palomares on the southeast coast of Spain and almost caused a disaster of incalculable proportions when four hydrogen bombs were scattered in the region " However , for $700 million , possibly less , Franco will risk such disaster for another five years . The Spaniards are probably right : one way or another , the pact is more likely than not to be renewed . However , some uncertainty is suggested by Mr. Rusk 's flinty counteroffer . For one thing , the general value of overseas bases is under discussion in Washington ; for another , Uncle Sam is not the Croesus he used to be  --  or , as Mr. Rusk puts it , the time has come for the United States to " reduce its profile " overseas . There is no better place than Spain to make a start . One War " You have a home in the Army , " the slogan that was echoed with resigned bitterness by black GIs as they re-enlisted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lure the Negro soldier . According to Robert Terrell , writing in the New York Post , rates for Negro re-enlistment are down in the last year from 66.5 per cent to 31.7 per cent . Terrell talked to a number of black GIs whose terms were coming to an end and heard two main reasons for the reluctance to stay in the service . The first , according to his respondents , is that Negroes are dying in disproportionate numbers in Vietnam . No statistics were of-fered , but the blacks look around them and see that the company typewrhers and supply rooms are manned by white boys . The Negroes feel themselves field hands once more  --  in fields of blood . The other reason given is that the DMZ and the Mekong Delta are poor places to go hunting for freedom when the soul brothers are stalking it in the streets of urban America . Incredibly , and ironically beyond comment , the black troops in the rice paddies yearn to be where the action is . Corroborating this picture of Negro disillusion with the Army game @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a recent riot of military prisoners at Long Binh Jail ( known with sweet brevity as LBJ ) . Sixty-three men , including five guards , were injured ; one white prisoner was killed When the uproar had burned itself out  --  and most of the stockade 's buildings with it  --  all the white prisoners and 100 of the Negroes cooperated in restoring order . But 220 others , all Negro except for three Puerto Ricans , refused and were placed in a special compound , where they improvised African-style garments and beat on metal drums They were fed a diet of C-rations until , one by one , they agreed to form up for roll call and otherwise obey confinement routine . Army - en dismiss this demonstration as atypical : everyone in th jail was already out of step with the Army But Arm " , spokesmen make a practice of dismissing whatever seems to contradict their image of a holy war fought by golden youths The fact is that the riot in the LBJ was not directed against the authorities ; it was fought by prisoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the offensive . Another thing that Army spokesmen would certainly deny ( if they could be made even to understand the question ) is that Vietnam and the ghetto , Saigon and Harlem , are two fronts of one war But the blacks do n't deny it , and neither will history . Military ' Social Welfare ' At a time when the Johnson-Humphrey Administration and the Congress are putting the ax to the roots of most social welfare programs , Defense Secretary Clark M. Clifford announces that he is mobilizing the Pentagon for an attack on the social ills of the nation . Any such proposal has an odd sound in a country where the role of the armed services has traditionally been limited to defense against foreign enemies  --  or at any rate to fighting , whether for defense or for other ends But that is what Clifford said ? " The Department of Defense , a department which consumes 9 per cent of the gross national product of our nation , a department which employs 4 5 million Americans , has a deep obligation to contribute more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nation . " This would take the form of low-cost military housing , a " new generation " of military hospitals , schools and education for undereducated young men who would emerge better fitted for employment . Another innovation would be for the Department of Defense to urge industry to build new plants and to subcontract as much defense work as possible in surplus tabor areas . This speech was delivered before the National Security Industrial Association , which represents some of the largest defense contractors . It is fair to assume that it reflects some uneasiness , on the part of the Department and its beneficiaries , about the continuing high level of military spending  --  and a feeling that some taxpayers might be finding the defense budget just a bit heavy . So Mr. Clifford , who has had long experience in making the unpalatable tasty , is offering goodies from an unexpected source . The offer , however , is vaguely sinister . It is ' a late offspring of the marriage between big defense and big industry , and one may have misgivings . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian public-works program than by putting the Army to work on a part-time basis . Or can it be that Mr. Clifford surmises that the armed services can no longer discharge their historic purpose , simply because it is no longer to be achieved by military means ? That being so , and Othello 's occupation being on the way out , is he to be kept in uniform by providing him with a social mission " '                     