@@494793

The reconstruction of a life can not be undertaken with any nonchalance , and the life of a singular and challenging poet calls for a singular and challenging historian . Emily Dickinson , who died before any but the smallest degree of recognition was hers , now after almost seventy-five years of accumulating fame has reached her zenith in two major works by two major scholars , Jay Leyda 's two-volume work , The Years and Hours of Emily Dickinson , and at last the ( presumably ) Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson , in one volume edited by Thomas H. Johnson . Both are awesome works . Mr. Johnson has here condensed his three-volume Variorum Edition of the poems and gives us in one volume the 1775 poems which are now considered the Dickinson canon . In this book , ' because it is intended as a reading text , he selects but one form of each poem . To anyone familiar with the Variorum it will not be necessary to point out the magnitude of such a task . Nor the superlative qualifications Mr. Johnson for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student of Dickinson also for his collaboration with Theodora Van Wagenen Ward on the three-volume edition of Dickinson 's letters . In addition to an index of first lines , Mr. Johnson has included a subject index which will prove a benison to the Dickinson addict . For this subject index is an embryonic concordance , and a full concordance should be next on the scholars ' program for releasing the glories of Dickinson 's thought to an ever-widening audience . Mr. Leyda is uniquely qualified for the prodigious task of presenting an Emily Dickinson reader , that is to say , a vast compendium of entries sometimes related to each other , but all on a calendar basis and all of them explorations into the life of the times as well as of the poet herself . Mr. Leyda 's first use of this form was in his massive two-volume documentary life of Herman Melville , which he called The Melville Log . The stunning tour de force of scholarship involved in compiling this history defies measurement . As Melville 's posthumous fame increased , so equally did the mysteries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to probe and explore for the truth , by an odd expedient . He sought out and collected any and every shred of information , whether salient or trivial or in between , that had to do in any way with Melville . This program called for the use of such disparate sources as legal documents and hearsay , letters and gossip , records in archives and word of mouth memories , Naval and other records and diaries . Only by close reading of the entries in the volumes can the reader be fully aware of the scope and diversity of the material laid before him . It is to our everlasting gain that Mr. Leyda has now turned his expert attention to the figure of another great American writer , the Amherst poet and philosopher , whose world was circumscribed geographically in her lifetime but whose dimensions since her death in 1886 have increased immeasurably . Nor do these two masterpieces of scholarship under review put any boundary to her scope . On the contrary , here , as in the Melville Log , the author has indicated many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his subjects , and what he wrote in conclusion to his labors on Melville he could have repeated justly here for Dickinson , namely : " Perhaps this book should have been more rightly named ' The Endless Study ' . " From the welter of mythology and gossip that grew slowly around Dickinson 's name as she became ever more widely known , Mr. Leyda has attempted to extricate her in these volumes and " to get at the truth of ED , " as he says in his introduction , " by the most factual treatment possible . " Accordingly he begins with a chronology which will give the reader a good idea of the phantasmagoria of subject matter and unfamiliar names about to follow in the eighthundred-and-more pages of text . The larger portion of the introduction is a precis indicating the coming panorama of crises and frustration , of loves and deaths and scandals , of college life and politics , as well as plenty of commonplace events . These make up the frame that encloses the New England Original we are studying . The finished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps the phrase is used because the compiler wishes merely to present the material and has no desire to weigh the evidence or evaluate all of the sources he uses , some obviously authentic , some not . Still it is hard to reconcile his objective of a " factual " approach to the truth of the subject , with his unwillingness to differentiate the sources critically . A distinction should be cited , for instance , between reports by dependable persons and those made by ubiquitous and tireless gossips of the day . Before the long calendar of entries begins , we are given a valuable chapter called " The People around Emily Dickinson . " Here , if we pursue dated references into the text and , from names in the text , bring the indexes in both volumes into use , we see quickly what a labyrinth of detail lies ahead . The people described in this chapter , while important in one way or another to what follows , are by no means the entire cast of characters . Mr. Leyda would have done well to offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , each succinctly identified . Narrative comments used to link various entries would help considerably . They would provide unobtrusive but indispensable background , permitting the reader to proceed with no break in his concentration . To devoted Dickinson readers , every entry in the Leyda collection will be of interest , and sometimes shockingly exciting as the panorama lights up and the characters begin to move . However , when the last cross reference is checked and the last page is turned and the little cosmography is reviewed , there will be a private yearning on the student 's part to trace out the real story . Somebody ought to condense and make readable as narrative what was already history . New groupings and new perspectives would appear , especially after important pruning of adventitious material . Full texts should be restored where certain of Mr. Leyda 's ellipses tend to alter the emphasis from major to minor in Dickinson 's experience . References to full transcripts of the letters establish this again and again . Mr. Leyda 's departures from his resolve to be factual are frequent . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters in draft , the so-called " Master " letters . He deposes the Reverend Charles Wadsworth , long understood to be sovereign in Dickinson 's life at its most productive periods . In place of the luminous figure of Dr. Wadsworth , Mr. Leyda creates a faceless , nameless creature as the possible recipient of these intensely moving documents . But there are wells of emptiness here . And is it ever wise toignore the absence of information , which might turn out to be of more significance than any previous facts amassed . There remains very little in Dickinson 's years and hours still shrouded in mystery ? only her full entente and exchange with that " Fugitive whom to know was Life . " Some historian ( let us hope soon ) working with the evidence at hand today and with his own intuition will be able to give verisimilitude at least to Dickinson 's great love . Someone , who , like Robert Graves , is not afraid to use his historical intuition . Whether or not Mr. Leyda has succeeded in establishing an anti-myth in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , deeply engaged with Dickinson , will decide for himself . " In nature , " said Goethe , " we never see anything isolated , but everything in connection with something else which is before it , beside it , under it and over it . " This truth is borne out by Mr. Leyda 's profuse and generous collection .                     