@@478529

In the beginning , to fill the void that it inherited from World War II , America created the idea of Europe . It was to he a United Europe , not merely strong and prosperous ; also gratefully pro-American and peace-loving ; and above all a single-minded potent ally against the forces of darkness ? that is to say , the forces of communism . It was to become the equal of the United States in an Atlantic Partnership , which in turn , according to John Kennedy 's version of this mythology , was to be the " nucleus for the eventual union of all free men . " Rarely had a nation invested so much wild hope , currency , and energy in such a Biblical vision . And rarely have the days of inspiration and creation passed with such speed . Facing disappointment in our dream , we seem to be giving up on dreams altogether , reacting to failure with a righteous anger that is certain only to compound the failure . " And the Lord said , Behold , the people is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , December 1965 language ; and this they begin to do : and now nothing will be restrained from them , which they have imagined to do . Go to , let us go down , and there confound their language , that they may not understand one another 's speech . So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth : and they left off to build the city . Therefore is the name of it called Babel ... " Our kind of tower or no tower at all . Supranationalism or dispersion . No unity , no policy . Is this what we now say to Europe ? It seems so . The tales of Atlantica charm no more in Washington . The tribes of Europe are scattering ? confounded , babbling incoherently of NATO and MLF and ANF and OECD , of nationality and liquidity , of Inner Sixes and Outer Sevens , of Building Bridges to the East and Tunneling Under from the West and of Blasting Holes in the Wall , of Confederation and Integration and Subordination , of Proliferation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By default , if not by design , Washington 's response seems to be that if there is not to be one Europe , then there will probably be none worth bothering about . Nothing formal has been said , in fact , since John Kennedy 's ringing Declaration of Inter dependence more than three years ago . Little is said informally except in anger and frustration about That Man de Gaulle . The retreat from Babel is rationalized by expressions of confidence that America can and will be as selfish as any of the other errant tribes and that it can well take care of itself in the coming age of the New Nationalism . The master alliance builder of two American Administrations , Under Secretary of State George W. Ball , was almost secretive in revealing the death of the Grand Design this fall . He returned from a tour of Europe and a visit with de Gaulle , went to the West Coast of America and while looking out over the Pacific spoke a modest three paragraphs about the crisis over the Atlantic : I have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , the forces of fragmentation may be working more insistently than the forces of unity . This tendency , if continued , can have lamentable consequences . Not only can it lead to a renewal of ancient and dangerous rival ries , but , if the peoples of Europe fail to organize themselves so as to be able to play a role of world responsibility commensurate with their resources , humanity will be denied the full benefit of their talents in the ordering of world affairs . To shed old habits is , of course , not easy . It is difficult for the established nations of Europe . And for the established nation of the United States , is it easy ? What of its dangerous , if not ancient , encouragement and neglect of European rivalries ? What is it doing to reverse " this tendency " besides reasserting a long shattered dream ? Seeking an Easy Scapegoat The answer is that no one in Washington knows what to do about it , and the visions of a United Europe and an Atlantic Partnership are nostalgically recalled as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No one is rude enough to point out that the Europe of which we dreamed was in fact less than half of Europe , even with Britain included . No one seems to remark that the Europe we were to keep at peace with American power applied from afar had twice be-111 WASHINGTON INSIGHT fore refused to be pacified ur frightened by our great but distant might . And no one is crying out that American involvement in Europe ought to he greater . not less , as the nations of Europe gained prosperity without unity . To those in Europe who have thought all along that the United States had helped to nourish and defend them only to enrich and defend itself , the new nationalism in Washington is only proof positive . To those who contend that Soviet communism and not Western supranationalism was our real concern all along , we are now giving concrete evidence . Never really interested in yielding our own sovereignty , as promised , to the planned community of equal Atlantic societies , we seem to feel gratefully absolved of all obligation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our terms ? into a single political nationality with a definable military and diplomatic policy , Washington feels no greater need than to find a scapegoat for its own aloofness . As Barbara Tuchman has said of Woodrow Wilson , Americans can be " so intent upon saving Europe " that they ignore " the mood of the Europeans . " Neither the Britons , Poles , and Czechs who yearn for a final East-West settlement in central Europe nor the Germans and Frenchmen who honestly or cynically oppose it ; neither the Europeans who want their own nuclear establishments nor the Europeans who wish to yield to the protection of the United States ; neither the advocates of German unification nor the opponents of it ; and neither the sponsors of European federation nor the advocates of confederation can find in Washington a forceful leader or wise counselor . All they get is the faint echo of the postwar dream , the one that would have had Europe abolish national rivalries by abolishing nations and entrust its fate to a partnership whose principal assets would be controlled in America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , this American flight from Europe . But the trend is evident everywhere ? in the intellectual boredom with European problems , in the arrogant calculation that separately none of the European nations need concern us as a rival , in the uncoordinated chumminess with the Russians without regard for the neuroses and rivalries thus aroused among our allies , in the cocky confidence that . gaullism will die with de Gaulle , in the growing resentment that Europe is not assuming its " share " of " world responsibilities " ( meaning the cost of American policies ) , in the smug belief that the high cost of nuclear might will bring the Europeans begging for American protection soon enough , and hi the shortsighted assumption that whatever happens the resources and territories of Western Europe are unalterably bound to ours . Covering their own tracks of retreat from involvement in Europe , American officials can only offer a new myth : that the bad guys ( Mr. Ball 's " forces of fragmentation " ) are overwhelming us good guys ( " the forces of unity " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man from Eden with , in Ball 's words , the " assertion of an inward-looking nationalism that weeds disharmony where there should be mutual trust , suspicion where there should be confidence , and division where there should be a concerting of policies and a combining of strengths . " Angered by the " inward-Iooking nationalism " of others , we can only develop enthusiasm for our own . From Taiwan To the Bay of Pigs Has anyone found America displaying trust where there has been disharmony , or inspiring confidence where there has been suspicion , or concerting policies and combining strengths where there has been division ? From Suez to Skybolt , from the Taiwan Strait to the Bay of Pigs , we have inspired neither trust nor confidence . Where there might be new recommendations , Washington utters only recriminations . It serves up bitterness about de Gaulle 's exclusion of Britain from the Common Market and about his refusal to " let " the six 113 WASHINGTON INSIGHT market members unite politically . It rails against his embryonic nuclear force and his unwillingness to play the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him for disrupting NATO without ever asking what it is about the old organization that needs or deserves to survive anyway . And to the rest of Europe we commend only the doctrine of the Empty Chair . If France will not come to the Disarmament conference in Geneva until the alliance has settled on a purpose , forget the purpose and leave a chair for France . Now let us leave another chair for her in NATO . And if only the rest of Europe could he pushed into an allied nuclear navy , even without agreement on its purposes and techniques , leave an empty berth for France . Instead of treating France 's rude withdrawals as a symptom of the general dispersion of national energies in the Western community , we denounce her for being old-fashioned and press ahead with our unaltered notions of modernity . Serious officials in Washington do not really believe , of course , that nothing has changed . But their frustration and silence encourages the propagandists to go right on peddling the old best-selling fiction . The Western public is thus being assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear weapons , when in fact the West is bitterly divided on the issue and ratifying dissemination while it debates . The nations of Western Europe are still being told of the coming Atlantic partnership without any indication of what influence and control they can hope to gain over American policies and assets . And the Soviet Union and Communist nations of Eastern Europe are being encouraged to go on hoping for a postwar settlement and other benefits of coexistence without being told that Washington can not or will not lead its allies in the effort and can not , in fact , decide for itself what it means when it speaks of " building bridges " to the East . The trouble is that failures of policy and decision will in the end be failures unrecognized and un- . analyzed . Already , an entire generation of Americans is growing old with the belief that there is a wondrous Western alliance that has survived a war and learned to carry on in peace , 114 that is rapidly evolving toward a new kind of supranational organization , and that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European war . And there is a glib tendency in official Washington to represent the visible strains and cracks in the alliance as merely temporary aberrations resulting from the brilliant postwar successes of American diplomacy . It is true , of course , that the success of the United States in attaining some postwar objectives has been followed by failure in the larger objectives . The splendid economic recovery of the nations of Western Europe , underwritten if not caused by the United States , now supports the Europeans ' commercial protectionism , political isolationism , and military separatism . But there is little evidence that suggests the Europeans would have been more malleable or virtuous in poverty ; on the contrary , it could be argued that without prosperity they would not have come even this far in inventing some supranational institutions for themselves . Similarly , the American success in " containing " communism on the Continent is now said to have dissipated the very fear that had held the Western alliance together . Actually we shall never really know whether the military exertions of the NATO alliance or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributed more to the balance of power that has given Europe a sense of security , if not yet stability . In any case , it is rash to assume that continued fear of the Soviet Union would have kept the allies united . The real and great fear of Communist China has provoked , not prevented , a divisive neutralism and anti-Americanism in Asia , and if fear were ever to produce a real German desire for nuclear weapons it would do more to divide Europe in a day than de Gaulle has done in a decade . Western Europe is defying us as Eastern Europe is defying the Soviet Union because the two great powers that emerged from World War II demonstrated with their own behavior that self-serving nationalism and not the supranationalism that they both preached was their real interest in this world . WASHINGTON INSIGHT It is a little unsporting now for Washington to condemn de Gaulle for the kind of nationalism that was practiced not only by America but urged upon Yugoslavia , Poland , and even Albania . And it just as ill becomes Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact patterned on Soviet conduct and on the kind of self-assertion that the Russians had always urged upon the West Germans , Belgians , and Norwegians . De Gaulle 's Fault ? When de Gaulle demands an absolute veto in the United Nations or unchecked control over some nuclear weapons , he is , after all , merely claiming the same symbols of sovereignty that Moscow and Washington had invented for themselves after World War II . De Gaulle the nationalist is a nuisance to Washington now , just as Tito has been to Moscow , but they might just as easily he said to have saved their respective alliances from even greater failure . Without de Gaulle , France might now be communist or fascist ; without him , France almost certainly would not have regained the economic health that forged the common market that we now accuse him of wishing to destroy . Without Tito , communism might never have had the inspiration for political and economic reform that has enabled less imaginative dictators to combine communism with the new requirements of nationalism . We rail at de Gaulle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart from Europe and above it , to try to disrupt the Common Market before trying to join it , and to remain a nuclear power in her own right all antedate de Gaulle 's accession in 1958 . So , for that matter , do France 's decisions to become a nuclear power and to reject the formation of a unified European army . Not de Gaulle 's stubbornness , therefore , but a long chain of events and conflicting governmental policies ? including our own ? have caused the disarray . A candid Washington would long ago have admitted to itself that it could not impose unity upon Europe or the Atlantic community because it was never prepared to submit any portion of its life , fortune , or sacred honor to the control and purposes of Europe . It would by now have admitted that the United States , more than any nation , is to blame for NATO 's becoming an anachronism whose defensive or military purposes were long ago overtaken by technological change and whose diplomatic purposes we have never managed to define or construct . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon Western Europe ; it was drawn to World War II specifications not so much for the military value of joint command as for the dual political purpose of warning the Soviet Union against such an attack and assuring the allies of an instantaneous American nuclear response . NATO was built in a day when the containment of the Soviet Union and the creation of an Atlantic union could still be presented as elements of a single and coherent Western policy . But as the Soviet Union began to approach the strategic military power of the United States and brought American cities within range of its missiles , it was able to impose an unbearable strain upon this Western strategy . Preventing nuclear war as such quite properly and understandably became in Washington a greater concern than defending Europe . The Kennedy Administration finally made this explicit when it began to look for a way to contrive a " flexible " ? that is , not immediately nuclear ? response to a possible Soviet attack . And though this has posed certain technical difficulties , the Johnson Administration has been unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington that the United States would rather fight World War III at once than let a ground attack reach Hamburg or Strasbourg invariably raises as many European fears of our madness as it calms European fears of our timidity . And if their own survival now depends not on the existence of an American nuclear force but upon the guarantee that it will be used for their defense , the nations of Europe can hardly be blamed for wanting a voice in the crisis management of that force and , that failing , a chance to start a nuclear war even when they know they could not finish it . Not the selfishness or foolish arrogance of Britain or France , therefore , 115 WASHINGTON INSIGHT but the refusal of the United States to surrender any of its nuclear sovereignty to the allies explains the multiplication of national nuclear forces . The wars in Korea and Vietnam , far from proving that the United States always keeps its commitments , have served only to emphasize the fact that the United States will absorb an unusual number of casualties even in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The six American divisions in West Germany that have long been represented as a " trip wire " for American nuclear involvement in case of attack are , in fact , becoming a reminder that the United States may prefer to fight it out on the ground conventionally for quite a while . The insistent demand for more conventional strength in NATO , therefore , may actually encourage rather than discourage German interest in still another " national " nuclear force . Moreover , the power of a modern nation to start a nuclear war , even one that she can not finish , bears directly on her power to influence the diplomacy of larger nuclear powers ? and specifically the diplomacy leading to a tacit or formal European peace settlement . Thus the longer Moscow and Washington insist upon hoarding the weapons of diplomacy without actually imposing an agreement , the more they contribute to the desire of others to join the charmed nuclear circle . China has demonstrated that this law of nuclear diplomacy is equally valid among Communists and Asians . Ambiguity Toward Germany The special problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western alliance . Once upon a time , NATO could be offered to West Germany as a powerful diplomatic combine through which she might someday attain the goal of reunification . Increasingly , however , the other members of ' NATO came to regard the alliance as an Important diplomatic instrument against Germany . Washington as well as London and Paris used NATO as a straightjacket in which they would forever bind German militarism . And at least Britain and France thought that NATO would always assure them of a veto on American policies designed to promote the unification of Germany , their traditional rival . This ambiguity is growing greater with time and dividing the alliance more certainly than anything that Moscow might have dared to do . To the extent that Germany needs American power ever to win Soviet consent for reunification , she must remain Washington 's most reliable European ally . But to the extent that she is developing an even greater fear of a Soviet-American deal at Germany 's expense , she must rely more and more upon France to help frustrate East-West diplomacy . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united in favor of a fragmented and only loosely coordinated Western Europe , but their rivalry prevents them from organizing just that . Germany and France stand together against Soviet-American domination of Europe , yet their rivalry has blocked the formation of a Europe strong enough to prevent joist that . Diplomacy , in short , remains the instrument of " old-fashioned nationalisms . " This is not , after all , a new age of supranational endeavor . Even simple international cooperation has failed in the United Nations and in the Communist International , in the OAS of Latin America and the OAS of Africa , in the Arab League , the French Community , the British Commonwealth . Nor could we have had it otherwise without behaving otherwise . We could hardly claim the right to undermine British and French action in the Middle East while insisting upon their blind support for American action in the Far East . We could hardly proclaim the equality of Europe by insisting upon the right to make every move in the defense of Berlin while readily risking all Berlin and all Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D ? tente or Union ? The final horror of our Grand Dilemma is neatly summarized in the debate in Washington about the now legendary but still imaginary multilateral nuclear force . This has been the sum total of United States policy for Europe in recent years and , though no longer pushed with messianic zeal , it remains on the table as the proposal to be improved upon by any European who still wishes to engage America in the affairs of the Continent . The MLF was drawn to serve two wholly contradictory American objectives between which official Washington has simply been unable to choose . The first of these objectives is to keep on promoting the spirit of d ? tente with the Soviet Union . The hope is that the mere discussion of agreements to curb the arms race and to halt the proliferation of national nuclear forces will preserve at least the status quo in Europe ? perhaps a form of disengagement in central Europe ? so that the Continent will become safe for diversity and a huge and prosperous no-man's-land between the big powers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms buildup and return all effective control over Western nuclear weapons to Washington . The other objective is to keep alive the dreaded specter of communism in the hope that Western Europe can still be frightened and prodded into union . This would be a union armed with nuclear weapons and capable of exerting so much military and economic pressure that the Communist half of Europe will yield a favorable postwar settlement , including German reunification , and find itself in the permanent shadow of a new Continental power closely bound to the United States . The MLF , anti-Communists are assured , will be the instrument by which Europe ultimately acquires its own nuclear might and from which it will draw inspiration for political as well as military cohesion . Unwilling to confess that it has reached an important fork in the road , Washington refuses to face up to a fateful choice : peace with Russia or union with the allies ? two goals that are not mutually exclusive but neither of which can be attained without a sense of priority . What is more , neither can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forceful American intervention in the politics of Europe . Thus far , Washington has demonstrated only that undue attachment to the dreams or even ideals of the 1940s is subversive of the problems of the 1960s.                     