@@431665

e @# We Can Avoid Another Drug Disgrace It is still possible for people to be used as " human guinea pigs " in connection with the testing of new drugs . We could have another experience similar to the one we had with thalidomide . On the surface , a new day seems to have dawned . The Congress has passed the Drug Amendments of 1962 . One amendment gives the Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare the power to prevent the testing of new drugs on people if safety conditions are not met . Furthermore , Dr. Frances O. Kelsey has been placed in charge of the branch in the Food and Drug Administration that will exercise this power . She is the career civil servant who refused to clear thalidomide for commercial marketing as a safe drug . Thus , she was responsible for protecting unnumbered homes from the tragedy of bringing a deformed child into the world . The battle , however , is far from won . Passing a law is not enough . Putting a person of Dr. Kelsey 's unquestioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Kelsey must be provided with a staff which will include some of the nation 's best-qualified physicians in the field of drug evaluation . This means that Congress must give the Department of HEW special authority to break through present salary ceilings so that it can compete successfully with industry for persons of superior ability in the evaluation of drugs . As a former member of the Civil Service Commission I know that an agency should be given such emergency authority o nly under emergency conditions . But I believe such an emergency does exist . It takes persons of superior ability to make sure , on the one hand , that unsafe drugs are not cleared for testing and , on the other hand , that the development of lifesaving , healthsaving a pain-relieving drugs is not impeded and strangled . The finest tribute Congress can pay to Dr. Kelsey for her outstanding service to all of us is to make sure that she is provided with superior associates . We are indebted to the pharmaceutical industry for its amazing contributions to improving the health of our people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have been written in 1950 because the medicines had not yet been discovered A large percentage of the induct r would never think of using people as " human guinea pigs " in order to make a fast dollar . Some , ho ? - ever , have done it . The industry can not regulate itself . The federal government alone can give the consumer the protection to which he is entitled . Here is what you can do to make sure the protection is given : Write your Congressmen and Senators and urge them to see to it that low salaries do not prevent Dr. Kelsey from being provided with the nation 's best-qualified physicians in the evaluation of drugs . Let 's not wait for still " another thalidomide " disgrace before we decide to act !                     