@@488112

Detroit is slowly groping back to normal after enduring the nation 's longest strike of major newspapers on record , but the fifth largest city in the United States somewhat resembles an amnesia victim whose serious information gaps will never be bridged The prolonged shutdown of The Detroit News and The Detroit Free Press , which sell 1.3 million papers daily , hit the population in a debilitating way . As information dried up , the ability to make decisions , to bring about political and social change , or simply to achieve peace of mind , went with it . The strike of 267 days began in November , 1967 , only months after the most destructive riot in the nation 's memory . The dialogue of recovery was muted at its most Crucial point , and that was a real tragedy . For Detroit was a city turning inward , with many of its citizens living in dread of the racial situation . The reminder was in the faint outline of former glass store fronts in the slums , now bricked , cemented or sealed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the embrasure-like open ? ngs , the wrought iron grills and metal bars , there was an uneasy waiting for the next siege . Rumors swirled like leaves in the fall of 1967 after the summer riot . Left unchallenged through the winter of the strike and into last spring , their virulence grew . Guns were stockpiled by both blacks and whites , and in the suburbs neighborly patterns of protective cross fire were arranged . Some disheartened Detroiters hung signs in their windows : " This House Is Not Armed . " Effigies of civil rights and black leaders were hung from lampposts in a downtown plaza . Through all this , private polls taken by the city showed that in both black and white areas , the fear of street *crime was all-consuming . A mimeographed broadside , " Alarm , " was distributed by an extreme right-wing group THE NATION/October 14 , 1968 with a Dearborn address and calling itself the " Patriotic Party . " It asked : " Can you survive the next riot9 Next time they will destroy all the utilities , gas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all policemen and their families . " The party urged as a number-one priority- " Have a gun and plenty of ammunition . Nothing wrong with a bow and arrow . " These pamphlets found their way into the ghettos , and black militants reacted with a demand for counter arming . After months of such volatile nonsense , Mayor Jerome P. Cavanagh warned in a special television address last March " Fear is fueled by rumors , and rumors have been rampant from Grand Boulevard to the Grosse Pointes . . . . Without newspapers in this city , these rumors have spread by word of mouth until they have taken on the aspect of truth and a basis for action " Victimized by rumors , the citizens of Detroit  --  both Negro and white  --  are arming themselves in unprecedented numbers . And in the suburbs surrounding Detroit gun sales have soared " Mayor Cavanagh announced the formation of a " Rumor Control Center " at the city 's Commission on Community Relations ( CCR ) and shortly after the broadcast the lines were swamped with 500 calls The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr Martin Luther King , Jr , was killed , the daily volume jumped to 1.500 , while Detroit underwent a tight curfew The sight of National Guard on the streets reawakened painful memories of the previous summer . The bulk of the calls came from whites , and the most prevalent fear was a murderous black invasion of the suburbs The carved Tiki gods and Afro dress worn by some black nationalists fanned the imagination of fearful whites . They accepted the rumors that the blacks carried bullets around their necks with the names of police and their children scratched into the casing . Following Dr. King 's death , two policemen were wounded in a machine-gunning , and a wave of more minor incidents was reported . But Detroit escaped the violence of 363 the rest of the country , and people were curiously reassured by the realization that another big riot was not inevitable . The phone calls dropped to about thirty a day . But the positive effect of this relaxation of tension was not felt by a metropolitan population deprived of its newspapers . Richard Marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flow of rumors reflected an inability of television to fill the information gap . People were getting the headlines , but these cryptic mountain peaks of news lacked " the details that so often form the binder of communications . " Without exception , persons interviewed in public and private life felt that , while television and radio helped , they did not satisfactorily replace the information supplied by the normal print media . Some stations extended their news shows , but the result was to add water to an already thin soup . Coverage was " longer but not wider , " one viewer complained . Another said : " There is no sensitive exploration of the issues , or any depth . You get a solid blast , but no thought . " However , the local affiliate of the N.E.T . network , WTVS , had an unusual opportunity to experiment with the televising of news when the Ford Foundation , at the urging of Fred W. Friendly , made the station an emergency grant of $42,000 . With this money , the station produced a one-hour " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November , 1967 , to March , 1968 . The format , conceived and executed by unemployed newsmen from the Free Press , consisted of a round-robin discussion of national and world news , twenty-minute segments of important local stories read by the newsmen who covered them , special reports , interviews and a reading of the comics . WTVS has a potential saturation of 68 per cent of the 800,000 homes , but Louis Slyker , station manager and program director , estimated that the audience never exceeded 50,000 homes . This was still impressive , and so were several thousand calls and letters . San Francisco 's educational TV station . KQED , got Ford backing for a similar project when a strike closed that city 's papers a few weeks later . See " TV 's First Real Paper " by Michael Harris , The Nation , March 18 . The Ford Foundation was embarked on a multimillion-dollar educational television support program , and the Detroit project was a " hangnail grant " that was not extended beyond March . WTVS then sought local support , but found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the party line was that we were prolonging the strike by our presence . " He declined to say where the alleged pressure came from , only that it was not labor . The show offered an alternative to the hit-and-run approach of most broadcast news , but Slyker had to admit : " We do n't think TV and radio can fill the gap of newspapers , much as we tried to do so . " It was impossible to duplicate the breadth of content or the ability to read a paper at leisure , not on schedule . Thus many important developments that will affect the Detroit area for years went almost unnoticed . The New 364 Detroit Committee , a coalition of community leaders working with moderate and militant blacks , undertook a major program for the hard-core unemployed , won state . open housing laws , and initiated a wide variety of social and physical programs . While hampered by a break with the militants , it did achieve some dialogue . The committee won wide national publicity , but at home its effects were muffled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major progress report , setting goals for years to come , without the dailies to report , support or evaluate its work . Detroit 's Model Cities project encompasses a 9-squaremile area of 125,000 population . The crucial election for its citizens ' governing board went relatively unnoticed in , May . Leaders say they were unable to get adequate coverage on television . Only a court action that related to the election date thrust the event into prime news time . Whites in the proposed development area remained lethargic until an article in The Wall Street Journal , indicating that there was the likelihood of a black take-over , brought them into action . Many of the findings of the President 's National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders , even its reason for being , centered on Detroit . But when its report appeared , there were no responsible papers to give daily interpretation . The political flip-flops of Gov . George Romney , the decision of President Johnson not to run , the murders . of Dr. King and Robert Kennedy , the opening of the Paris peace talks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed in the silence of the strike . Legislators in Lansing , the state capital , took the newspaper blackout as a time to slip through pet legislation ; at the same time , the fight for meaningful open housing legislation was hampered by the absence of strong editorial support . A suburban weekly editor said , in fact , that the whole flow of political stories from the state capital dried up without the prodding influence of the two metropolitan dailies . Within the city , the council race split along racial lines and there was little understanding of the candidates ' positions , or even a clear idea of how many were running . The council voted a controversial stop-and-frisk ordinance , and rejected a local gun-control law . A special high school study commission found the Detroit system " appallingly inadequate and a disgrace to the community " ; coverage and explanation of these important events were missing . Perhaps the only time Mayor Cavanagh did not regret the absence of the papers was during his divorce proceed . ings and the custody fight for his children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer , and the judge immediately ordered a six-month delay in the trial of a Detroit policeman implicated in the killing of three young blacks at the motel during the 1967 riot . Without the newspapers , the legal may neuvers leading up to the trial and the delay were not adequately reported , and the feeling of the black community that nothing was being done was the greater without a day-by-day chronology of the case . Pressure for the return of the newspapers mounted . Romney said he would even ask President Johnson for help ( but did n't ) . The strike became a center of state THE NATION/October 14 , 1968 senate hearings , federal court action , and comment in Congress . Citizens petitioned for an end to the strike and threatened a subscription freeze . Rival newsmen from the two papers prepared a joint statement calling for a settlement and warned : " These are most critical times for this city .... Detroit is gripped by fear and misguided by rumor and misinformation . " Meanwhile , the convention time drew near , and Michigan is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor support in unions like the UAW and for the national focus of George Romney . Nelson Rockefeller knew this and scheduled a massive advertising campaign for the metropolitan area . He canceled it when the strike dragged on beyond the Miami convention . Pre-election polls that The Detroit News would have conducted would have indicated the popular support for Rockefeller and Eugene McCarthy in out-state communities . McCarthy was able to attract a crowd of 15,000 at Tiger Stadium despite a drenching downpour . Rev. Albert Cleage , Jr. , a Detroit minister and nationally known black militant leader , chose the rally as the occasion to endorse the Senator , but the effect was lost . Labor came out early , and solidly , for Humphrey in Michigan , and labor newspapers cranked out pre-convention support The UAW split over an endorsement before the convention . Walter Reuther is a close friend of the Vice President . but he is also a dove on the war . Some others on the union 's executive board had supported Robert Kennedy . Eventually , the UAW would fall in line tfhind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Democratic delegation to Chicago had no reason to shift its allegiance from Humphrey . And Romney might have been prodded into a more vigorous support of Rockefeller . True , the Michigan Governor was still smarting from the backhanded support the New York Governor had given his candidacy , but the Michigan delegation was strongly supporting Rockefeller . Romney remained uncommitted before going to Miami . There were no papers to prod him . Shortly after the shutdown in November , three interim strike papers , dubbed the " vulture press , " were on the streets with a total estimated circulation of 375,000 . Their quality was mediocre and they had disappeared by January in union contract labor disputes . The Hicki.gan . Cltratucte , a . Kespasate Nega weettxj , enjoyed robust growth . A moderate biweekly Negro paper , Detroit Tribune , was born . Militant black weeklies appeared ; one of them . The Inner City Voice , carried such headlines as " Racist Cop Beats Black Mother . " A new daily , The Black and White Reporter , promised a biracial approach to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vivid splash of yellow journalism being The Detroit American . It pandered crime news and sensational headlines , with veiled racial references to Negro crimes . Its somewhat archaic tone is illustrated by an excerpt from a daily feature , " Police Blotter " " A new atrocity , the beating and shooting of a 27-year-old Detroiter as he lay helpless on the sidewalk by a merciless street cur because he had no money to surrender has been recorded by police . . . . Another shooting of a helpless lone man by a four-man jackal pack was reported and the valiant counter-attack by a citizen with a pocket knife who drove off four punks , two of them armed , despite the tact that the whelps fired six shots at him .. Merchants turned out their own handbills , and postmen worked overtime to handle the flood of emergency mailings . " Since the strike we 've been engulfed by garbage , " a housewife said " Shoppers . folders ... a whole trash barrel full . They stuff up the mailbox . " Business showed a decline among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with established clientele were less affected The 1967 Christmas sales figure was up 6 per cent from the previous year , though still below expectations . A woman sensed a new phenomenon : " I notice more people sharing information . Did you know that ? Did you hear that ? ? calling each other . " The strike had been agonizingly extended by a " blueprint for bedlam. " in which twenty-three separate contracts had to be negotiated with fourteen separate unions at each newspaper . Any one union could walk our , bringing a general strike , as happened when the Teamsters struck during negotiations last November . There is a growing sentiment from both publishing and union sources for some reform that would make it impossible for a single union thus to trigger a general strike against the will of the majority of the unions Both The Free Press and The Detroit News say that they will never be silenced again , but have not said how they can be so sure However , the News undertook a voluntary training program of nonstriking employees and thus achieved the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed The Free Press is reported able to do the same by marshaling resources from other newspapers in the Knight chain . Although neither management resorted to the extreme of publishing its own paper , the ability to do so adds credibility to their vow not to tolerate another extended shutdown . Meanwhile , the metropolitan area seeks to recover from the experience . One can not avoid the feeling that its growth was stunted by lack of information . The interim diet was a thin substitute , in some cases a harmful one The permanent effects of the malnutrition will not be measured for some time                     