@@494329

The new action-Western , The Professionals ( Columbia ) with Burt Lancaster , Lee Marvin , Robert Ryan , Woody Strode , Jack Palance , Claudia Cardinale ; adapted and directed by Richard Brooks ? has the expertise of a cold old whore with practised hands and no thoughts of love . There 's something to be said for this kind of professionalism : the moviemakers know their business and they work us over . We 're not always in the mood for love or for art , and this movie makes no demands , raises no questions , does n't confuse the emotions . Even the absence of visual beauty or of beauty of language or concept can be something of a relief . The buyer gets exactly what he expects and wants and pays for : manipulation for excitement . We use the movie and the movie uses us . This shallow movie with its jokes not of the first freshness , and its hard pressing of the Western to squeeze out the last bit of oil is as modern a product as a new car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this Western , Ryan , who loves horses is treated as some sort of weakling . ) Did you have daring ideas for sophisticated sexual dramas when you were in high school , and then , realizing how ludicrously lurid they were , laugh at yourself whenever you thought of them ? Well , not everybody discarded those mouldy-gaudy fantasies , as the Tony Richardson-Jean Genet collaboration on Mademoiselle ( Lopert-United Artists ) demonstrated . And now there 's another of these movies to diddle by , Yo : 3o P.M. Summer ( Lopert - United Artists ) directed by Jules Dassin out of Marguerite Duras too preposterously purple to be successfully blue . This fantasy of the international set is loaded with absurdly gorgeous photography , crowd scenes out of Goya , and pregnant close-ups ( which have supplanted the old pregnant silences ) . The ads show three intertwined bodies ? Melina Mercouri , Peter Finch , Romy Schneider ? and the picture is about the agonized eroticism of a traveling menage ? trots . The pivot is Melina Mercouri who is like some great ravenous sex-obsessed witch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all she does is croak about the pain of living in her drag-queen baritone . Sample dialogue : Romy to Melina : " Maria , what would you do if you came face to face with a murderer ? " Melina : " I would take heem in my arms . " This is a long way from Janet Gaynor , though we may be hard put to say which is worse ? the virgin that good boys were afraid to touch for fear she might break , or this grandiose apparition ? too-much-woman ? who would gurgle with passion while eating up little men , and now little women , too . Movies always seem to be both behind and ahead of the culture . Though the sexual revolution has scarcely found its way onto the screen , and movies rarely deal with the simplest kinds of heterosexual life in our time , they 're already treating bisexuality ? like the kids who are on pot and discussing the merits of LSD before they 've had their first beer . The extra-woman-in-the-house ( which is said to be the latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Southern California ) is turning up in other , unexpected places . I think this element was at least a partial source of the discomfort so many people felt about Le Bonheur . In addition to the obviously disturbing aspect of the film ? the lack of personal differentiation in one woman taking the place of the other ? there was , underneath , a breakdown , also , of sexual differentiation : the husband must have wanted the two women to love each other , also , He wanted them all to be one happy family . And that , given the simple bourgeois characters of Le Bonheur , is disturbing , while 10:3o P.M. Summer with its world-weary trio is to howl at . The Shameless Old Lady ( Continental ) is pleasant enough , and though the material is thin , it 's stretched out rather deftly , and I would n't have minded the picture too much if the audience had n't been so audibly pleased with its capacity to respond . I can hear someone saying , " What snobbery ! She did n't like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 's not too far wrong . I wished the audience was n't chuckling so comfortably at the exhibitions of French miserliness : there was something so mean about feeling pleasurably superior to those little signs of meanness . I experienced a groan of recognition when the man behind me said happily , " It 's so French ! " People used to say that in the forties about those synthetic rural comedies like The Well-Digger 's Daughter : I remember that one particularly because the man who took me had said it and I had groaned , and the next night he went back to see it with another girl . As it 's a sort of parable , it is , rather refreshingly , a-Freudian : the wise little old lady has no responsibility for the selfish , niggardly monsters she has produced ( this , too , makes it easier for the audience to respond ) . Has this Bertolt Brecht story been done before or is it just that the details are familiar from countless " so French " movies , and that Sylvie , expert as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I used to admire her in her mean obsessive old lady roles : goodness sits too lightly on her , as on Bette Davis humbly saying " God Bless . " Rene Allio 's direction is clean but the script is undernourished : the old lady 's discovery of the modern world does n't have the texture or imaginative substance to sustain a full-length film , nor does the script suggest the ironies or ambiguities that are possible in her delight . But the critics ! Give them a newly-made antique and a good clean old peasant and a name like Brecht to patronize , and they 'll give you everything they 've got . There has n't been a set of reviews with so much self-congratulatory virtue and such beautiful condescension since The Shop on Main Street ( and before that , David and Lisa and Ballad of a Soldier ) . Yes I know there 's a danger of going to extremes of disaffection when a movie has been as overpraised as this one , and probably if I 'd seen it unheralded I would have thought it a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm objecting to is not so much the movie as what it represents for the audience ? an urban version of pseudo-folk that lulls them back to what they think of as the wonderful old French movies . The critics are always asking of movies that they be again as they were , and then when you hear what they thought they were ? ! Crowther says , " you 'd better go to see it if you 're looking for a film that has charm , sweet sentiment and simplicity in an abundance you seldom get in films these days . " He means that to be a recommendation , as does Judith Crist when she says it " will win your heart completely . " Is this the alternative to the harshness and chaos of so many movies ? heartwarming little well-made QED pictures ? After we 've watched the direcfor loading the dice , it 's not really much fun watching him roll them . The sentimental gratifications of the well-turned plot that fulfills our expectations belong to the old movies we do n't watch on TV . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum ( United Artists ) but the director , Richard Lester , breaks it up so much with camera and editing that we ca n't see the dance , only flashes of parts of her body , and we ca n't even tell if the girl can dance because the movement is almost totally supplied by his means . This technique is a good one for concealing the ineptitude of performers , but Lester 's short-term camera magic keeps cutting into and away from the comedians ( Zero Mostel , Phil Silvers , Jack Gilford , Michael Hordern ) who never get a chance to develop a routine or to bring off a number . What are we being distracted from ? There was probably no way to predict that Lester 's style would be at war with the form , which in Plautus , as in the musical comedy adaptation by Burt Shevelove and Larry Gelbart , with Stephen Sondheim 's songs , seemed the least strict imaginable ; one might have thought it open enough for almost any kind of improvisation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense that Lester thinks it would be too banal just to let us see a dance or a pair of comedians singing a duet . Yet if they 're good , they 're a lot less banal than his cute-camera intrusions : movement designed to cover emptiness . We go to see great clowns precisely for the way they move , for the grace and lightness of their style : The marvel of burlesque is that those lewd men become beautiful : their timing and skill transform the lowest forms of comedy . When Lester supplies the rhythms for them by film editing he takes away the one great asset of burlesque : that triumph of style which converts leering into art . He takes away their beauty and they become ugly and gross ; he turns artists back into mugging low comics . ( He also uses the women execrably : they are blank-faced bodies or witless viragos . ) Some of the best moments are the least doctored : Hordern 's vocal inflections , a satirical entrance song by Leon Greene . Lester 's technique works successfully intermittently ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is lovely , like the song in the snow in Help ! It 's difficult to make dance and song " work " on screen , and it 's understandable that a talented , inventive director should fall back upon what looks so " cinematic " ? the nervous camera , the restless splicing , the succession of " visual " jokes . But the sight gags of television commercials have a purpose : they are there to sell something and they make their point and they 're over . In Forum as in The Knack , when Lester strings these gags together , they 're just pointless agitation - just " clever " and " imaginative . " He proceeds by fits and starts and leaves jokes suspended in mid-air : it 's as if he 'd forgotten what it 's all for . And for an audience the experience becomes one of impatience and irritation - like coitus interruptus going on forever .                     