@@478246

A dissident voice on Capitol Hill proposes some root-and-branch changes ? to revitalize Congress and give more substance to our political campaigns . The dismal record of the first session of the 88th Congress has become history . The opening months of the second session have seen passage of a tax bill which should have been enacted eighteen months earlier . As this is written , the Senate is engaged in a stubborn filibuster conducted by eighteen Senators to prevent their eighty-two colleagues from voting on the House-passed civil-rights bill . A sillier exercise in futility has rarely been engaged in by supposedly mature men . There seems little likelihood that any other significant legislation can be passed before adjournment . Surely the time has come to consider what can and should he done about Congress , the sapless branch of our governmental tree . The political forces which select the modern President are such that for the last thirty years he has been oriented in an urban , industrial , international , activist , pro-civil-rights , and at least moderately liberal direction . A substantial number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political forces which give them a rural , pro-business , anti-labor , isolationist , conservative perspective , with an attitude toward civil rights which ranges from passive unconcern to outright hostility . These differences represent a genuine cleavage on public policy . The hostility between the Presidential and Congressional attitudes deepens as problems central to the cleavage ? the state of the economy , disarmament , or civil rights ? press for solution . Presidents achieve , or fail to achieve , legislative success to the extent that they can extract support from a balky and often hostile Congress . Congressional opposition suddenly appears from quarters which were mute and almost invisible during the campaign . Within his own party the President faces opposition to the very principles his party espouses and proclaims in the platform . At the national level the parties simply fail to perform the function of permeating a government divided constitutionally into separate branches with a common philosophy of governmental action . The division within each party means that the President lacks an effective majority within his own party , even though it is the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidential program . President Eisenhower needed and got Democratic support for his program when the Republicans controlled the Congress ; Presidents Kennedy and Johnson needed and , alas , less often got enough Republican support for their programs . The combined liberal wings of the two parties hold a precarious major-73 ity over the combined , conservative bipartisan coalition on many issues but by no means on all the important ones . And since the coalition is , generally speaking , opposed to all significant action and perfectly content with the status quo , no President elected by the nation , regardless of his party , is likely to receive support from it for the positive program on which he based his campaign for election . For four consecutive Presidential elections , from 1048 through 1960 , the national platforms of both parties and the State of the Union dates have promised action . Truman 's Fair Deal , messages of the successful Presidential candiEisenhower 's Crusade for Freedom , and Kennedy 's New Frontier were all turned back by the fire of the Knowlands , Hallecks , Harry Byrds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Establishment on Capitol Hill . During this period a legislative policy has prevailed which neither party has been prepared to submit for approval to the American people in a national election . So far the barriers to needed action imposed both by the unrepresentative character of Congressmen and by the rules , customs , and traditions of the Congress have withstood most efforts at change . A Congress which defeats the President 's program does not enact one of its own . Congress does not have and , because of internal contradictions , can not produce its own program . The same party divisions which prevent the President 's party from uniting in support of his program prevent it or the opposition from uniting in support of an alternative . In theory , of course , the elements in each party which share the Presidential outlook could unite across party lines . They do so on many issues before the Congress ; but the alliance is temporary and on the whole less successful than the " Congressional party " alliance between the conservative Republicans and Southern Democrats . This is largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is much harder to pass a bill than to defeat one . The political system thus normally produces a President chosen through a process in which naSenator Joseph S. Clark 's new book , " Congress : The Sapless Branch " ? from which this article is adapted ? will be published soon by Harper &; Row . Elected to the U. S. Senate from Pennsylvania for a second term in 1962 , Senator Clark had been Democratic Mayor of Philadelphia ( the first in sixty-seven years ) , a partner in his own law firm , and a Colonel in the Army Air Force in World War II . tional considerations predominate , whose program as set forth in his party 's platform is then submitted to a Congress chosen through a process profoundly local , one in which parochial considerations predominate . Congress today simply does not represent the majority will of the American people as expressed in national elections . The causes of this essentially undemocratic situation , not unlike the condition of the British House of Commons in the early 1830s before the First Reform Act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cure matters will call for comprehensive reform both in the methods of electing Congressmen and in the rules and traditions which control their conduct once they get to Washington . But we might consider two areas outside the Capitol where changes in present practices and methods of election would help to bring Congress back into the mainstream of national purpose . Rewards vs . Responsibility 0 ne of them is the impact of the spoils system on Congressional action . The whole logic of patronage is to strengthen the worst elements in local political systems . The political machine 's true character , Denis Brogan has written , is its " political indifferentism . " This puts the case against the local machines precisely . Patronage serves to create and nourish a political organization that is indifferent to public policy and therefore essentially amoral . By relying on tangible economic rewards to create a corps of the faithful large enough to produce victory at the polls , the machine extorts tribute from government , subordinates issues , and debases the political process . In doing so it discourages able people from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government talent our country is capable of producing . This has its inevitable effect on both the caliber and the behavior of Congressmen , many of whom are products of local machines . Just as a mayor 's appointive power is often vested in a ward leader and a governor 's appointive power is delegated to a county leader , so much of a President 's power is exercised by a Senator or a Representative . The executive is held responsible for the appointee 's performance , but the effective power of appointment is vested in those who share none of this responsibility . The effect of this immunity from responsibility is heartless and inefficient government . One celebrated case required President Franklin U. S. Man at the Acropolis ATHENS , March 15 19641 ? Former President Harry S Truman was approached by an enthusiast , a stranger who introduced himself as a Truman Republican , during a visit to the Acropolis this week . A companion scoffed that " there ai n't no such animal . " But Mr. Truman re-joined : " Oh , there are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breed , Mr. Truman chuckled as he answered : " They are sort of like Nixon Democrats . " ? Special to the New York Times . Roosevelt to appoint as United States marshal a man convicted of homicide , in order to secure Senatorial confirmation of an Under Secretary of Agriculture . The marshal was a favorite of the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. * Strengthening the national parties and increasing their concern with public policy thus requires , first , continued reduction of the role of patronage in political life . Much , of course , has already been done in local , state , and national government through enactment of civil-service laws . But the battle is far from won , as every practicing politician knows . A start could be made by eliminating Senatorial confirmation of postmasters . Despite civil service , these appointments have huge patronage implications . Politicians cling to such powers with tenacity in spite of repeated demonstrations that patronage is no longer serviceable as a political weapon . More enemies than friends are made through political appointments unrelated to merit . Successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues . The patronage-bloated political organization is contributing less and less to electoral victory as the level of voter education and sophistication rises . " A Senator spends many tedious and unprofitable hours hi seeking to placate the pressures which flow from the powers which " Senatorial courtesy " confers on him for those appointments requiring Senatorial confirmation . News of a judicial vacancy in his state prompts many a Senator to echo a British Prime Minister 's reaction to the need for an ecclesiastical appointment : " Damn it , another bishop dead . " Nor is patronage necessary for the health of strong political parties . It serves only to strengthen elements in the political structure which are alien to the spirit of the age , hostile to the strengthening of the policy-oriented elements in parties , and contrary to the dynamics of a healthy and competitive political system . And so , in the end , Congressional patronage makes for a less effective Congress . A Sweepstakes Election It is desirable , second , to bring the President and Congress closer together . The terms and times of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as opposed to parochialism , the forces of democracy as opposed to oligarchy and plutocracy , and the ability of the President to obtain enactment of the platform on which he ran and was elected would all be strengthened if elections to both the House and Senate were held only in Presidential years . This could be accomplished by a constitutional amendment increasing the terms of Representatives to four years , decreasing the terms of Senators to four years , and eliminating mid-term Congressional elections , hence requiring the election of the entire Senate at the time of each Presidential election . Consider the purposes of the draftsmen of the federal Constitution in fixing the terms of Representatives at two years ; the Senatorial term at six , with one-third of its members to be elected every two years ; and providing for federal elections in every even-numbered year . They thought : 1 . Members of the House would represent the people and he immediately responsive to their wishes as the price of reelection . But today fewer than 100 out of 435 Representatives need worry about reelection . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can vote as they choose . 2 . Members of the House , being responsive to popular sentiment , would represent liberal if not radical views . But for some years the House has been the more conservative body , constantly refusing to vote for measures advocated by both the President and the Senate which appear to have popular support . 3 . The Senate would consist of a conservative body of elders who would restrain the ardor and radicalism of the House . But newly elected Senators are getting younger at every election . And both individual Senators and the Senate as a body are far more liberal and far readier to follow the lead of the President than the House . 4 . The framers envisaged a government without parties . But parties sprang up in President Washington 's time and with the exception of " the Era of Good Feeling , " which ended after the election of 1824 , have existed ever since . 5 . They believed that the doctrine of the separation of powers was essential to preserve our hard-won freedoms . But the doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action in a world of constant change and , by tending to immobilize the President , is threatening to destroy those very freedoms it was instituted to preserve . History has destroyed both the hopes and the philosophical basis for the methods and terms of Congressional election established by the Constitution . It follows that we should consider changing the terms and times of electing Congressmen without being inhibited by ancestor worship . First , the House of Representatives . Two years is too short a term in which to represent effectively a Congressional district . A newly elected Congressman from a competitive district has hardly warmed his seat before he must leave it to campaign for renomination and reelection . And if he comes from a noncompetitive district , he will remain a Representative for the rest of his political life . So what does it matter if he goes through the motions of getting reelected once every four years instead of once every two ? If he comes from a competitive district , he will be more of a statesman and less of an errand boy if he runs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . as the Presidential candidate of his party . The strengthening of the national interest in terms of the effective dialogue on issues which such a procedural change would bring about would be substantial . The strengthening of the national parties even more so , The strengthening of the hand of the President . who alone speaks for all Americans , would be the most substantial of all . Much the same thing can he said about the Senate . Six years is a needlessly long term ; one can become lazy , arrogant , and remote from one 's constituency . A Senator becomes all too often too big for his pants . He is apt to consider himself and the " club " of which he is a part remote and above the political passions of the day , a statesman who can rise above the common herd . If anything were needed to prove the point , it was the almost ridiculous posture taken by many Senators about the test-ban treaty . Here was a relatively unimportant but on the whole quite helpful little agreement which would decrease the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relaxation of U. S. ? U. S. S. R. tensions . Quite clearly it was in the best interests of both countries to approve , although its military importance v. as insignificant . Equally clearly it would not signal the end of the Cold War , the elimination of the arms race , or the beginning of a beautiful friendship with Russia . The Senatorial Bark But in the Senate there was much talk of " grave constitutional responsibilities . " There was an enormous amount of poking around in corners alleged to be dark and mysterious for the purpose of unmasking sinister Russians bent on setting off nuclear explosions on the other side of the moon , where the Communists could see what was going on but we could n't . There was a great beating of the bushes to find scientists ? any old scientists ? to testify that the treaty might , conceivably , under some circumstances , endanger the ability of the United States to get started on basic research which a generation from now might tell us whether , as we now think , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , for that matter , intermediate-range ballistic missiles from destroying both our cities and our nuclear deterrent power . And there was an equally frantic search for military men , naval men , airmen , in fact any graduate from Annapolis , West Point , or Colorado Springs who would shake his head and testify gravely that , yes , the worried scientists might well be right . And in the end the treaty was ratified by a vote of eighty to nineteen . But the Senate , being the Senate , had put on what it considered a fine performance in the best tradition of " the greatest deliberative body in the world . " As James Reston so well put it , " The effect of giving a Senator an opportunity to talk to an attentive audience is much the same as giving a dog a succulent bone . In both instances the reaction is to both drool and bark . " ( It should be noted , however , that with few exceptions during the twelve days of debate on the treaty , the discussion consisted of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were thirty-odd Senators present when Senator William Fulbright opened the " debate . " That was the high-water mark . When I spoke in support of the treaty , there were three Senators on the floor . Senator Barry Goldwater made one of the principal speeches against the treaty to a Senatorial audience of four . Senator John Stennis drew six . When Senator Strom Thurmond called for a " live " quorum before he made his speech , it took almost an hour to round up fifty-one Senators . As soon as they answered to their names they left the chamber . By the time Senator Thurmond got into the body of his speech , there was no one on the floor except the presiding officer and a junior Republican Senator who was present to protect Republican interests against sudden and unexpected attack . ) If our terms were cut to four years and we were forced to run in the same election as that in which the President was elected , we might make a useful contribution in our respective states to a quadrennial national debate on national issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Capitol prepared , not to sabotage his program , but to help him enact it into law . Let it not be pretended that bringing the Congress more into the stream of Presidential politics will result in a legislative branch less apt to assert an aggressive independence . A constitutionalhistory of more than a hundred and fifty years ? from the Alien and Sedition Acts through Civil War Reconstruction to the tyrannical excesses of Senator Joseph McCarthy ? will convince the objective student that there has never been a President who threatened American history so much as the petty tyrants in Congress who presided over committees which browbeat witnesses , assassinated the character of loyal Americans , passed unconscionable laws undermining civil liberties while at the same time refusing to legislate in support of civil rights , thus earning from time to time the just rebukes of a vigilant Supreme Court . These suggestions are frankly an effort to mitigate the disadvantages our forefathers imposed on us when they foisted Montesquieu 's already outmoded theory of the separation of powers on future generations of Americans . The proposals should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time before they achieve such popular acceptance as to make a constitutional amendment politically feasible . But they might just start some intelligent and uninhibited citizens thinking about how to overcome the eighteenth-century governmental mechanisms our ancestors imposed on their descendants .                     