@@493832

? half its population ? was always indefensible , is now hopelessly inferior to India . Its armed forces are out ? numbered three to one . Even its air force , whose soli ? tary squadron of F-1o4 Starfighters may have given it a slight edge , can barely claim equality . This could not be helped , if India was ever to match China . But it gives the Pakistanis every reason , if they have not done so already ( and their recent visitors have included the commander of the Chinese air force ) , for seeking a mil ? itary understanding with China . Alternatively , they too may be driven into a search for arms anywhere they are available ( which could include Russia ) . Then , too , though it is not usual , we might spare a thought for the Chinese . Most Western estimates sug ? gest that their military thinking is now essentially de ? fensive . They may genuinely fear the supposedly ag ? gressive Indians backed by " American imperialism . " They may strengthen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or near the Indian frontier . They also have the incentive to discredit the Indian government at home and abroad , using subversion where force has failed . All these have dangers for India , and the world . There is little to show that the Western governments are responding adequately to the risks their own justi ? fied help to India has created . The Pakistanis , who have given similar promises themselves , regard Indian assurances that Western arms will not be used by India against Pakistan as so much hot air . I know , because I 've lived there , that the idea of India thirsting for Pakistani blood is pure myth ; but I am not a Pakistani . Many Pakistanis believe the myth ; any Pakistani will point out that there is at least a risk of war between the two countries , in which his country would lose . What concrete steps are we taking to reassure Pakistan against this unavoidable imbalance of power ? The internal risks of India 's arms policy may be , but need not be , still more serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused by a com ? paratively trivial shortage of food . Much further off , those who favor apocalyptic theories of Indian de ? mocracy may like to speculate on the effect of doubling the military establishment in a country where " poli ? tician " is by now something of a swear word , and where the politicians have shown themselves no more disciplined or less corrupt than in the last sad years of Prime Minister Nehru . Fear for the nation 's security is not the burning issue it was in the 1950 's , but the government is still prying into the remote reaches of people 's private lives before they can be hired , then badgering them with all sorts of peculiar inquiries once they are . Investigators want to know about your parents ' politics , whether you be ? lieve in God , how deeply involved you may be in the civil rights movement , and how often you sleep with your girl friend . Job applicants and employees of various government agencies are run through batteries of psychological tests meant to reveal some latent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come to imag ? ine they are psychiatrists , bother employees with silly , indecent questions about the workings of their privateparts . One woman 's risque comment at a cocktail party was questioned during a security interview as indicat ? ing a possible tendency toward loose morality . A good deal of this is occasioned by the govern ? ment 's fear lest it hire a homosexual by mistake . Be ? cause they are believed to be especially susceptible to blackmail , homosexuals are supposed to be incapable of keeping a zippered lip . They are barred from all gov ? ernment work , even though many jobs have nothing whatever to do with national security ; employment in them , one might hope , should depend on the individ ? ual 's abilities to perform the work . Sometimes , however , the hunters of homosexuals get caught up in their own machinery . Lie detectors , gadgets which register emotional reactions and are used by various agencies to screen out undesirables , now are suspected of actually turning away conscientious , virile Americans so badly needed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that normal young men may be nervous about revealing details of their sex life and end up flunking these tests , while homosexuals , who are less fearful about theirs , pass with flying colors . ) Snooping where matters of high national security are involved is understandable , although the most scrupu ? lously decent security procedures are in the Atomic Energy Commission , which historically has had the most to be secret about . But recently the Civil Service Commission began prying into the private lives of people working in nonsensitive jobs . In several cases now under way it is viewing the political affiliations of an employee 's relatives or friends as grounds for beginning disqualification proceedings , even where no question has been raised about an employee 's loyalty , or any suggestion he is n't doing his job properly . Possessed by Evil Spirits ? It is difficult to know how general these excesses are ; most people do n't want to talk about their experiences . But following are several indications of just how un ? pleasant working in Washington can be : A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seek work in Washington . Before he could be hired as a clerk in a security area of the State Depart ? ment , he had to go through a day-long interview . He sat in a small , closed room facing the interrogators , two State Department security agents . Apparently they suspected him of being homosexual . When he rode the school bus did he sit next to boys or girls ? When he sat next to boys , did he touch them ? Would he describe the function of the sex organs . Had he used his in the proper fashion and how often ? Had he read sex maga ? zines ? What would provoke him sexually ? sweet per ? fume or soft music ? The boy said he did n't know . It would take more than that . But , said a security man , he must know . He must answer . Sometimes , the young man recalls , he would tell his interrogators he just did n't know what a question meant . You ca n't say that , replied one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him how his father voted , what were his father 's politics . Were his parents religious ? The boy was passed over for the job . But he wanted to work for the government , and over the past three years he has been accepted in eight different jobs ? all of them in sensitive sections of the government ? only to be asked to leave when the State Department file on him shuttles down the line to the agency personnel office . Finally , he went to the Civil Service Commis ? sion , where the permanent file was kept . There a man told him that as far as the Civil Service Commissionwas concerned it contained no derogatory information ; but , the man said , it did contain things that might make other government agencies " wonder " enough to keep from hiring him . So the young man obtained spe ? cial permission to insert a statement into his file which seeks to clear up whatever doubts about his sex life may arise from a reading of his extraordinary day in the hands of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One woman employee applying for the Foreign Service was told to answer " quickly and without thinking or deliberation " the following , true or false : Once in a while I think of things too bad to talk about . My sex life is satisfactory . Evil spirits possess me at times . I have never been in trouble because of my sex be ? havior . I am very strongly attracted by members of my own sex . I believe in a life hereafter . I have never indulged in any unusual sex practices . I read the Bible several times a week . There is something wrong with my sex organs . Another part directs , " Complete the following in several sentences or less as desired : I love .... I hate .... God is .... I am ashamed .... Boys ..... " In a third section , she was asked to indicate whether she was troubled , and to what extent , by matters in ? cluding : Deciding whether I 'm really in love . Being too inhibited in sex matters . Confused in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chairman of the sub ? committee on constitutional rights , asked the State De ? partment what information gained in these tests could justify such an invasion of privacy , he was informed that in cases where there is an emotional or security problem these tests were necessary " to provide suitable help to the individual and to protect the interests of the US government . " The State Department is not the only place that goes in for this interesting interrogation . The Labor Depart ? ment has asked applicants for the department 's Youth Opportunity Program such things as whether they be ? lieved there was only one true religion , and how often they got " excited or thrilled . " The Senate subcommittee on constitutional rights has received several complaints that investigators exert pressure which may discourage people from asking for counsel during security interviews . Policies in this re ? gard differ among government agencies . In a survey , not yet complete , 25 agencies out of 38 claim they do n't discourage or deny presence of counsel , family member or friend . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission and National Security Agency , which deal with highly sensitive ma ? terial , allow counsel , friend or relative at interviews , while the Civil Service Commission , the US Informa ? tion Agency and the Navy Department do not . The Right To Counsel In instances where counsel is forbidden , agencies claim they are only trying to protect the individual and national security . " This practice , " says the Civil Serv ? ice Commission , " limits the disclosure of alleged de ? rogatory information to the employee and protects him from the disclosure to others of allegations that he may be able to refute successfully during the interview . " The US Information Agency applies to both appli ? cants and employees its policy of not permitting third parties at security interviews . Individuals are , however , advised that they may consult with counsel before answering any question or signing a statement ? what ? ever in the world that means . The Defense Department policy in this regard appears wholly inconsistent . The department itself says it neither discourages nor denies persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it does not deny the right of counsel when it is requested , under normal circumstances it discourages counsel on the grounds that it would " hinder or defeat the very purpose of the interview by creating a formal legalistic atmosphere that could prove restricting . " On the other hand , the Air Force permits counsel ; so does the Army " unless the purpose of the interview or the interests of national security would be compromised . " In one case , Mr. Lawrence Speiser , head of the American Civil Liberties Union 's Washington office , sought to represent his client , a Peace Corps job appli ? cant , at a security interview conducted in behalf of the Peace Corps by AID . AID 's chief security officer first told Speiser it was against agency policy for individ ? uals to be accompanied or represented by counsel dur ? ing such an interview . But Speiser persisted and after a heated exchange the matter was carried to the Peace Corps which agreed to his presence . ( Later , David E. Bell , administrator of AID @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agency policy to afford individuals right of counsel in security interviews , the opposite of what the chief of security said . ) At this interview , the Peace Corps applicant was asked such questions as : Had he ever subscribed to the National Guardian ? Had he signed a statement oppos ? ing the House Un-American Activities Committee ? Did he support Red China 's admission to the UN ? Had he signed a petition opposing the Supreme Court 's de ? cision on the McCarran Act in 1961 ? There was a long exchange over the propriety of the applicant 's reportedcriticisms of J. Edgar Hoover , what he thought liberal ? ism meant , and a vague discussion , begun by the se ? curity man , on the views of Senator Wayne Morse . Not long ago a Defense Department official sought to enlighten security investigation procedures of the military . In November , 1962 , Walter T. Skallerup Jr. , deputy assistant secretary for security policy , sent out a memorandum to the three services . " In order to in ? sure that inquiries and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pro ? ceedings do not violate lawful civil and private rights , or discourage lawful political activity in any of its forms , or intimidate free expression or thought , " he said , investigators should take care not to inject im ? proper matters into security inquiries . " For example , religious beliefs and affiliations or beliefs and opinions regarding racial matters , political beliefs and affilia ? tions of a nonsubversive nature , opinions regarding the constitutionality of legislative policies , and affilia ? tions with labor unions are not proper subjects for such inquiries . " Inquiries which have no relevance to a security determination should not be made . Questions regarding personal and domestic affairs , financial matters , and the status of physical health fall in this category unless evidence clearly indicates a reasonable basis for believ ? ing there may be illegal or subversive activities , per ? sonal or moral irresponsibility , or mental or emotional instability involved . The probing of a person 's thoughts or beliefs and questions about his conduct , which have no security implications , are unwarranted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of questions he proposed to rule out , and asked the services for their comments before incorporating them in a Defense De ? partment directive . There never was any directive . Instead several months later , the ACLU went to the assistance of a young Army reservist who had served six months ' duty in 1957 , received an honorable discharge , and was placed in a standby control group . He had suddenly re ? ceived visits from Army security agents . During two different interviews the reservist was asked questions violating Skallerup 's memo . Here are some samples : " For the purpose of ad ? ministering the oath , do you believe in God ? " " Let 's say Kennedy or Khrushchev , they make the decision . Would Kennedy feel that your actions or opinions are of the best interest to the United States or would Khrushchev ? " " What do you call yourself ? " " If you ca n't give yourself a label , can you just explain what you are , since you ca n't say you 're a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Are you associated with people you can classify as THE NEW REPUBLIC leftists ? Do you have friends that you think might be to the right of center ? Do you have any friends that are in the middle ? ... Where does your father fit in in this scale from right to left ? Is he a member of the Socialist Party ? Are his views further to the left than yours ? How about your mother ? ... " Are you a member of the NAACP or CORE ? " In his memo , Skallerup ha-i said , " Department of Defense representatives always should be prepared to explain the relevance of their inquiries upon request . Adverse inferences can not properly be drawn from the refusal of a person to answer questions the relevance of which has not been established . " The interviewers asked the reservist : " Why do you decline to answer any of the questions concerning your father 's , your mother 's , your stepmother 's organiza ? tional affiliations , personal associations ? " The Well-Rounded Man Sometimes the security agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If you tend to the left , you do n't have a well-rounded association , is that right ? " I do n't want to judge you . We 're trying to get your opinion . You belong to the Fair Play for Cuba to get the leftist view of Cuba . You read the Times to get the middle of the road ; you do n't read anything to get the right view , or maybe you do . You read Time magazine which maybe will throw in a little bit to the right . " Do you see what I mean ? What about your associa ? tions , you seem to be a well-rounded individual as far as reading goes , now are you well rounded as far as association goes ? " The ACLU asked the Army what possible interests of national security could be served by asking these kinds of questions of a reservist , then so tenuously connected to the armed services . Finally , a year and a half after the questioning began , the Army admitted the questions should not have been asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter closed . Yet the records of these interviews are still carried in its files because , said the Army , " such pro ? cedure is in his and the government 's best interests . " While all this was going on , the ACLU got another request for help , this time from an Army private on active duty who had received a visitation from an intel ? ligence agent , who asked him among other things : Had he read Lord Jim by Conrad ? Why did he pro ? test against racial discrimination in the Washington , D. C. area ? The private had complained that the agent never explained to him what relevance these questions had to the investigation . In response to an ACLU inquiry , however , the Army said it was basic policy not to " abridge the constitutional and civil rights of an individual nor subject him to harassment or indignities . Questions concerning religious , racial , personal , domes ? tic and political matters are proposed only when nec ? essary and pertinent to the purpose of investigation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ices blandly said their security investigating policies were in line with Skallerup 's memo , yet they stead ? fastly refused to disclose the regulations themselves . And as the Army reply indicates , its regulations are directly opposed to Skallerup 's proposed prohibitions . Anyone who believes these episodes are sometime things , unfortunate mistakes by sorely tried personnel managers , might take a look at the case of William Lyman Dew . After serving in the Air Force in 1955 , Dew obtained employment in the CIA as a file clerk handling coded data . In order to obtain the necessary " secret " security clearance , he was required to take a lie detector test . He admitted committing at least four homosexual acts , some of them for pay , in 1050 when he was 18 or 19 years old . He also admitted smoking marijuana cigarettes on at least five occasions in 1951 and 1952 during Air Force service . CIA officials there ? upon allowed Dew to resign his post and he did so . He then got a job with the Civil Aeronautics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proba ? tionary period of one year and subject to investigation . He served zo months as air-traffic controller at Denver , receiving one promotion and a performance rating of satisfactory . In May , 1958 , the agency got possession of the CIA reports , and notified Dew his removal was proposed . Charges were filed ; Dew replied , repeating his earlier admissions , but asked time to file a " psy ? chiatric evaluation . " This was denied , and his discharge was ordered . Dew appealed to the Civil Service Com ? mission which affirmed the agency 's decision . Dew then filed suit for reinstatement and other relief in fed ? eral district court . This was granted on the grounds that Dew had not been given sufficient time to file supporting affidavits . Dew was reinstated , but some weeks later the agency again filed charges based on the same incidents . This time , Dew was permitted to file a psychiatrist 's report . The psychiatrist wrote , " In short , it is my impression that Mr. Dew mentally and emotionally is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I do not doubt that he has been doing so for at least a period of several years . He appears to be happily mar ? ried and has assumed the responsibilities of parent ? hood without evidence of regression or emotional in ? stability . He seems to be adjusting in his job . And I do not know what more one could ask . " Furthermore , I decidedly do not believe him to have a homosexual personality disorder . I believe that the several incidents which he gave a history of having engaged in while age 18 and a freshman in college were isolated incidents primarily the result of his curiosity . I do not believe they have been repeated .... " The agency then notified Dew it had reviewed the material , and sustained the charges . Dew next filed with the Civil Service Commission . After a hearing at which the psychiatrist testified , the examiner affirmed the dismissal . The Board of Appeals and Review of the Commission also affirmed . So Dew again went into court , losing both in federal district court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Appeals for the District of Columbia . In his opinion for the majority , Judge George T. Washington said the agency had authority to " remove an employee when his ' conduct or capacity ' , is such that his removal will promote efficiency of the service . We lack the background and experience to say , contrary to the agency 's judgment , that efficiency will not be promoted by removing one from such a post as was held by appellant , when his questioned ' conduct or capacity ' in the past did not demonstrate qualities of character , stability and responsibility . " In dissent , Judge J. Skelly Wright wrote , " If this rul ? ing remains the law , no civil service job is safe . Any civil service worker who becomes persona non grata with the powers that be may have some historical re ? search made on his pre-employment background in an effort to turn up something ' disqualifying ' . Even the innermost secrets of the civil service worker , long bur ? ied and known only to himself , may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here , a lie detector test may be administered to the worker during which he may he asked all manner of questions , the scope of which may be directly proportional to the intensity of the desire of the government agency to get the worker 's job . The mere threat of this kind of inquiry would be sufficient in most cases to cause the resignation of the worker marked for dismissal .... " There is no suggestion here that Dew is a homo ? sexual or a dope addict . The government admits this . And the uncontradicted psychiatric testimony , as shown by the court 's opinion , confirms that Dew is ' normal ' in all respects . Thus the net effect of Dew 's dismissal , in addition to undermining the integrity of the civil service system , is wrongfully to deprive an Air Force veteran with permanent civil service status of his job which he badly needs to support his wife and two children . " Finally the Supreme Court agreed to hear the appeal ; but both the Solicitor General 's office and the Civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a test the government 's right to fire an employee for acts committed before he entered federal service . So this October , Mr. Najeeb Halaby , FAA administrator , ordered Dew 's reinstatement and gave him $12,000 in back wages so " justice can bedone . " Recent tests , Halaby declared , had shown that Dew is " fully rehabilitated and competent . . . and should not be scarred for life for a youthful mistake . " The information on which Mr. Halaby based his magnanimous decision , of course , was fully available to the government eight years ago when it began this appalling case . Ratting on Your Parents Now there is an even more sickening trend afoot . The ACLU is making inquiries at the Civil Service Commission to see whether it really means to proceed in a rash of questionnaires it recently sent out to low-level technical and scientific personnel in nonsensitive jobs . These are probationary employees , that is , they have n't been in their jobs for a year , and the question ? naires remind them they were hired subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They invite com ? ments on various " reports " : that the individual 's rela ? tives were alleged Communists in the early 195o 's ; that some relative took a trip to Cuba ; that an employee , while a student , had been invited to attend a progres ? sive youth club meeting ; that an employee was on the mailing list of a left-wing organization . The inquiries ask for detailed information about the extent of the employee 's knowledge of the relatives ' and friends ' in ? volvement with Communism . In no case do these suit ? ability questionnaires allege any wrongdoing on the part of the employee . In short , these are fishing expedi ? tions , attempts to frighten employees into ratting on their friends and families . The ACLU is worried lest the Commission , under the guise of determining suitability , may be extending the federal security program to all government employees . If true , such a policy runs head-on into guidelines set by the Supreme Court in Cole vs Young in 1956 . There a government employee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Education and Welfare , who was charged with sympathetic associations with Com ? munists , was fired by the agency using powers given it to dismiss in the interests of national security . In reversing the decision of a lower court which had up ? held the dismissal , the Supreme Court said the em ? ployee 's position did not affect national security . Even if the Civil Service Commission comes to its senses and drops these cases , they remain as a blot upon the person 's record , for the entire file containing allegations , unproved or not , then is shipped down to the personnel department where the employee works . Recently Mr. John Macy , chairman of the Civil Service Commission , went over to the White House to advise Mr. Johnson on how to attract more talent to work in Washington , building the Great Society . The practices described above are no way to begin . 