@@243019

Handel 's Messiah is a little like an intricately carved altarpiece with countless sliding and interchangeable parts . An inveterate improviser , Handel altered the work 's solo parts constantly to suit various singers . In addition , the orchestration varied : at times Handel called only for strings , trumpets and drums , but to these he sometimes added oboes , bassoons and horns . After Handel 's death ( 1759 ) , well-wishers by the dozens set to work " modernizing " the Messiah : Mozart added new parts for violins and violas , used wind instruments in parts previously reserved for the organ or harpsichord ; English Composer Ebenezer Prout in 1902 brought out a thickly orchestrated edition retaining most of Mozart 's additions ( but printing them in small notes ) . Today some 50 different versions exist , most of them based on either Mozart or Prout . Anxious to spread the Handel sound on stereo , record companies have brought out four new readings of the Messiah by four distinguished conductors-each with his own concept of how the work should be played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and Chorus ( Jennifer Vyvyan , Monica Sinclair , Jon Vickers , Giorgio Tozzi ; RCA Victor , 4 LPs , mono and stereo ) . His performance is the most opulent of the lot , the most animated-and by all odds the farthest from any thought in Handel 's mind . In defiance of " drowsy armchair purists , " Beecham offers a thunderously 19th century-styled orchestration-lush , richly colored , and full of dramatic contrasts . Soloists and chorus are uniformly fine , but the recording is not for listeners who take their Handel neat . Eugene Ormandy offers a severely cut reading ( Eileen Farrell , Martha Lipton , Davis Cunningham , William Warfield ; the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir ; Columbia , 2 LPs , mono and stereo ) . The performance indulges in fewer pyrotechnics , is chiefly memorable for the truly superb singing of Soprano Farrell . <P> Sir Malcolm Sargent produces a package ( Elsie Morison , Marjorie Thomas , Richard Lewis , James Milligan ; the Huddersfield Choral Society ; the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra ; Angel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fire of Beecham , the vocal glories of some of the Ormandy passages , emerges as painstaking rather than impassioned . Perhaps the best performance of the crop is furnished by Hermann Scherchen ( Pierrette Alarie , Nan Merriman , Leopold Simoneau , Richard Standen ; the Vienna State Opera Orchestra and the Vienna Academy Chorus ; Westminster , 4 LPs , stereo ) , which is marked by some lovely , light-textured choral passages , a translucent orchestral sound and a movingly meditative air . <P> Other new records :                     