@@494830

Communist Disunity and the West by Z , bigniew 73rzezinski Togliatti , the head of the Italian Communist Party , was asked by his comrades on his return to Rome from the recent Moscow Congress , " What is unity in the Communist world ? " In Stalin 's lifetime a Communist did not need to ponder this question . Today , it is the key problem facing tommunism . In openly breaking with Stalinism , Mr. Khrushchev has pulled out all stops : Never before have the Soviet people been told so much about the crimes of their Soviet regime or about the inner workings of its politics . The account of Stalin 's criminality , and that of his associates , was graphic and even macabre . The execution by Stalin of his own brother-in-law , who refused to plead for mercy ; the last message from a condemned Civil War hero , and the cynical and brutal comments penciled on it by Stalin , Voroshilov , Molotov and Kaganovich ; the killing by Beria and Malenkov of high Party officials in Beria 's study ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And on the political side , the Soviet people were told that in all likelihood it was Stalin who engineered the assassination in 1934 of Kirov , a potential rival , and the Soviet people , furthermore , were treated to a detailed account of the 1957 attempted coup against Khrushchev by the anti-Party group , including the use by Bulganin of his own bodyguards , the dramatic scenes in the Party Presidium , and so forth . The impact of all of this will be felt for many years and could even generate a strong popular reaction against the Party 's dictatorship . Khrushchev first condemned Stalin secretly in 1956 for domestic reasons . Since then , the issue of Stalinism has come to mean the entire Khrushchev line , especially Foreign policy , including the Chinese criticism of his fear of war . Hence at the 22nd Party Congress the attack on Stalinism was in effect a defense of Khrushchev 's primacy , of the Soviet leadership in the bloc , and of the right of the Soviet Union to shape its foreign policy according to its own estimates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no danger to him ; he may even calculate that the anti-Stalin campaign would strengthen his appeal within the junior ranks of the Party . He knows that these younger elements would welcome the opportunities for advancement which anti-Stalinism and the crusade for legality offer them . This was evident in Shelepin 's and Polyansky 's speeches . But also , he probably fears that pressures of this sort could easily get out of hand and threaten those remaining Soviet leaders who shared in Stalin 's crimes : Kuusinen , Mikoyan , and last but not least Khrushchev himself . For this reason , the next months will presumably see efforts to strike some kind of balance between these conflicting aspirations . In the meantime , elsewhere in the bloc , he is forcing even his silent opponents to choose between Stalinism and Communist unity , in the expectation that most will choose unity . At the same time , Mr. Khrushchev 's decision has profoundly altered his relationship with the Chinese . Abandoning the position of trying to defend Communist unity in the face of Chinese attacks a position which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he dramatically gave the Chinese the option of deciding whether to protect Communist unity or not . This he did by openly ? and therefore irrevocably ? breaking with Albania which since the summer of io6o has been siding with the Chinese . Presumably in an effort to underscore his seriousness , he instructed his Ambassador in Peking to repeat publicly the Soviet charges . Khrushchev could not afford to allow Tirana to get away with its defiance ; failure to crack down on Hoxha invited imitation of the Albanians by such Stalinists as Ulbricht in East Germany , Novotny in Czechoslovakia , Gheorghiu-Dej in Rumania . To protect Soviet leadership in the camp he had to condemn the Albanians , and doing it openly meant that there was no further room for subtle pressure on Moscow : the move was irrevocable and the option whether or not to protect Communist unity was put to Peking . In doing this Khrushchev may very well have underestimated the Chinese stake in Albania . Failure to support Albania would have meant a colossal loss of prest'ge ; it would have meant in effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgot that the Chinese Communists are not only Communist but Chinese ; lacking Stalin 's prestige he can not simply ignore national pride among his supporters . After all , the Communist leaders who listened to the Chinese and Albanian attacks on Khrushchev in 196o , and often defended him ( knowing he needed the defense ) , could not have the same personal sense of deference toward the Kremlin that they had in the past . Furthermore , some of them ? especially those who in the past were most obeisant to the Soviets ? have already shown signs of an " ecstatic emancipation " from their former mentors that often turns to violent hostility . This was very much the case with the Yugoslays after 1948 ; today the Albanians are doing the same thing ; tomorrow it could be the Bulgarians or the Czechs . A crisis over the succession in either Moscow or Peking , matched by heightened insecurity in the Soviet or Chinese ruling elites , could spark these latent feelings into even more direct clashes . For instance , an anti-Soviet faction in Peking engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worsen Sino-Soviet relations in order to strengthen its domestic position . Needless to add , a simultaneous succession crisis in both Moscow and Peking could lead to even greater dangers and trigger similar reactions in the other Communist capitals . Khrushchev 's hints at the Congress that Molotov enjoys more foreign than domestic support suggest how bloc tensions might intensify domestic struggles . Persistent Sinn-Soviet disagreement since 1956 has changed the nature of Soviet power in the bloc . In most cases , that power could today be defined as " last-resort power " ? i.e. , the Soviets would be almost cer- tain to intervene by force to keep a Communist state from defecting to the " imperialistic " side . But they no longer have at their disposal the more intricate combinations of authority and consent which Stalin used to prevent other national elites from taking even a limited step that displeased him . Economic levers , political displeasure and ideological isolation are all pressures Moscow can still apply , but in each case it must now weigh the possibility that pressure can be counterproductive and that a party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West , for help ( particularly if economic levers are used ) . The Soviets can still intrigue within a ruling elite , taking advantage of factions , but Gomulka 's and , more recently Hoxha 's , experiences suggest that this is not always effective . In politics one change has a way of leading to another . At the November , 1960 , conference the Soviet Union commanded the loyalty of the vast majority of the parties , and even those favoring the Chinese probably would have sided with the CPSU had the chips been down . The same was true in November , 1961 , although about 3o parties preferred to be silent on the Albanian question rather than side with either the Soviets or the Chinese . But at some future conference the CPSU may be faced with more opposition . And what will happen if someday a majority of the Communist parties rejects a Soviet draft defining the policy of international Communism ? The 1960 Moscow conference indicated that the Soviet conception of the Soviet interest is no longer an automatic guideline for the other Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer automatically accepted as good for international Communism or the bloc . Furthermore , the attitudes adopted by the various parties on issues like the inevitability of war , the nature of imperialism , and the anti-Stalin campaign suggest a trend toward polarization between the more developed and the less developed countries . Eventually each side may find itself charging the other with subordinating " proletarian internationalism " to its own interests . Uneven development linked to an uneven intensity of revolutionary expectation will subject any monolithic ideology ? Communist or not ? to a great strain . The Soviet bloc has thus changed into a far more complicated Communist universe which already includes several constellations : the solid Soviet bloc , composed primarily of the East European elites ; the Chinese-Albanian alignment , which enjoys some popularity within the Bulgarian , Czech , East German and perhaps other East European ruling circles ; the Vietnamese and the North Koreans , who are the " Communist neutralists , " carefully steering middle course between Moscow and Peking ( although the Vietnamese have moved closer to the Chinese on the Albanian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Guinea ; and finally , the nonruling parties . These non-ruling parties also differ from one another : some , like the Italian , go along with Khrushchev but feel he has not gone far enough ; others , like the French , endorse him grudgingly ; still others , like the Indonesian , support the Chinese ; lastly , some are splitting internally . Hardening the Schisms The very existence of alternative Soviet and Chinese models not only stimulates factional struggles , but immediately gives a focus and a rationale to such struggles , even when they arise from purely personal or administrative conflicts . A faction challenging the prevailing leadership will use Soviet or Chinese arguments on its own behalf whenever it can , to avoid the appearance of deviationism . Such factional conflicts in turn feed back into the Sino-Soviet relationship , providing new bones of contention and sources of ill-feeling . The defeat of the moderate " Khrushchev " faction in Albania , for example , seems to have embittered Russia 's relations with China even though neither country had any vital interest in the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elites can not always be identical , even if the elites consciously strive to agree . Neither nation will allow its future to be guided in an unacceptable direction by the other , or even by an international Party Congress . Rather , each will try to persuade its potential supporters in the other country , and in the Party Congress , that its views are correct . Persuasion requires precise definition of a country 's position , and further emphasizes and rigidifies points of divergence . Persuasion also requires open debate , such as occurred last month . This creates pressures for a split , as the Soviet-Chinese-Albanian triangle shows . Mutual open criticism is almost impossible to contain : there is an inescapable factor of escalation in doctrinal conflict , as the Soviet-Albanian exchanges illustrate . Yet the very divergence of Chinese and Soviet policies may make them voice their ideological unity more loudly . Insistent emphasis on the common Marxist-Leninist doctrine , even when reduced to loud incantations , is not only a way of camouflaging differences but also of trying to achieve united action . Nevertheless , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urgency of modernization , and differing relationships of Communism to nationalism ( ranging from a linkage of the industrial , national and Communist revolution in China to a sharp conflict of the last two in Eastern Europe ) are bound to produce a variety of Marxist-Leninist brews . This is already evident in the different Marxist-Leninist interpretations of the same phenomena ( e.g. , imperialism ) given by Khrushchev and Mao . Reliance on Marxism-Leninism as an antidote to the pervasive Sino-Soviet divergence and to other emerging bloc polarities might produce a purely symbolic consensus around a doctrine which is consciously intended to be all things to all people . Changes in doctrine would no longer be a matter of a dictator or an elite 's making adjustments with reality while still believing that the universal doctrine remains absolutely right . Instead , a dictator or an elite would consciously fuzz ideological formulations - while firmly believing that some private interpretation is more correct but can not he expressed because of the higher imperative of unity . These compromises , with their cynicism and manipulation , can not but threaten the domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideology has a different prophet in one country than in another ( i.e. , Stalin in China , Lenin in Russia ) . Some Communist parties , notably the Italian , have already decided to guide themselves in the future by their own assessments of the domestic situation and not by Moscow directives . What will the word " Communism " then signify ? In the history of ideas , the " relativization " of a hitherto absolute doctrine is the first stage in the erosion of the doctrine 's vitality . That is why prolonged SinoSoviet tension is so ominous for the Communist world . In some respects , the Communist camp may be able to capitalize on its greater internal diversity . By appearing flexible , the camp may attract quasi-Marxist regimes like Cuba or Guinea . The Communists can point to their internal diversity as proof that those states need not fear Soviet domination . The Soviet Union has already made some gains from appearing to be more flexible than the Chinese . It is striking to note , for instance , that the ruling parties of four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) saw fit to send official delegates to the Congress of the Soviet Communist Party . Even so , the new external strategy is likely to encourage further change within the camp . Nations like Poland and Czechoslovakia will fear being taken for granted by the USSR if Soviet attention continues to focus on wooing nations Like Cuba or Guinea . We may expect established members of the bloc to seek a " most-favored-nation " clause from the Soviet Union , much the way the East Germans did when the USSR was courting Gomulka 's Poland in 1956 , or the way Latin American states have recently done with the United States , after watching Marshall Plan aid go to Europe . These opportunities will increase when China acquires a nuclear capability . The transformation of the Soviet bloc , and particularly the impact on it of the increasingly complex SinoSoviet relationship , can be viewed as part of the fracturing of the post-World War II globe . The Western world was the first to experience this break-up , especially with the emergence of the post-colonial neutral THE NEW REPUBLIC states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomenon , and more recent events suggest that the process is continuing . The Communist leaders , many of whom are doubtless aware of this process , may calculate that the present diversity in the bloc is an inevitable price of their success . They may feel that in the foreseeable future the increasing pace of economic and institutional integration of the bloc , and the still overwhelming ideological commitment to international solidarity , will suffice to contain the process of differentiation that all large-scale social organizations inevitably experience . At the same time , they may calculate that the pace of external socio-economic revolutions will bring closer the " inevitable " Communist victory and that continued external successes may rekindle internal ideological enthusiasm , subsuming their various divergencies . A leading Soviet ideologue has , for instance , made some very interesting projections in Koinmunist , the organ of the CPSU , of the existing economic and demographic trends in order to show that by 1980 the Communist camp will include significantly larger portions of mankind . In effect , the processes of internal politicaldifferentiation and ideological relativization , pointing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bloc 's expectations of world hegemony and hence unity . For this reason , the future of the bloc depends increasingly on the attitudes and actions of the West . At the Party Congress last month , Mr. Khrushchev postponed his Berlin deadline while setting off the 5o megaton bomb explosion . The test was clearly designed to demonstrate Soviet might to Communist critics of the Khrushchev line and to persuade Western public opinion to abandon its nuclear deterrent , while perhaps developing the means for insuring at least relative invulnerability from a Western nuclear strike . Khrushchev 's renewed emphasis on contradictions in the Western camp thus reflects his expectation that the West will not unite over the Berlin issue , especially if existing pressure is applied subtly . Terror plus patience equals peace with victories : that is Khrushchev 's formula until Soviet invulnerability is achieved . However , an open split with the Chinese could possibly force Khrushchev into a more aggressive policy in order to intensify the pressure for Communist unity . Only the West 's willingness to fight gives Khrushchev the impetus to risk disunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese , one must be firm with him . Thus the paradox of the present situation is that we must act the way the Chinese portray us and not the way Khrushchev paints us , so that Khrushchev is strengthened in his argument with the Chinese that there is a real danger of war . Precisely for this reason it is dangerous to assume C.-tat Khrushchev needs concessions in Berlin to strengthen his hand against Stalinists and the Chinese . Our weakness is in effect his weakness . Furthermore , even assuming that he is in danger ( which does not seem to be the case ) , it does not follow that some " dangerous " Stalinist would be his successor if Khrushchev were actually removed . It is far more likely that his fall would result in bitter and prolonged power struggles , with bloc members participating in them . Given the existing confusion in the Soviet Union prompted by the anti-Stalin campaign , Khrushchev 's fall could give the West a badly needed breathing spell . But the West should not wait for the unlikely to happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate aftermath of Stalin 's death , when the Soviet leadership was disunited , and we never tried to take the political offensive after the 1956 crisis in Communist ranks . We should not miss the present opportunity . Accordingly , firmness , for instance in Berlin should not preclude moves designed to further promote diversity in the Communist complex . A reassurance to the Poles on the Oder-Neisse line , a commitment not to give nuclear weapons to the West Germans , even a proposal to the Soviet Union that Eastern Europe join certain socio-economic Western European undertakings might ? even if the formal Communist reaction is negative ? generate further fissures by reducing East European fears . At some point , the US could dramatically offer to sponsor East European development which under Communism has not been very effective . Its acceptance would outrage the Chinese . Its refusal , presumably under Soviet pressure , would further strain Soviet-East European ties . At the same time , it might make very good sense to maintain our present attitude toward China , since Sino-American conflict generates Chinese bitterness toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an American policy presupposes continued Soviet vulnerability . Moscow would inevitably be more interested in placating Peking than Washington if Soviet survival were not at stake . A US policy based on a credible willingness and a capacity to fight is thus a major factor in Communist disunity . The historical paradox of Communism is that it came both too soon and too late . It failed in the developed West because it is an ideology of social revolution formulated after the major revolutions were over . It may fail in the East because its success requires true internationalism , which comes only after a revolution has brought national development and maturity . Yet even in terms of the Party 's own ideology , development and maturity render dictatorship of any sort , even by the Communist Party , historically obsolescent . Thus in a developed nation like the USSR , the Party has to fall back on continued external expansion and domestic nationalism as sources of social support . But expansion and nationalism in turn create the dangers of war , which Khrushchev wishes to avoid , and generate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consideration to the interests of " fraternal parties , " especially the Chinese . Today , the East is riding the crest of nationalism , while the West is becoming international . Khrushchev 's brand of Communism is caught in between .                     