@@493627

THE NEW REPUBLIC Toward the end , Whittaker Chambers seems to have gone a little mad . It is not hard to understand why , and if one brings to life a fraction of the imaginativeness we all so devoutly accord to literature , it is even possible to sympathize with his condition . Chambers felt himself to be a man burdened with a vision . He treasured a note Andre Malraux had sent him after the appearance of Witness : " You are one of those who did not return from Hell with empty hands . " ( Whether Malraux remarked on the value of what Chambers brought back or the possibility that after a **26;2014;TOOLONG debauch it might be a nice touch of modesty to return with " empty hands , " Chambers does not say . ) He , Chambers , knew ? perhaps he alone knew ? the nature and magnitude of the Communist threat . He knew ? perhaps he alone knew ? that it was symptomatic of a far deeper malaise in Western society , which could be traced back to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work . And everywhere about him he saw evidence of fatty social degeneration : a society hurtling itself into prosperous suicide , insensitive to its moral premises , and unaware that it stood at the point of collapse such as the Roman Empire faced shortly before ... well , such analogies never being very precise , let 's just say , shortly before the Roman Empire fell . Like most aspirants to prophecy , Whittaker Chambers was fond of this notion . Nobody understood the contemporary crisis as Chambers did , and it was an understanding that made it no easier for him to bear his cross . The intellectuals he knew to be hopeless , carriers of heresy and decay . Socialists , ultimately , were allies of Communism , even if , in mere fact , they perished resisting it ; liberals were socialists in disguise , sapped by Marxism ; and as for most American conservatives , they were either timid liberals or spokesmen for petty selfishness . Chambers wrote for The National Review ? a man harassed by a vision must write somewhere ? but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor was he impressed with William Buckley 's spiritual credentials . And one can allow Chambers the credit of supposing that he would have been disdainful of the sharpers and barbecue-pit crusaders who led the Goldwater campaign . What Chambers really yearned for was to discard his soiled American self and appear ? reincarnate , in ascetic leanness as a zoth-Century Dostoevsky . Then he would speak for the mysteries of the faith , excoriate the materialist West , and proclaim a holy war against the Moscow anti-Christ ( in which , despite his distaste for modern technology , " I suspect the argument must be completed by the Bombs " ) . Historical action often takes the form of repetitive impersonation , and all public gesture involves a risk of parody ; but what a hopelessly ridiculous piece of miscasting Chambers subjected himself to ! He had the ambition to prophecy , but not the calling . He knew , like most half-educated Americans , either too much or too little : too much for mere demagogy , too little for clear analysis . And besides , how could Dostoevsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The question seems to have haunted Chambers : which may be one reason he felt so lonely , misunderstood , and paranoid . To harbor a vision of the apocalypse is never comfortable ; to harbor it on a farm in Maryland could drive even a saint mad . And a saint he was not . Everything about Chambers ? his grandiose solemnity , his stunning pretentiousness , his oracular incompetence ? was appalling : everything but his stubborn conviction that we live in an age of apocalypse and a cluster of personal qualities which did not come through in Witness but do in Cold Friday , a posthumous collection of articles , notes and diaries . To grant Chambers any virtue , even a trace of humanity , is to risk a hissing of anger from certain liberals who need to see him as the complete contemporary villain . But why ? If such people encountered Chambers in a novel , say in Trilling 's Middle of the Journey , they would insist on granting him complexity of motive and shading of character . Cold Friday has some well-written pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also some testimony of his close and sustaining family life . If one can break past the crust of pontification , there is a man to be found in the book : not perhaps a very likeable man but one who had had his share of suffering . Most of the time , Chambers does his best to keep the reader from making this discovery . As for the vision of apocalypse he struggled so hard to maintain , that is not highly regarded in this country . Few of our intellectuals share this vision ; not many try to understand it . We like to behave as if the United States were exempt from the terrors of modern history , and perhaps , by some turn of fate , it will prove to be . But not all the evidence is in yet , and even if we emerge from this epoch far luckier than we probably deserve , it can at least be argued that American intellectuals have a moral obligation to share with the rest of humanity an awareness of what the zoth Century has meant . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respond to the experience of the zoth Century ? Yet Cold Friday shows that even with a sense of apocalypse one can fail to respond . To recognize the presence of an unprecedented historical disaster is NOVEMBER 28 , 1964 not yet to understand its causes or nature . Chambers was the kind of writer who by instinct and training reduced everything to melodrama . It was a gift of sorts , enabling him to present political struggles in a shocking chiaroscuro but disabling him for serious thought , In saying this I do not mean that he had the wrong or even detestable ideas ; I mean , literally , that he could not think . Chambers had an infuriating contempt for the customary rules of evidence ; he was seldom able to connect one link in a sequence of argument to another ; he preferred the stupefying power of assertion , the lordly rights of the man who has " returned from hell . " A few instances : 2 ) " If God exists , a man can not be a Communist , which begins with the rejection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it follows that Communism , or some suitable variant of it , is right . " This nonsense Chambers first advanced in Witness ; he was repeatedly challenged and answered ; the statement is false in fact , inept in logic , impudent in morals and un-Christian in spirit . Yet he repeats it again and again , without the faintest effort to reason or argue adding only the insidious qualification , " some suitable variant of Communism , " to take care of the liberals . 2 ) With the air of a man who has just heard Pascal deliver a pensee , Chambers describes a conversation with a Passionist monk to whom he poured out his worries about the viability and virility of the West . " Who says , " replied this Father Alan , " that the West deserves to be saved ? " Chambers was overwhelmed , struck dumb by this " Verey flare " of illumination . What is this " West " that is to be saved ? The Salk vaccine or Jim Crow , anesthesia or torture , Shakespeare or Spillane , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entity be saved or not saved ? Precisely who among mortals is to take upon himself the presumption of answering this kind of question about the culture of mankind ? And if the West is judged unworthy of salvation ( which , in my distance from orthodoxy , I had always supposed was God 's business , not Chambers 's or Father Alan 's ) , where THE NEW REPUBLIC but from the tradition of the West can one draw the values for something better ? But if that is so , then at least part of " the West " deserves to be saved . 3 ) " You can not replace God with Point Four . If you fed the starving millions four square meals a day and studded their primitive lands with automated factories , men would still die of despair . " No ordinary person , only a special kind of besotted ideologue , could say anything so stupid . Can one put under the same rubric the despair of a Brazilian peasant watching his children starve and the despair of a well-fed American who finds life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plenty , were then to learn the malaise of a sophisticated New Yorker : he might indeed die of despair ( which , by the way , even in New York is not quite so easy ) , but it would be for entirely new reasons and would thereRobert Maynard Hutchins , who has always seemed most at ease when grappling with the destinies of whole civilizations , is one of the few men around today for whom a discussion of the fate of a single nation might well be deemed small talk . And so what more appropriate title for a book of essays to celeHumanistic Education and Western Civilization edited by Arthur A. Cohen ( Holt , Rinehart &; Winston ; 55.75 ) brate his sixty-fifth birthday than Humanistic Education and Western CivilizatiOn ? It has an amplitude rather like his own career . Very briefly , that career can be said to have begun in earnest in 1929 when , at the age of thirty , Hutchins was appointed President of the University of Chicago . Chicago was already a great university , and whether he dashed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or made it the most exciting school of itsfore have entirely new political and social repercussions . In respect to social stability , prospects of democracy , the threat of Communism , and the personal life of the peasant , a very great deal would have changed . In any case , who proposes to replace God with Point Four ? Whatever men in Latin America may have lacked ? bread , health , minimal dignity ? has surely not been caused by the absence of God or His accredited representatives . To argue against foolishness can make one feel somewhat foolish ; but I suppose it is necessary , since Chambers has his representative significance . He was perhaps the most dramatic example we have recently had in America of the intellectual manqu ? hungering for prophecy and power , the journalist of ideological melodrama , the man who fancies himself a mixture of Ivan and Alyosha Karamazov , but more nearly resembles their buffoonish half-brother Smerdyakov.                     