@@273618

THE job , as Wilbur Cohen pictured it , is a one-way passport to ulcers and oblivion . The new Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , warned the outgoing Secretary , would not only have to maintain a man-killing schedule-twelve hours a day , six days a week-but would also have to put up with endless opprobrium from every conceivable quarter . " Whatever he says or does , " said Cohen , " it will impair his political future . " <P> After three months in office , Robert Hutchison Finch wholeheartedly endorses his predecessor 's first premise . " This , " he admits , " is the hardest job I 've ever had . " As for jeopardizing his career , Finch is a self-avowed " political animal " with a finely tuned instinct for survival and the magnetism to assure it . At 43 , he is the canniest politician in Richard Nixon 's Cabinet-and its youngest member . He is also the most liberal , most independent and , at the same time , perhaps the most loyal of the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled in , Finch , who has successively been the President 's protg , confidant and closest adviser over the past 22 years , is already being talked of as his running mate in 1972-or his successor in 1976 . <P> Now , for the President 's first term at least , Finch has to master what another former HEW Secretary , Abraham Ribicoff , contemptuously called " that can of worms , that catchall for programs with no place to go . " As head of a vastly expanded HEW , Finch not only has one of the three or four most demanding jobs in Washington-after the President's-but also must take the lead in mapping the Nixon Administration 's battle plan for the home front . As the President 's chief of staff in the most serious domestic crisis since the Civil War , he must work to alleviate poverty , reform the welfare system , improve health services and raise the quality of education-even as he safeguards drugs and medicines , protects the purity of the nation 's food , builds hospitals and oversees the social security system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look back , he might find some irony in his present position . Only a few years ago , the welfare state was anathema to many Americans , who made a religion of self-reliance . Both Finch and his boss inveighed routinely against " creeping socialism . " Today U.S. society accepts almost without question most of the machinery that exists to aid the poor , the elderly , the sick , the uneducated-all the fixtures that have come close to making the U.S. a welfare state . Perhaps the most notable accomplishment of the Nixon Administration so far has not been what it has proposed , but its acceptance , almost without murmur , of the Great Society . It may even fall to a Republican Secretary of HEW to initiate the boldest foray yet into the welfare state-the guaranteed annual wage .                     