@@203966

When the small , dark-haired woman walked into Milan 's La Piccola Scala , a stagehand took one look at her flushed , distracted face and called for the doctor . Her maid , hovering worriedly in the background , suggested a psychiatrist . Her husband was blunt : " Now I know what it 's like to live with a madwoman . " But three hours later , Soprano Graziella Sciutti , 29 , was out before the curtain receiving one of the biggest ovations of her career . The part she had played to perfection : the title role in a rarely performed opera by Giovanni Paisiello ( 1740-1816 ) , Nina , ossia la Pazza per Amore ( Nina , or the Girl Driven Mad by Love ) . <P> Soprano Sciutti ( pronounced SHOOTee ) is often referred to as " the Callas of La Piccola Scala " chiefly because of her flaring emotions ( both on and off stage ) and her incendiary dramatic power . Her voice is not exceptional : lighter than most , it does not have a particularly beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Nina , she outdistances most other singers in the way she throws herself into a role . Sciutti so identified herself with Paisiello 's heroine that " I started to think I was going completely mad . " With every movement of her curvy body and every inflection of her fresh voice , she threw into startling relief the flickering mind of a girl gone mad with grief . " An almost perfect execution ! " glowed Milan 's Corriere d'Informazione . Added a visiting London Times critic : " When Paisiello wrote this opera , he must have dreamed about her . " <P> In her black , redlined cloak , black stockings and stiletto heels , Graziella Sciutti is now a familiar figure in Milan and an accepted operatic star all over Europe , but her career developed slowly . As a youngster in Turin , she studied singing , was later told that her voice was too frail for opera , and decided to become a concert singer . After her concert debut in 1950 , she won a few operatic parts ( Lucy in The Telephone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not really get launched until Herbert von Karajan cast her in the role of Frasquita in a 1955 production of Carmen at La Scala . After that , Sciutti opened every season at La Piccola Scala ( La Scala 's intimate , 700-seat annex , specializing in rarely done or light operas ) . Elsewhere , she has shown her great versatility by singing everything from Mozart 's Requiem ( under Bruno Walter ) , to a TV performance of The Merry Widow , to Polly Peachum in Weill 's Threepenny Opera . Soprano Sciutti is married to a former operatic bass from Seattle named Bob Wahoski , who long ago abandoned music to form his own European Travel Service , which ferries U.S. tourists through Europe in Cadillacs . If the tours sometimes seem eccentric , there is a reason : they often follow the operatic trail of Graziella Sciutti.                     