@@312292

Not many art buffs recall Charles Willson Peale 's oil painting , Exhuming the F irst American Mastodon ( 1806-08 ) , nor do many readers know Royall Tyler 's novel . The Algerine Captive : or , The Life and Adventures of Dr. Updike Underhill ( 1797 ) . Much American music of that period is equally obscure , but equally evocative in its titles and equally appealing to the imagination if given half a chance . Manhattan 's Society for the Preservation of the American Musical Heritage is providing that chance in a series of 20 recordings , giving voice to some 25 little-known U.S. composers . As interpreted by Conductor Karl Krueger ( formerly of the Detroit Symphony ) , they all emerge as competent musicians , and several give glimpses of sizable talent . Among the more interesting unsung melodists : <P> Alexander Reinagle ( 1756-1809 ) , one of the most prolific of the lot , is represented by his Sonata in E Major for Early Piano , a witty , effervescent work that makes its points with economy and style . Born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend of both Karl Philippe Bach and Haydn , and his works bore the marks of their influence even after he emigrated to America at 30 . A popular recitalist who played frequently for George Washington . Reinagle also turned out a quantity of popular music ( America , Commerce and Freedom ) and a comic opera : The Volunteers . <P> Joseph Gehot ( 1756-18 ? ? ) was a Belgian-born composer and violinist who made his living fiddling at the City Concerts in Philadelphia . Strongly addicted to program music , he celebrated his departure for America when in his 30s by writing a twelve-part overture describing the voyage and including such detailed movement headings as " Going on board , and pleasure at recollecting the encouragement the traveller hopes to meet with in a land where merit is sure to gain reward . " Gehot is represented in the series by his Quartetto in D Major , a pleasant if rather bland work with a folksy , hey-nonny-nonnish air . Among Gehot 's other works : a comic opera titled The Maid 's Last Shift , or Any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) wrote only a handful of works in his 36 years , but at the time of his death , shortly after the Boston Symphony gave the premiere of his Pleasure Dome of Kubla Khan , he was already regarded as a daring and promising talent . A teacher all his life ( at New York 's Hackley School for boys ' ) , he began composing under French impressionist influence , became fascinated by Javanese music , and incorporated the Oriental influence in such five-and six-notescale works as In a Myrtle Shade and Wai Kiki . His talent , as shown in recordings of Notturno for Orchestra and Three Tone Pictures for Double Quintet and Piano , was for richly colored works with strangely shifting rhythms that convey an almost trancelike effect .                     