@@478249

Soon after the publication of the substance of Cecil Rhodes ' Will ten days after his death on March 26 , 1902 , the New York Evening Post pronounced ominously " we greatly misread the present purpose and value of Oxford University if the endowment does not have an effect quite contrary to that which its founder had in view . " What disastrous consequences in particular the Evening Post was expecting of the Rhodes Scholarships was not entirely clear even then . But since Rhodes was already on record as wanting for his annual draft of thirty-two young Americans , twenty " young Colonists , " and five Germans " " the best men for the world 's fight , " who after spending two or three years at Oxford were to return home and there " esteem the performance of public duties as their highest aim , " it was obvious enough that there was a good deal In the course of time the German Scholarships were discontinued and those from the British Commonwealth were considerably increased . which could go wrong with his designs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a monopoly of lugubrious conjecture . In Oxford crusty dons retailed , and endorsed , over their common-room port Henry James 's despairing protest at the coming irruption of a horde of barbarians , while in America professors of science denounced the " sterile classicism " of Oxford , and Andrew Carnegie assured all concerned that the best young Americans would never be induced to waste their time at Oxford , since Oxford could certainly not give them what they wanted most ? which , he explained , would be dollars . Sixty-two years later it is at least clear that in 1902 the crystal ball was considerably clouded . And why not ? In 902 nobody knew whether the scholars were to be schoolboys , undergraduates , or graduates . And when , early in 1903 , the first emissary of the Rhodes Trustees arrived in America to assure a skeptical convention of college presidents in Chicago that their best course would be to select the candidates likeliest to become President of the United States , Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , or Ambassador to the Court of St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how in fact candidates were to be selected . But by 1930 a process of trial and error had gradually evolved the State and District Selection Committees , each consisting , save for its Chairman , exclusively of former Rhodes Scholars , which today conduct the two stages of the annual competition . Discrimination in the highest degree is required of these gentlemen ; for in effect they are charged with the apparently superhuman task of discovering among almost a thousand candidates each year a handful of those likeliest , not so much perhaps to become President or Chief Justice as to serve their generation to its conspicuous benefit , and with marked distinction to themselves . Moreover the Selectors are briefed to seek not ? as in Rhodes ' day all examiners would have sought , and even now most still do ? for intelligence only but for intelligence combined with character ; and they must detect these qualities without the aid of the traditional written examination , which down the ages has ensured the triumph of so many a voracious but ineffectual absorber of other people 's ideas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates , and on their testimonials , whose eulogies however are apt to be so all-embracing as almost to justify the headline over a local announcement of an early election : " Is He the Perfect Man ? " But the crux of the process is undoubtedly the personal interview and the Selectors ' acquired aptitude for thawing the taciturn and unmasking the plausible . In a long-remembered encounter in Massachusetts a candidate whose preliminary disquisition on Plato had left the Selectors floundering was asked how he would spend a week in New York if supplied with unlimited funds . On his first day , the young man replied at once , he would take his young lady to the Versailles Restaurant to hear Edith Piaf sing . On Tuesday they would go to Goody 's and purchase all the records they had never yet been able to afford . The Committee was already pricking up its collective ears . Gourmandise , cosmopolitanism , and now cultural depth ! " On Wednesday ? " asked the Chairman expectantly . On Wednesday , since he could draw on unlimited resources , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why ? Because its philosophy department was rotten and he wished to reorganize it . On Thursday the three top-ranking world stars , to whom he would have sent telegrams of invitation on Tuesday , would play lawn tennis with him at the West Side Club . Gourmet , music lover , reorganizer of universities , and now a player of championship tennis ! Of course he was elected , " commented Erwin D. Canham , editor of the Christian Science Monitor , himself a Rhodes Scholar , after recounting this perhaps cautionary tale ; " of course he was a success at Oxford . I hope he will also be a success in life . " But despite all the preliminary pitfalls nobody who has studied the record is likely to deny that , both at Oxford and after it , the Scholars have been a success . At Oxford there have naturally been a handful of obvious failures ? the late Warden of Rhodes House , who serves in loco parentis to the Scholars scattered over their various Colleges , reckoned about eight among Americans during the central years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take to the place or the system or , even more understandably , the climate ; or , more simply , because the Committees which elected them were having an off day . Slightly more numerous perhaps have been those who , though they made good in Oxford , remained unreconciled to it . From the remote years when I taught there myself I still recall the discomfort of listening to a brilliant weekly essay from an American Rhodes Scholar whose every gesture and intonation radiated fiercely controlled disapproval of his entire surroundings , from his tutor to the Gothic skyline beyond the window . Let us hope that he learned something , if only self-control ; at any rate he is now a distinguished and prosperous commercial consultant . But the portent of the Scholarships , veiled from the Jeremiahs of 1902 , has been the statistical insignificance of the genuine casualties . Precisely what proportion of Scholars have not only proved themselves " the best men for the world 's fight " but have also , as was specifically demanded in the celebrated Will , " esteemed the performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the bargain " qualities of manhood , truth , courage , devotion to duty , sympathy for , and protection of , the weak , kindliness , unselfishness. and fellowship " ? this is something else again . But the American Scholars are a fairly cohesive community , reported on regularly in Class Letters to their Journal , The American Oxonian ; so far only one of them , I believe , has sunk without trace ; and there will be plenty of evidence available if ever a suitable panel of researchers , including presumably a professor of moral philosophy and a psychoanalyst , should be assembled to pronounce an authoritative verdict . Adept at Football ? or Rugby In the meantime is it possible to lay a cool finger on any prevailing patterns in the undeniably remarkable achievements of the American Scholars ? Remembering the unnerving unfamiliarity to an incoming American of Oxford , the Oxford system , and the Oxford climate , one expects adaptability to feature prominently in most subsequent success stories . Thus although Rugby football is unknown in the United States , the tactics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionized by the inclusion of F. L. Howie from North Dakota . For from the line-out Horde could hurl the ball the width of the field , where a three-quarter back , duly forewarned by a code word . would be waiting to gather it at full speed . With code words resounding for the first time at Twickenham , many an astonished old-timer must have begun to understand why Rhodes banked on American adaptability ? and in retrospect one reason at least suggests itself for Hovde 's subsequent Presidency of Purdue University . If , as seems likely , adaptability is something 100 AN ENGLISHMAN 'S AUDIT OF RHODES SCHOLARS like a sine qua non for college and university Presidents , it took a curiously different shape in the athletic career of another of the rare American Rugby Blues , Alan Valentine ( 1922 ) , later president of the University of Rochester . In his veiled autobiography , The Education of an American , Valentine recalls that , " as a former player of American football , " his hero had been " delighted with the normal English tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he expected an exceptionally chivalrous contest and went into the field determined not to bring discredit on America by the slightest infraction of the rules . Alas ! " Within ten minutes he found himself on the receiving end of more deliberate foul play than he had met in four years of American varsity football . " Adaptability however came to his rescue . " By the second year he was better prepared .. and evened the score . " Urbane , Not Estranged Adaptability looms large in the very variety of the careers of the American Scholars , ranging as they do from a solitary Secretary of State up , or down , to a solitary Bishop . It has occasionally been objected , and by Rhodes Scholars , that there have been too many academics , and it is true that in the fiftieth year of the Scholarships , apart from the numerous professors , there had already been thirty-three presidents , chancellors , or vice-chancellors of American universities or colleges . But it does not follow that , as an unacademic critic concluded , not enough bowlegged cowboys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " performance of public duties " are more socially beneficial than a university or college presidency , and ? seeing what he is up against ? a successful president is pretty certain to be required to rank among the " best men for the world 's fight . " Adaptability is conspicuous also in individual careers . When in 1939 " Whizzer " White , the nation 's top collegiate scorer , arrived in Oxford a term late , having been allowed to postpone his matriculation in order to play a season 's professional football for Pittsburgh , few can have recognized the chrysalis of Byron R. White , today , with John M. Harlan , one of the two Rhodes Scholar Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States . And the adaptability with which Elvis J. Stahr entertained his Oxford friends to insular tea and crumpets as well as transatlantic mint julep on ice surely prefigured his eventualtranslation , through corporation lawyer , lieutenant-colonel , professor of law , vice-chancellor of one university and president of another to Secretary of the Army in 1962 . One critic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not long ago had occasion to take a bird's-eye view of the literary productions of the American Scholars , claimed that he had observed another strand in the pattern . ( Incidentally it is interesting , and somewhat mysterious , to note that whereas in all other spheres of human activity the notable Scholars from the Commonwealth are roughly a match for the Americans , in literature classified as " creative " it is Americans first and the rest nowhere . ) Their urbanity was the first shared characteristic to give McClellan pause . Certainly " urbanity was inherent in him " ? according to one obituary of the ate John Mark Saunders , author of numerous well-known screenplays , including A Yank at Oxford , " the whirling tragedy " of whose life might have served as plot for a Scott Fitzgerald novel . Urbanity was likewise a marked characteristic of the work of Elmer Davis and Christopher Morley ( both from the Class of 1910 ) . It may be that their urbanity was born of naivete ? " deliberate Indiana na ? vet ? " in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is possible that they brought more sophistication away from . Oxford than they took into it . Davis however , whom Harper 's called " the greatest journalist of his generation , " is on record as recalling Oxford " chiefly as a place where too many bells were always ringing in the rain . " As for the versatile belletrist , Morley , the manuscripts , letters , and journals in the huge Christopher Morley Collection assembled at the Humanities Research Center of the University of Texas should provide ample evidence of the urbanity of an author who , when editing a new edition of Familiar Quotations , included a phrase of his own , " New York , the nation 's thyroid gland " ? which can hardly have been familiar since it had never been published . If some scholars indeed gained urbanity from their Oxford years it may well have been not so much from the terms as from the vacations , when those who were in funds explored Europe and many who were not often accepted invitations , which were liberally available , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " the nobility and gentry . " In the spacious pre-war years the social atmosphere in English country houses may occasionally have struck some of the guests as a trifle over-rarefied , but I have heard Professor Bergen Evans recall 102 AN ENGLISHMAN 'S AUDIT OF RHODES SCHOLARS with some emotion how after his last term at Oxford he wrote to a Bishop of his acquaintance to ask whether he might bring a visiting aunt , who regarded Bishops with an infinity of respect , to call on him shortly before they returned together to the States , how thereupon they were both invited to spend a weekend at the episcopal palace , and how he only learned by chance , as he was departing , that the Bishop , who had been on summer holiday when his inquiry was received , had returned with his family , recalled his staff , and opened up the palace for the occasion . As for the first visit of Colonel Eddie Eagan , then amateur light-heavyweight champion of the world , to the home of his college friend , the Marquis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scottish boxing championships and was followed by a near-world tour during which the two were entertained by viceroys , governors , maharajas , and field marshals and fought the local champions wherever they went . The well-marked regional loyalties of " Stanley Vestal " ( Walter S. Campbell , Class of 1908 ) , whose writing concentrated on the frontier West , and of the three Southern authors , John Crowe Ransom , Robert Penn Warren , and Cleanth Brooks , would certainly have earned the benign approval of the Founder , who was clearly determined that any new loyalties among his Scholars should be born without " withdrawing them or their sympathies from the land of their adoption or birth . " Not unnaturally the homing instinct has been conspicuously stronger with Americans than among Scholars from the Commonwealth . The count of Americans who have not returned to the States is negligible , whereas considerable numbers of Scholars from the Commonwealth ( particularly the New Zealanders ) have worked or settled permanently in England or some other Commonwealth country ; in 1958 thirty-one of its former Scholars were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The paradox , that new links are likelier to strengthen than to weaken old ones , on which Rhodes founded his system , has been endorsed by the American experiment . The Grand Design Emerges Yet even with this significant addition , the adaptability and urbanity of his Scholars would hardly in themselves have satisfied a Founder who himself gave his name to a new country , and was looking for " the best men for the world 's fight . " Let us however dispose once and for all of the ancient myth , never cherished so fondly in America as in some of the Commonwealth countries , that the ideal Rhodes Scholar is necessarily a stalwart athletic prodigy . Though Rhodes talked fondly of " the world 's fight " and directed that " fondness of , and success in , manly outdoor sports " should be one of the qualifications for his scholarships , Selection Committees have always been warned against attaching much importance to mere skill in hitting or kicking a moving ball . Had it been otherwise , the late Jan Hoftneyer , the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had he survived , would assuredly not have been elected on the strength of his persistently enthusiastic but startlingly unskillful cricket . But if we combine " the world 's fight " with " the performance of public duties " the notional figure ? the " image " ? which begins to take shape can readily be seen as the statesman , or at least the politician . The Founder himself was a Member of Parliament in the old Cape Colony for twenty-two years , and Prime Minister for six , and there have occasionally been complaints that not enough of his Scholars have been treading in his footsteps . Rhodes would undoubtedly have liked to see Rhodes Scholars ubiquitous in the seats of power throughout the Commonwealth and the United States ; indeed he once told W. T. Stead , no doubt more than half seriously , that he hoped that one day the Prime Minister and the leader of the Opposition in every British Colony would be a Rhodes Scholar . It is possible therefore that he would have been faintly surprised at his goodly company of college presidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen them as a by-product of the grand design . But the truth is that when in his pioneer fashion he prescribed the selection of his men , not for their scholastic achievements only but for human qualities in the round he was making the wide variety of their subsequent careers inevitable . And whatever his reaction to academic notabilities in general he would surely not have raised an eyebrow at the eminence of some of his Scholars in science and medicine . Some ten years back the world 's leading neurosurgeons were two Rhodes Scholars , the late Sir Hugh Cairns from Australia and Wilder Penfield from New Jersey , who was naturalized as a Canadian citizen in 1934 ; these were conspicuously performing public duties as well as taking a handsome share in the world 's fight , and when Penfield received that highest of British distinctions , the Order of Merit , in 1953 , Rhodes would surely have had no more mental reserva104 AN ENGLISHMAN 'S AUDIT OF RHODES SCHOLARS tions as to his not having been a Prime Minister than when the Nobel Prize was awarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in 1945 for his work on penicillin . It is almost inevitable that if one is prospecting for a recognizable pattern in a widely scattered community one should turn one 's telescope on the successes , if only because they are apt to be more fully documented . Nevertheless , if what Rhodes was after , in addition to intelligence , was toughness , chivalry , and public spirit , he might have found them no less plentifully among those of his alumni who have never earned a paragraph in Who 's Who ? which after all , takes no special interest in " sympathy for , and protection of , the weak , kindliness , unselfishness , and fellowship . " Or even in the few who were frowned on by Oxford . I have heard it asserted without challenge in a company of South African Scholars , that none of them , and they included a Chief Justice , had more fully lived up to the ideals of the founder than a certain obscure master at a preparatory school . If it comes to that , only St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the once celebrated football Blue who after the breakdown of an unhappy marriage ended his days as a lumberjack . And what of the undergraduate who , returning flown with wine and after permitted hours , climbed by the recognized route from the roof of his taxi to the spiked crest of his college wall , paused triumphantly for a moment , and then , his brains being somewhat confused , leaped down , severely spraining his ankle , into the lane from which he had just ascended ? He may have won no laurels at Oxford but who knows ? Even there he may have deserved his scholarship . Endemic Among Politicians It remains that , whatever else he wanted or would have put up with , Rhodes would have liked to see Rhodes Scholar elder statesmen heading Governments and Oppositions alike wherever Governments and Oppositions should be found throughout the British Commonwealth and the United States , and ex hypothesi younger politicians coming up the hard way behind them . Perhaps he considered that intelligence , toughness , chivalry , and public spirit are endemic among successful politicians ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimate of the political record of his American scholars is not easy to come by , for the sufficient reason that , whereas in Britain and the Commonwealth the ambiguous designation " politician " is reserved for one who has been elected to the legislature and has practiced the exacting arts of parliamentary warfare , in the United States it may be held to cover anyone holding an executive appointment which will be terminated by a change of the Administration . Among American Scholars the parliamentarians have been , comparatively speaking , as few as the authors have been numerous . Perhaps indeed the scarcity of the one is a corollary of the plentifulness of the other , and some Americans have become poets because there were fewer temptations than in other countries to become orators . Even in the Commonwealth , needless to say , the Scholars have never provided every Parliament simultaneously with a Prime Minister and a Leader of the Opposition , but there has been a respectable showing of Members and Ministers , particularly in Canada , where there have also been three Provincial Prime Ministers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jamaica and the still fiery Dom Mintoff of Malta , have headed both a national Government and a national Opposition . By comparison , Rhodes Scholar legislators at Washington have been few . Perhaps the best known in the present Congress are Carl Albert of Oklahoma , Majority Leader of the House , and Senator Fulbright of Arkansas , Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and originator of the celebrated Fulbright Scholarships , whose blood relationship to the Rhodes foundation is unmistakable . High executives , under successive incumbents of the White House , have been more plentiful . And in the Kennedy Administration the constellation of Rhodes Scholars was almost startling . How many of them should be viewed as opposite numbers of a Cabinet Minister in the British system is not easy for a detached observer to decide . As to Secretary of State Dean Rusk ; Chief of the State Department 's Policy Planning staff , Walt Rostow ; Assistant Secretary of State Harlan Cleveland ; Ambassador to Bonn George C. McGhee ; and former Secretary of the Army Elvis J. Stahr ( who reverted , after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) there would seem to be no doubt . On what precise rung in a Parliamentary hierarchy to seek an opposite number for Nicholas deB . Katzenbach , Deputy Attorney General , or Charles J. Hitch , Assistant Secretary of Defense and Comptroller , or Kermit Gordon , Director of the Bureau of the Budget , is a trifle more perplexing . And at least three others , it seems likely , would rank with the junior Ministers in a legislature modeled on the British Houses of Parliament . How far did Oxford get toward arming the Secretary of State and his coadjutors , or for that matter any of her Rhodes Scholars , for their subsequent achievements ? There is some temptation to presume a special contribution to governmental careers from a university which grew up in the middle ages , and remained until the first world war , the exclusive training-ground of a ruling class , and which even now , despite its State Scholars and its dense suburb of laboratories , retains much of its ancient tradition . But to isolate the particular contribution to the particular individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , saw Dean Rusk , undergraduate at St. John 's College , as a future Secretary of State ; but then nobody , it is equally safe to say ( except perhaps himself ) , foresaw Harold Macmillan as a future Prime Minister . Rusk was recognized as able and virtuous , played lacrosse for the university , and won the Cecil Peace Prize ; Macmillan was recognized as able and virtuous and was Secretary of the Union . But this does not take us far . Besides serving crumpets to friends , whom he made easily , Elvis Stahr accepted numerous invitations to English country houses , played lawn tennis energetically , and was known , even at Oxford , as " the Colonel . " Hitch was the first American Rhodes Scholar to become a teaching Fellow of an Oxford College , and for thirteen years dispensed lucid instruction to pupils in economics and turned a shrewd eye on the business affairs of the Governing Body of Queen 's . Nobody , it is certain , would have ridiculed a prophecy that one day he would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost equally certain , would have made it . An Ivy League Flavor ? The world has moved fast and far since Rhodes began to put the final touches to the last , or near-last , draft of his Will , before the captains and the kings of Kipling 's Recessional had ceased celebrating British dominion over palm and pine at Victoria 's Diamond Jubilee , and while Oxford was still training a ruling class to shoulder the white man 's not unprofitable burden . Most of what Rhodes labored to create in South Africa is already in ruins , and the incoming tides are even lapping at his own Rhodesia . Are the Scholarships too now a Victorian survival , doomed to inevitable decay in an age for which privilege and Empire have become terms of abuse ? Statistically , it must be admitted , there has been a distinct flavor of the Ivy League about the American Scholars . The l , 009 of them elected between 1904 and 1960 came from some 228 universities and colleges , of which 66 had so far produced only one each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been responsible for 279 , that is 17 per cent of the total output . Incidentally the Marshall Scholarships would seem to be in an even worse state of imbalance , for of 73 male scholars elected during the first six years of the foundation , eighteen haled from Harvard and six from Princeton , together close to one third of the grand total . Doubtless the officials of both foundations would like to see the distribution of the Scholarships evened out , but in a sense they are the prisoners of their own admirable systems . For inevitably the institutions which have been most fertile of Scholars are those which have themselves created national scholarships whose criteria of selection closely resemble those originated by Rhodes . Inevitably too they are such as are noted for close contact between faculties and students ? so that a testimonial from , say , Harvard is likely to be lengthy , knowledgeable , and intimate , while from most other American universities and colleges it will usually suggest that its author has known of the candidate only as a unit in the audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover the universities which produce Rhodes Scholars in abundance are naturally those with Rhodes men plentiful in their faculties and ready to suggest , even to a sophomore , the wisdom of keeping his eye on an eventual candidature . It is also probable that the kind of man who will get himself to Yale or Princeton if he can is often the kind of man who will get himself to Oxford if he can . Yet it need not be supposed that the Scholars represent the vestigial remains of aristocracy in America or are amateurs of the ancient tradition of privilege in Oxford . Indeed if they were , they would be in for a sizable disappointment on arrival . For by any standards other than academic , a substantial proportion of Oxford undergraduates must strike an American newcomer nowadays as definitely underprivileged , while as for the white man 's burden , he will find Scholars from recently created Rhodes constituencies in Ceylon , Ghana , Malaya , Nigeria , and the Caribbean purposefully preparing themselves to assume the black or colored man 's equivalent . Oxford has somehow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight centuries and so far the Scholarships seem to be imitating it . 