@@249503

Cars spun along the strip , crashed , smashed , shattered , splintered , and stopped in a downpour of metal and glass . It looked like Indianapolis all over again , but the site was East Haddam , Conn. , the event no sport but an experiment in automobile survival staged by the state police department to prove its contention that small cars are more vulnerable than standard models . <P> The test consisted of driving a big car head on into a stationary small car , and vice versa . Photographs taken at the moment of collision were enough to alarm any small-car owner - and did when they were reproduced in news papers across the country . Dauphines , Volkswagens and Saabs were devastated , while the bigger Buicks , Fords and Pontiacs came out of the wrecks relatively unscathed . Connecticut State Police Commissioner Leo J. Mulcahy , who planned the project , pronounced the tests conclusive and declared : " We want to create buyer resistance to small cars and to arouse . . . public awareness of the dangers of riding in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were instant shouts of " foul ! " Safety engineers complained that the demonstration was longer on publicity value than on detached scientific measurements . Renault President Vin cent Grob called the experiment " biased , proving only that if a big , heavy object can be directed to hit a small object , the small object can be hurt . " U.S. compact-car makers , who have long resented being lumped with foreign-made economy cars in statistical surveys , discreetly pointed out that the only U.S.-made compacts involved in the Connecticut tests ( two Falcons and a Rambler ) had emerged in comparatively good condition-but naturally , these nondramatic collisions did not make for dramatic photographs . <P> More impressive than Mulcahy 's flashy tests are some sober statistics compiled in recent months by various state authorities . A survey made last year by Illinois ' Bureau of Traffic reported that the death rate of compact and small-car drivers was double the death rate of other passenger-car drivers . A similar report by Maine , published in April , showed a fatality rate for persons in compacts ( defined as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great as that of full-size cars . Studies of the California Highway Patrol found that small-car occupants suffer a far higher rate of injury or death in accidents . " Compact and foreign cars , " says Michigan Highway Commissioner John C. Mackie , " may be socially desirable in some parts of the country , but they are a nuisance . Less weight and less acceleration make a car less safe . " <P> Nimble &; Lethal . In rebuttal , the small-car men have an impressive case : small cars do not get into as many accidents . The Maine and California surveys corroborate the contention ; both report that the big cars have a substantially higher accident rate . Because the small-compacts have relatively modest engines , their drivers do not feel that heady sense of power that tempts teen-agers and frustrated males to reckless speed , which is admittedly the principal single cause of accidents .                     