@@493422

I have read Le Phenomene humain almost twice over . I have thoroughly annotated it and reviewed my notes . I am still not sure that I understand everything it says , and if anyone asked me whether I thought it true I could not answer simply . I think that advancing knowledge will falsify it in considerable measure , as advancing knowledge has falsified Euclid and Copernicus , Aristotle and Descartes . There are serious faults in the book , passages that cry out to be rewritten , and perhaps some of it will not hold water at all . When I have said this much , however , I am aware of the fact that my own thinking can never be the same as it was before . The book 's particular insights have been illuminating it ever since . Let me take an example that is the more valid because it is so trivial . The other evening , in the question period after a talk I gave on the Common Market , someone raised a question about the greater dynamism in organizing life on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by contrast with the long past . I immediately pointed out that the expansion of the human population to form what is increasingly a single inward-turning society , bringing men into constant contact and collision with one another continuously all around the globe , produced a concentration and heightening of mental energy ( I did not use the term " noosphere , " since this language is still private ) . Men rubbing elbows all around the globe generated energy that did not manifest itself when they were living in isolated groups separated by great spaces . Then I had to add that this same point was made by Teilhard in a far more cogent and profound way , that he was , in fact , the source of it . I recommended that the questioner read Le Phenomene humain with his question in mind . If one had to say whether Teilhard 's theory is a true model of the universe , so that men can now dispense with devising further models , one would have to say no , of course not . The limitations of our present human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it represents a progress toward truth , just as Newton 's false model represented a progress beyond the false Ptolemaic model . It represents a shattering of familiar assumptions about the categories of being , assumptions that have constituted barriers to progress . It represents a permanent enlargement of To meet what Chester Bowles described as " Africa 's challenge to Anierica , " this country has already begun to revamp its governmental and educa-tional institutions to anticipate and cater to the growing demand for expertness in African affairs . The State Department has added an Undersecretary for African Affairs ; foreign service officers are receiving instructions in Amharic , Swahili , and other little-known tongues ; and our universities and colleges are adding courses and inter-departmental committees on African studies . In spite of this burgeoning interest and competence in African affairs , there are several serious and dangerous gaps in our knowledge . One of the most obvious of those gaps is South West Africa , a territory almost as big as Italy and France put together with a populaunderstanding , which can now make its first attempts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly , it provides a reason for the mounting evidence that mankind , in its long evolution , is arriving at a culmination and crisis of some sort . In an immediately practical sense it does what must be dOne if we are to continue the long progress of mankind : it suggests to us a meaning and a direction to life , a direction that is plausible even if the final end toward which it points lie far beyond our present horizon . It resurrects hope for a world that seems , in its present phase , to have gone blind to everything except perdition . From the biosphere to the species , all is but an immense ramification of consciousness seeking its realization through form . This is where Ariadne 's thread , followed to the end , leads us. tion of about half a million . The status of this **26;1855;TOOLONG country has been in dispute ever since 1946 when the General Assembly of the United Nations rejected Field Marshal Smuts ' plea that it be annexed to the Union of South Africa . South Africa has persistently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations and exercises de facto sovereignty , despite the repeated protests of the United Nations . South West Africa consists of a pays legal and a pays reel , the former embracing some 73,000 white settlers and the latter nearly half a million Africans and persons of mixed racial origin . The Union Government has conducted its stewardship over this mandated territory in such a manner that the administration of the country may be said to be of , by , and for the pays legal at the expense of the pays reel . Its political and socioeconomic structure makes a mockery of the Kantian imperative to treat others as ends , rather than as means . The ends in this case are the political hegemony and affluence of the white settlers , the means the countless nonwhites who are bereft of all fundamental freedoms and decent living and working conditions but who nonetheless have miraculous courage and faith in the United Nations . Allard K. Lowenstein 's Brutal Mandate is a welcome and timely contribution to our knowledge of South West Africa . Before its publication in July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ documents , read hard-to-get ( and often outdated ) works , and scrutinize obscure graduate theses to become acquainted with the pays reel . Its publication is especially germane , for it is expected that the International Court of Justice at The Hague will begin proceedings soon in the case of Ethiopia and Liberia v. South Africa regarding the fitness of South Africa to continue its duties as the mandatory power for South West Africa . Interestingly enough , the South West African dispute is the only one in the history of the United Nations in which the International Court has been used four times . Advisory opinions were rendered by the Court in 195o , 1955 , and 1956 , and in the present case , it is highly probable that the exact international status of the territory will be clarified once and for all . Strictly speaking , Lowenstein 's work adds but little to what South West African experts already knew about conditions there . But what other scholars knew second-hand , Lowenstein knows first-hand . The young American lawyer , accompanied by two of his countrymen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tape recorder and cameras , the young trio spoke to African leaders and photographed the living conditions of the African inhabitants . This information was presented in evidence before one of the committees of the United Nations General Assembly , and the three investigators testified as to the nature of the South African mandatory rule in South West Africa . The trip was taken at the behest of the Rev. Michael Scott and Messrs . Kerina and Kozonguizi , three authorized petitioners before the United Nations who , along with others , serve as representatives of the African peoples of South West Africa to the UN . Brutal Mandate is described on the DECEMBER 22 , 1962 book jacket as " an unusual odyssey , " which is an urbane understatement . The odyssey reminds one of the account of the OSS and the European undergrounds during the Second World War because , owing to the apartheid curtain and the ubitiquous Special Branch of the South African police force , such information could not have been otherwise obtained . That Mr. Lowenstein and his associates had no recourse but to resort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South African officialdom . The particular merit of this book is its lively style , its regard for detail , its obvious compassion and its persuasive logic . The situation in South and South West Africa is often so appalling and so discouraging that many writers take the easy way out ; they excoriate South Africa and leave it at that . Mr. Lowenstein not only provides a lucid diagnosis and prognosis but also his indignation is tempered with real empathy for the white minority . His imaginative and incisive analysis of the white liberal , the man who falls between the twin stools of African nationalism and Afrikaner nationalism , merits close attention . He , like the Afrikaner Patrick van Rensburg ( who argued the case brilliantly in his recently published Guilty Land ) , contends that the only escape is through the establishment of a concerted United Nations action . Lowenstein asserts that the sole alternative now to UN interposition would be a Jacobin Reign of Terror in South and South West Africa , with white pitted against black and black against white . He exposes the meretricious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Communism on the African continent , which perforce entitles it to diplomatic support from Washington . Apartheid is a dike against Communism , runs the argument of Pretoria . Lowenstein demurs , pointing out that the massive non-white resentment against apartheid would only play into the hands of the Communist movement which champions the cause of the restive African masses . However , Mr. Lowenstein bases his case against current South African racial policies not so much on the grounds of Realpolitik as on those of common decency , sane ethics , and the Judeo-Christian heritage of the West which espouses the rights of all men to equal opportunities for self-realization . If there is to be a United Nations intervention , what mode of intervention is it to be ? Here Lowenstein argues for an economic boycott of South Africa to bring Dr. Verwoerd 's Government to grips with the reality of its pariah position in the international community . This is by no means an original argument ( Peter Calvocoressi , in his South Africa and World Opinion , draws up an elaborate blueprint for the boycott ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morally correct . There are three shortcomings in Brutal Mandate which are omissions rather than commissions . First , the author has slighted the problems attendant upon the achievement of independence by the African inhabitants of South West Africa , an independence already expressly underwritten by the General Assembly of the United Nations . There is a paucity of entrepreneurial , administrative , educational , and technical skills among the Africans , through no fault of their own . Because the UN has been the watchdog ( with more bark than bite until recently ) of the Africans ' interest there , it will probably continue to be their patron after independence . More than likely , the UN will supply technicians and administrators to the territory through its so-called OPEX program . Second , it appears that he did not fully integrate his proposals with the overall design of American statecraft in Africa . It would seem that America 's South-South West African policy , if rectified in time , would add immeasurably to the effectiveness of its whole African program . In spite of its technical and foreign aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's strategy and policy expectations will remain suspect on the continent of Africa as long as its South-South West African policy is marked by timidity . All of these new states ( which control a handsome number of votes in the General Assembly ) are united in opposition to the atavistic racial program of South Africa ( as well as that of its fellow traveler , Portugal ) , and the sooner the United States cooperates with these states against such a policy to demon-strate that its exhortations about democracy match its exertions for democracy , the sooner it will get out of low gear in Africa . In African eyes , our South African policy strikes them as a case of what you are speaks so loudly that I can not hear what you are saying .                     