@@270738

Between relentless red-dogs on the field and yapping jackals in the stands , 14 lacerating seasons in the National Football League had made a philosopher of the New York Giants ' golden-armed Quarterback Charlie Conerly , 40 . Congratulated on a brilliant performance against the Los Angeles Rams that temporarily silenced armchair coaches who argue that he should be benched because of his age , Conerly thoughtfully observed : " When you win , you 're an old pro . When you lose , you 're an old man . " <P> For the " epic force " with which he plumbed " the depths of the tortured South Slavic soul , " Yugoslavia 's Ivo Andric , 69 , won the Nobel Prize for literature . The second author-diplomat tapped in two years ( 1960 recipient : French Poet St. John Perse ) and the first of his countrymen ever honored by the Swedish Academy , the unassuming , owlish-looking Serb was Yugoslav minister to Berlin when the Nazis invaded his country in 1941 . Abandoning public life , he settled down to write a sweeping Bosnian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history-haunted hymn to his native land , while it was still under Nazi occupation . A onetime president of Yugoslavia 's Communist Federation of Writers but never a party member , Andric ( pronounced Ahndreach ) celebrated his Nobel award with a slivovitz toast to Sweden , hoped despite his frail health to make the trip to Stockholm next month to accept the $48,300 prize . <P> After conveying Caroline and John Jr . home to the White House from four months of rustication at Hyannisport and Newport , Jacqueline Kennedy hustled over to the Capitol 's National Guard Armory ( where she was to present the new Presidential Challenge Cup ) only to find that Washington 's 1961 International Horse Show had already been stolen by her sister-in-law , Ethel Skakel Kennedy , 32 . Fifteen years and seven babies beyond the days when she was the scourge of the equestrian East , the dark-eyed , dervish-like wife of the Attorney General had at the last minute daringly borrowed riding ensemble and steed to enter the conformation hunters competition . But after skimming seven barriers with surprisingly unrusty gait , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw her outsized derby sail across the ring and finished out of the money . " Ethel , " reassured her black-tied Husband Bobby , as five of their offspring giggled and fidgeted underfoot , " you did fine . " <P> After a jampacked workday that saw him in his office at 7:30 a.m. , President Kennedy 's personal representative in Berlin , retired Army General Lucius Clay , got away from it all at the German premiere of My Fair Lady , where he seized the opportunity for an intermission tete-a-tete with velvet-clad Ingrid Bergman , whose impresario husband , Lars Schmidt , was the show 's producer . Topic of discussion between Ingrid ( whose gown Mrs. Clay described as " a Grecian toga cut " ) and Clay : " only the show , " which left German critics digging for superlatives last lavished on the works of Goethe .                     