@@493494

Bangles and Baubles Very early in the game , the three men who had been delegated by the House Committee on Un-American Activities as a subcommittee to investigate Communist infiltration in the Women Strike for Peace began to wish they might go elsewhere . Clyde Doyle ( D , Calif. ) , the chairman , had just finished saying that he really had not meant to say that a witness must prove she was not a Communist and , please , for people to stop questioning the motives of the Committee . Sitting to his left , William Tuck ( D , Va. ) , the grand and portly former Governor who has been sent to Washington to spend his twilight years in the service of the House , was lazing comfortably in his chair , reading the papers and smoking a cigar , when a neat little woman witness said , in a tone calculated to bring any Southern gentleman to his feet , that she hailed from the great state of Virginia and my , she was surprised to see Governor Tuck here . Tuck plunged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donald Bruce ( R , Ind. ) , the third member of the subcommittee , was attentive , grave and worldly-wise , until he attempted to assist another female witness in selecting that part of the Constitution she could invoke to avoid answering questions . He gave up and never again spoke a word . Out in the caucus room , a sea of female faces stared at the Committee . Children cried ; the room was bathed in the smell of perfume and flowers ; a young woman sat placidly rolling her own cigarettes . Periodically the sea booed , hissed , applauded , stood up and sat down . It was rather like a very large and animated women 's meeting . Mr. Doyle had said in his very watery voice at the outset on December ii that certainly not everyone in the peace movement was a Communist , nor even a fellow-traveler . But the Committee did have information and it needed to know the movements of " concealed agents of a foreign power " so that it could draft some legislation . " Frequently , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " people come before the Committee and say , ' why yes , I was a member of the party 8 , io , 12 years agoi Alfred M. Nittle , the Committee Counsel , sounding like a falsetto Adlai Stevenson ( through no fault of his own , one can be sure ) continued the quest . The witness had just said she had not been a Communist for the past five years . Now that she was " alleging " she was no longer a Communist , was she an " anti-Communist ? " What did the counsel mean by that , the witness wanted to know ? Mr. Nittle said that was perfectly obvious to anyone . The woman said it was not obvious to her , but she would be glad to describe her political views . Mr. Nittle said this would not be necessary . Mr. Doyle said coyly , " I had what you 'd call a hunch you were a member of the Communist Party . " Later , Mr. Nittle was in fine form . He was trying to prove that another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was at Vassar in the late 1930 's . And was she not a member of the Young Communist League , he asked ? Was this question really pertinent to the inquiry , she said ? " The question is related to your present Communist Party membership , " he replied . " I mean the question of your present Communist Party membership , " he explained , looking like the cat that ate the canary . Finally , even Mr. Nittle was reduced to ruin . He pleaded with the last witness , Mrs. Dagmar Wilson , that he did not doubt her loyalty and was not interested in her political affiliations . But he just could not understand how the Women Strike for Peace worked . He tried to show her that because Moscow newspapers carried accounts of the group 's activities , somebody somewhere in the organization was a secret agent . When this failed he said that many of the telegrams sent to Representative Francis Walter , the chairman of the Committee , asking permission to testify , were signed by known Communists . " That was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But , he asked Mrs. Wilson , would the Women Strike for Peace associate with known Communists ? " Unless everyone in the whole world joins us , then God help us , " replied Mrs. Wilson to cheers and applause . Would she accept cooperation from Nazis and Fascists ? " If only we could get the Nazis and Fascists on our side , " she said . More cheers . But would she take no action whatsoever to prevent and eliminate Communists from positions of leadership in the Women Strike for Peace ? " Certainly not , " said Mrs. Wilson . Stormy applause . Mr. Bruce tried to smile . Mr. Tuck stared off into space . Mr. Doyle 's mouth hung open in stupefied amazement . Thus was the House Committee on Un-American Activities reduced to an incoherent babble last week by a group of matrons from Chicago , Washington and New York , and from the Bronx , Brooklyn and Roselyn Heights . Joy to the Editors To the glad tidings of the Christmas season , the editors of The New Republic add a note of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are 51,70o subscribers , as compared to 42,687 at this time last year and 33,036 in December 196.0 . Advertising lineage , which increased in 1960 by 83.4 percent over 1959 , went up another 47.2 percent in ' 61 and an additional 15.4 percent in ' 6z . Waning of an Empire As the size and number of Britain 's colonies goes down , the difficulty of getting rid of them increases . There is an explanation for the paradox . Nearly all of Britain 's remaining colonies are so small that they have little chance of survival as independent states ? it would bankrupt most of them to maintain even a dozen embassies abroad . But they are usually scattered so far apart that it is difficult to group them together into federal associations which have any real political or psychological identity ? and it is often the smallest countries which have the keenest national pride . That is why the West Indian . Federation broke down this year , and why it is still too soon to feel confident that the Malaysian Federation will come into existence next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept federation with Chinese-inhabited Singapore , Britain would like the small territories of Sarawak , Brunei and North Borneo to join the Malaysian Federation . Although these three states are separated from the mainland by hundreds of miles of the South China Sea , the bulk of their inhabitants are racially akin to the Malayans . In the past , most of the objection to federation has come from the Chinese minority in the various states . But in August the elections in Brunei were won by a Malay party on an anti-federation platform ; this party has organized the present uprisings . Brunei itself is juridically a protectorate , not a colony , but Britain has total control of its defense and foreign policy , as well as a treaty obligation to assist the Sultan in maintaining internal security . She also owns the oil wells , which have been producing four to five million tons of oil for the last io years and have helped to give the 83,000 inhabitants of Brunei a higher standard of life than their neighbors in Sarawak . So it is not surprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sultan in suppressing the revolt and to protect British lives and property in Brunei . Unfortunately you can do anything with bayonets except sit on them . Britain will not be able to keep forces permanently in the territory or for that matter force the local people to enter the Malaysian Federation against their will . The trouble is that if they do n't join Malaysia the affluent Bruneians are likely to be swallowed either by the Philippines , which claim the area , or Indonesia , which borders on it . Perhaps what these territories need to achieve freedom from colonial rule without either falling prey to some new imperialism or dissolving into inter-racial strife is a completely new type of status , which would make the United Nations responsible for their defense and would enable them to conduct diplomatic relations with other states without incurring all the representSouth Africa and the Portuguese areas ) and the maintenance of economically viable units ? like the politically crumbling Federation of the Rhodesias and Nyasaland . Ellender evaded questions about African leadership , and , in the tangled syntax of his rambling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude toward African aspirations . Few of them reported his proud claim never to have voted for foreign aid , his view of himself as a powerful " minority " member of the Senate Appropriations Committee fighting against the Committee 's " spenders , " or his insistence that US aid to Africa be limited to some technical assistance ( he was vague as to what form this might take ) and to commercial loans . Fortunately , most African leaders are too sophisticated and too preoccupied with more pressing problems to devote much attention to a lingering anachronism with a passion to travel . Would that we could do the same . Even if it were possible to forget the man , the syndrome is unforgettable . Too much of Congress 's hostility to foreign aid rests on Ellenderism : too much generalization , too little sympathy , and a profound incomprehension of the nature of the development process in the new nations .                     