@@488147

Mr. Cohen is a ' tee-lance miter specializing in scientific subjects . While he was President , Harry Truman never believed that the Soviet Union had developed the atom bomb . The Russians announced they had tested the bomb ; U.S. Government scientists confirmed the Soviet test and Truman himself announced it to the American public ? but he never believed it . He just did n't think the Russians were capable of that level of scientific and technical development . Most Americans , knowing nothing of Truman 's doubts , took his announcement at face value , but many consoled themselves with lurid tales of stolen atomic secrets . Without the traitors and spies , the thinking ran , the Reds could never have built the bomb . The notion that the Russians are backward peasants skilled only in trickery and deceit , and that communism is incompatible with scientific or technological development , has deep roots in the American consciousness . In 1957 , I asked a Congressman from central Illinois about reports that the Russians had been testing powerfill rockets . He assured me , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite information that these reports were false . Besides , he confided , the Reds simply were n't able to do thatsort of thing . This incident has stuck in my mind because a few weeks later I watched a bulletin announcing the launching of the first sputnik come in over the news wire . Sputnik was a real shock to most Americans . There could be no talk of stolen secrets , for as one scientist remarked , " if they are stealing our secrets , where are the carbon copies ? " That shiny metal grapefruit circling the earth panicked America into an enormously expensive space program which changed the face of large sectors of the economy ; and into a well-intentioned , but often confused " crash program " for education . And things got worse . There was a sputnik with a dog inside , then a sputnik large enough to be seen from the ground with the naked eye , then lunik , sending back photos of the dark side of the moon . Meanwhile back on earth the U.S. space program was experiencing a series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of Russia had received a critical wound . Of course , there was talk of German missile scientists directing the peasants , but since the head of our Army rocket program , the only one getting anything into orbit in those early days , was Wernher von Braun , it was cold comfort . So some people fell back upon the belief that those sneaky peasants had faked the whole thing . Well perhaps not the whole thing , because you could get up early in the morning and see a Russian satellite streaking across the sky ? but they faked the important parts . While the United States was engaged in a serious program of scientific research , the Soviets were orbiting gaudy but unimportant propaganda baubles Now , nine years into the era of artificial satellites , this argument has lost much of its force , but it is by no means completely dead Last January , Science and Mechanics magazine splashed these words all over its front cover . " Exclusive ' Proof that the Russians Faked Their Space Walk . ' " It was the beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series was a success because in the June issue the magazine presented- " A Startling Sequel ' Exclusive The Manned ' Soviet Space Flights That Were Never Manned ! " It was another three-part series The November issue had a similar exclusive " Proof That Red Missiles Can Not Destroy Our Cities " was the screaming headline on the cover . In addition the magazine offered its readers all the articles " greatly expanded " in book form . The author of these remarkable exclusives was Lloyd Malian , a prolific writer on space and military subjects and the most active supporter of " the Russians faked it " school . In 1959 , Malian had written another three-part series , " The Big Red Lie , " for True magazine . In it he claimed that the Soviets had not only faked portions of their space program but had also grossly exaggerated all their scientific , military , educational and industrial progress as well . Russia . he said , was a backward country . It was a very coin-forting thesis to the man in the corner bar who believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could beat the Reds with one hand tied behind its back . Because he was so sure of American superiority , this man in his more reckless moments , had been wondering out loud what the double-domes in Washington were waiting for Why not just drop the bomb on Moscow and get it over with9 Because of his True series , Mallan became a popular lecturer and TV and radio personality , and in 1960 he was off again , this time charging in Popular Photography that the Russians had taked the shots of the dark side of the moon Mallan 's technique of proof is simple . He plays the tough-minded observer who does n't trust the Russian scientists , or the American scientists either . He thinks that our government knows the Russians are faking but for some obscure reason is keeping it a secret . He seems unable to recall that in the past the government has cheerfully pointed out Soviet satellite failures that the Soviets themselves failed to announce . If there is something about the Russian space program that he can not understand Mallan jumps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anybody else says . An example of this technique appears in the February , 1966 , issue of Science and Mechatucs . Two photos are run side by side . The first shows U.S. astronaut Edward White floating in space . The reader is asked to " note the swirls and loops of umbilical cable . " The second photo is from the " Red 's film alleging to show cosmonaut Leonov in space . Note strange kinks and sharp bends in umbilical cable . " This is to show that the very dramatic films of cosmonaut Alexi Leonov " walking " in space are nothing but a bit of clever trick photography used to fool the world and humiliate the United States Indeed , the appearance of the umbilical in the White and Leonov photos is quite different , and this might puzzle and impress the ordinary reader who would never connect the Leonov pictures with photos taken of Eugene Cernan , the second American to " walk " in space These photos show Ccrnan 's umbilical with more kinks and sharp bends than Leon ? V s in another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floating Leonov and the clouds behind him are in perfect locus This he implies is photographically impossible . Yet during the Gemini 9 Hight. when the U S. astronauts photographed the target vehicle that was orbiting near their capsule . both it and the clouds behind came out in perfect focus All Malian has really shown is that photographic interpretation is far from an exact science . and that when photographs taken with unfamiliar equipment under alien conditions arc examined by people without any special knowledge , any sort of interpretation may result . In order to fill six articles with " startling evidence " that the Soviets faked their entire manned space program Malian really has to strain . Since he will not accept the word of anyone connected with either the U.S. or Soviet space program . and since practically no private individuals have the equipment to conduct extensive space studies , his field of research is drastically limited . Therefore , he sets out to examine the persistent rumors that several Russian cosmonauts were killed in unsuccessful space flights . These reports have never been given credence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are a perfect area for Mallan 's investigation . If the Russians did die in space then the Soviets do have a space program ? if the stories are false then , Malian reasons , ' the entire manned-space program is suspect , The rumors got their start long before Yuri Gagarin became the first man to orbit the earth . Strangely , the source for one of them was the London Daily Worker . Three days before the Gagarin flight the paper headlined an exclusive story claiming that a Russian cosmonaut had made three orbits but had returned suffering grievously from the effects of his flight . The story was exclusive , all right , since the Russians denied it . Late in 1959 , Continentale , an Italian news agency , released a story that four cosmonauts , one a woman , had been killed on unsuccessful space flights . Late in 1960 , two young brothers , Achille and Gian BattiSta Judica-Cordeglia , claimed to have picked up several distress messages from Russian cosmonauts at their amateur space-tracking station in Turin . One came from two men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope of return . This story received worldwide publicity , and as late as 1965 was picked up in Reader 's Digest in an article entitled " Italy 's Amazing Amateur Space Watchers . " The author of the article , J. D. Ratcliff , added that the distress signals had also been beard by amateurs in Texas , Germany , Alaska and Sweden . Malian tracked down Ratcliff and found that although he was " very nice and tried to be cooperative " he could n't remember where his information had come from . A couple of overseas calls to the Judica-Cordeglia brothers themselves were remarkably uninformative . As might be expected , Malian believes that the Russians were responsible for all the rumors about men and women being killed and injured in space . They leaked the stories to friendly journalists or put tape recorders in satellites to fool unsuspecting Italian amateurs . The reason : to test the world 's gullibility . If they got caught they could deny the whole thing . But when they got away with it , and psychologically prepared the world for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all by announcing officially that Yuri . Gagarin had become the first man to orbit , the earth ; The most uncomfortable point of the entire Mallan thesis is that he can offer no remotely convincing reason why the Soviets would have bothered to fake a manned space program at all since they have undeniably accomplished more difficult space tasks . Even Mallan 's free-swinging arguthents will not allow him to deny that the Soviets did land Luna 10 intact on the moon 's surface and that the device ' did transmit photos back to earth . The photos were also received at the Jodrell Bank radio observatory in England . In addition , the Luna photos nicely complement the photos sent back a short time later by America 's Surveyor 1 . Compared to this , putting a man in orbit or having ' him float outside a spacecraft is an easy task . The only reason , for faking a manned space program that comes to mind is that the Soviets have such respect for life that they will not risk a human being , on such a dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the space race they must fake a manned ( Continued on page 462 ) 