@@494791

THE NEW REPUBLIC cere in taking up the stance of the Failed Writer . As a young man , he wrote a fresh and amazing novel , The Rock Pool , and there are passages in all his later books that could only have come from an original writer , one whose mind really does work differently from that of the pure ( not " mere " ) critic . He is not , in other words , merely saying " I could have been a writer if , " without producing any evidence : the evidence is solidly there . And the standard by which he judged himself to have " failed " is the highest one : " The more books we read , the sooner we perceive that the true function of a writer is to produce a masterpiece and that no other task is of any consequence . Obvious though this should be , how few writers will admit it , or having made the admission , will be prepared to lay aside the piece of iridescent mediocrity on which they have embarked ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be their best , for they will not acknowledge that it is their present way of life which prevents them from ever creating anything different or better . " All of Connolly 's more sustained writing ? everything above the level of the 800-word review ? tends to gravitate toward this theme of the writer who is hampered by the kind of life he finds himself living . Over twenty years ago he gave us Enemies of Promise , a critical survey of the factors working against the emergence of talent ; and one-third of the book , logically enough , was devoted to an account of his own education and upbringing , to show how the springs of imagination were silted over in his own case . Enemies of Promise was a success , and yet it also met with a harsh , contemptuous reception in some quarters , for this was the epoch of reformist zeal , the Spanish War and the Popular Front , and no one had time for an Etonian 's lament over the trampled flower of his genius . " Were I to deduce any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a much quoted passage , " it might be called The Theory of Permanent Adolescence . It is the theory that the experience undergone by boys at the great public schools , their glories and disappointments , are so intense as to dominate their lives and to arrest their development . " Still , Enemies of Promise does not quite make its case . One feels that to say , " I could n't be a poet because the romantic dragon swallowed me while I was still at school , " is to give up a little too easily . The Failed Writer does n't convince us that he has really tried . I suspect that Mr. Connolly may have felt this himself , because a bare half-dozen years after Enemies of Promise he tackled the same theme much more resolutely in The Unquiet Grave . Here , the problems of the writer are seen as part of the whole predicament of modern man , the argument goes much deeper , and the passion which infuses the whole book raises it to the level of a work of real literary art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , septic teeth and germ-crowded colons play a part in the origins of insanity , so do slums , great cities , proletarian poverty and bourgeois boredom , or tyrannies of family and herd contribute to obscure our sense of union with the physical world . ' The misery of mankind is manifold ' and breeds everywhere the despair , fear , hate and destruction which ulcerate our peace . Nature is banished from our civilization , the seasons lose their rhythm , the fruits of the earth their savor , the animals , co-heirs of our planet , are wantonly exterminated , the God within us is denied , and the God without . Wisdom and serenity become treasures to be concealed , and happiness a lost art . Resentment triumphs ; the frustrated ' Have-nots ' massacre the ' Haves ' . We are in fact within sight of achieving a world neurosis , a world in which atrophy of the instincts ( except that of herd-slaughter ) , abuse of the intellect , and perversion of the heart will obliterate our knowledge of the purpose of life : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have discovered how pain and suffering diminish the personality , and how joy alone increases it , then the morbid attraction which is felt for evil , pain and abnormality will have lost its power . " Gone is the mere self-pity , the tendency to blame schooldays or the literary fashions of twenty years before . The book has a genuinely tragic element because the author convinces us of his passionate belief in art and also of his despair , his conviction that the world has wandered away from health and sanity and therefore necessarily from 