@@478406

To the most distinguished of our Southern historians , author of " The Strange Career of Jim Crow " and " The Burden of Southern History , " the 1950s and 1960s have in many respects been a historical flashback to the 1860s and 1870s . The South has been " reliving an old trauma . " But it may very well be , Woodward believes , that the Second Reconstruction has finally turned a corner . One difficulty in putting the century since Appomattox into satisfactory historical perspective is that it ended with a decade strongly reminiscent of the one with which it began . Events of the last decade have altered and are still changing our perspective on the rest of the century and much that went before . Looking back over the past hundred years and beyond , one will find no period of such concentrated change in the South since Captain John Smith disturbed the tranquillity of the aborigines at the dawn of the seventeenth century . Admittedly that takes in a good deal of time and territory and depends much on what one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of how much change , in view of the South 's determined resistance and fervent allegiance to the past , has really taken place . And to the historically minded the claim for the recent past as the high point of change immediately calls to mind other periods traditionally regarded as unrivaled peaks of revolutionary transformation . One of these is the period of Secession and Civil War , and another is its sequel , the period of Reconstruction . Viewed realistically , however , both of those celebrated episodes may be described as revolutions that failed , elaborate plans for fundamental change that resulted only in temporary or superficial change . They were revolutions manqu ? . This is more obviously true of the South 's hopes for Secession and Civil War than for the North 's hopes for Reconstruction . No major collective effort in American history came such a cropper as the South 's struggle to gain independence . As for Reconstruction , the argument is less self-evident . On the face of it the North had its way . The Rebel states were restored to the Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalized in various ways , the slaves were freed , the freedmen were made citizens , and the new citizens were granted the franchise and equal civil rights . The catch was that these were changes in the law rather than in social realities . The sweeping new laws and Constitutional amendments were to some extent intended to result in social change , but in fact they rarely did . Other plans and purposes of Reconstruction , less firmly and formally expressed , included a redistribution of property and a reorganization of the South 's economy to bring it into line with the needs and convenience of the North 's economy . The Southern economy 128 FROM THE FIRST RECONSTRUCTION TO THE SECOND did lapse into a tributary and quasi-colonial relationship to the dominant region . But the Southern people of both races continued after Reconstruction to live much as they had before . If anything . old status lines were rigidified . Yet status change , we are told , is the essence of social change . The First Reconstruction , for all the political upheaval and the deep trauma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abortive and confined , a period of little basic change . Alienated and Defiant By comparison the Second Reconstruction is assuming the proportions of a galloping revolution . Like the First , the moral objectives of the Second are crosshatched with lines of economic disturbance that are only tangentially related . This time , however , the way people live , where they live , and how they make their living are changing massively and with unprecedented speed . In the single decade of the ' fifties the South 's urban population increased nearly as much as it had during the preceding decades , and in the previous decade Southern metropolitan areas grew more than three times as fast as comparable areas in the rest of the country . The Negro exodus has lowered the black-white ratio to one in five and the South 's share of Negro population to less than 50 per cent . In the meantime the percentage of the labor force employed in agriculture more than 50 per cent in 1920 ) had dropped to 10 per cent by 1960 , and employment in manufactures expanded faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation as a whole . Old cities took on new life , new ones sprouted magically , and the money rolled in . The old gap between Southern poverty and national wealth was not closed , but it was markedly narrowed . In these ways the South was shedding penalizing disparities and traditional distinctiveness , and becoming more and more indistinguishable from the rest of the country . By all the canons of economic determinism the South should at long last be swinging into the mainstream of national life , joyfully embracing the American Way . Instead of this , the South since 1954 has been more deeply alienated and thoroughly defiant than it has at any time since 1877 . In these respects the 1950s and 1960s were a historical flashback to the 1860s and 1870s . Once again the South was isolated , the last defender of a discredited and outlawed institution . It had lost its appeal to the conservative North , to the Constitution , to the President , and to Congress . Southerners automatically assumed hereditary roles and postures and repeated lines from the historic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legends , as Gunnar Myrdal remarked , are prime " symbols of regional allegiance . " And recent events have evoked these legends as never before . The South has been reliving an old trauma . An essential ingredient of resistance morale in the First Reconstruction was the legend of betrayal , a breach of faith . Having laid down their arms under honorable conditions of surrender , so goes the legend , the vanquished were then forced when helpless to submit to a dishonorable change of terms . The legend has its counterpart in modern charges of broken faith . It is not merely that the North has torn up the Compromise of 1877 , but that it has compounded the betrayal by overturning successive reavowals in the Civil Rights Cases of 1883 , in Plessy v. Ferguson of 1896 , in a dozen party platforms of the Progressive Period , and in scores of time-honored accommodations , prerogatives , and rulings in Senate and House , in department and bureau , in Army and Navy , and in state and federal relations down through the second world war that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country was dedicated to white supremacy and stood prepared to bring to bear federal authority to enforce it . A graph of the South 's rise from the misery of rejection in the seventy-odd years between the two eras of Reconstruction would start at the bottom in the 1870s . The line would describe a slow curve upward through the last quarter of the nineteenth century and level off at a relatively high plateau of acceptance through the first four decades of the twentieth . The long pull up from the depths of rejection anxiety left its mark on the Southern personality structure . The old image of the arrogant , mettlesome , overbearing Southerner was replaced by a genial , easygoing , deferential , and glad-handed Southerner noted for talents of compromise and accommodation . He was easier to accept and harder to resist . The accommodations came in the form of concessions and retractions from above the Potomac , reconciliations between white men at the expense of black men . Once the admission was publicly made that all those fine-sounding , idealistic Civil War commitments to equality were impulsive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rest came without much difficulty . The sections had never been far apart on race policy , anyway , only on slavery . Once the country embarked on overseas imperialism and the rule of colored people beyond its borders at the end of the ' nineties in the Caribbean and the Philippines , little more was heard about the wickedness of Southern ways . The twentieth century dawned on a new era of harmony between the dominant whites of North and South , East and West . Civil rights beyond the color line became virtually a dead letter , Negro disfranchisement enjoyed federal approval , segregation was the law of the land , and progressivism was for whites only . The Southern Way had become the American Way . And Then Truman So it was that the South emerged from pariahdom and marched unchallenged into the progressive movement under the banner of white supremacy . It arrived with a sense of acceptance and oneness with the national temper such as it had not enjoyed since the Jacksonian period . The euphoria of approval and release from anxiety was enhanced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was of Northern residence . Relieved of the crippling obsession with race problems , now swept under the rug of national consensus , the old reform impulses that had been repressed in the Populist era burst out in the New Freedom to provide indispensable support for Wilson 's domestic reforms . Identification with Wilsonian foreign policies came easy , and the South took the lead in supporting intervention , backing war measures , and sustaining the losing fight for the League of Nations . Regional identification with Franklin D. Roosevelt presented no insuperable problems , and for many Southerners he seemed another Wilson , the New Deal a replay of the New Freedom . And when Roosevelt turned from domestic reform to foreign crisis , as Wilson had done before him , the South was once more in the vanguard of interventionists and internationalists , rescuing the extension of the draft law , backing the war program with enthusiasm , and carrying through with the United Nations as if it were the final vindication of Wilson 's League fight . " Internationalism " was thought to have found its home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world war still wearing its feeling of acceptance and belonging , if anything more secure in its possession than before . This security was founded on nearly a half-century of experience in which the South had built up the expectation and assurance of continued national approval . Only with the expectations of that period in mind can one understand the outburst of rage , the hysterical shock by C. Vann Woodward 129 of disappointment , and the cry of betrayal and bad faith that followed ? the charge that the North had changed the rules . There had been warning tremors , but the first real crack in the national consensus came when Harry Truman backed the recommendations of his Committee on Civil Rights at the Democratic Convention of 1948 . The implications were ominous and immediately apparent . This meant a return to principle , a shift from " uplift " to rights , from paternalism to equality , the breakup of compromises , accommodations , and concessions that dated back to 1877 , The Solid South shuddered to its roots and split , and remains split to this day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not start until 1954 , for until May 17 of that year segregation was still the law of the land . The Brown v. Topeka decision and its sequel in 1955 ended legal claim of white monopoly of schools and other civil institutions . Judicial reconstruction was supplemented by Congressional reconstruction with the Civil Rights Acts of 1957 , 1960 , and 1964 , opening up one private door of exclusion and discrimination after another . And in 1962 Baker v. Carr , the decision on legislative redistricting , threatened the whole domain of rural white political privilege that sustained the white man 's rule . In the meantime Southern whites witnessed what to their inflamed historical imagination was the flesh-and-blood materialization of ancestral nightmares that had troubled their sleep since childhood . Negroes at the ballot boxes , federal bayonets in the streets , a rebirth of scalawags , a new invasion of carpetbaggers , and battalions of abolitionists and Yankee schoolmarms in the form of Freedom Riders and sit-ins and CORE and SNCC and COFO . The old regional syndrome of minority psychology and rejection anxiety had settled down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In its grip debate and dissent were stifled . It is a mistake to dismiss the reaction as calculated or cynical , for it was often deeply felt and deadly serious . A besieged minority instinctively felt it could not afford the luxury of internal division . It was essential to close ranks , to set up an intellectual blockade . Looking out upon a world they felt to be critical or hostile , many Southerners yielded to impulses of withdrawal , to suspicion of all outsiders , and to fear of all outside ideas , movements , and opinions . In the extreme instance these paranoid impulses resulted in what Professor James W. Silver has described as " the closed society " of Mississippi . In the modern revival of the Reconstruction melodrama , Southern voluntary defense associations outnumbered those of the original . The modern counterparts of the Knights of the While Camelia and the Ku Klux Klan included the White Citizens ' Councils , White America , Inc. , Grass Roots League , Inc. , States Rights Council of Georgia , National Citizen 's Protective Association , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Preservation of State Government and Racial Integrity , not to mention the enfeebled revival of the Ku Klux Klan . With a license to lawlessness from responsible leaders who defied the law and denounced the courts , the hoodlum element and their allies in the constabulary laid about with club and gun and kerosene and dynamite sufficiently to lend realistic blood-andthunder effects to the reenactment of Reconstruction . Southern politics of the last decade , fulfilling its role in the drama , became a game of historical charades , elaborate parodies of Confederate stratagems : nullification , interposition , massive resistance , Congressional manifestoes , filibusters , tickets of independent Presidential electors , calculated defiance of federal law , and north of the Potomac the mobilization of the concurrent majorities of the backlash , the new model Copperheads . Never did the South act more " Southern , " nor have more melodramatic actors for the standard roles ? a Thurmond of South Carolina , a Faubus of Arkansas , a Barnett of Mississippi , a Wallace of Alabama . " I draw the line in the dust and toss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Wallace in his inaugural address . And the camera eye soon found him " standing in the schoolhouse door . " Adolescent , to be sure . But millions thrilled to the sight , even in remote Wisconsin and Indiana and Maryland . The search for a new compromise began early and with plausible expectations of success . Reformers have rarely been able to sustain the zeal of their followers much longer than a decade . Protracted enthusiasm is a terrible strain . Historically , all such sectional clashes had been resolved in the end by compromise . AU save one . There was no compromise in 1861 . But no one thought of resort to war in the 1960s , and few seriously contemplated military occupation as more than a temporary and rare expedient . The prospects for an accommodation were not discouraging , In far weaker circumstances , after a crushing defeat , years of military occupation , and extensive disfranchisement , the South had been able to negotiate on favorable terms a compromise that outlasted all the others , the Compromise of 1877 . Why not another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might well become known informally . and privately as the Compromise of Tokenism . It would assume , in the classical manner , nominal compliance without fundamental change . It might be thought of as a sort of Lincoln Plan for the Second Reconstruction . It was an old American tradition to appease reformers with impressive statutes and then neglect or forget about their implementation . After ten years of school desegregation at " deliberate speed " only 2 per cent of the Negro pupils in the old Confederate states were in schools with white children , and nearly half of those were in Texas . Yet all these states were now proudly marked on the newspaper maps as " desegregated . " It was surprising how much approval and congratulation these minimal gestures won from outside . Perhaps token desegregation , Southern style , or perhaps de facto segregation , Northern style , would do . Or perhaps an ingenious blending of the two models . Signals of reaction in North , East , and West were auspicious . The Supreme Court had fallen under severe attack for severe ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . able ones . The conservative press swelled the outcry . On the racial front Northern chickens began to come home to roost in disturbing fashion in the early ' sixties . For many years the Southern Negro exodus had been augmenting the big city slums until many of those cities had accumulated as large a percentage of Negro population as Southern cities ? sometimes even larger . It now began to dawn upon those cities that this time Radical Reconstruction was going to apply to them as well as to the South , and they appeared no more eager to embrace it . Trade unions set up an indignant outcry against Negro demand for admission . Employers bitterly complained against infraction of their freedom to hire and fire . Homeowners , organized for protection or aggression against unwanted neighbors , took ugly and violent forms of action . White parents demonstrated more numerously and noisily against integration than Negro parents did for desegregation . Militant defenders of " neighborhood schools " adopted extreme measures . Tensions over school integration began to run higher outside the South than inside . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by inches down South , de facto segregation and " resegregation " were gaining by leaps in some quarters up North . The surge of national sympathy for the civil-rights movement ( even when described as the " Negro Revolution " ) that sprang up in response to the demonstrations of 1963 and the savage reprisals against them in Birmingham and elsewhere began to recede rapidly . In the summer of 1964 mob violence raged in cities of the Northeast , most furiously in the black ghettos of New York , Jersey City , Rochester , Brooklyn , and Philadelphia . Looting , pillaging , and property destruction continued night after night beyond control in some cities . White reaction fed on these outbursts to whet the rising revolt of the Radical Right that was currently sweeping the country . " The Negroes have gone too far , " was the cry . Here was the potential electorate of backlash Copperheadism that the Southern resistance had been looking for . Governor Wallace was scoring sensational successes among them . At the height of the reaction a determined minority succeeded in aligning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been left up to the white man , North and South , the Second Reconstruction possibly would have already gone the way of the First ? the way of compromise , conciliation , and appeasement into frustration and failure . It would have been the old story of white men resolving their differences at the expense of black men . The will was present on both sides , and incentives and opportunities abounded . But this time it was not left up to the white man . The Negro himself was a decisive participant , not an instrument of white purpose . The Negro was not as fully enfranchised as he had been in the 1860s , but the voting power he did have was more strategically located . He was better led and better organized and , what was more important , the leaders and organizations this time were his own . And he was inspired by a new consciousness of power , supported more resolutely by his white allies , dedicated minorities in the North and smaller but important ones in the South itself , and he was conscious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of an indifferent one as before . Johnson 's Opportunity It is too early to fix upon a decisive turning point in the fate of the Second Reconstruction , but it is not too much to say that its future was in considerably more doubt before the Presidential election of 1964 than after . The impact of the Negro vote in that election will long be remembered , and it may loom larger in long-term perspective . It was virtually unanimous in the South , unprecedentedly so , for General Grant scarcely polled the Negro vote so solidly as President Johnson . In the eleven Southern states , it clearly made the difference between victory and defeat in at least four states , Virginia , Tennessee , Florida , and Arkansas , and probably a fifth , North Carolina , as well . Texas was the only one of the eleven Southern states he carried with a clear white majority . The five Goldwater states of the lower South were those with the lowest Negro registration . And yet with solid Negro support Johnson won more than 51 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could never be quite the same in the South again . The striking change is the sharp constriction of die-hard resistance to the lower South . The First Reconstruction had the effect of bringing the Border states into the South 's orbit , making them more " Confederate " after the Civil War than before . The Second Reconstruction has had just the opposite effect . The Border states deserted early in the game and have drifted farther and farther away . Now the upper South along with Texas and Florida have defected as well , Ralph McGill has remarked that the " stark isolation " of the five Southern Goldwater states " may prove in the long run to be a necessary therapy , " for they have now " so isolated themselves that they can not fail to see how terribly and irrevocably alone they are . " Even so , the majority of states and the majority of voters in the old Confederate South are now on record in support of a President who has gone further ( " nothing less than the full assimilation of more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) in public commitment to the protection and extension of Negro rights than any one of his thirty-four predecessors , including all those elected by what was once known as the party of emancipation and Negro rights . Moreover , he was one of their own , the first President of Southern birth and residence elected to the office in 116 years . That is a fact of profound if imponderable significance for the future of the Second Reconstruction . It was not of itself enough to win the votes of a majority of his fellow Southern whites . On the other hand , it was not enough to prevent the solid support of Southern Negroes . The Negro vote is riot tied to Lyndon Johnson , but it is tied to civil rights , and the only probable trend of Negro registration is up . All previous experiments of massive Negro participation in Southern polities ? notably in Radical Reconstruction , in the independent party revolts of the ' eighties , and the Populist revolt of the ' nineties ? have ended in polarizing politics along racial lines and isolating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ races have already appeared on Left and Right . Johnson has a greater opportunity than any native Southern leader since the Populists to forge a political union of the two races and prevent the racial polarization of Southern politics . The Second Reconstruction has turned a corner . It is not yet out in the clear , It is likely to suffer setbacks and backlashes in the North and sure to meet new resistance in the South . But it would seem to be fairly out of the ( lark part of the woods in which the big sellouts of sectional compromise have traditionally been made . As halting as its progress has been , as cynical as tokenism can be , and as brutal as extremists still are , the Second Reconstruction has already scored up more achievements of durable promise than the First ever did . For all the fine idealism of the few and the impressive heritage of legislation , the accomplishments of the first round of Reconstruction were largely rhetorical . The freedmen continued throughout to knock at the back door for whatever opportunities were opened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern , rarely unbent in their assumption of racial superiority . This prognosis for the Second Reconstruction does not include the prospect of millennial fulfillment . It only suggests that the South is moving , painfully to be sure , toward an approximation of conditions in the rest of the country . It would be well to ponder those conditions soberly before leaping to naive optimism about the South . The point at which token desegregation in the South merges indistinguishably with de facto segregation in the North falls somewhat short of utopian integration . But what of those " vast impersonal forces " such as industrialization and urbanization , referred to earlier , as working powerfully in the South ? What of their " inevitable consequences " ? There are indeed certain contradictions between smooth industrialization and racial reaction . Even an editor of Philadelphia , Mississippi , recently observed that " prospective industrialists will surely pass us by if we show signs that we wo n't obey the law . . . . They do n't want trouble in their plants and among their employees , " But racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profit motive . There has been a good deal of urbanization and industrialization up North without impressive consequences of this character . Even if the South moves more rapidly toward national standards , racial and industrial , it will still be destined to endure for a time the slings and arrows of rejection . It is back in the old limbo , nursing new bruises to pride and licking old wounds to self-esteem . The wounds are kept open by attacks that are just , as well as some that are less than that . The national press has licenseby C. Vann Woodward 133 to use " redneck " and " cracker " in a way it is strictly and rightly restrained from using equivalent epithets for the other race . For the South is judged not by the gains that have been made in large areas of the region . Defiance makes the headlines , not compliance . The South is judged by what happens in Mississippi and Alabama . And what happens there surely provides enough odium for the whole region , perhaps for the whole country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of guilt is distributed . Mutual Discovery The South has lately had its " Epitaph " written and its " Mystique " debunked . The implication would seem to be that the South 's disputed " distinctiveness " and Southern identity inhere essentially in retrograde racial policies and prejudices . With the gradual disappearance of these , Southerners are expected to lose their identity in a happily homogenized nation . Quite apart from the South 's preferences . there are other reasons for skepticism in this matter . The South has long served the nation in ways still in great demand . It has been a moral lightning rod , a deflector of national guilt , a scapegoat for stricken conscience . It has served the country much as the Negro has served the white supremacist ? as a floor under self-esteem . This historic role , if nothing else , would spare the region total homogenization , for the national demand for it is greater than ever . Up to the time of the Second Reconstruction the Southerner who rejected racism looked mainly to the past to establish his regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern people with defeat and failure , frustration and poverty , guilt and tragedy that made his heritage unique in the nation . These dark , Faulknerian themes are not going to vanish in the light of the new day . They will continue to play a part in defining a Southerner . The Negro Southerner shared that heritage deeply without accepting it consciously , without even acknowledging fully that he was a Southerner , In the new era Southerners of both races are looking increasingly to the future instead of the past , to action instead of memory , to define who they are . In this new search for identity the Negro is fully engaged . In fact , he has taken the initiative and the white man reacts to him . Their discovery of each other will define a distinctively new period of Southern history and a new Southern identity .                     