@@488169

Dear Sirs : In his article , " American Plants Abroad " ( The Nation , Oct. 5 ) former Rep. Frank Kowalski mentions ? ? the laissez-faire American business operations do not always mesh comfortably into the semi-socialistic economies of Latin America or Europe " and by way of illustration cites a layoff of workmen by General Motors ( France ) in 1962 . Mr. Kowalski states that , " A French company would have consulted and negotiated with the officials concerned before closing its doors to its workers . General Motors , according to reports , executed the layoff in a matter of hours and with no outside consultations " The purpose of this letter is to correct the misunderstanding created by the reports to which Mr. Kowalski refers . According to French regulations , no group layoff can take place in industry . without pnor notification to employee representatives and to appropriate governmental authorities . Consequently , it would have been impossible under French law for the layoff to have taken place " , .. in a matter of hours and with no outside consultations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed layoff was given by General Motors ( France ) management to the authorities over two months in advance and to employee representatives over one month in advance . Furthermore , even if the legal requirement had not existed , the management of General Motors ( France ) would never have acted in the precipitate and arbitrary manner charged , jeopardizing its long-standing reputation as a good employer and corporate citizen in the community . / . , Earl C. Daum , General Manager General Motors Overseas Operations Volunteers needed Dear Sirs : I am seeking volunteers for a study of persons who have become active in efforts to achieve disarmament and enduring peace as the result of a particular experience or series of experiences within the past few years . Since there probably are , many such persons among your readers , I am taking this means of locating them . To qualify for participation , the person should be able to identify and describe the experience , the resulting changes in his attitudes and activities , and should have some idea as to what might have caused the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questionnaire about the nature of the episode and the changes in themselves . Confidentiality will be maintained Results will be communicated to those who take part . Those who qualify and are interested in participating are requested to write me at Johns Hopkins Hospital , Baltimore 5 , Md . Jerome D. Frank , M.D. Professor of Psychiatry Berkeley and Birmingham Berkeley , Calif . Dear Sirs : Is the " Athens of the West , " Berkeley , California , becoming the " Birmingham of the West " ? What was reported in the San Francisco Chronicle was kept out of the Berkeley Gazette , namely , that the " steering committee " of the group that tried to stop the Rumford Housing Act was " composed of prominent businessmen from Berkeley whose identity is secret " . . . In Berkeley , the white power structure of downtown merchants , whose pictures appear every day in the Gazette , cutting some sort of ribbon or opening up some sort of sale , remain silent on the activities of their fellow members , they may have the legal right but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my opinion , there is a complete moral breakdown by the leading citizens of our community . . . One looks for some expression of concern ; one finds none . Some place , somewhere , in this " Athens of the West , " there must be a Socrates . George Kauffman Rackets and rights New York City Dear Sirs : Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy is pursuing a course ominous to civil libertarians in the present publicity sessions of the Senate investigations subcommittee into rackets . . . . Mr. Kennedy cited an " urgent " need for a new federal wire-tap law , to open up telephone lines , and immunity status for new informers , to undercut the Fifth Amendment . Police Commissioner Michael J. Murphy begged for an " unequivocal " wire-tap law " to beat back New York area narcotics overlords . " Though sympathy should be expressed for civil liberties , no sympathy need be expressed for the Mafia . For does Robert F. Kennedy naively believe he can knock out drug rackets through police repression ? He sadly fails to comprehend the motive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheaper and more effective solution is to take the steps to eliminate the conditions which enable a black market in drugs to flourish , to establish a medically directed program for the control of addiction , as discussed by Alfred R. Lindesmith in his article " Addiction . Beginnings of Wisdom " ( The Nation , Jan. 19 , 1963 ) . Meanwhile the full brunt of the new laws would undoubtedly fall on those working for peace , integration and civil liberties . J. Skelton Williams Jr . Lecturer , Queens College                     