@@494774

Africa and the Kennedy Era by .1-felen Kitchen The appointment of Governor G. Mennen Williams as Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs was described by The Washington Post as " to say the least , curious . " This unorthodox selection may , however , stand up better on second glance . While Senator Kennedy has been criticized by some for appointing an Assistant Secretary of State before naming the Secretary , this was as dramatic a way as can be conceived of telling African leaders to hold onto their hats until January . This timing ? and the fact that Williams is noted , in the words of The Herald Tribune , for his " galloping liberalism " ? could be very important at a time when cynicism about US policy is at an all-time high in some parts of Africa because of our recent open alliance with conservative forces in the Congo dispute . Moreover , the very ebullience and informality which some of Governor Williams ' detractors find most unsuitable for such a key diplomatic post is actually one of his strongest qualifications . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but he is well-suited for bubbling , rough-and-tumble Africa , where " stuffedshirtism " is inevitably associated with race consciousness . Contrariwise , the very fact that he is a former Governor of a major state six times elected to that office , and so close to the President that he became his first appointment , will give him special entree with every leader in prestige-conscious Africa . Although he comes to the task with superficial knowledge of specific African problems , he is in a position ? if properly staffed on the substantive side ? to change dramatically the image of the United States which is beginning to take form in Africa . And a change is very much needed . While it is true that Africa is a vast mosaic of disparate social , economic , and political units , it is nevertheless possible ? even vital ? to establish a broad conceptual framework for US policy in the 6o 's toward the whole region . To begin with , one must assume that Africa is going to be populated increasingly by socialist , neutralist , one-party states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are responding primarily to indigenous needs , capabilities , and preconceptions of authority . If we have learned anything from the past eight years , it is that it is self-defeating for the United States either to moralize against this emergence or to interpret it subjectively in cold war terms . African neutralism serves Moscow 's interests only to the extent that we HELEN KITCHEN is editor of the magazine Africa Report . refuse to associate ourselves with its revolutionary character and to see its great potentiality for keeping Communism out of Africa . That the continent 's principal nationalist leaders ? with the notable exception of the Congolese ? are remarkably stable , coherent , and well-educated men should be regarded as an important advantage . Bourghiba , Nkrumah , Nasser , Toure , Nyerere , Abubakar , Olympio , Dia , Mboya , to name only some , are the products of a highly selective process and measure up well against any standard of intellectual or leadership capability we might choose to apply . Some of them are greatly attracted to Marxist models and impressed by Soviet and Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet bloc for aid and inspiration think in terms of extrapolating from the Soviet experience to fit their own parochial needs , and have no deliberate intention of delivering their own country or Africa into Soviet hands . This is an important distinction , not , unfortunately , always discerned by Western observers ; it requires us ? even under apparently discouraging circumstances , as in Guinea ? to make it possible for African leaders to draw from Western models and Western technology when they will in molding their peculiarly African product . ( A case in point is the recent contretemps in Ghana over a London newspaper report that the government was about to nationalize all private industry . In his angry refutation , President Nkrumah reaffirmed his intention to build a " socialist pattern of society " in Ghana but went on to emphasize that it would be a socialist society adapted to Ghanaian needs rather than someone else 's stereotype , and that private industry would continue indefinitely to play a key role in Ghana . ) Secretary Dulles ' painful failure to bring Egypt to heel by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France 's failure to make an example of Guinea by gutting that country after it refused to join the French Community in 1958 , made it clear that the time is past when we can manipulate African countries by name-calling or corporal punishment . The Communist bloc stands ever-ready to provide tender care for bruised feelings . In this connection , Secretary Herter 's recent statement that Ghana was moving into the Soviet orbit ( later hastily softened in a published version ) was not only untrue in African terms but also seriously damaging to our future diplomatic prospects in Ghana . The Secretary 's statement reflected a tight cold war perspective that excludes the wider picture of African political dynamics . Inevitably , the new administration will worry about the increasing Soviet ( and Chinese ) relationships with African states , but it should not worry so publicly ; for statements of the sort Mr. Herter made only feed the suspicion that America 's only interest in Africa is to keep the Communists out . It seems to me , also , that our expectancies for Africa should be redefined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to essentials , it is not vital that the US have either bases or political alliances on the African continent . It is vital only that each African country and Africa as a whole , remain as purely African as possible ; that the decision-making power remain in African hands , so that these new nations may develop economic and political bases capable of sustaining and gratifying popular expectancies . This will obviously require more economic and technical assistance , for otherwise the approaching end of colonial rule in Africa raises the possibility that this continent will be farther away from what Rostow calls the " take off " stage of development a decade hence than it is now . Though nationalists tend to discount the economic contributions made by the colonial powers , it is an established fact that France , for example , has put an estimated $250 million a year into its territories of West and Equatorial Africa during the past 15 years . Britain 's Colonial Welfare and Development Fund has put $70 million into Africa annually , and Belgian investment , not counting the reinvestment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a year . It is unlikely that retiring colonial powers are going to be willing to continue to pour money at this rate into countries whose leaders can not henceforth afford politically , even if they were so inclined , to reciprocate with binding promises of long-term economic cooperation . These facts point up the pressing necessity of the US government taking an expert look at its pattern of aid to Africa , not just for next year , but over the next 10 years : the gap to be filled is enormous , and we had better decide fairly promptly what we are capable of doing about it . In theory , African leaders would prefer multilateral assistance to aid from either the Bloc or the West ? but there is also a growing suspicion , which our government has fed by recent actions , that the volume of our aid to Africa is closely affected by the cold war considerations . " Panic aid " does not win long-term friends in Africa , and it makes many enemies , but it will take some convincing to persuade Africans ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cold war . Aid , in any case , should definitely preclude playing one intra-African power group against another . While the US will , by the nature of things , be especially interested in the prospering of such key moderate regimes as those of Tunisia and Tanganyika , it wouldbe self-defeating to shower these governments with such inordinate or unsubtle attention that Mr. Bourghiba or Mr. Nyerere become branded as American stooges and lose their credibility as authentic African nationalists . The US should not close the door to assistance for any regime which clearly represents the popular will , even when it seems temporarily to favor ties with the USSR or China . By closing these doors , we automatically increase the strangleholds of the bloc on that economy and reduce the government 's future possibility for freedom of action . Africa 's ability to weather the next decade without succumbing to Communist pressures rests very heavily on the new states ' ability to create a common consensus and a common sense of responsibility . There are potentially serious tensions among the African states ? particularly between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural segments ? but it would be short-sighted indeed for the US to endeavor to deepen these cleavages by throwing our weight behind the more conservative states . Africa 's only hope ? the West 's only hope ? in this decade for a stable , non-Communist future is for the Africans to work things out their way . Our efforts should thus be directed toward making the continent as a whole strong , not playing one faction off against another . King-making , in the Middle and Far East , has proved unproductive and should not be repeated . Many of the African leaders , we must also recognize , operate on a pendulum philosophy ? moving far out in one direction , then overcompensating in the other , often coming back to a position somewhat left of center but basically moderate . The Kennedy administration 's task will be to facilitate the swing back to center , but not to panic when the pendulum seems to be swinging at any given moment in time too far . Taking a page from Britain 's experience in post-Nuri Iraq , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the twists of African politics and not honking the warning horn whenever the steering veers left . Our suasion , and African respect for our integrity , will emerge strengthened from a steadily dispassionate relationship that understands their need to act independently , because it will persuade them that our concern ? when we do express it ? is with Africa 's problem and not solely with Africa 's relationship to Moscow . The panic reaction to Cuba 's Fidel Castro by Washington has been a serious blight on US relations with Africa . Perhaps no single figure at the recent UN General Assembly in New York so captivated Africans as the ebullient Cuban , who appeared much more logical to them than he does to us . Having heard " Communist " so frequently and inaccurately applied to their own drives for independence , and lacking access to convincing intelligence regarding Communist activity in Cuba , Africans take with a grain of salt the self-righteous disdain of American leaders ( of both parties ) for the Castro regime . They see here a clear identification of the US with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been suggesting here comes under the heading of " attitude . " And " attitude " is conveyed by individual emissaries . Because of the acute racial problems involved as well as the rapid changes under way in Africa , much depends on the new administration 's selection of appropriate personnel to man African diplomatic posts and the political desks and higher posts in Washington . The choice of Governor Williams is a promising beginning . It is especially encouraging to learn that he is to convene a roundtable of non-partisan , pragmatic academicians from the various African Studies Programs in American universities and US private foundations operating in Africa to obtain their collective analysis of the weakest points in our missions abroad , as observed during their frequent trips to the African continent and their close and trustful relationships with African political leaders . A great deal of work has already been done in this field by these independent operators , and much of it is highly relevant to any reassessment of policy . Although there are in our Foreign Service some highly-skilled diplomats sensitive to the peculiar demands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out those officers who look down their noses at Africans , seeing them from a Western European perspective and resenting being " sentenced " to this area . In one key African capital , we had until recently an Ambassador whose relationship with the Chief of State was so poor that they met only a few times a year , on ceremonial occasions ; other officers in the Embassy were discouraged from developing personal relationships with African officials ; this , moreover , in a country where the head of state was educated in the US and has previously dealt with Americans on a warm , personal basis . Another example of missed opportunity may be seen in the high level line officer who extols the virtues of life for an American stationed in one of the repressed Portuguese territories , without noticing the raised African eyebrows . From the President on down , a little genuine warmth and hospitality may go farther with Africans than a new aid program . And it is here especially that Governor Williams ' talents may be most beneficial . Given the youth of so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to dip more deeply into the eager group of younger officers in our Foreign Service to staff US embassies . Among this younger element , there is a high percentage of largely untried , but also untired , officers who regard Africa as their own " new frontier " and are curiously lacking in the racial preconceptions which handicap so many of the older generation . And in this connection , it should be pointed out that nowhere else in the world is it as important to assess both wives and husbands in selecting appointees . What of recruiting more Negro officers at the Ambassadorial and staff level in our Embassies in Africa ? It would please American Negroes , but if we are to be candid , it must be said that such appointments are of doubtful value , until and unless Negroes also become more widely appointed to US diplomatic missions in white countries . Too often , Negroes assigned to Africa have been chosen because of their color , not because they were specifically qualified . Africans are deeply concerned about the struggle of American Negroes for social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having " second class citizens " assigned to them alone . It is , one may note , an important advantage for Governor Williams that he is trusted by the American Negro community and will be ideally suited to seek its assistance in finding expertise among the growing corps of Negro Africanists in this country . Finally , one of the new Assistant Secretary of State 's most urgent tasks is the creation of a unit within the Bureau of African Affairs that will deal with the acute human problems of African diplomats living in Washington 's ( and New York 's ) semi-segregated society . This would not necessarily be expensive , but it must be staffed by dedicated souls who are willing to work on a round-the-clock basis to ease the economic and social difficulties which dark-skinned diplomats encounter ( and sometimes try to keep secret ) in trying to find suitable housing and schools for their families . At least one member of this staff should be thoroughly familiar with the real estate market and vocabulary , in order to enlist the patriotic cooperation of local real estate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy outrageously over-priced properties in order to circumvent the color bar . The possibility of enlisting the assistance of private foundations in helping some of the poorer countries finance suitable property ought to be fully explored . Foreign Service wives , under Departmental auspices , should be encouraged to devote more attention to helping wives of African diplomats learn about American society and institutions and home life ? a task that has usually been left largely to the Negro community of the nation 's capital . In traditional political terms , it may appear that Governor Williams has not received all that is his due in reward for past loyalties . It is perhaps a measure of the man that he recognizes that this particular Assistant Secretaryship is one of the most challenging assignments of the Kennedy administration , and that he is willing to take the enormous risk of failure as well . 