@@273421

If L'Osservatore Romano , the Vatican 's daily newspaper , were the only source of information about Roman Catholicism , the world might have a rather strange picture of the contemporary church . Students of Christianity would scarcely be aware , for example , that there had been any major differences between liberals and conservatives at the Second Vatican Council . They would assume that Pope Paul 's encyclical Humanae Vitae had been almost universally acclaimed by the faithful . They would have no inkling that last month 40 of the church 's best-known theologians issued a historic Magna Carta demanding greater intellectual freedom within the church . <P> Largely because of the widening gulf between the reality of Catholic turmoil and L'Osservatore Romano 's version of it , the paper has lately come in for some strong and pointed criticism . The editor of an Australian Catholic paper recently branded L'Osservatore " the Pravda of the Vatican . " An editorial in the Tablet , Britain 's leading Catholic weekly , complained about L'Osservatore 's myopic coverage of the debate over birth control . " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the church , " said the Tablet , " to ignore or gainsay this controversy , or , even worse , to convey the opposite impression that all is well . " <P> In the Drawer . Critics all complain that because L'Osservatore is widely regarded as the " voice of the church " its interpretations give outsiders a distinctly one-sided impression of Catholic opinion . Actually , the " official " journal is the Acta Apostolicae Sedis , a sort of Vatican City Congressional Record in which major papal pronouncements must be printed before they are considered promulgated . Although L'Osservatore is owned by the Holy See and supervised by the Vatican Secretariat of State , it is classed as only " semiofficial . " Material in L'Osservatore is deemed official in only three cases : when it is listed under the column " Nostre Informazioni Our Information , " which reports the Pope 's private audiences and appointments , or when it carries the datelines " Holy See " or " Vatican City . " The Vatican can disclaim official responsibility for all other stories . <P> Archbishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an informal link between L'Osservatore and Pope Paul . Benelli meets twice a week with the current editor in chief , Raimondo Manzini , 67 , to plan articles for the paper , and consults the Pope on major points of editorial policy . Paul himself maintains a close personal relationship with L'Osservatore . He occasionally telephones Manzini , and sometimes reads proof on exceptionally important stories . When doing so , the Pope makes corrections in red ink and adds his personal comments , also in red ink , in the margins . <P> Paul carefully reads L'Osservatore every day , after his usual afternoon prayer in his private chapel . He makes comments on the margins , and afterwards sends the marked copy to Manzini . Paul once caught the misspelling of a curial prelate 's name . Wrote the Pope : " These are errors that L'Osservatore should not make . He is one of our own people . "                     