@@478489

The most powerful Governor in the United States is a shy man , self-made , a small-town grocer , immensely popular with his constituents but little-known outside his home state : William A. Egan of Alaska . He 's the only Governor Alaskans have ever elected . Bill Egan 's strength is as the strength of ten other Governors because he is girded with a state Constitution which , in the words of an Alaskan newspaper editor , " would make a sabertooth out of Dagwood Bumstead . " The Constitution , which Egan helped write , is ( according to who is talking ) either the most effective existing instrument of American government ? or a license to totalitarian rule . " This Constitution would be all right if the Governor was a combination of Winston Churchill , Mahatma Gandhi , and Herbert Hoover , " says a Republican legislator who covets Egan 's job , " but what we 've got is another damn Pat Brown . " " Alaska needs strong central government , " says Henry Hedberg , a former Seattle newspaperman who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Big state , small population , and onlya tiny pool of trained administrators . I do n't see how Alaska could have recovered from the quake if we had n't had a system that gives the Governor power to get things done . " Among the things the Governor can do is appoint all but one of the state officers . The exception is the secretary of state , who campaigns independently for nomination in the primary but in the general election runs unobtrusively on the ticket with the party 's gubernatorial nominee . After election he tends the Great Seal . The Governor names the attorney general , who in turn appoints the state district attorneys . The Governor appoints the judges at both trial and appellate levels . All state financial records are kept by appointees of the Governor and inspected by appointees of the Governor . There is no independent auditing or investigating force . The Constitution calls for Alaska to be redistricted every ten years ? and for the Governor to do the job . ( The first redistricting since statehood is now in progress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed ) but he is not obliged to follow their recommendations . The legislature does not pass on redistricting ; the Governor simply draws the lines , and the legislators ' only appeal is to the courts . " Under this system , the legislature is neutered , " complains Representative Bruce Kendall , a blunt , broad-faced Republican from Anchorage , one of two men who have served in every session since statehood . " When the Governor feels a sneeze com100 THE MOST POWERFUL GOVERNOR ing on , the legislature opens its mouth in anticipation . " In person , Egan is the antithesis of a dictator . A short man with a big head and thick body , he gives a first impression of embarrassment ; he moves nervously as he talks , bouncing around in his chair , nibbling at the small end of a pen as if it were a cigar . But once he has settled down into conversation , his nervousness recedes , and when he is talking about Alaska , his large brown eyes , normally brooding , light up with enthusiasm . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egan not only dominates the legislature , he sometimes pursues a foreign policy independent of Washington , D.C. His ventures into diplomacy have all been to protect the fishing industry , Alaska 's greatest source of revenue , and his adversaries have included the Japanese , the Russians , the U. S. Department of State ? and the canning " interests " of the U. S. mainland . In the spring of 1962 , a Japanese herring fleet was reported approaching Shelikof Strait , a body of water twenty to thirty miles wide , which separates bleak Kodiak Island from the Alaska Peninsula , the finger of land pointing westward to the Aleutians . Alaskans consider the Strait an inland sea , all American ; the Japanese consider it international . Getting no response from the State Department when he asked them to warn the Japanese away , Egan mobilized the " Alaskan Navy . " He manned the state fish and game department 's patrol boats Teal and Widgeon with national guardsmen and state police officers and ordered them to intercept the invading fleet . Captain E. L. Mayfield of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered into port the 65-foot herring catcher Ohtori Mary on charges of " willfully and unlawfully operating a commercial fishing enterprise in Alaskan waters . " Tokyo protested . The State Department stalled . Inconclusive hearings were held in Alaska state courts . The Washington Post editorialized that , " Whatever the final outcome , Governor Egan needs to be taught a lesson to the effect that international relations are handled by the Department of State . " But the Japanese withdrew from the disputed waters , Alaska 's claim to Shelikof Strait , if not confirmed , at least remained open , and it was the State Department which seemed to have learned most from the incident . When a dispute with Russian fishermen in 1963 reached the stage where Alaskans were thumbing through arms dealers ' catalogues for surplus bazookas and machine guns to mount on their crab boats , the State Department named Egan to a negotiating team . Their mission to Moscow fared well . The Russians not only signed a statement of agreement on general principles ; they promised to send negotiators to the U. S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they wanted the sessions held not in Washington but in Juneau . The State Department , with some misgivings , agreed . After two weeks of table-banging negotiations and reciprocal vodka and whiskey receptions ? some on the Russians ' big , white , ocean-going tug Orel , others in the Governor 's handsome colonial mansion overlooking the narrow harbor and the restless fishing boats ? the negotiators came up with an agreement under which the Russians agreed not to use tangle nets where they might foul up American crab pots . Egan said of the confrontation , " It was the first occasion in which Soviets were willing to sit down with any fishing group in the world and talk over problems and work out a solution . " Last year in another unorthodox maneuver , Egan defied American packers on the mainland by inviting Japan to buy the entire catch of pink salmon on Prince William Sound . The Alaska Packers Association of San Francisco and the New England Fish Company of Seattle had said they would close their canneries on the Sound unless Alaskans accepted a 21/2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese paid the higher price , while Seattle and San Francisco screamed treason . Most Alaskans ? who regard the out-of-state packers with the affection of a Dublin tenant for an English landlord ? were delighted that the local fishermen had found a counterweight to the economic power of the canners . This spring the New England Fish Company reached an early agreement with the Prince William Sound fishermen on the price for pink salmon . Egan 's latest diplomatic moves have been designed to prevent Japanese fishermen from catching on the high seas huge numbers of red salmon that would otherwise return to the streams of Bristol Bay to spawn . On his initiative ( or that of 102 THE MOST POWERFUL GOVERNOR the State Department ) the Coast Guard this June increased its patrol of the area east of the 175th Meridian in which the Japanese are treaty-bound not to fish , and they caught one poacher . Egan has even threatened to keep the salmon home by damming Bristol Bay . Japan accused Egan of " seeing ghosts " ; Seattle fishermen ( who each summer go to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run ) called the dam idea " madness " ; and scientists expressed doubt that the Bay , if dammed , could support the captive salmon in the grand style to which the wide Pacific has accustomed them . But Egan , who learned his poker in small-town , high-stake Alaska , kept his hole card face down , while scattering hints of where the dams might be placed , how they might be financed , and how the captive salmon might be artificially fed with carcasses from the annual fur-seal harvest . Nearly everyone ( even the delighted local fishermen ) believes Egan is bluffing in his proposal to turn Bristol Bay into a giant rearing pond for salmon . No one can be positive . For one thing , Japanese fishing interests have suddenly begun to emphasize their interest in salmon conservation . The 1965 catch in Bristol Bay was unexpectedly large , and Egan has not mentioned the dams in recent speeches . What the State Department thinks about Egan 's fishing diplomacy has not been expressed for publication . " My relations with State are , uh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about Washington reaction . Then he bobbed his head in a characteristic gesture of pleased embarrassment . " Of course , there are a couple of under secretaries who probably wish the Governor of Alaska were somebody else . " Some Alaskans worry that Egan will overreach himself ? and " get us scalded , " an Anchorage editor predicted glumly . He added , however , a typical postscript : " It 's hard to criticize him for what he 's done . At least he 's for Alaska . We 're accustomed to being sold out back in Washington . " All criticism of Bill Egan is tempered this way . Although the Alaska constitution looks like a license to steal , no one has ever questioned his integrity . The worst his foes find to say about him is that he is stubborn and opinionated ? " an unsuccessful small-town grocer , " says an influential publisher . ( Egan 's friends contend that he made more as grocer than he does as Governor . ) " A prisoner of political attitudes ground into him in boyhood and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A good man but without grasp , " says a businessman . Each adds , " Of course I like Bill . He 's a friend of mine . " It would be hard not to like Bill Egan . He is a friendly man with a quiet , self-deprecating style of humor . He never forgets a name and seems to know everyone in Alaska , which is the more remarkable considering that Alaska 's quarter-million population is scattered over an area equal to that of all three Pacific Coast states , plus Texas . Alaska is a land of small towns . Even Anchorage , the metropolis , which seems certain by its fast growth to dominate the state politically , has only 48,000 inhabitants , with another 50,000 in the suburbs . It is hard for residents of the South Forty-eight to realize how small are the towns of familiar name in the Forty-ninth state . Fairbanks up by the Arctic Circle has a population of 14,500 ; Ketchikan down at the tip of the Panhandle , 6,800 ; Juneau , the capital , 7,000 . No other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than 1,000 . Twice in recent years Anchorage has sought to have the capital transferred there , arguing that Juneau , isolated off in Southeastern Alaska , is inconvenient at best , often inaccessible by air ( the Alaskan way of travel ) , out of touch physically and spiritually with the new Alaska of the Mainland . Each time , the small towns coalesced into alliance against the largest , and defeated the proposal . Juneau , with its two movie houses , numerous bars , its mountain-guarded harbor and short highways ending in wilderness , is typical of many small Alaskan towns , and Bill Egan is typical of small-town Alaska . He was born in 1914 in the old Gold Rush port of Valdez , a picturesque community spread out on the moraine of a great glacier that empties into Prince William Sound . His father , a hardrock miner , was killed in a snowslide on Easter Sunday , 1921 , and though his mother kept the family together , Bill was no stranger to hard times . His struggles with money have left him with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cautious approach to government spending . Egan was graduated from Valdez High School in 1932 . That ended his formal education , but like many Alaskans he is an omnivorous reader . ( Those long winter nights . ) After school he worked in a CCC camp , clerked in a grocery , packed supplies on his back over Valdez Glacier to a mine . His favorite job was acting as bombardier when Bob Reeve , a glacier pilot , would bomb isolated camps with supplies ? groceries , lumber , and sometimes boxed dynamite . " Bill Egan had the best eye and steadiest hand of all the boys who flew with me , " Reeve recalled recently . " A damn good man . A real Alaskan . " ( Egan is a lifelong Democrat ; Reeve , a Republican of such ray serene that his house in Anchorage still sports a defiant Goldwater poster . ) What money Egan earned from odd jobs and the family grocery he spent on books , magazines ? and a plane of his own . The plane was destroyed in a hangar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Neva McKendrick , whom he later married . He was already in politics , having been elected to the Valdez town council in 1937 , and ? a few weeks before the wedding ? to the legislature . During his freshman term in the House , Egan introduced the first bill demanding a Territorial referendum on statehood for Alaska . It was sidetracked , but he persisted through successive terms in House and Senate , battling against the well-financed machinations of W. C. Arnold , the able lobbyist for the salmon canners , who feared state-by Murray Morgan 105 hood would load them with new regulations and taxes . During the war Egan dropped out of the legislature and served as an enlisted man in the Army and the Air Corps . While still in the service he was elected Mayor of Valdez in absentia , then went back to the Senate . When in 1955 the Territorial Legislature at last voted to force the statehood issue by calling a convention to draw up a proposed Constitution , Egan felt his work was done . He stated his intention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But he could n't resist , as a last fling , running for delegate to the convention . Not only was he elected , but the fifty-four other members chose him as president . Fairbanks to D.C. ? and Back The delegates who assembled in the Fairbanks suburb of College ( home of the University of Alaska ) to write the proposed Constitution were wildly diverse . They ranged from bankers to fur trappers , from sourdoughs to cheechakos ( newcomers ) , from White Anglo-Saxon Protestants to Russian Orthodox Eskimos . But they were in substantial agreement on one thing : they objected to the divided authority that characterized Territorial government . The U. S. Congress controlled Alaska 's purse strings ; its Governor was appointed by the President ; the most important regulations were issued by the Interior , Agriculture , and Commerce Departments in Washington , and the most important economic decisions were made by the salmon canners in Seattle and San Francisco . Alaskans were positive they were n't masters of their own destiny but they could n't decide exactly who was . " Tn Territorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fairbanks News-Miner recalls , " responsibility was the pea in a thimble game . " After seventy-five days of work under President Egan , the convention produced a document in which the lines of authority stood out stark as utility poles . They ran straight to the Governor 's desk . This was just what Alaskans wanted . They voted overwhelmingly in favor of the Constitution , and approved a " Tennessee Plan " campaign to win statehood . The strategy got its name from the plan used first by the Territory of Tennessee , later by six other territories , in convincing Congress they were ready for admission to the Union . A shadow delegation , popularly elected , consisting of two Senators and a Representative , went to Washington to lobby for statehood . Democratic since New Deal days , Alaskans chose Bill Egan and former Territorial Governor. , Ernest Gruening ( an FDR appointee ) as Tennessee Plan Senators , and Ralph Rivers as Representative . They opened offices in Washington and , along with the Territory 's voteless delegate to Congress , Bob Bartlett , they mounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1958 . Egan planned to run for the Senate but Bartlett and Gruening filed first . To avoid the risk of splitting the party with a primary fight . Egan settled for the statehouse . Democrats go into Alaskan elections with a heavy advantage in registration and Egan , an untiring campaigner , has never lost an election . Anchorage to Chicken As Governor , Egan has advocated progressive social legislation . For example , Alaska has the nation 's strongest civil-rights laws . It is true there are few Negro residents outside the military , but approximately one-sixth of the population is Eskimo , Indian , or Aleut . The state 's statutory prohibitions against discrimination in places of public accommodation and in employment are rarely violated . Nevertheless , Alaskan Eskimos and other native peoples are disadvantaged . Living in small communities , their children attend one-teacher schools and few finish high school . At home they find jobs scarce and in town they must compete with the better educated . Hence a considerable portion of the native population must live virtually outside the money economy . Labor legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last legislative session , " There 's not much more we can ask for at this time . We 're here to guard what we 've won and to wait for the economy to catch up . " The economy is Egan 's biggest problem . The tax base is narrow and there is not much money to power the governmental machine . Federal funds for repairing damage done by the Good Friday earthquake of 1964 are currently stimulating the economy , and the state looks hopefully to the development of new oil discoveries as a source of increased taxes in the near future . But until the oil fields are proclueing , Egan has to guard the state budget carefully . " The Governor is a very slow man with a buck , " one of his assistants remarked ruefully . " He 's a paper-clip counter at heart . " This attitude toward the state 's funds may reflect his own financial woes , caused in recent years by medical bills , the ruin of his Valdez home and a business building he owned there , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cabin in which furniture saved from the quake was stored . He usually walks to work from the Governor 's mansion , and when he uses the state car , which is seldom , he drives it himself and competes on equal terms in the downtown scramble for parking . He avoids elevators in the dowdy old capital because he feels he is more likely to have a chance to chat with constituents on the stairs . When staying in hotels around the state he seldom has meals sent to his room . " People who would n't come to the office to tell me their problems will stop by my table , " he says . In the course of incessantly flying around the state , he works diligently at meeting people . At a reception I once heard him ask on a first-name basis about people in Haines , King Salmon , Atka , Anchorage , Kotzebue , Circle , and ? so help me ? a town called Chicken . I asked if there really was such a place . He bobbed his head . " Oh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Gold Rush . They had shot a ptarmigan and were going to call the camp Ptarmigan . " He ducked his head again . " None of them could spell it . " Egan is currently acting much like a politician heading into another campaign . The Constitution he helped draft prohibits more than two full terms for a Governor , but because the regular inauguration date is December and President Eisenhower 's proclamation of statehood was not made until January 1959 , Egan 's first term fell a month short of being technically full . As a result most politicians and lawyers in Alaska think he is technically eligible for a third term and that he will run again in 1966 . He will probably be opposed in the Democratic primary by Anchorage attorney Wendell P. Kay . Republican possibilities include Lowell Thomas Jr. , who lost a close race for Congress in 1964 , former Territorial Governor Mike Stepovich , and Representative Bruce Kendall . They are already hammering away on the third-term issue ( which may irritate some fellow Democrats as well ) . Here is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is called the father of this Constitution . It 's a hell of a note when he has to twist his offspring 's arm all out of shape in order to hold power . " All Great World Capitals For his part , Egan avoids any statement about his intentions , though he concedes that he enjoys public service and that there are no apparent openings except the governorship . Senator Bob Bartlett , whose term expires in 1967 , is in the full flower of his effectiveness and popularity . Senator Gruening , though in his seventies , is untiring and unretiring . Ralph Rivers has announced he will run again for Congress , Egan 's talk is not that of a fifty-one-year-old resigned to private life : " Alaska has come through the formative years of statehood , " he told me one day at breakfast in the Anchorage Westward . " I do n't think any of us comprehend the full importance of the role Alaska is destined to play in the future . I mean the near future . Alaska is the aviation crossroads of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transports , will put us within a few hours of all great world capitals . " He spoke of " limitless " resources now catching the attention of the world ; of pioneering ventures in the establishment of international industries ; of the Japanese pulp interests building plants that employ Alaskans and pay Alaska taxes ; of Japanese fisheries associating themselves with American canners to operate facilities on Prince William Sound ; of the resulting interest of American capital in Alaskan resources . " Alaska is no longer looked on as a cold storage container , " he said earnestly . " The thaw has started . In the near future Alaska will be on the front burner . " The Governor undoubtedly expects to be stirring the pot .                     