@@246105

No artist ever sketched the horrors of war more powerfully than Francisco Goya , but the pioneer in the field-and a first-rate one-was a man who lived nearly 200 years earlier . Last week Jacques Callot 's 18 etchings on The Miseries and Misfortunes of War were on display in Frankfurt , leading off an exhibition that bore the single-word title " Krieg . " Goya was often lurid ; Callot proves an exponent of unrelenting realism . Now honored as the " Father of French Etching , " Callot was widely respected in his own day . Rembrandt owned a complete portfolio of his etchings , and some of Rembrandt 's early work bears a strong resemblance to Callot 's . Later , Hogarth was an avid collector ; such diverse notables as Goethe and Sir Walter Scott were admirers ; and Anatole France remembered having dreams about Callot 's graphic nightmares . In the last movement of his first symphony , Gustav Mahler included a Funeral March in Callot 's Manner . <P> Callot was born to a noble family in Nancy about 1592 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have run away from home at the age of twelve to join a band of gypsies ) , finally landed at the court of the Medici in Florence , where he was given a studio and the privilege of eating at the page boys ' table . By the time he returned to Nancy in 1621 , he was a celebrated artist . By using a hard varnish on his plates , he was able to eliminate lines and create others at will . His etchings were sometimes little bigger than a postage stamp , sometimes about the size of a modern postcard . Peering through a magnifying glass that Galileo had given him , Callot was able to fill them with an incredible amount of detail . He did his share of portraits to please his patrons , but the entire baroque procession , in all its motley moods , was his province . There were simpering courtiers and crippled beggars , bustling plazas , horse races , duels and card games-all done on a Lilliputian scale . Yet crowds soared across his tiny stage , mountains loomed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detail was clear . <P> When Richelieu decided to take over the duchy of Lorraine , the army of France marched on Nancy , and after a cruel struggle the city fell in 1633 . It was this that inspired the Miseries and Misfortunes of War . At a time when war was considered heroic , Callot showed it as it was . His series begins with a majestic parade and then a savage combat scene wreathed in smoke . But the horror is in the aftermath . Churches go up in flames , men are set on fire in their castles , tiny firing squads claim victim after victim , a man is broken on a wheel , 21 corpses hang from a single tree . Callot 's etchings are too small to roar with rage , but all the brutality is there , etched in acid fury .                     