@@478799

American business has long scrambled over the common good in its haste to pursue private profit . Industry 's contribution to air pollution is only the most recent example of the consequences of this habit . But now the corporations proudly threaten a new , distinctive , and paradoxical danger . Instead of creating social problems , they are going to solve them . In a strangely optimistic speech at the University of Chicago last year , Lyle M. Spencer , President of Science Research Associates ( an IBM subsidiary ) , aptly and ominously named this new development the " social-industrial complex . " Spencer 's enthusiasm is puzzling in that his phrase is modeled on one of the most somber statements Dwight Eisenhower ever made : his warning against the " military-industrial complex . " And indeed . the phenomenon Spencer describes is quite similar to the united front of executives and generals which so alarmed President Eisenhower . The military-industrial complex bases itself on the war economy and a huge defense establishment . This enormous vested interest in the means of annihilation . Eisenhower feared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war and peace . The social-industrial complex also builds upon public expenditure and a " partnership " between government and business . But its rationale is the Great Society , not the Cold War ( much of the massive spending waits , in fact , upon the end of the tragic war in Vietnam ) . As Spencer puts it , " Social causes which in the ' thirties were the domain of college professors , labor unions , and student demonstrations are today becoming the new business of business . " What is menacing about this sudden outburst ofcorporate conscience is that satisfying social needs and making money are two distinct and often antagonistic undertakings . Certainly the urgent demands of the nation for housing , schools , jobs , clean air , and plain civility must be met . But will citizens as well as corporations really profit if these demands are met by private and profit-seeking enterprises ? To answer this question , it is well to begin with a slightly cynical analysis of some of the executives ' earthy motives . First of all , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree beyond the wildest imaginings of a Platonist philosopher-king . Five years ago , Clark Kerr estimated that the production , distribution , and consumption of knowledge already accounted for 29 per cent of the Gross National Product and was growing at twice the rate of the rest of the economy . Last year , the president of IBM declared that the nation was fast approaching a time in which more than half the work force would be involved in processing and applying data . So higher education is no longer the aristocratic province of a tiny upper-class minority . Second . the executives of the social-industrial complex , and the American people as a whole . have been tutored by militant Negroes , some of whom ca n't read . Beginning with Martin Luther King 's Montgomery bus boycott of 1955 , a Negro mass movement rescued America 's better self . Eventually , the practical idealism of black men rekindled the spirit of protest on the campus , challenged the churches and the unions , and in effect prepared the country to respond to John Kennedy 's summons to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political force . Americans suddenly noticed the racial ghettos , the black 56 THE SOCIAL-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX and white pour , the polluted air , and the squalid facilities of the public sector . This created , as J. Herbert Hollomon put it on behalf of the Department of Commerce , a " public market . " Hollomon urged private industry to go out and build colleges and create new cities . Max Ways of Fortune called this approach " creative federalism . " It rested , he said , upon " the rapprochement , during the Johnson Administration , between government and business . " Finally , credit must be given to Barry Goldwater for persuading private enterprise to ratify the massive federal activity which the social-industrial complex requires . The ideological unreality of Goldwater 's Presidential campaign forced businessmen to choose between the risks of the market and the stability of a managed economy . Unhesitatingly , they picked the latter , and in the process endorsed Lyndon Johnson 's visionary Great Society . So the companies have acquired a conscience at that precise moment when , for a variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is money to be made in doing good . A great many corporations have already begun to tap the new source of wealth . The knowledge industry now includes among others . General Dynamics , AT &T,; General Electric , Time Inc. , Philco , Westinghouse , Raytheon , Xerox , CBS , Burroughs Business Machines , and Packard Bell . The city-building industry has attracted Goodyear , General Electric , Humble Oil , Westinghouse , U. S. Gypsum , Sunset International Petroleum , American-Hawaiian Steamship Lines , and even Walt Disney Productions . And this , clearly , is only the beginning of the beginning . Charles Silberman of Fortune was not being extravagant when he wrote recently that the knowledge industrialists , in partnership with the government , are " likely to transform both the organization and content of education , and through it , of American society itself . " Clearly such a massive concentration of private power in a traditional public domain is disturbing . I asked one of the top men in the field , Francis Keppel , about it . How Real Is the Danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is now the head of General Learning , a knowledge corporation put together by Gen. eral Electric and Time Inc . His social conscience long predates the business discovery that thinking is a blue-chip occupation . There was , Keppel conceded , a danger that business would dominate , rather than serve , American education . Yet , he continued , perhaps the danger has been exaggerated . Of the tens of billions of dollars which America spends each year on schooling , the largest single expenditure is for teachers ' salaries . After that , the money goes to construction and maintenance , and only about 4 per cent of the total , or less than $1.5 billion a year , is devoted to instructional materials of all kinds . Therefore , Keppel argued , the giant corporations have not really discovered such a huge market and there really is n't a fiscal motive for " taking over " the system . Second , Keppel said , decision making in American education is decentralized , authority is vested in a multiplicity of hoards , superintendents , and principals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truly public purpose , he believes , is by being clearly subordinate to the educators . The latter must dictate the content of what is to be taught . The corporations can then supply them with services and materials , but they must not impose a curriculum which is designed to satisfy the needs of private profit rather than those of students . Keppel 's second point , it seems to me , involves a crucial distinction . For business can go about solving social problems in either of two antagonistic ways , both of which often employ an identical rhetoric . On the one hand , the society can democratically decide what it wants to teach and what kinds of cities it wants to live in . It can then contract out the preparation of materials , the construction work , and even certain advisory functions to the private sector , keeping planning and programing clearly under democratic and political , rather than corporate , control , and making nonprofit institutions the pivot of the whole system . This is what Keppel advocates . On the other hand ? here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might unwittingly hire business to build a new urban civilization on the basis of the very money-making priorities which brought the old civilization to crisis . The contractor might not simply execute the contract . He might draw it up as well . Keppel agreed that this second , and ominous , possibility existed . He also conceded that the relative smallness of the educational market might be a cause for pessimism rather than optimism . It could mean that companies would design machines and programs for private use and then , as a careless , money-making afterthought , unload them on school systems as well . Enthusiastically , even euphorically , the Wall Street Journal has reported recent developments which indicate that Keppel 's worst fears are already becoming fact . " It is clear , " the Journal said in one analysis , " both government and industry will play increasingly active parts in deciding what schools will teach and how they will present it . " A little later , the paper was more precise : .. new schools to a considerable extent have to be built around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means that fundamental decisions about how learning is to be structured will become part of a corporate struggle for shares of the knowledge market . Each producer will push its own particular educational technology : Xerox , its kind of teaching machines ; IBM , computer classrooms ; CBS , television ; and so on . Obviously , machines , computers , and television may have an enormous contribution to make to American education . But how is one going to decide among them ? Each element in the defense sector ? particular industries , branches of the service , " independent " associations for the Army , Air Corns , Navy , and Marines , and even trade unions ? has its own special interest ( profit for the companies , prestige and power for the officers , jobs for labor ) . And each one lobbies for strategies which are determined , not by any objective analysis of the needs of the nation , but by its own stake in the decision . The debate over the B-70 bomber during the Kennedy Administration was a classic case in point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Air Force and aiming to serve purposes of its own , mounted a determined campaign against the Administration in favor of proposals which had been rejected by three Secretaries of Defense under Eisenhower and by Secretary McNamara under Kennedy . Something like this pattern is beginning to emerge within the social-industrial complex . " Business , " to quote the Wall Street . Ionrnal once more , " is turning into an important force for pushing embattled domestic proposals through Congress . " An executive of the Department of Housing and Urban Development is quoted as saying , " Each agency has gradually developed a list of firms interested in its field .... We know how to turn them on . . . . " At first glance , this might seem to portend a happy situation in which the corporations lend their political power to a public purpose . But , as the experience of the military-industrial complex demonstrates , such procedures lead straight to private alliances between self-interested executives and ambitious bureaucrats . This trend is already quite developed in the cities industry ? where , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attacking public housing ? and , as the Wall Street Journal realizes , it is going to appear in education too . A report in the June 17 , 1967 , New Republic vividly illustrates what this might mean . The Office of Education , it said , was considering a grant of $2 million to build a computer classroom for Menominee Indians in Wisconsin , Westinghouse Electric was to develop the hardware which would eventually serve sixty students . This considerable investment would do nothing to help nine hundred other children on the reservation . who are currently receiving inferior education from uncertified teachers , and it is proposed at a time when mechanized teaching is being criticized by some educators as being too impersonal . If The New Republic is right , the responsible decision makers had focused not on the needs of the Indian children but on considerations of governmentrl-corporate realpolitik . " The one substantive reason for financing this project , " the article held . " is the government 's interest in building up the education industry . " As Keppel emphasized , the ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt . The giants in the knowledge industry have been working cautiously with the long run in mind . So far they have been most active in vocational training , both private and public , and the case of the Job Corps may offer some hints of things to come . Making Schools into Factories When the Corps was first set up , it was widely hailed as a trail-blazing example of uniting federal idealism and free-enterprise expertise . In general , it has proved a disappointment . Costs have been high ( the contracts are , in effect , on a cost-plus basis ) and the companies themselves have lost some of their enthusiasm , partly because the escalation of the war in Vietnam makes them feel they can look to McNamara rather than to Shriver for government contracts . The most relevant perspective on the Job Corps experience is provided by the members and organizers of the American Federation of Teachers . Among the fastest-growing unions in the country , 58 THE SOCIAL-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX the AFT has consistently fought to improve the quality of education as well as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disillusioned view of the privately operated Job Corps camps does not really have to do with money . Rather it centers on the feeling that the companies treated the educators in their employ like so many hired hands , and the schools as if they were factories . John Schmid , the State Federations Coordinator of the AFT , thinks " it is plain that private industry feels that teachers deserve even less of a voice in the formulation of curriculum than do most boards of education . " In terms of Keppel 's hopes and fears , business is here taking a commanding , autocratic position , not a subordinate one . Indeed , David Gottlieb , a top analyst in the Office of Economic Opportunity 's Plans and Program division , generalized this point in terms of 0E0 's experience . The conservatives in Congress , he says , are always ready to attack the inadequacies of a federal project run by Harvard , Columbia , or Berkeley , but they 're not apt to question the undertaking of a good , down-to-earth businessman . Therefore , Gottlieb argues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , say , a Peace Corps training institute directed by a university . And since social programs are always looking for industry and conservative support , there is no great drive to bring these operations under closer public control . Gottlieb does not think the companies have abused their freedom . Yet the fact that private entrepreneurs in the new knowledge industry already have an immunity from democratic criticism which is denied to nonprofit professors indicates , I believe , a dangerous trend . In the field of education , the exact opposite should hold true . How Many Million Houses ? But the social-industrial complex is not simply concerned with how Americans think . It may also attempt to decide how the nation lives . During the hearings chaired by Senator Ribicoff in 1366 , the country got some idea of the enormous dimensions of the urban crisis . It is necessary , in President Johnson 's phrase , to build a " second America " ? between 1966 and 2000 , the United States must construct more new housing units than it now possesses . The official estimates call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least 500,000 of them designed for low-income families . The AFL-CIO says we need 2.5 million new units a year ; Walter Reuther 's figure is threemillion . And these things can only be done , businessmen like David Rockefeller told Ribicoff , if there is a federal subsidy to attract the social conscience of profit makers . This is at least one reason why the backers of the Demonstration Cities ( now Model Cities ) Act in the fall of 1966 included Rockefeller , Henry Ford , Thomas Gates of Morgan Guaranty Trust , Alfred Perlman of New York Central , and It . Gwin Follis of Standard Oil of California . It also helps explain , 1 believe , why General Electric is now interested in building a city of 200,000 people from the ground up ? using GE products where possible , of course ? and why U. S. Gypsum is demonstrating its skill in publicly supported slum rehabilitation and hopes to make an eventual 8 per cent to 10 per cent profit from such work . What was considered " socialism " only yesterday is turning into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this pattern in the activities of the " civic " executives who appeared in many major American cities in the ' fifties and ' sixties . These men were primarily bankers , department-store owners , office-building landlords , and others with a strong business stake in the central city . They mobilized entire communities , used both federal and local funds , and improved the downtown areas to meet the needs of banks , department stores , and office buildings , however , rather than those of the black and white poor . But the real danger today is not that the social industrialists in the city industry will repeat these mistakes from the past ( though some of them will ) . Nor , with a few exceptions , is the trouble that they are greedy profiteers engaged in some kind of conspiracy against the common good . The issue goes deeper than that . For when business methods are sincerely and honestly applied to urban problems , with very good intention , they still inevitably lead to antisocial results . It is exactly when crass concerns are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods and priorities to the crisis of the cities ? emerges most clearly . The testimony of David Rockefeller of Chase Manhattan before the Ribicoff subcommittee is an excellent case in point . Rockefeller is an enlightened , and liberal , banker . Urban problems , he quite rightly told the Senators , " are so closely interrelated they call for the establishment of overall goals and guidance . Public agencies , in most cases , must set the overall goals , then provide assistance and incentives to private enterprise to carry out as much of the program as possible . " Senator Charles Percy 's original home-ownership plan was most blunt on this point and candid about real motives . His program , he said , " would be attractive to lenders because it promises a competitive yield and no risk in addition to its social and philanthropic appeal " ( emphasis added ) . In theory , the Rockefeller approach subordinates the businessman to the " overall goals " of the community , which are determined by democratic process . But , and in my view this is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world Mr. Rockefeller proposes to interpret , those goals according to an economic calculus which can have only antisocial consequences . And since he is talking in terms of five business dollars of investment to every federal dollar ( Ribieoff hnpes for a ratio of $7 to $1 ) , the fact that he will allocate resources and order his design on the basis of tried , true , and disastrous priorities is of some moment . " Economic logic , " Mr. Rockefeller says , " dictates that the use of real estate be in some meaningful relationship to its value . The . projects we have mapped for lower Manhattan are massive , and generally of a commercial , taxpaying nature " ( emphasis added ) . Because this is exactly the approach which contributed much to creating our current problems , it is difficult to see how it will solve them . In the ' fifties and ' sixties , the Rockefeller conception of land use prevailed dramatically in Manhattan . Builders made quite sure that real estate had a meaningful relation to its " value " as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the center of the city without regard to other possible locations ( Harlem , for instance , or Bedford-Stuyvesant ) or to alternate use of the resources for abolishing ghettos . An intolerable load thus was placed upon already crowded and grimy transit facilities . And there was , of course , a total lack of concern for history , beauty , and civility . A task force told Mayor Lindsay in 1966 that " few stores , theaters , or hotels can compete with the arithmetic of office buildings , Those sites which have become legendary- , surrounded by character and convenience , often are just the ones the office builders want . " What the cities need are ' uneconomic " allocations of resources . Money must be " wasted " on such uncommercial values as racial and class integration , beauty , and privacy . And this is not a simple matter of overall plan either , for it relates to individual trees in front of individual houses as much as to metropolitan areas . Businessmen , even at their most idealistic , are not prepared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were , they would have no by Michael Hapringlon 5i democratic right to do so , for the determinations to be made are in , or should be in , the public domain . In this area , even more than in education , the social industrialists must be subordinated to democratic planning institutions . Some people , of course , think we can get around the urban crisis by uttering the magic word " rehabilitation . " A great many of the social-industrial complex proposals on housing ? ranging from HEW 's Urban Development Corporation to Senator Percy 's home-ownership plan ? pretend that current problems will be solved if existing slums are refurbished . On this theory , one is absolved from exercising any imagination in creating the second America ; all that is necessary is to spruce up the first . The only difficulty with the solution is that it will not work . To be sure , occasional neighborhoods in big cities can be rehabilitated , thus preserving variety and sometimes even beauty ( Georgetown in Washington , D.C. , is an ex-slum ) . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neighborhood 's residents , leaving a prettied-up but racially segregated community . Rehabilitation will really work only if it is part of a program to build millions of new housing units for the poor and deprived . In an area like Harlem , for instance , the trouble is not just that people pay exorbitant rents for dilapidated quarters , but also that three , four , and five humans have been crammed into spaces adequate to the needs of single individuals . Both the problem of density and the problem of integration obviously require massive planning at the federal , regional , and local level if they are to be solved . Current federal proposals , however , are necessarily flawed because they count on business to play a dominant role in rescuing cities from the mess which business methods and priorities have created . Consider , for example , Senator Robert F. Kennedy 's anti-slum program . Kennedy has been one of the most conscientious and compassionate of men with regard to the ghettos . He understands that decent housing is utterly central to both the war on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $1.5 billion of tax incentives to lure investors into the slums would produce only 400,000 units in seven years , according to the New York Times . That is 100,000 fewer units than the yearly rate of low-cost housing production advocated by the Council of the 1966 White House Conference on Civil Rights . Moreover , the Kennedy approach might result in breaking a living neighborhood up into a myriad of 100-unit undertakings . The Senator proposes that the federal government insist on minimum standards , but surely they are no 60 THE SOCIAL-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX substitute for the creative planning of a new urban environment . And neither is the philosophy expressed by John Notter of the American Hawaiian Land Company , a new-town outfit . " The secret , " Notter told Fortune , " is speed ? getting other people to spend their money instead of you spending yours . Most of our office space is devoted to bookkeepers . In new-town developments that 's the real name of the game . " And Fortune added admiringly , " As American Hawaiian and Humble Humble Oil are proving , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What kind of a civilization will such a game produce ? If Problem-solvers Take Over At this point it is possible to synthesize various aspects of the social-industrial complex and to identify a new , and dangerous , American philosophy . It is the ideology of anti-ideology . The notion that Western society is coming to an " end of ideology " was first articulated by academics , almost all of them liberals , some of them socialists . As Daniel Bell developed the idea , the advanced economies had achieved such material affluence and political consensus that " the old politico-economic radicalism ( preoccupied with such matters as the socialization of industry ) has lost its meaning ... . " The result was a " post-industrial " society in which the " new men are the scientists , the mathematicians , the economists , and the engineers of the new computer technology . " This theory was adapted to corporate purpose by business philosophers like Max Ways of Fortune . For the proclamation of the end of ideology provided an excellent rationale for the social-industrial complex ( Bell and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their thesis ) . If the public market were still a ' thirties-like battleground where antagonistic classes and groups fought for dominance , then business , as a minority special interest , could hardly be trusted with the social fate of the majority . Ent if , as Ways argued , " U. S. politics is making a major turn from the politics of issues to the politics of problems , " then all is changed . The old , ideological debate over " issues , " in which the radicals proposed to take from the rich and give to the poor , is no more . Problem-solving is the order of the day . And the corporation , as a neutral association of qualified experts , will , for a reasonable fee , promote the public good in an absolutely impartial and scientific way . The evidence assembled here suggests to me that Ways and the other philosophers of the social-industrial complex are wrong . In producing a knowledge technology , running Job Corps camps , improving the downtown area , proposing priorities for revitalizing entire cities , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at every point , pursuing a private interest . And ideology , What is at stake is nothing less than how the Americans of the twenty-first century are going to think and live . The tragic results of the new and profitable business conscience with which they may have to deal are already foreshadowed in the actual history of one of the first industries to adopt the pretense of unselfishness and anti-ideology : television . In the midAhirties , William Paley of CBS appeared before the Federal Communications Commission . His company , he said , was not primarily a " business organization , except to the extent that economics are a , necessary means to social ends . Surely any stress on economics as an end in themselves would betray a lack of understanding of the role which broadcasting plays in every plane of American life , " A generation later , after broadcasting had become totally commercialized , Newton Minow described the " wasteland " which had resulted . The Kennedy Administration then exhorted the broadcasters to live up to their social responsibility . In March 1965 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FCC reported that hours given to public-service programs had declined by 15 per cent . Walter Lippmann summed up the implications of this particular experience , and his words apply to the social-industrial complex as a whole . " The regulatory method , " he wrote , " runs counter to the facts of life . It supposes that broadcasters can function permanently as schizophrenics , one part of the brain intent on profits and another part of that same brain based on public service and the arts . " The knowledge and the cities industries ? and the entire social-industrial complex ? suffer from this very same schizophrenia , and they are quite capable of making wastelands of the schools and cities . Like CBS in the ' thirties , they too disdain the " stress of economics " even while they pursue their private interest in the name of anti-ideological public spirit . America , whether it likes it or not , can not sell its social conscience to the highest corporate bidder . It must build new institutions of democratic planning which can make the uneconomic , commercially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which this society so desperately needs .                     