@@488069

Mr Kovacs resigned recently as associate director of the Washington Urban Coalition . Last year he completed graduate work at the London School of Economics Remember the Urban Coalition ? Created out of the mixed motives of idealism and fear of riots , made its public debut in August 1967 , with an emergency convocation of some 2,000 national leaders from minority groups , big business , labor , religion and local government Meeting shortly after the Detroit and Newark riots of that summer , the leaders discussed the " urban crisis " and adopted a statement affirming their dedication to a greatly improved lot for blacks to prove that the American system can indeed work for everyone . The assembled leaders were charged to return to their cities and there set up local Urban Coalitions as prodders , pushers , coordinators , toward the end of upgrading minority status in such basic areas as housing , Jobs , businesses , transportation and health care . Each local Coalition was to act as a powerful liberal alliance of a city 's power structure to press for needed changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element that was to make this strategy effective was to be business leadership working actively with and for the black community . Businessmen were recognized as the powerful and previously untapped source of strength for professional Negro organizations and black community groups in traditional alliance with liberal religious and labor leaders . Since that meeting , John Gardner has assumed leadership of the national Urban Coalition , a large national staff of some sixty persons has been added , and Coalitions have been attempted in some forty cities . The Coalition has generated a great amount of interest and idealism as perhaps one of the most important private initiatives to make needed social changes . The national Coalition 's steering committee and task forces include some of the nation 's most powerful leaders . The Ford Foundation and big business have generously supported the national Coalition . But talking to reporters at a breakfast meeting earlier this month , Mr. Gardner expressed deep concern over the nation 's lack of momentum in the solution of domestic problems , said of the Nixon Administration that it is " still awaiting an urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to organize genuine community-wide attacks on urban ills because some businessmen and other white leaders have " a deep reluctance to take off their coats and meet with people from the other end of town . " He warned that the country was approaching " a final state of affluent misery -- Croesus on a garbage heap . " This bleak appraisal , in such sharp contrast with the lofty phrases and high-minded intentions voiced by Gardner and others at the inception of the Urban Coalition , can be documented from the experiences of one local Urban Coalition , in this case Washington , D.C. The capi-430 tal is , perhaps , not a typical American city  --  no city is typical in any strict sense  --  hut its urban problems , the devices it has employed to solve them , and the results to date are repeated in city after city where Coalitions have been established . The Washington Urban Coalition was formed shortly before the assassination of Dr Martin Luther King , Jr , sparked the Washington riots of April 1968 Key figures active from the start were Lie Rev @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Affairs Office and head of a Catholic Church-supported , nonprofit housing group , the Rev Philip Newell , a white Protestant activist associated with the local Council of Churches , Isaac Frank , head of the local Jewish Community Council ; Sterling Tucker , then executive director of the Washington Urban League and now vice chairman of the Washington City Council ( to which he was appointed by President Nixon earlier this year ) , J C Turner and Philip Daugherty , both from the local Central Labor Council leadership ; Glen Watts . head of the Communications Workers and then also chairman of the Health and Welfare Council , William Calomiris , head of his own real estate firm and then president-elect of the Board of Trade , and Marion Barry , black community leader and a director of Pride , Inc , a successful Job training program for " dudes " Washington 's conservative Cardinal O'Boyle was an early endorser of the Coalition idea , but never participated actively although he sat on the board of directors . The Coalition 's first president was Walter MeArdle , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs , the Board of Trade and the local branch of the National Conference of Christians and Jews ( NCCJ ) These religious , labor , business and black leaders were the basic membership of the Coalition 's ad hoc committee which grew into the Coalition 's board of directors of some thirty members . McArdle was made president after several bigger businessmen had declined to serve . As soon as the Washington riots began , Mayor-Commissioner Walter Washington called a number of Coalition members to his office to ask for their help with food , shelter and Job assistance to persons hurt in the riot . Several Coalition business and church leaders did provide relief assistance in cooperation with the local Health and Welfare Council and community groups . This emergency action is the Coalition 's proudest  --  and almost sole  --  achievement . From its inception , the Washington Urban Coalition has remained on the side lines of the political process . The main reason for this inactivity has been that the Coalition was controlled by status quo whites who were seldom challenged by the black board members . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very moderate types from the NCCJ has kept the Coalition passive . The dominant figure has been Gerald Siegel , The WashTHE NATION/ October 27 , 1969 ington Post 's counsel , a shrewd pro-business moderate who served as an assistant to Lyndon Johnson in the fifties . Once the riots were over , the Coalition whites were unsure what to do next . After some discussion , it was agreed to hold community meetings in different black sections of the city to hear what black community representatives wanted an Urban Coalition to do . Many blacks were skeptical about these visits from whitey , coming so soon after the riots . Marion Barry , among others , was active in the community hearings , at some risk to his own position with Pride 's bitter clients . The businessmen who took part in these meetings , like Arthur Newmyer , head of Newmyer Associates , who had come to the Coalition from NCCJ , found the experience educational . They came to understand a little better the desperate needs of black communities and the puny efforts of black community groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate follow-up to these meetings , no action on specific requests for assistance . As a result , many blacks who attended have come to feel that their cynicism was on the mark . Seven months after the Coalition was created , it replaced its white acting executive director , local NCCJ executive director Donald Sullivan , with a black Washington Urban League official , Horace Morris . His appointment came after a board argument over what color the executive director should be . Led by the black Rev. David Eaton , then of Washington 's Federal City College , blacks and white liberals argued that a black staff director must be appointed if the Coalition hoped to relate at all to the black community . In addition to Morris , a professional staff was hired to help run the Coalition 's proposed task forces in housing , transportation , police , and other areas mentioned at the community meetings After months of delay , task force chairmen were found and task forces assembled . However , the purpose and authority of the task forces were never made clear to either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , several task force chairmen resigned , including Negro board member Ted Hagans , who was also head of the all-Negro Chamber of Commerce Early this year the Coalition held a weekend retreat for board members and staff . With the help of black trainers , Coalition board members in small groups came to know one another much better and to understand more about where other people stood . Out of the weekend grew a determination by most of the forty persons present that the Coalition must begin to carve out a role for itself , beginning with a response to President Nixon 's crime message on the District , which had been issued during the retreat Many blacks criticized the President 's proposal for 1,000 more D.C. policemen , pointing out that past quotas were unfilled and present policemen were being used ineffectively . But by the next board meeting the euphoria of the retreat had dissipated , traditional authority relationships had resumed and action was postponed . The Coalition took no position on the crime message or on other important matters facing the city : home rule , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mace . Another example of inaction is the Coalition 's failTHE NATION/October 27 , 1969ure to grant some $120,000 to black corrnnunity groups . This money was left from funds raised at the time of the riot and was designated for use in worth-while black projects . Some forty community groups applied , and staff recommendations were made . More than a year and a half later , only two small grants have been made . In the spring of 1969 the Washington Urban Coalition was one year old . Both whites and blacks felt embarrassed that almost nothing had been accomplished since the riot relief effort More important , as the first anniversary of Dr. King 's death approached , fears of renewed rioting grew in the business community . Businessmen held several private meetings with black leaders who were asking that city stores be closed to respect Dr. King 's memory Determined not to lose any of their pre-Easter business , the merchants refused . Instead , several downtown department stores broadcast a short speech by Mayor-Commissioner Washington on their store loudspeakers and the Washington Urban Coalition voted at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King fund . The Coalition board pledged $50,000 ( from the unspent riot relief money of a year earlier ) to the King fund for aid to black housing , business and job programs . President McArdle declared in a press conference that the Coalition would try to raise up to $2 million . The King fund is still unborn , having been quietly forgotten after the danger of trouble seemed to go away . The monthly board of directors meetings have had consistently low attendance and achieved little . Several times they have been canceled for lack of a quorum . Even the executive committee of eight members ( with only two blacks and no women ) has not always been able to get a quorum . President McArdle 's one-year term expired last spring , but by late summer he had still been unable to find a re- 431 pfseeinentlIn the iiieantithe , MeArdle cOmpleted ! Mani to move his city-based printing firm to the suburbs , apparently without noting any inconsistency between such moves and the steady exacerbation of urban " problems . " ) By his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition , Coalition treasurer William Calomiris had been unable to get a fund-raising chairman and the Coalition 's money was almost exhausted . Thus the board voted reluctantly in early September to acknowledge financial realities . The Coalition gave immediate notice to most of the professional and secretarial staff . This board meeting was a mixture of praise for the Coalition 's past usefulness ( never defined ) and the beginning of a burial by the whites of the idea that the Coalition would do very much in the future . The Coalition has just now prevailed upon a local shoe store executive , Frank Rich , to take over as president . Rich does not have much political punch ( his business is not one of Washington 's big ones ) , but at least he has some liberal intentions . He will inherit the only senior staff person left , executive director Walter Lewis , another former Washington Urban League staffer who served briefly as assistant secretary at HUD at the end of the Johnson administration Present Coalition plans call for a reduced budget of about $50,000 a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salaries and office rent . Part of the reason for the Coalition 's failure is that most of the city 's power is not in local hands . The only elected body in the District of Columbia is the school board , and this has only been the case for the past year . Most of the power over city affairs is in the hands of the local Board of Trade and Congress . many members of which are hostile to or uninterested in the majority of the District 's population , which is 73 per cent black . The fault lies also with Mayor-Commissioner Washington for not trying to use the Coalition to build support forcity progranis he is trying to get through Congress . The Mayor has succeeded during his two years in office in being as inoffensive as possible to the business community . In return he has received very few scraps from the master 's table : the District 's revenue position is still insecure , home rule has not made any noticeable progress , the Mayor has not built an effective political base for himself or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urban Coalition can also be blamed . John Gardner is adept at uplifting concerned whites with fine rhetoric on the need to work for social change , but he is rarely on hand when it comes to the practical struggles needed for changes . He and his staff have used the gentle but ineffective approach of flattering local Coalition businessmen rather than attempting to draft them . The generally conservative Washington business community 's attempt to involve itself with social change was half-hearted and short-lived . With a few exceptions like lumber company executive John Hechinger , ex-City Council president , and Joseph Danzansky , Giant Food Company president , the ' business community has been much taken by promises of the hard line from the Nixon Administration as " the solution " to urban problems The Urban Coalition in practice has been an effort with little to show for it , except to have diverted blacks and white liberals from the hard political job which they have to do in a world where businessmen are more often enemies than allies . The decline of the Urban Coalition is not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same history comes from cities across the country There have been no outbursts in recent months , but the conditions remain and co does the danger Now Crardner with his exoressed disappointment over the President 's domestic policies , with his image of Croesus on the garbage dump , is at least acknowledging that the threat persists and the remedy has not caught hold .                     