@@477587

The guest in the Easy Chair this month was formerly publications editor of the National Better Business Bureau . He turned to free-lance writing last year , has had articles in many magazines , and is finishing a book about drug advertising to he published by Crowd ! in the fall . advertising slogan yet invented has a greater fiscal magic than the modest sentence : " Contributions are deductible for income-tax purposes . " To look for it is a reflex for any upper-bracket philanthropist and its absence almost automatically insures that an appeal for funds will land in the wastebasket . Few organizations , indeed , would waste time approaching large potential contributors or foundations without tax-exempt status . For most non-profit organizations it is indispensable to survival . This is a matter of simple arithmetic . It can cost a wealthy donor as little as nine cents to give a dollar to a tax-exempt charity . ( Ninety-one cents of the dollar would otherwise be paid as income tax . ) On the other hand , he figures he is out $1.91 if the organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollar he might have spent on a golf ball and has to pay his ninety-one-cent income tax to boot . ) Non-profit organizations , in general , are excused from paying federal income taxes themselves , simply because they earn no profits . But to qualify for " contributors ' exemption " a group 's purpose and methods must meet the criteria set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 , Section 501 ( c3 ) . The law is explicit about what kinds of organizations may not enjoy this privilege ? they can not be in business for profit or chiefly engaged in propaganda or lobbying . On the other hand , organizations for theprevention of cruelty to animals or children or for testing for public safety are specifically mentioned as qualified for " contributors ' exemption . " Beyond this , the statute sets up broad categories of " religious , charitable , scientific , literary , or educational purposes . " Interpretation is in the hands of the Internal Revenue Service , which is a bureau of the Treasury Department . For practical purposes IRS is both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and admittedly the assignment is a tough one . It involves weeding out propaganda machines masquerading as educational projects and sorting out worthy charities from the phonies . Many good causes do a modest amount of lobbying and it calls for nice judgment to rule on the proportion of their effort which goes into influencing lawmakers . Often only a hairline divides public education from political pressure . No one claims that the problems confronting IRS are simple or clear-cut . Some organizations which deal with IRS , however , charge that its policies have been even foggier than the original statute . They claim that its more obscure rulings have sometimes appeared to cover an effort to suppress activities in the touchy zone known as " controversial . " Widespread as is the discontent , critics of IRS are seldom willing to he publicly identified . You just do n't talk out loud about your tax-exempt status . If you have it , you know it can be revoked any time . And if you are seeking it , you are not inclined to ruffle the judge 's temper . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought was a charitable deduction disallowed usually finds it more prudent to pay up than to invite the Internal Revenue men to sniff around his income-tax returns . Consequently I had to give stringent pledges of non-attribution of sources in order to assemble the facts presented in this report , and some of the most aggrieved groups have chosen to remain silent rather than risk antagonizing the omnipotent bureau on which their fate rests . From the standpoint of an organization , the powers of IRS are virtually absolute . It can appeal an unfavorable ruling but only to a higher echelon of the same bureau . It has no practical recourse to the courts . An individual contributor who has had a tax deduction disallowed may go to court but this is a long and costly business . ( For example , it took the U. S. Court of Appeals eleven years to reverse a 1948 IRS decision involving a large bequest to bar associations in New York . ) Such judicial decisions , in any case , apply only to the particular tax question at issue and have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They may he ignored by IRS in future rulings . So when IRS frowns , large contributors ? particularly foundations ? shy away from ' ' sensitive areas . " Instead they pour their dollars into " safe " charities such as hospitals , universities , or research projects on major diseases , For example , a staff member recently conceded that the Ford Foundation was being " extra careful " in the light of " tax considerations " ? a grant which might have gone to a civic planning organization went to a university . There is , of course , nothing reprehensible about helping colleges . What is alarming is the drying up of support for new , lively projects . IRS has contributed to this trend by limiting the term " educational " in a number of rulings to formal classroom instruction or running a museum or zoo . Thus , for instance , it turned down a reciprocal-exchange program for the children of university professors here and abroad . TOO HOT FOR TAX EXEMPTION T H E boundaries of " charity " have also steadily shrunk to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for older people and similar welfare services have been called " too general " for tax exemption . A university scholarship program for workers was rammed through only after the Secretary of Labor appealed personally to the Secretary of the Treasury . The whole problem of race relations also has been viewed skeptically in recent IRS rulings . For example , contributors ' exemption has been denied to Jewish Community Welfare Councils in Minneapolis and St. Louis , despite the fact that they do the same job as tax-exempt councils in other cities . Similar non-sectarian groups have fared no better . For example , IRS said " No " to the California Federation for Civic - Unity and to Florida 's Dade County Council on Community Relations . In a letter to the latter organization , Harold T. Swartz , Director of the Tax Rulings Division ( who has since moved up to the post of Assistant Commissioner ) explained that " . . . the community may derive some educational benefit from your various activities ... but education is merely one means to achieve your ultimate objective of solving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethnic prejudice and discrimination . " IRS took equally stringent action against the National Civil Liberties Clearing House . This group was formed by a number of others which already have contributors ' exemption , as a way of swapping information and co-ordinating their work . The Clearing House was turned down , with a warning that if its constituent groups kept on co-operating their individual exemptions would be jeopardized . The Urban League , a long-exempt Negro group , is currently having its status " reviewed " by IRS , as is the Legal and Educational Defense Fund of the NAACP . The latter check-up was undertaken at the behestof Senator Harry F. Byrd of Virginia by Commissioner of Internal Revenue Dana Latham . Without any prodding , however , the Revenue Service has turned down the National Committee on Discrimination in Housing ( organized for research and education by a group of prominent scholars and civic planners ) and the National Committee on Fraternities in Education ( on the ground that its program included study of racial exclusion in fraternities ) . When the latter group appealed , IRS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since the group had furnished data for a book written by its president , it was not a non-profit activity and would henceforth have to pay income tax itself . Such dicta are particularly galling to these organizations in the light of President Eisenhower 's repeated press-conference statements that the government can not improve race relations without the help of private citizens in changing the hearts and minds of men . EQUALLY thwarted have been earnest attempts to increase public understanding of foreign affairs . Such programs have been known to languish months ? and even years ? in a limbo of indecision before the ax fell . Still alive , but just barely , is a veteran of a four-year stalemate ? the American Friends of Vietnam . The group was formed early in 1956 to sponsor scholarly studies of Vietnam , to publish and disseminate informational and educational material , and to channel private aid and emergency relief . All this was , of course , in direct support of American foreign policy . The committee was headed by Lieut . Gen. John W. ( ' Daniel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnam , and by a former U. S. Ambassador , Angier Biddle Duke . It was spon-sored by a galaxy of Congressmen , scholars , and top industrialists . A generous few got the organization started without benefit of tax exemption . Large donations were promised as soon as IRS ( Continued on page 21 ) approved . Application was made on May 23 , 1956 . After a routine acknowledgement , nine months of blank silence followed . Finally on February 28 , 1957 , IRS wrote to ask for further information . Voluminous new exhibits and briefs were prepared . General O'Daniel visited IRS , and was assured of prompt action . But more months rolled by and nothing happened until November , when another audience was granted . IRS , it turned out , doubted that the AFV 's purpose was " educational " because Vietnam 's economy was to be studied . Informally , the IRS recommended some changed wording in the charter . After a spate of special meetings , Attorneys revised the charter and sent it to Washington . Another year rolled by . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The turndown letter clung to the belief that economic research is not educational and also found fault with some of the changes which IRS men had themselves suggested at the informal conference . American Friends of Vietnam still has a few wealthy patrons who are keeping it afloat . But its skeleton program is a far cry from the effort needed . Another victim of the IRS slow torture is the American Committee on Africa , of which John Gunther is honorary chairman . After a two-year wait , IRS decided that the committee was outside the pale because its objective ? mutual understanding ? might conceivably be promoted by other than educational means . IRS also ruled that Africa Today , a scholarly publication the committee sponsors , is " more journalistic than educational , " and that helping visiting foreign scholars is neither educational nor charitable . The last ruling , if applied to existing programs , would largely wipe out the privately supported international exchange programs which are essential to the State Department 's work in his field . A case in point is the Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House conference called by the President . This committee distributes educational materials on the world 's economy from such sources as Congressional committees , foundations , and universities . Treasury Depart-meat officials informally told the committee that it had no chance at all of securing exemption , so it has never even applied . Sometimes Senators and high-ranking State Department officials have put in a good word for private activities useful to American foreign policy . But to no avail . Nor has any expert succeeded in mapping a sure course for a deserving group to reach the promised land of contributors ' exemption . For IRS rulings form a maze that is both devious and contradictory . Attorneys fur some groups suggest that the IRS has played each case by ear , inventing as well as administering the rules as it went along . This keeps not only new applicants but also the less conventional exempt organizations in a continuous state of well-justified jitters . The limb can be sawed off any time IRS chooses to do so . QUICKSANDS OF POLICY A SER I O U S cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as " the cultivation , development , or improvement of the capabilities of the individual through instruction or training . " Rigorously applied , this means classroom instruction and little else . Another body blow was delivered in August 1958 , when IRS turned down a mental-health organization with the opinion that " . . working for the conservation of mental health ; helping prevent nervous and mental disorders and mental defects ; securing and disseminating information on these subjects ... all fall within the category of promoting social action . Helping to raise the standards of care for those suffering from mental disorders and defects is a purpose which may be attained only by legislative action . Co-operating with federal , state , and local agencies is . . . a broad and indefinite purpose not restricting your activities to those purposes contemplated in the Internal Revenue Code ; and encouraging research into causes of mental disease falls within the same category ... ? ' " This , " commented an old hand in the welfare field , " is really a humdinger . " Its impact , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1959 , IRS reversed its stand and granted 22 exemption after all . Such switches are not uncommon . For instance , the Highlander Folk School , in Monteagle , Tennessee , an interracial college on the Scandinavian pattern , has had contributors ' exemption since its founding in 1937 . Twenty years later IRS reviewed its program and revoked the school 's exemption , on the ground that much of its curriculum dealt with labor and labor unions , which was not an educational activity . Highlander promptly appealed , and in due course IRS reversed its decision again . Currently , a local district attorney has once more challenged the school 's status . Apart from the cost , IRS troubles can have unpleasant side effects . For example , the Fund for the Republic after its first year was subjected to a " routine audit , " and IRS has had the Fund " under review " ever since . Pressure from Representative Francis E. Walter , chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities , was said by the " Washington Post to be the source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Post pointed out , has been taken against the DAR , although it has campaigned for American withdrawal from the UN , severance of all diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union , cessation of all foreign aid , and repeal of the federal income tax . To the layman , this looks very much like lobbying ? which is supposed to he prohibited to tax-exempt groups ? and lobbying against U. S. policy at that " It could be fairly argued , " the Post noted , " that such a program would be ' a hindrance in the battle against Communism ' Representative Walter 's charge against the Fund . " But it could not be fairly argued , " the Post continued , " that it would warrant revocation of the DAR 's tax-exempt status . . . . The provision of the Internal Revenue Code affording tax exemption to educational organizations on certain specified terms was meant to shelter a great variety of interests and aims , some of them conflicting . Official approval of these interests and aims is no part of the standard for granting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to share this view of their duties . Toward the non-intellectual THE EASY CHAIR forms of benevolence their attitude has been , on the whole , relaxed and indulgent . Their extreme permissiveness has , indeed , at times startled and even shocked experts in philanthropy and local law-enforcement officials . For example , a California outfit known as National Kid 's Day Foundation waxed in tax-exempt opulence until a public disclosure that 90 cents out of every dollar it collected was spent for fund-raising . It quietly closed up shop , bequeathing its functions to a successor group called the American Foundation for Underprivileged Children , which petitioned IRS for contributors ' exemption . In due course , it was granted . Some months earlier , however , the California Attorney General had declared the foundation fraudulent and put it out of business . Among the beneficiaries of IRS ' softer mood has been the Kauth family of New York . According to Better Business Bureau bulletins , Donald Z. Kauth has been the salaried executive director of Guiding Eyes for the Blind , a tax-exempt philanthropy . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter shop , one of whose customers has also been Guiding Eyes . Donald 's father , Willard , received $26,000 a year as executive director of the tax-exempt Boys Athletic League . Mrs. Willard Kauth has been treasurer of another tax-exempt body , the Girls Vacation Fund of New York . Although she served without salary , Mrs. Kauth retained her husband as a fund-raiser for Girls Vacation Fund at $16,000 a year . A number of other IRS vagaries came to light in New York in 1954 when a state law was passed regulating charitable fund-raising . Agents from the State Bureau of Charities visited regional offices of IRS to get the addresses of exempt groups based in New York State . The files were found to be chaotic ; addresses were often incorrect , and nonexistent organizations were listed . Such shortcomings may , of course , be due simply to personnel or budget cuts . But these can not explain the capricious way in which contributors ' exemptions have been sometimes denied or granted . The performance of IRS is , in fact , a prime example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly limited and directed by Congress . In fairness to the Treasury , it must be pointed out that it has repeatedly appealed to Congress for clear , specific legislation to guide the Revenue Service in its rulings . For instance , as long ago as November 15 , 1956 , the Secretary of the Treasury wrote to the chairman of the House Subcommittee on Internal Revenue Taxation , pointing out that the present laws " place insuperable interpretative and administrative burdens " on IRS and " create formidable problems for taxpayers and the tens of thousands of organizations involved . " TWO HOPES FOR REFORM S 0 far Congress has paid no attention to these pleas . Until it does act , the situation is bound to remain unsatisfactory for everybody concerned . Meanwhile , however , the Treasury itself has taken a step which may provide some help . On June 27 , 1959 , it announced a new set of regulations which set forth the yardsticks it proposes to use in interpreting the existing laws , and in ruling on requests for tax exemption . These rules are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do seem to provide a broader defini. tion of charity , and to move away from some of the restrictive ap . proaches which have appeared it many recent IRS turndowns . For example , the definition o " educational organizations " has beer expanded to include those whicl present " public-discussion groups forums , panels , lectures , or othe similar programs . " Moreover , the may advocate " a particular positiol or viewpoint , " so long as they giv the facts fully and fairly enough t permit the public to reach its ow independent conclusions . But to exemption can not be claimed Ic " the mere presentation of unsui ported opinion . " As a result , some experts in th field believe that a better day about to dawn . Others remain pess mistic . ( " Nothing can be done , " sai one Senator ? a Democrat ? " um Eisenhower leaves the Whi House . " ) Most non-profit grout : however , are adopting a wait-and-si attitude . For much will depend on the way in which IRS administers its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistency , they might go a long way toward revitalizing important areas of private group activity which have been restricted by IRS policy . T H E need remains , nevertheless , for Congress to provide a clearer and more workable law , So long as it shirks this plain duty , both the bureaucrats and the public will be plagued by uncertainties . When it does tackle this neglected chore , Congress might well follow the lead of the courts which , in estate cases , have held that an organization 's methods rather than the potentially or actually controversial nature of its work should determine its educational status . Certainly the public interest will be served by interpreting education broadly and propaganda narrowly . Congress may also want to grant exempt status to social-welfare agencies which do not easily fit into the traditional categories of education and charity . Many such organizations do not qualify under the present law , and others are among the " difficult cases " which cause so much quibbling and argument . Such broadening of the law would end much unfairness , and would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax-exempt groups is cramped , most donors do not cut down on their total giving ; they merely give to the fewer and more privileged groups . The new law also should require the IRS to make its rulings promptly , and encourage it to issue temporary favorable decisions to groups organized in good faith under responsible leadership for generally recognized educational and charitable goals . After a year of operation , the group 's activities could be reviewed in detail and a permanent exemption granted or withheld . And , of course , the law should provide for judicial review for those organizations which believe their activity is properly exempt , but ca n't get the Internal Revenue Service to agree with them . Such review by the courts of administrative decisions is one of the strongest of our traditional bulwarks of freedom . 