@@215721

For centuries the tiny Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has remained as enigmatic and elusive to Western eyes as the legendary Abominable Snowman that ambles across its snowy slopes . Dotted with aerie temples and emerald valleys , ruled by a Dragon King whose subjects dress like Renaissance page boys , Bhutan relished the role of the world 's last Shangri-La , and kept a closed door to foreigners . As a result it preserved a way of life indistinguishable from that of its countrymen a thousand years ago . <P> Today all that seems destined to change . Nestled next to Communist-ruled Tibet , Bhutan has become a last frontier between China and India-and one of the most strategic chunks of geography on earth . To dispel some of the question marks , its progressive king , Jigme Dorji Wangchuk , 39 , recently invited three Swiss scholars , Geologist Augusto Gansser , his photographer daughter and Vienna-born Tibetologist Blanche-Christine Olschak , to observe and record the whole spectrum of Bhutan 's culture . They have emerged with a fascinating photographic record including temples and monastic art treasures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . <P> Snakes &; Tiger Skins . Bhutanese art , the Swiss team found , is almost exclusively kept in the fortresslike dzongs , which serve as the administrative and religious centers for each district . Once inside the whitewashed stone walls capped by pagodalike roofs , they found the monastic quarters magnificently decorated with tapestries , sculpture and paintings . One of the most impressive was Paro Dzong , located on the old caravan route from Tibet to India . There , the Swiss group witnessed the traditional New Year 's dance beneath the giant prayer banner , or thangka , which portrays Padmasambhava ( Lotus-born ) , the Indian missionary-and central figure in Bhutan 's art-who converted Bhutan to Buddhism in the 8th century . In his hand he holds a thunderbolt , symbol of enlightenment to the pageantry-rich people . <P> Bhutanese tapestries and wall paintings are a blend of Buddhism , Hinduism and Bon , the country 's original cult of sorcery and spirit worship . There is little in them to distinguish today from yesterday . Works are not dated ; subject matter is part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , generation to generation . Often the meaning of the centuries-old silk tapestries is obscure . The Mystic Spiral , intended for monastic meditation , is a vision whose precise symbolism is known only to a few learned lamas . To the Western viewer , its concentric circles , drawing him into a dizzying infinity , are startlingly like contemporary op and psychedelic art . The God of 1,000 Eyes , though menacing in appearance with his tiger skin and collar of snakes , is actually a protective deity in which the eye , symbol of wisdom and knowledge , appears even on his fingertips . Set against a threatening backdrop of flames and darkness , it seems a particularly apt talisman for Bhutan today .                     