@@477930

IF YOU like to settle down with a favorite magazine , serenely believing that you 'll receive a steady flow of copies as long as you want , you would be shocked at the cocktail-party conversation I heard in New York a few weeks ago . Some 250 people crowded into a room large enough for seventy ? advertising men , magazine editors , book publishers , columnists , radio and television personalities , and men in public relations . " Well , shall we gradually lead up to it ? " asked a young man in one small group , with a suggestion of a supercilious smile . " Or shall we talk about The Saturday Evening Post right away ? " " It would be a sad thing , " another man began , in solemn tones , if those Curtis magazines should die . " " But are n't all magazines sick ? " said a young copy writer , who may have been out of Vassar a year or two . " I mean , sick ? They say that just dozens of magazines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helps create the reality . An uneasy atmosphere grows , and advertising men , reacting to the image , begin to withdraw their ads ? and the more they withdraw , the more convinced they are that their reasons are valid . This voodoo sickness is affecting several publishing giants at this moment . In a way , the excitement in the shop talk is an indication of the strong personal tie that exists between readers and their magazines . Few seem to realize , however , that what is happening to magazines is also hitting most other enterprises . Equally rough jousting goes on in other industries without too great notice . Yet a magazine 's failure , real or imagined , attracts widespread attention . It thrives or suffers in public . In the coming decades , the big magazines will tend to get bigger ? and fewer . The small ones will tend to stay small , but there will be more of them . And among the casualties may be some of the big publications which have been around , and loved , a long time ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The suspense will hinge , of course , on which magazines will grow stronger ? and which will likely wither and possibly die . . . The most obvious problems troubling magazines today are financial . They began to grow acute right after World War II . Lulled perhaps by the wartime conditions , in which they had as much advertising as their paper supplies could handle , managements were generally unprepared for what hit them . Paper prices shot up ? as much as 450 per cent a year . Printing and transportation costs zoomed . Postage started a steady increase , and this year ( if Congress passes the pending bill ) it will rise again , fatally for some magazines . On top of this , television began around 1950 to siphon hundreds of millions of dollars of advertising away from magazines . Made uneasy by the competition of this new mass medium , the magazines hesitated to raise their advertising , subscription , and newsstand rates . The squeeze was on . Now , some seventeen years after World War II , profits are still declining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general public is almost 200 million and revenues run about $1.5 billion , profits after taxes for the 35 largest publishing houses dedined from a moderate 4.3 per cent of sales in 1950 to 1.7 per cent in 1960 . In those years , 32 of the 250 largest publications either merged or died . Then , last October , Coronet ceased publication , and the leaves are still falling . Of the magazines reporting their profit-loss statements in 1960. 39 per cent showed losses . " It is obvious , " says James Kobak , of J. K. Lasser , the accounting firm specializing in magazine services , " that during the decade 1950 to 1960 , in which the nation experienced prosperity on a higher plane than ever before , the magazine industry suffered severely . " Nevertheless , in many ways , the biggest problem facing magazines today is psychological : the image of magazines in the minds of advertising men versus the reality of the magazines ' influence and service to readers . To many advertising men , magazines have " a declining image " as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television has a " growing image . " Agencies and advertising departments understandably get excited by quick results . Some television advertisers of small items , such as soaps , aspirins , and toothpastes , can launch a campaign one evening and insist that they " feel " the effect the next day , Most magazine publishers are convinced that advertising in their pages has a strong cumulative and lasting influence on readers . If this could ever be measured , they feel , magazines would be shown to be the most effective advertising medium . But until the industry and research firms can come up with satisfactory measuring techniques , there 's little doubt that an increasing share of the advertisers ' dollars will go into television . to go on and explain why . Instead , the agency man blithely talked about other subjects . Surprised -- and disgusted ? the editor realized that the agency man was not interested in finding out whether the " reputation " was valid . The behavior of some advertising men toward The Saturday Evening Post has been morbidly fascinating . There is a saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want ? but aren'tquite sure exactly what it is . " This could be said , too , of many advertising men today . Although they talk increasingly of editorial quality , they seem to rely more and more on slide-rule circulation numbers and cost-per-thousand fig-tires in making decisions . Often , when they do base judgments on qualitative factors , they seem to forget facts and figures . This is best illustrated , perhaps , in the case of the Post . For the last eleven years , the Post has had a steadily declining number of advertising pages . Yet , at the same time , it has grown steadily in circulation ? in recent years selling almost as many copies in one week as Look , for example , sells in two . In readership , in the quality of its audience , and other factors important to advertisers , the Post has been , and is , competitive . During these eleven years , however , talk in i he trade has had the effect of convincing many advertising men that the Post was old-fashioned . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retaliate with a consistent and hard-hitting promotion campaign designed to offset these attitudes . Many advertising men to whom the Post salesmen went for space became convinced of the Post 's inadequacy and they finally declared that it would have to " change " and " improve " or they would pull out of its pages . The Post had to take action . Its editors spent a year making studies and plans . Then last September , under Robert Fttoss 's direction , they presented the " new " Post to the advertising world . And Post salesmen went back to the advertising men and said , " You asked us to change . Well , we did it . Now where is your advertising ? " " Yes , you made changes , " said many of these advertising men . " But you did n't make the right changes . " One high advertising executive I know read the " old " Post practically from cover to cover each week . He barely opened Life and Look . Yet he never proposed the Post as a publication to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ queried about Look as an ad medium , he spoke Woodrow Wirsig , editor of " Printers ' Ink , " the weekly news magazine of advertising and marketing . has been active for fifteen years in the magazine field as well as radio , TV , and newspaper reporting . fle was executive editor of " Look " at the time when " Look " passed " Collier 's " in circulation and advertising revenue , and was editor of " Woman 's Home Companion " for four years . He is also at present editorial consultant to the Educational Testing Service of Princeton , New Jersey . brightly and quickly about what a " corner " Look was and how he was recommending it again on his schedule . Although it is said that consistency is the mark of small minds , it often seems that advertising men carry paradoxical behavior to extremes . For example : ITEM : Ad agency men complain bitterly over the " cutthroat and cut-rate subscription offers " of magazines . They charge that magazines pass on the costs to advertisers , implying that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cut-rate subscription program means that a magazine is in desperate trouble . ( On the other hand , many of them think nothing of putting off " on labels of clients ' products . ) ITEM : Some advertising men complain about " pop-ups , " half-page ad booklets , different qualities of paper , and so on , that some publications allow advertisers to place in their pages . ( Yet they will turn around and confidently put a piece of china in each box of their clients ' soap powder . ) ITEM : Some advertising men complain that the mass magazines ' race for " numbers " is nonsense since they ca n't possibly compete with the numbers television provides . ( Yet they continue to place more and more of their ads in the magazines that keep a Iead in total circulation . ) ITEM ! Some advertising men piously criticize magazine editors as being influenced too much by advertising considerations . ( Yet they place more and more of their advertising in some " special interest " magazines whose editors devote most of their editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products . ) ITEM : Many advertising men think , when magazines die , that this is an inherent weakness in magazines as a medium and tend to believe that all magazines are getting weaker . ( Yet these same advertising men would n't dream , as a result of a spectacular failure on one liquid dentifrice like Procter and Gamble 's " Teel , " for example , that the whole dentifrice business was declining and that people might stop washing their teeth . ) THE " IMAGE " OF FAILURE T HERE are , of course , many sensitive and brilliant men in advertising today . Many of them select media intelligently . But still too many run-of-the-mill advertising men would rather be told what to think about media than conduct studies of their own . Too often their recommendations , made from fear of clients ' questions , are based more on a medium 's " image " than on the reality of its service . How will advertising men think about magazines in the future ? A hint can be seen in a survey of its 1,000-man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magazine of advertising and marketing with which I am associated . This survey showed that a majority of ad men believe that too many magazines , in a race for numbers , put on " waste circulation . " The facts , of course , are that in the decade of the ' fifties magazine circulation grew substantially among educated groups and among families in the .7,000 and up annual income level . Some advertising men believed that they are " confronted with unfair competition in magazines . The ads have to compete against editorial content for the reader 's full attention . " Does this mean that they think they can not match the creative efforts of magazine editors and artists ? " It 's curious , " said Stanley Franke ! , when he was assistant to the president of McCall 's during its colorful surge , " but we 've had agency men tell us that so much color and excitement in the magazine worries them . They think their blackand-white ads wo n't be read . Can you imagine ? " The Printers ' Ink survey also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of advertising executives believe that their advertising programs in the future should have better " balance . " By balance they mean more advertising in magazines . Two out of three of the executives ( 65 per cent ) said that " magazines can expect a greater share of future ad budgets . " A big majority of executives felt that the quality of magazine editorial material is " generally excellent " or " fair . " But 40 per cent said that a better product could be produced ? and must be , if magazines are to become more effective advertising carriers . They could not , however , be specific about what improvements they want to see . There 's no question but that advertising men 's attitudes will have a continuing , and profound , influence on all magazines ' efforts to change . But the nagging questions remain : Will the advertising men recognize the improvements when they see them ? Or act if they do ? Although competition in the magazine field often is similar to the fight between other commercial products , there is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the magazine 's customers , and these people demand a constant race to the finish between competitors to see who can be " first . " Then a curious patina of " failure " settles over many of the also-rans . Curiously , this tends to tarnish their editorial content , their sales arid promotion qualities , and even reflects on the ability of their management . Among strictly commercial products , a suddenly successful new one , like Lestoil , can expect to meet vigorous new competitors , such as Mr. Clean and Handy Andy . And all three can continue to do a profitable business . But it does n't seem to work this way in the magazine industry . A " leader "  - -  - especially one coming up from behind ? takes on a cachet of inexorable superiority . By using it , an advertising agency and a company 's ad manager have little trouble defending their choices with management . Inevitably , the leader takes on an increasing share of the advertising in its field . For this reason , magazine runners-up must either struggle toward the top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classification . WHAT MAKES A MAGAZINE " HOT " ? 0 F THE eleven magazines with average circulation over five million , Ladies ' Home .1 ( ) lima ? , McCall 's , Look , Solo idea Evening Post , and Life are locked in specific battles . A more general struggle to grow faces The Reader 's Digest , TV Guide , Everywoman 's Family Circle , Woman 's Day , Better Homes L- Gardens , and Good Housekeeping . The battles take different forms and directions . At this moment the most spectacular fight is between Ladies ' Home Journal and McCall 's for supremacy in the women 's field . It features an almost personal duel between colorful and successful editors and their magazines , fighting grimly and bleeding expensively to promote circulation and advertising sales . And their parent corporations ( the Curtis Publishing Company of Philadelphia and McCall 's Corporation of New York ) are joined in a titanic battle for survival and growth . When Bruce and Beatrice Gould became editors of Ladies ' Home Journal in 1935 , the magazine was fourth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Goulds were a young husband-wife team , who came out of Des Moines and went front newspaper reporting to writing plays and short stories . With their first issue they began publishing entire novels , and newsstand circulation jumped by 150,000 to 300.000 each month . In 1941 , they passed Companion and thereafter they commanded the women 's field until it was shaken up by Herbert Mayes and McCall 's magazine in 1960 and 1961 . In his own way , Mayes , peppery and intense former editor of Hearst 's Good Housekeeping , had already made magazine history . With its Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval and its Institute for testing products , the magazine had established a success formula with advertisers that could not be joggled . At just about the time Mayes abruptly left Good Housekeeping in 1958 , editor Otis Wiese of McCall 's angrily walked off his job hoping to precipitate a crisis in which he might unseat McCall 's Corporation president , Arthur Langlie ( former Governor of Washington ) . Instead , Langlie within twenty-four hours hired Mayes as editor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority , plus more money , to put out the kind of magazine he wanted . Behind this editorial duel lies the thinking and thrust of Norton Simon , a West Coast financial man who had begun to buy into McCall 's Corporation around 1956 . He was head of Hunt Foods and Industries , Inc. , a youngish , hardworking man who surrounded himself with hardworking and astute men and women . McCall 's grew slowly until Mayes moved in . Then he and Simon went to work . Following Simon 's successful formula of concentrating emphasis behind a few lines , cutting prices where necessary to dislodge competitors , McCall 's began a spectacular growth . Mayes loaded his magazine with such dissimilar features as Anthony Eden 's memoirs and a candid biography of Marilyn Monroe . He added more editorial pages and let his art director , Otto Storch , run amok through the pages with dramatic type designs and lavish color . Mayes personally rode herd over a big circulation and advertising publicity push . Mayes was among the first to say publicly that , as yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's . Yet he has shrewdly applied his promotion sense to get " sell " out of it . Blurbs nn McCall 's cover , for example , rarely tell much about what is inside the issue . Instead , they usually tell how exciting , how Great , how WONDERFUL all the articles and stories are . The December 1961 cover , for example , at the end of the list of featured items , simply added more more more more more , .. " running off the bottom of the page . Women reacted as Mayes hoped they would . The wife of the president of a large advertising agency said , for instance : " I like McCall 's because it gives me the feeling of being caught up in an exciting whirl of gaiety , color , excitement , and a sense of young freedom . I feel that I 'm sharing in all that 's right and new and wonderful . " McCall 's total net paid average circulation passed the Journal in the first nine months of 1961 by 150,000 . III all the hullabaloo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's had taken the lead a lot earlier . Or , they may have been intrigued by McCall 's speed in catching up . In any case , in 1960 McCall 's passed the Journal in advertising : 1,103 pages to 928 . The " image " of McCall 's became that of the " hot " magazine , In the last half of 1961 , McCall 's announced it would deliver eight million circulation by December ? with one million of that a bonus to the advertisers for which they would n't have to pay , at least during the first half of 1962 . ( Advertising rates are keyed to circulation guaranteed . ) This , of course , was a drastically effective price-cutting stroke ? along with its more recent , and unprecedented , move to eliminate higher costs for four-color ad pages . It could be ruinous , too , if it were n't followed soon with a large increase in advertising . By Valentine 's Day this year , the magazine took a full-page ad ? one of a costly series ? in the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to proclaim : " Advertisers love the women who love McCall 's . " The fact that McCall 's is not making money ( as of now ) is of no immediate concern to Mayes and Simon . To them , the magazine is a flagship for a publishing-printing corporation that will grow in value through such acquisitions as The Saturday Review , more printing contracts , and the development of a book-publishing division . To help maintain McCall 's momentum as the " hot " magazine , Simon has placed at least $16 million in cash at the magazine 's disposal to be spent as necessary . A healthy chunk of it is already earmarked for new novels by Herman Wouk , Anne Morrow Lindbergh , and Allen Drury , to be serialized this year before book publication . Mayes and Simon plan a total net circulation of twenty million for McCall 's by 1970 . Nobody in his right mind would predict that Simon and Mayes ? who last fall stepped up as McCall 's president , replacing an ailing Langliewo n't make their goal . Maintaining image @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What Ladies ' Home Journal will do to retaliate is still not fully disclosed , but it has cut back to ten issues a year , lowered its circulation base to 6,750,000 ( with reduced advertising rates ) ? to be effective this summer . Its new goal may be a higher-quality readership . Even now , however , the Journal retains a loyal following . ( One of Jacqueline Kennedy 's young secretaries in the White House was heard to remark , for example , -I know that McCall 's has all that type and color . JAMES SCHEV1LL THE FISHERMAN 'S TRUE BAIT But I still want the solid , dependable things I get in the Journal . " ) A new art director started varying its layouts months ago . Kent Mitchel , a successful Curtis executive who had been in charge of Holiday and The American Home , became general manager , then publisher , of the Journal . He took a talented young man , John Veronis , from American Home and installed him as advertising director of the Journal , and they have quietly laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resigned early this March , youthful Curtiss Anderson moved op from managing editor to take their place ? only weeks after youthful John Mack Carter had stepped into Mayes ' shoes at McCall 's . Circulation pronouncements from both magazines during the last half of 1961 might have confused anybody but an accountant . The Jour-intl. using McCall 's own words about the significance of newsstand performance , reminded advertisers that it outsold McCall 's on the newsstands . In turn , McCall 's trumpeted that it outsold everybody , except Reader 's Digest , in total sales . The record of advertising pages for 1961 , as significant to magazines as the won-lost columns in baseball standings , shows that this important gap seems to be widening . Although McCall 's dropped some 6 per cent under 1960 , with 1,030 pages , Journal fell 19.6 per cent , with 745 pages . If advertising men should see this gap widen even farther , and behave as they usually do under such circumstances , McCall 's could be off to a longtime supremacy in the Women 's field . THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfeminine Valentine 's Day assertion that its circulation " is larger than Life 's , Look 's , or the Post 's , " there is still more than academic interest in the rivalry among the more masculine big weeklies or biweeklies . In this contest , the latecomer Look has now seized the limelight as challenger to Life . The strange case of Look , slow-starting and long-ignored , establishes one element as perhaps the basic success factor in contemporary magazine competition . This is the Silky Sullivan principle , established by the famous horse with a reputation for a slow start but a burst to win at the finish . Look was created in 1936 , only months after Life . Gardner ( Mike ) Cowles was determined at first to sell Look on the newsstands only , without advertising . Garish with freaks and sumptuous bosoms , Look sold sensationally but won a cheap reputation . However , even those early issues treated public affairs perceptively . In a few years , when Cowles decided to sell advertising , Look was at once denounced by rival salesmen from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than truss and pep-pill ads . Even though Look was being redesigned into a family magazine , this disparaging talk helped cement an image of Look as a sleazy , peep-show publication . During the next two decades , Look constantly improved its editorial content and sales techniques . In the late ' forties and early ' fifties it felt strong enough to go after Collier 's , and absorbed it in December 1956 when Crowell-Collier publishing company folded its magazines . Then Look . turned its sights more directly on its next competitor in line : The Saturday Evening Post . In 1961 , Look outsold the Post on a per-issue basis ? it is now guaranteeing seven million : and its advertising dropped relatively Few pages as compared to the Post 's loss of 700 . Willi increased rates , Look 's advertising dollar volume shot up almost $5 million . Hit hardest by its advertising loss , the Post announced a new round of changes on March 25 . The number of issues per year will be cut to 15 ; Robert Fuoss will be replaced as editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since 1954 , and the " Revolution by Design " will be toned down . No matter what happens to t he Pnst , however , this year the hottest race may be Look versus Life . Few people dreamed , when Life and Look started in 1936 , that they would ever he neck and neck . A few years ago , however , Look passed Life in quality of paper ( a Look development that is now available to other publications ) , in the lustrous effect of its chromatic printing , and ? so it seems to a number of key communications people ? in editorial interest . Both magazines now sell roughly seven million copies per issue , but Life does it fifty-one times a year and Look twenty-six . Many believe that Life 's power as a magazine and advertising medium stems from a superb business and sales structure . Long ago , in a program designed and pushed by Time , Inc. ' s present chairman of the executive committee , Roy Larsen , Life visited retailers all over the country and persuaded them by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home offices that they wanted the products they sold to be " advertised in Life . " This influence helped make Life the single biggest advertising medium . Despite its continuous circulation growth , Life faces a decline in ad pages along with most of the industry . When it finished 1960 with ad volume under the recession year of 1958 , the emergency reached clear to the top . Even Roy Larsen made a number of high-level sales calls , bucking far more pages . Although he 's one of the wealthiest men in publishing , Larsen effaces himself so much in selling that one West Coast industrialist he called on later asked an associate , " Who is Roy Larsen ? And what does he do ? " The year 1961 was even worse . Life finished with a 6 per cent drop in ad pages , its worst performance in ten years . Such troubles , perhaps , spurred several executive changes in editorial and management . C. D. Jackson , long a Time , Inc. executive , became publisher of Life , and George Hunt moved up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried out a moderate redesign and rearrangement of editorial and advertising sections , bringing a few protests from advertising men . Both Life and Look are such professional products , in spite of their different editorial approaches , that the decision as to who thrusts ahead this year lies with the business offices . The magazine that decides to spend the most money on circulation building and selling efforts to advertisers will likely go ahead . But its ability to take such high risks will rest in part on its success in diversifying the corporate business . In moving into other fields , Life 's owner , Time , Inc. , seems considerably ahead of Look . Successes in timber , in broadcasting , and in its new book-publishing division , now one of the world 's largest book-publishing companies , have strengthened the corporation . Look 's owner , Cowles Magazines and Broadcasting , Inc. , with a profitable venture into Florida real estate , some broadcasting properties , and a newspaper in Puerto Rico , issued 300,000 shares of stock a few months ago . Investors snapped these up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this writing the stock remains there . Recently , Look management was thwarted in its attempt to buy an encyclopedia , practically at the moment of signing . It will undoubtedly announce some kind of hook program soon , for it obviously wants book properties for its huge door-to-door sales organizations to sell . A NOT-SO-GREY-EMINENCE I N sheer numbers , Reader 's Digest is far and away master of all American magazines today . With print orders for its domestic edition now running fourteen million monthly , it faces no competitor in its field . Sophisticated communications people often sneer at the reasons for this awesome success . They refer to " non-readers " who want their magazine matter " pre-digested " for them , and to self-help pap and phony inspiration . But an examination of the Digest 's history through forty years shows that ( 1 ) it has been a most creative and astute innovator in developing and marketing new features and formats ; ( 2 ) it has been , and is , a most sensitive and creative judge of reading materials designed to please @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development shows this pattern : First , there was the Digest itself . Then came the International editions , using the same combination of subjects published in the American edition . These carried advertising from the beginning and have become very profitable . Then came The Reader 's Digest Condensed Books Club , which made money from the beginning . Many critics believe the Club 's success comes from " condensing " books for easy reading . Effective as this may be , however , its basic strength lies in its attractive packaging of a variety of books in one volume and its efficient selling through direct mail . For a time ? when the Digest itself was squeezed between rising printing and paper costs , and a twenty-five-cent price it did n't want to boost ? the organization depended , to a large extent , on the Book Club for profits . But when surveys showed that people would like advertising , and also would not object much to an increased cover price , the Digest accepted advertising and went to thirty-five cents on the newsstands . New it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $65 million a year from the domestic edition alone . The latest Digest product innovation , in the recorded music field , is so successful that envious onlookers comment that the Digest " is practically minting its own money . " The Digest not only has a booming record club , but also a separate division that packages such combinations , for example , as " Music of the World 's Great Composers " ? an album of twelve long-playing records featuring the single most popular composition of twenty-six famous composers . The Digest offers this album at perhaps half the cost of what a customer would pay in a record shop . The Digest 's future depends , primarily , on what the management wants to do . At the moment , it looks impossible for any competitor to develop . If the Digest believes it 's desirable , it can invest enough money in circulation-building to reach twenty million in a short time ? the first American magazine of that size . THE SPECIAL NINETY B E LOW the five-million mark a swarm of magazines are fighting for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Instead of selling numbers appeal , these magazines usually emphasize some special sphere of editorial coverage . To advertisers they stress the depth to which they penetrate their reader 's interests , and the degree to which they motivate their readers to act . In this field , several outright or incipient struggles have captured the most attention . ( 1 ) Redbook may collide with Good Housekeeping , which recently moved above five million circulation . ( 2 ) A slight shift may occur in the news magazines ' struggle , as U.S. News and World Report moves up on Time and Newsweek in ad pages . ( 3 ) The Saturday Review may set out to capture much of the audience and the market now enjoyed by The New Yorker. ( 4 ) New magazines can be expected to open and either survive , as Show and Atlas seem to be doing , or quickly fold , as Show Business Illustrated did after a few sad months . While all of these struggles have potential interest , the case of The New Yorker has most . If The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed , for no contemporary magazine has had so solid an appeal for sophisticued readers and advertisers . Just about everybody in the business knows that The New Yorker last year , for the first time in most staff members ' memory , solicited subscriptions . For , horror of horrors , the circulation department had discovered that they had finished 1960 with a loss of two subscribers . The decline was hardly catastrophic , but in 1961 they got busy and the magazine 's circulation grew almost 2 per cent to 432,953 . The image of The New Yorker as a valuable advertising medium is so firmly planted in the minds of advertising men , however , that the magazine 's editorial quality and even the economic and educational status of its readers could decline steadily for years without much effect on its advertising pages . Yet the history of modern magazine publishing shows that if such trends are not reversed in time , reality finally catches up with the image . It is this vista , perhaps , that intrigues the men at McCall 's Corporation , now owners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The Saturday Review is having a tidy growth . Selling 102,000 in 1950 , it is now going regularly to 274,000 readers. - Its advertising has grown each year since 1954 to a peak in 1960 of 1,088 pages ( though in 1961 , it dropped almost 10 per cent in number of advertising pages as compared with The New Yorker 's drop of almost 4 per cent ) . The Review would have to do a pretty broad revamping and improving job to appeal to more of the wealthy , sophisticated , and active buying market now dominated by The New Yorker . The group of special-interest magazines has grown rapidly and steadily . Twenty years ago , there were roughly forty-nine such magazines read by about twelve million readers . Today there are more than ninety , read by more than forty million , and new ones seem to be born every year . More new magazines , such as Country Beautiful , Harvest Years , Fifty-Plus , Viewpoint , Show , Music , Atlas , came into existence in 1961 than at any other time in American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm , one of the most heartening developments in magazine publishing should be the growing strength of what the industry calls " thought-leader " publications , such as The Reporter and Scientific . American . Recently advertising men have begun to recognize that these are very efficient advertising media . Since 1940 , for example , these publications ' total gross circulation has increased 250 per cent . And almost all of them are enjoying more advertising year by year . Now advertising men are finding out that readers of these publications have better education , higherincome levels , and little hesitation about spending money . Furthermore , these readers tend to be " taste-leaders " as well . What they like , and buy , will be what millions of people will be liking and buying two or three years from now . WHY BOTHER ? I N spite of their problems , magazines possess many kinds of long-lasting strength . Sharing in our postwar reading explosion , they have grown at a rate 45 per cent faster than the gain in adult population . In this survey of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the editorial qualities that are , in my opinion , chiefly responsible for readers ' deep interest in the magazines and their fate . Unfortunately , advertising whims , management policies , and methods of selling ? both of copies and of advertising ? can at times make or break magazines independently of their intellectual or artistic worth , The temporary excitement of competition that makes a magazine " hot " ' for a time and " old-fashioned " when another overtakes it from behind ; the owners ' willingness to spend and spend , even at a loss ; the ability to change format and diversify properties ? these characteristics may have a power of Life and death which momentarily outweighs sheer editorial value . Nevertheless , in the years ahead , more educated and more critical readers are likely to demand better quality than they have in the past . This is particularly true of the big magazines . Big magazines will have to recapture more of that pioneering zeal and conscience that characterized some of them decades ago . There is shop talk , of course , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dies in Peoria , " just as satire is said to die on the stage . Yet it was magazine articles that sparked cleanups of crime in many cities , that brought the reorganization of the Standard Oil Company , that cleaned up the meat-packing industry . True , some still do an effective job today ? but they 're far too few . It should be obvious that the list of human and social issues which deserve serious treatment in magazines today is nearly endless ? from atomic control to water supply . But the magazines are better in many ways , and they either have the talents to handle these problems in ways that involve the reader and inspire him to seek solutions , or they could find such talents . This crusading effort ? not merely to survive ? should be the big magazines ' mission . Without it , why push so hard ?                     