@@488179

The organizers of the teach-in movement , most of them professors at the University of Michigan , still seem a little dazed by their unexpected and almost inadvertent success . They tell you with a mixture of pride and uneasiness that teach-ins have been held , in imitation of the one at Michigan , in England , in Australia , in Japan , in South Vietnam itself . At the same time they give the impression of shrinking back from some of the implications of the position into which events have thrust them . They talk about the need to move on from " mere " criticism to " constructive suggestions , " as if they were groping toward a more acceptable posture than that of moral outrage , a posture which would not expose them to the charge of being fuzzy-minded idealists who know nothing of the complicated issues , involved in Vietnam ; a posture , moreover , more consistent with the academic self-image . Protest , accordingly , gives way to the " study groUp " earnestly searching for " alternatives . " Specifically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first teach-in laSt March ) , it gave way to an international conference on " alternative perspectives on Vietnam . " The teach-in movement has been divided from the start between those on the one hand who see them- . Christopher Lasch , a in ember of the History Department , the University of Iowa , is the author of The American Liberals and the Russian Revolution ( Columbia University ? Press ) , and most recently , The New Radicalism , in America 1889-1963 : The ' Intellectual as a Social Type ( Knopf ) . October 18 , 1864 selves as protestants and who wish to broaden the base of protest by reaching out to the student community and the civil rights movement , and those on the other hand who see themselves essentially as expert advisers to the government . The desire for a " confrontation " with McGeorge Bundy , which was finally consummated last summer in a televised debate between Bundy and Hans J. Morgenthau , is a good example of the latter line of thinking . The failuxe , of the televised debate gave point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : that debates with the government inevitably take place on the government 's ground and degenerate into quibbles among experts about the facts of the situation in Vietnam , thereby blunting the moral issue raised by American involvement and by the progressive enlargement of the war . In their call for the Ann Arbor conference , the Michigan group appeared to have made certain concessions to the protestants within the movement . They spoke of the importance of the moral issue and held out the promise that " by ' approaching these questions from the moral perspectives of all great religious and philosophical systenis , we may find solutions that are more consistent with fundamental human values than current American policy in Vietnam ' has turned out ' to be . " They , also expressed the hope that by making the teach-in movement genuinely international  --  the Ann Arbor meeting stressed its international character  --  they could " approach American policy from fundamentally different perspectives . " These statements seemed to imply that the conference would devote itself not so much to finding specific alternatives in Vietnain as to looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and beyond that , the society of which it is an expression  --  from perspectives which transcend the American " consensus . " Judged in the light of these expectations , the conference was a disappointment . Several " study groups " met in closed sessions for three days and then reported the results of their labors in a public session in Hill auditorium , a cavernous place in which a large audience  --  mostly Michigan students ? sweltered patiently in unseasonable September heat . After the , reports , the meeting , with two hours out for dinner , heard a succession of speeches , ending , late in the evemng , with an address by Arthur Miller . The conference then broke up  --  in accordance with the " Michigan teach-in tradition , " , we were told  --  into a number of simultaneous seminars , each running far into the night . The next and final day was devoted to " action workshops " charged with generating specific proposals for protest and/or " confronting " the government . There were a few bright spots in this lengthy program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terminology itself , together with the appeal to the " teach-in tradition , " suggests that spontaneity has already given way to a certain amount of bureaucratization ? inevitable , 239 perhaps , in any organization , but depressing nevertheless . The " alternatives " generated within the " study groups " struck one as platitudinous . " We examined the assumption , " one group reported , " that threats are more ' effective IM reaching some kind of settlement in Vietnam than Positive incentives . " After painful ' Consideration , the group had decided that incentives were more effective than threats . Too much of the discussion was on that level . Furthermore , too much of it turned on narrow questions of fact . Was the National Liberation Front representative of the popular will ? Was it primarily a nationalist or a Communist movement ? Did it practice terror ? Was the terror employed by the other side worse than our own ? At the end of a long afternoon , Robert Parris , field secretary of SNCC , pointed out that this excessive preoccupation with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the debate it is possible to produce facts on the other side ; and the government , in any argument over facts , necessarily has the last word , since it can claim to have more facts than its critics . The debate over Vietnam , Parris argued , should revolve not around facts but around theory  --  the theory , for instance , that American atrocities in Vietnam are not chance violence but part and parcel of a criminal , war . Theories , he said  --  the theory of racism in the South , , the theory of American benevolence in Asia  --  are notably resistant to change . They can ' absorb contrary facts and explain them away . Theories must be confronted with theories . The theory of American benevolence must , be confronted with the theory of the dirty war ( and beyond that , I - vvould argue , with a. the , ory about the cold war in general , in which the whole myth of American benevolence would be tested ' against the theory that Americans are not exempt from the corrppting influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ features of the teach-in movement , however , remains its un : willingness to open . up a larger de : bate about American foreign policy . On the contrary , the sponsors of the movement argue that it is useless to debate the larger issue until the War in Vietnam is brought to an end . What can be done , then , to bring it to an end ? The assumption of the teach-ins seems to be that the government must be persuaded , by a combinaition of arament and orderly demonstration , to end the war . It must be made to see that other alternatives exist , that it is possible to negotiate a settlement , that the North Vietnamese and the National Liberation Front are ready to negotiate But what if the government chooses to remain deaf to such appeals ? We have been told that at least one approach from North Vietnam was rejected by the Johnson Administration because it came during the Goldwater campaign , and Johnson was afraid to appear before the voters as an " appeaser . " I did not hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arbor , to the domestic political implications of a settlement in Vietnam . I heard many references to the fact that France had been- able - to withdraw from Algeria without , losing its international prestige , but no one pointed Out the obvious differences between the French case and the American . France was able to remove itself from Algeria because a national hero coupled withdrawal with an aprn 1 to 01 riNN7 ? a 41 even then , de Gaulle found it necessary to suppress the opposition by force and to impose on , the country a regime of ' repression which has not been lifted'yet . Johnson is not a national hero , nor is he in , a position to 5p. press the Republican Party ; and his political Vulnerability  --  the vulnerability of any Democratic President on cold-war isstiesopens lip the prospept that we may have to wait for a Republican PreSident , another tisenhower  --  to put an end to the war in Vietnam . ( By that time there will be nothing left of Vietnam . ) Appalling as this prospect is , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take into account . Those pities would do , well , in short , to consider the possibility that no amount of persuasion will change the central fact of American politics  --  the fact that there is no opposition party , no political op- , position at all to the rhetorical but enormously effective demand that we ' stand up to the Communists , resist " aggression , " avoid another " Munich " Until the political complexion of the country is radically changed , the political liabilities of liquidating the cold war will continue to outweigh its advantages . As long as the appeal to anti-communism brings automatic and unfailing success , we shall continue to be faced with the Phenomenon , superficially so hard to explain , of " liberal " Presidents Who execute the policies of their most outspoken critics on the far Right . Things would be different if the American Left had not long ago committed itself to outdo the Right in its anti-Communist zeal ; but once the Left itself accepted anti-communism as the sine qua non of political respectability , it became the prisoner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hysteria only to find that hysteria had become a permanent feature of the political scene , These facts , so notably absent from the discussions at the University of Michigan , so indispensable to any consideration of American policy in Vietnam or anywhere else , explain why it is futile to reason with the present Administration , or indeed with any administration . The Administration can not be persuaded , it has to be forced to change the direction of American policy . The real question which critics ought to be consider , ing is what kind of force promises the earliest success . There would seem to be two possibilities , not necessarily incompatible but difficult to pursue at the same time . One is mass civil disobedience , the weapon of the civil ' rights movement , and it is interesting , in this connection , that Robert Parris and a few other leaders of the civil rights movement were present in Ann Arbor . One of them , Carlton Goodlett , editor of the San Francisco Sun-Reporter , cited the free-speech movement at Berkeley as an example of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many such examples  --  beginning with the Montgomery bus boycott  --  from the civil rights struggle in the South . Whatever the moral implications of civil disobedience , whatever the importance of making a " witness " against arbitrary power , the essence of civil disobedience , as Goodlett tried to show , is coercion . By bringing the normal processes of government to a halt ( as , for instance , when more arrests have to be made than the normal agencies of law enforcement can possibly handle ) , masses of , demonstrators can sometimes force authority to yield on a given point . And mass civil disobedience is a tactic that conceivably might be used in the peace movement as well . So ' far , civil disobedience in the peace movement has figured only in the form of isolated acts of conscience , possibly educative but hardly coercive . If civil disobedience were to be really effective , the movement would have to become much larger than it presently is . That is one of the difficulties in the way of using civil disobedience as an instrument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that the situations in which civil disobedience has been successful are not precisely analogous to the foreign-policy crisis In the case of Montgomery and Berkeley , civil disobedience was effective because it could be used against local authorities who were fully implicated in the policies under dispute . Those policies  --  racial discrimination , free speech  --  were issues of national importance which nevertheless had a local dimension and a local impact . Questions of foreign policy , however , rarely present themselves as local , is sues ; and even when they do , as in the case of the opening or closing of military inOctober 18 , 1965 stallations which have local significance , so much of the ultimate power of decision he s in Washington that it is hard to bring nonviolent coercion to bear Some people have been predicting for several months that the power of the civil rights movement will shortly make itself felt in the agitation for peace , but these predictions still seem to me somewhat unconvincing , because of the inherently different nature of the two issues . The other alternative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is to build an effective opposition along traditional lines- ' Octfr a , body of opinion , translatable into votes , which will be resistant to cold-war clich  --  s and skeptical of anti-Communist crusades . Communism has too long been an obsession of American politics ; it is time some drastic therapy laid it to rest . I do not propose a direct assault On the radical Right or even on the Center . It is the anti-Communist Left which most needs to be purged of its obsession with the menace ; fOr it was the failure of the Left , its failure to function as an oppOsition , which in the forties and fifties made possible the emergence of the " bipartisan " foreign policy from which we still suffer . Even now the political climate is beginning to change , for a new generation is emerging for whom the trauma of Stalinism is a dead issue . But older liberals , with their tre-mendous ' emotional investment in the disappointments of the past , assume toward the new generation an irritating condescension , and assure them that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same bitter lessons about the incompatibility of freedom and revo- , lution . The new Left , in reply , denounces the old as " irrelevant " ? the fate of all middle-aged people in America The generational split on the Left thus mirrors a deeper sickness of American life , the absolute discontinuity between youth and age ; and to attack the problem at the political level might suggest the possibility of attacking it at other levels as well . The importance of the generational issue is what made the ' device of the " teach-in " initially so suggestive as a technique of agitation . Teach-ins represent precisely the mingling of age groups which has to occur before an effective Left can take shape  --  for the students alone do not constitute an opposition , whatever some of them may say about the irrelevance of their elders . Unfortunately , the very political crisis which created the teachins  --  the war in Southeast Asia  --  prevents them from becoming an effective instrument either of opposition or of education , the leaders of the movement have subordinated everything to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart from everything else , stopping the war in Vietnam is not a subject worth " teaching . " It has very little intellectual content ; a certain number of points can be made , and the subject is quickly exhausted . The real subject that needs to be " taught " is the history of the cold war and of the relation of the American Left to communism . The Left needs to reconsider its own history , as a patient therapeutically reconstructs his past . It needs to reconsider the origins of the cold war ; it needs to reconsider ' what it means to have " chosen " the West ; it needs to reconsider Stalinism itself  --  was it an aberration or a historical necessity ? ? in order to get some perspective on the history of the 20th-century revolution . These are subjects , as distinguished from " alternatives " in Vietnam , worth teaching . Until the " teach-ins " begin to teach , they will be politically useless and intellectually boring . It will be interesting to see whether the failures of higher education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that students are , a needless obstacle to " research " ? will now repeat themselves in the political agitation to which teachers find themselves so unexpectedly committed . 241 