@@492106

ADVEINTURE IS III/ LIFE Not long after I discovered and salvaged a 5130.000 treasure in gold and jewels from the wreck of a Spanish galleon off Bermuda , a wealthy American woman accosted me at a cocktail party to congratulate me . She had seen the treasure and had talked to an expert from the Smithsonian Institution who authenticated it . " You were terribly lucky , Teddy , " she said , " but the chances are a million to one that you will ever find another piece of gold underwater . " I smiled and let her take what comfort she could from the assertion . I i she had been less positive about my dismal prospects , I would gladly have pulled from my pocket the six pieces of gold which I had uncovered that very day while diving on another old Spanish shipwreck . Although my first treasure find was a lucky one it was not unique . I have made a science of treasure hunting since that time , and it has paid off . Since 1955 , when I found the big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underwater and discovering precious metals and stones , as well as less gaudy historical artifacts . In a way I can compare the reefs of Bermuda to a semiprivate Fort Knox . I know the locations of 112 shipwrecks scattered among the thousands of sand holes which dot the Bermuda reefs . Of that number , at least seven are Spanish galleons , lost in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries , when almost every homeward-bound Spanish ship carried a cargo of gold from the New World . Little by little I am uncovering these galleons , working patiently over one wreck at a time until I am satisfied that I have picked it clean . Last summer 1 took time off from pure-andsimple treasure hunting to lead an underwaterexpedition for The Saturday Evening Post . Our primary goals were to examine a variety of shipwrecks and develop new scientific methods of searching them out and surveying their sites . But we found gold and pearls anyway . In addition , we turned up hundreds of less spectacular historical items , pioneered a new method of searching for shipwrecks by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ancient mystery ship which I believe may hold more treasure than all I have found to date . had located the old ship two years ago while salvaging treasure from a known Spanish hulk nearby . After a cursory dive to examine ballast stones and a few pieces of broken pottery lying exposed on the site of the wreck , I guessed she might be Spanish . But she was buried deep in the sand , and her grave lay only a stone 's throw from the southwest barrier reef of Bermuda , where strong winds frequently churn the sea so high that diving is impossible . I decided then to save her for another day . I returned to her with the Post expedition . With us was Mendel Peterson , a veteran underwater explorer who joined our group on leave from his post as curator of armed forces history at the Smithsonian Institution . Peterson , whose interest in the science of underwater archaeology equals my interest in sunken treasure , wanted to experiment with a new system of submarine surveying he had developed at Smithsonian last winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site , one which had not been picked over for salvage . My unexplored old shipwreck , only twenty-five feet underwater and untouched by any modern salvor , was the perfect example . On the first Calm day we sailed to the w reek site ; , inchored my old di ing boat . a battered wooden vessel which , although superbly equipped for dig mg , looks as if it is read ? to take a disc itself . Peterson , Poi ? editor Don Schanche and photographer Peter Stackpole dropped overboard with a battery-powered underwater metal detector and painstakingly swept the entire area for traces of buried metal . On the surface of the clear white sand the ) could see nothing but occasional piles of ballast stone which had spewed out of the ship 's hull when she broke open . But buried in the sand were dozens of metallic deposits . Carefully Peterson marked each spot with a brightly colored submerged buoy Then he took bearings on each of them to chart the entire wreck for systematic archaeological exploration . With the bearings recorded he could draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wreckage , then use the drawing as a master map for excavating the wreck . As each artifact was brought to the surface he could note its original position on the chart and thereby dispel the confusion which often results when divers gather underwater artifacts but forget where they found them . With the surveying experiment completed , I descended on the wreck , more to satisfy my curiosity than in hope of finding treasure . To be truthful , I was not altogether certain the ship was Spanish . I had guessed that she might be , from fragments of earthenware water jars I had found scattered among her ballast stones . But that was scant evidence . As I reached the bottom , I looked around to determine just where the major part of her wreckage was buried . Sizing up the position of a shipwreck which you can not even see is an art in itself . But when nothing stone which lay about on the bottom and soon noted that they formed an uncertain line , leading from a v-shaped cut in the outer coral bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentration of stones near the center of the sand valley over which we had anchored . I picked a spot near the concentration of stones and began digging . Excavating beneath the surface of the sea is another art . The loose sand which abounds around the Bermuda reefs is feathery stuff in an almost weightless environment . If you try to attack it with a shovel , it will cave in as fast as you dig . You can do better by simply waving your hands . Eddies set up in the water by the motion of your hand will wash the sand away from the spot . But for deep digging I use a mechanical device , an air-powered suction pipe called an air lift , which pulls the sand up and spews it out several yards away . Grasping the air lift , I began carving a sizable excavation . But two feet beneath the sand I struck a deep layer of ballast stones , some of them as big as tombstones . With Peterson 's help I lifted the heaviest stones from the hole and began a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I uncovered a leather shoe sole , thoroughly soaked but perfectly intact after more than three centuries underwater . It was almost identical to several I had found on other old Spanish w reeks . Another sign of the ship 's possible Spanish origin lay nearby . It was the lid of a wooden cask , crudely formed but still solid . On its top was the symbol rAl standing for Are Maria . In the days of the treasure fleets , one fifth of everything the Spaniards found was given to the church , which shipped its goods hack to Spain in cartons and casks burned with the A re Maria monogram . Just a . few feet from the barrel top , putting Out of the ballast rock like Excalibur , was the handle of a Spanish rapier . thoroughly encrusted with deposits of rock-hard coral . Within minutes the same rock pile yielded some Spanish reals . Electrolytic action in the salt water had blackened the coins almost to the point of illegibility , but the top piece clearly showed the markings M and o flanking a Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters identified the coin as originating in the Spaniards ' Mexico City mint during the mid-sixteenth century . This was flimsy evidence to go on , but if the indications were correct , we had a truly ancient Spaniard on our hands , one which perhaps had foundered in the mid-I 500 's , long before Bermuda was colonized , and thereby had escaped discovery and plunder at the hands of the earlycolonists . During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries Bermudians were notorious for the haste with which they stripped the luckless ships that wrecked on the island 's reefs . If my Bermudian ancestors had not already had a crack at the old ship , there was every reason to believe she contained a rich cargo of gold and heavy wedges of silver which . despite electrolytic action , would probably retain most of their weight in the original state . But instead of burrow ing deeper into the site , as all of us were eager to do , we left . Strong winds from the southeast drove such high seas into the barrier reef that my anchor would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eased long enough to permit our return , but when it did , I immediately set about looking for evidence to disprove my theory that she was an old treasure ship . Such a negative approach , I have Found , is the best way to avoid jumping to erroneous conclusions on the slim evidence of first-day finds . So far the few items found on the wreck indicated she was an ancient Spaniard , but they proved nothing . Although probably Spanish in origin , all of the items could have been lost in the wreck of an English , French or Dutch ship . Moreover . the ship was not necessarily as old as the artifacts indicated . The shoe sole and the church-marked barrel lop probably were a common sight for a hundred years or more . And the dated coin , although easily 375 years old , could have been a hall century old at the time of the shipwreck . If I mistakenly persuaded myself of her Spanish identity . I would he ? vasting time and fooling myself in a fruitless search for treasure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ship convince me of whatever secret wealth she held . If she could n't convince me in a reasonable time , I could assume that she was n't worth uncovering . Clearing the ballast rocks , I resumed the excavation I had begun days before . Soon I hit solid timbers , massive old oak ribs still fastened tightly by trunnels to huge wooden planks which served as the inner sheathing of the wreck 's hull . Between the timbers ran heavy **26;2114;TOOLONG longitudinal beams , all of them broken in one spot as if they had been snapped like toothpicks . Some of them were charred , evidencing lire . The condition of the ship 's wood was tremendously exciting . The fact that her great timbers had been snapped in two showed that the old ship either hit the reef with tremendous force , probably in a violent hurricane , or else that she blew tip . In either case . she apparently had been set alire . The Spaniards frequently set their w reeked ships afire before abandoning them , particularly if there was something aboard they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than have it fall into the hands of the English or French . By burning a wreck they could obliterate all traces of her rigging and decks above the surface of the water . Frequently , when the wrecks burned , the powder store exploded and blew the whole ship apart , tumbling cannons , cargo and hulk alike into the sand on the bottom , Burrowing deeper still into my excavation , I esamined the wood sheathing which in better days had enclosed the old ship 's bilge . Only a few small scars marred the sheathing planks scraped by loadings and unloadings of ballast stones for her bilge . This evidence of newness was encouraging . common-sense Spaniards shipped their most valuable treasures in their newest , best ships . Not far below I struck the ship 's keel and found the first positive proof that she was a Spanish galleon . In the early days each nation had its own special way of building a ship . The Spaniards , alone among the Europeans , invariably carved a four-by-four-inch ? vater trough down the length of their ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was undeniably Spanish . At the end of that day I was completely exhausted . Altogether engrossed m the business of studying the old Spanish wreck , I had spent seven hours under-. water without a break . Most divers find two hours underwater tiring . Usually I spend three or four hours at a time on the bottom . But the seven-hour stretch was necessary . I feared that the weather would close in on us . I had to use the time I had to best advantage , trying to identify the ship before going further with the exploration . My fears were well founded . The southwest wind rose again . and it became impossible to anchor over the wreck . Three times the wind eased off , and we returned . but each time it drove us away again . . before we could get much done . We brought up a little pack of crumpled gold leaf , a few scraps of trade beads , buttons and musket balls . Her treasure , which I believe lies buried beneath the sand , remains undisturbed . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summers to conic I Nvill continue the excavation . Wherever the treasure lies , I will find it . Even if the early Bermuda colonists have beaten me to the old wreck , which remains a distinct possibility , I know from studying their primitive salvage methods that they probably overlooked almost as much as they found . I convinced myself of that just two years ago by extracting a sizable treasure from another old Spanish wreck , which I know the early Bermudians had picked over first . I found her by chance while cruising along the southwest harrier reef with Peter Stackpole . She was in twenty-five feet of water on a clear sand bottom with nothing of her wreckage showing except a few scraps of coral-encrusted iron and a spattering of ballast stones . We started the air compressor , slipped on our weight belts , flippers and face masks , and went over the side . Skimming lazily along the surface of the sand , we turned up scraps of pottery and square fragments of old glass that had been underwater so long they flaked like isinglass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sand and caught a glimpse of something bright  --  a few links of gold chain . In the distance 1 could see Stackpole turn to grasp an object which looked like a knife handle stuck to a heavy clump of metal . He swam excitedly to my side and pointed to the handle . It was the hilt of a dagger . Embedded in a crust of coral on its pommel were sonic . shiny bits of glass which Peter thought might be jewels . I recognized them as glass trade beads of no particular value . But . I was far more interested in the odd-looking mass of metal which had welded itself to the dagger 's blade . It contained forty-eight perfect Spanish pieces of eight . By grounding themselves against the dagger 's steel blade they had escaped the harmful effects of electrolysis in the salt water . For a time we thought we had stumbled upon an untouched Spanish galleon . Soon , however , enough evidence piled up to prove otherwise . From such things as her cargo of tobacco and indigo , and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pewter utensils and other artifacts , we identified her as the famed San Antonio , a well-documented wreck which became the center of a violent controversy between England and Spain after she hit the reefs in 1621 . Her crew made it ashore safely and pleaded with the governor , Capt . Nathanial Butler , to keep scavenging Bermudians away from the wreck . Butler quite happily complied and graciously sheltered the Spaniards until a London-bound ship came through . No sooner had the trusting Spaniards left for London than Butler organized a diving party and plundered the Spanish wreck himself . Soon after his salvage effort , Butler slipped quietly away from Bermuda in his own boat . A few years later he turned up as governor of the Rhode Island colony , enriched by his last shrewd act in Bermuda . The unfortunate Spaniards protested to no avail . Although aware that Butler had beaten me to the San Antonia 's treasure by more than three centuries , I went ahead with my exploration . For two years I dug around and under her ancient timbers , Like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of San Antonio 's keel and a large part of one side were buried in the sand and thus had escaped digestion by wood-boring worms . As a result , when I uncovered her , she looked almost like a Disneyland version of a shipwreck , with bared ribs jutting out of her sandy grave . Working carefully to avoid harming any of the water-rotted artifacts , I brought up every salvageable piece I could find . There were hundreds of examples of the baubles and utensils used in everyday shipboard life  --  pottery , china , silverware , shoe soles , buckles , buttons , pewter plates and porringers  --  along with swords , daggers , guns and ammunition . I found stores tilled with water-soaked gunpowder , wicker baskets packed with twisted tobacco leaves , and balls of claylike indigo dye ? %hich was still usable when brought to the surface . On one of the indigo balls I could still see the finger and palm prints of the man who rolled it . patted it and tossed it into its shipping carton 341 years ago . Although there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I found on my first big treasure ship , the Sun Antonio was endowed with dozens of valuable jewels and small gold artifacts which more than repaid me for the time spent salvaging her . All together I picked up S20.000 worth of treasure which her original salvors had overlooked . In one day alone I found a massive emerald set in a heavy gold ring ; then discovered a pair of centuries-old gold earrings which I have been told represent one of the finest examples of Spanish-colonial gold artwork in the world . But I had to work carefully and patiently . The earrings , for example , were buried forty feet apart in the sand . Some forty-four inches of heavy gold chain  --  which the Spanish once clipped for commercial transactions as if it were a chain of money  --  came up in small sections , most of it link by link . Not all of the San Antonio treasures were obvious when I found them . Just a few months ago a beautiful gold ring set with an emerald , a garnet and a rock crystal was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cannon ball which I had lent to the Smithsonian Institution for an experiment in preservation . Experts at Smithsonian discovered the ring when they X-rayed the cannon ball before removing the coral crust . Legibly engraved in archaic Spanish inside the band was an inscription , " I am yours and will be . " Mendel Peterson , who recently returned the ring to my museum in Bermuda , believes it may have been the sym- bolic wedding ring of a nun exprtsing her devotion to the Savior . He says it could also have been a love or marriage ring similar to a few British Museum specimens which bear equally sentimental inscriptions . Attached to the same cannon ball was a slightly bent gold religious medal . On one side is the figure of the Virgin Mail , and on the other is the Virgin of Guadalupe , a favorite among Spaniards in the New World . Both finds illustrate the importance 01 caution and patience in the business of hauling treasures up from beneath the 