@@210639

Before they can effectively combat the bacteria that may infect a patient , threaten a swiftly spreading epidemic , or contaminate a municipal water sup ply , doctors and scientists need quick and positive identification of the invading organisms . But traditional laboratory tests that single out and classify bacterial troublemakers are complex , time-consuming and sometimes inconclusive . Often , before the results are in , the disease has spread or the patient has died . In the future , though , bacteria may lose their cloak of anonymity more quickly . Scientists have discovered that each species and strain has a distinctive " fingerprint " that can be used for virtu ally immediate identification . <P> In tests involving 32 different strains of bacteria , Cornell University Biologist Martin Alexander and General Electric Chemist John Gould have found that each excretes metabolic wastes that are chemically distinct . When the waste products of a single strain are passed through a laboratory chromatograph. a device that separates chemical compounds , they produce a distinctive graph with characteristic peaks and valleys . Thus the graphs or chromatograms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bacteria and-like fingerprints-be used to establish their exact identity . <P> Segregated Compounds . To prepare a bacterial chromatogram , Scientists Alexander and Gould use a pure strain of bacteria , allow them to grow for several hours in a nutrient solution , then extract the metabolic products that have been excreted . These are injected into a chromatograph , where they are converted by heat into gaseous form and fed into a column containing a packing material and an organic liquid such as Carbowax-a chemical that has a different attraction for the molecules of each chemical compound . Thus every compound that passes through the column is slowed to a degree . <P> Because of their varying speeds , the compounds that constitute the metabolic products are segregated . As each compound emerges-in order of its speed through the column-it is sensed by an ionization detector and recorded on a graph as a distinct peak . Within minutes , all of the compounds have passed through the chromatograph , each forming its own peak on the graph . Since the metabolic products of each strain of bacteria contain different chem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> Stored Chromatograms . When Alexander and Gould have substantially increased their collection of such bacteria identifications , they hope to store it in a computer , creating a central file similar to the FBI 's store of human fingerprints in Washington . Then , when a chromatogram of unidentified bacteria is prepared , it can be fed into the computer , matched electronically with the appropriate chromatogram in the computer 's memory , and quickly identified . By using the combination of bacterial fingerprints and computers , says Gould , " detection and identification , which now take days or weeks by classical methods , could be done in hours . "                     