@@431640

 | On the morning of January Iii . 1960 , young Leonard Beavers and his brother , Foster , climbed on school bus Number 70 , shouted hello to the driver , and settled back to enjoy the familiar trip . The boys were on their way to school at Stevenson , Alabama . Near the little town of Fackler , the road crossed the tracks of the Southern Railway . The only protection at the crossing was a stop sign . Unknown to the bus driver and his passengers , a freight was approaching at approximately 50 miles per hour . When the crash came , parts of Number 70 were scattered along the tracks for almost a mile . Leonard and Foster Beavers were killed . So were Mary Grace and Frances Corbitt . Eight children were critically injured . The train engineer , C. F. Edwards , was later quoted as saying that the bus had appeared to slow down before starting across the tracks . But bus driver Charlie Beavers , uncle of the two boys who were killed , stated : " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made any difference if I had . " The brakes , he claimed , had been in need of repair . He said he had reported the condition and had assumed it had been remedied . But whatever the reason for the crash , the fact remained that four children would never be going to school again in Stevenson , Alabama . Just outside another Alabama town , Camden , at 7:30 on the morning of March 22 , 1960 , a school bus driven by David Jackson , eighteen , was also struck by a freight train . Six children were killed and 14 injured . W. J. Jones , County Superintendent of Education , states : " We had only one student driver , and this is the boy who had the accident . He was carefully chosen by our transportation supervisor ... and I think he is a good , dependable boy . The accident happened , no doubt , because he failed to observe the caution of stopping at the railroad crossing and sending a flagman ahead before proceeding to cross . " But whatever the reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would not be going to school again . The statements made in regard to these two accidents are astonishing . Charlie Beavers , quoted by the Associated Press , noted : " I never saw the train , but it would n't have made any difference if I had . " Why did  | Mr. Beavers , a man of forty-five , fail to see the train ? Railroad tracks mean trains . And why did Mr. Beavers " assume " bad brakes had been repaired ? Mr. Jones , commenting on the Camden tragedy , expressed confidence in the dependability of a driver who " failed to observe the caution of stopping at the railroad crossing , . , " This unique standard of dependability must be gratifying to the mothers of the dead . On January 18 , 1960 , pretty little Vickie Bybee stepped from the rear exit of a school bus in Lynchburg , Virginia . Her foot caught in the door and she was dragged to her death beneath the wheels . Here 's a Christmas story . Last Christmas Eve , a driver visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christmas displays . This was good of him ? except that the gentleman had contracted smallpox . The disease was identified a few hours later , and all children were promptly and successfully vaccinated . The escape , however , had been a narrow one . In Virginia , a state with a good schoolbus record , Harold Bruce Swanson , 22 , consumed half a pint of whisky on January 8 , 1960 , before driving 47 highschool students home . Swanson sidewiped a meat truck and neglected to stop . Fortunately , no one was hurt . Swanson received a nine-month prison sentence . On Monday , November 7 , 1960 , a Staten Island , New York commuter train smashed into a school bus , killing eightyear-old Carolyn Tarr and injuring 28 ether children . Driver Edgar Hollowell is reported to have said . " I swear I did n't see the blinkers . I did n't hear any bells , and I saw no train . " These are a few of many pupil-transportation incidents in the school year of 1959-1960 and the recent fall . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shocking fact : school-bus transportation is by no means as safe as parents have been led to believe . AND " led to believe " is a carefully chosen expression . Some officials like to say that the safety record for pupil transportation is excellent . It is n't . The record is actually miserable . School-bus accidents are on the increase and have been for some time . In 1953 , school buses transported about nine million students at public expense . At present the number is approximately eleven and a half million . During 1953 , with 30 states reporting somewhat inexactly on five million riders , four children were killed on buses , nine more while approaching or leaving buses , 701 were injured , and there were 2.941 school-bus accidents . In 1958. with 45 states reporting on 11 million riders , the figures had swollen to 29 deaths on buses , 35 fatalities approaching or leaving buses . 1,580 cases of injury on buses , and a startling total of 7.186 accidents . The number of reported riders doubled in the period . But there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many injuries , and considerably more than twice as many school-bus accidents . Further , these figures are undoubtedly low . Hallie L. Myers , Executive Director , Indiana Traffic Safety Foundation , points this out sharply in the 1958 National Safety Council Transactions and observes : " . , it is time to begin thinking of the whole problem of school transportation instead of carefully selected parts of it ? parts selected , it seems , to make the officials look good . " He notes that Accident Facts reports that in 1957 seven pupils were killed while on buses , 24 were killed crossing to or from vehicles , 1,171 were injured , and buses were involved in a total of 5,953 accidents . Taking sharp issue with the above figures , Mr. Myers points out that even on the basis of reports from 42 states , school-bus accident figures show the following toll in death and injuries : 7,253 total accidents 33 pupils killed 6 bus drivers killed 43 persons killed in other ve-hicles 82 total persons 1,701 pupils injured 11 other passengers injured 74 bus drivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This , " says Myers , " is a far cry from the seven pupils reported in Accident Facts as killed in the buses , is n't it ? " Why the confusion ? The National Safety Council states : " Each state has different standards for accident case reports , making statistics inconclusive . " And the Office of Education , federal Department of Health , Education and Welfare , observes : " This office has never been able to obtain accurate school-bus accident statistics on a nationwide basis . " During the school year of 1959.60 , deaths on Alabama school buses alone already exceed the reported total for 30 states seven years ago ! New York , which keeps up-to-date statistics and has a generally good school-bus record , reports more than 500 school-bus injuries for the calendar year of 1959 . The 1959-60 school year promises to be a shocker . But statistics wo n't be available for some time , and it is not likely that they will be complete . We know more about whisky consumption than we do about school-bus accidents . In February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near Prestonsburg , Kentucky . Twenty-six children died . It might be expected that a great deal of information would be available on this tragedy . But Capt . Harold L. Lunsford of the Bureau of Records and Identification . Department of Education , Frankfort , Kentucky , has stated , " ... The plain truth is we still do n't know what happened to cause the worst school-bus accident in history . " It is painfully clear that lack of information about school-bus accidents and overoptimistic statistics are handicapping accident-prevention programs and distorting the true picture . In an attempt to improve school-bus accident reports , a National Safety Council committee has made recommendations to all state pupil-transportation supervisors on uniform definitions of accidents , reports and summaries . But these recommendations have to be accepted and carried out by state officials before a clear national picture comes into focus . Despite the chaos in school-bus-accident reporting , certain causes of disasters are known . They fall roughly into the following categories : 1 . Public failure to obey existing laws for school buses 2 . Absence of standardized school-bus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training 4 . Human failure of drivers 5 . Equipment failure or use of substandard equipment 6 . Inadequate bus maintenance and inspection 7 . Student disobedience in regard to existing regulations 8 . Poor supervision of pupil transportation by administrators . SOME of the foregoing categories require little elaboration . But consider the absence of uniform school-bus laws throughout the nation ? a ridiculous situation if ever one existed . This statement is made in the revised ( 1958 ) Circular No. 547 of the federal Office of Education : " ... There are great differences in the manner of informing motorists when buses are going to stop to load or unload pupils . Some states use a stop arm , some use flashing red lights , and some do not require any such signal but leave it up to the motorist to find out from observation what he should do ... . In some states the stop signal may be operated 500 yards before the bus comes to a stop . in others only after the bus has stopped . In some states the bus pulls out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In some states the pupils must cross the road before the bus leaves ; in others the bus leaves them standing by the side of the road . " We need standardized laws for traffic movement around school buses so that the man from Utah ( slow down to 10 mph when approaching or on overtaking a stopped school bus ) will know what to do in Montana ( stop , then proceed when children have entered the bus or have alighted and reached the side of the highway where they live ) . Montana , parenthetically , does not provide crystal balls to help motorists determine on which side of the road a child lives . If regulations governing traffic movement are confused , consider the variations in school-bus-driver requirements throughout the states . One would think that regulations in regard to physical condition , experience , and character would exist at state level for driver selection . This is not so . according to Circular No. 465 , federal Office of Education . Some states have state regulations for driver selection . In others , qualifications are determined at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that drivers " be of good moral character , " but do n't indicate  | how good moral character is to be determined . Some require annual or biennial physical examinations ; others do n't bother ? despite the fact that they have no maximum-age requirements and permit the elderly to operate school buses . Character and physical examinations are , of course , important . In New York State about three years ago , a school-bus driver near Hyde Park had a heart attack . Three young girls managed to stop the bus . New York is currently considering more stringent regulations in regard to medical examinations of drivers . STATE driver-training programs vary tremendously . Some states have none at all . New Mexico insists on two courses totaling 55 hours of instruction . Wisconsin 's program is limited to four hours . The national average , liberally estimated among 34 states that require specialized school-bus training , is about 15 hours . Dr. Seward E. Miller , director of the Institute of Industrial Health at the University of Michigan , notes : " By far the greatest factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presently , the physical requirements for school-bus drivers are almost nonexistent , or expressed in very general terms . Possession of a commercial-vehicle operator 's license and freedom from communicable disease are the most common requirements . " In the name of common sense , improvements must be made in driver selection , qualifications , and training . Committees of both the Industrial Medical Association and the A.M.A. have recommended annual physical examinations for all school-bus drivers . But more than 20 states have no regulation requiring such examinations . Unhappily , authoritative recommendations are often casually disregarded . Both the A.M.A. and the National Safety Council have suggested the use of seat belts in all vehicles , school buses included . In 1957 , the National Safety Council inventoried the use of seat belts in buses and found that only three out of 38 states responding used belts . In those instances , the use was limited to retarded children . Good equipment is , of course , of very great importance . One of the most damning observations on equipment and school-bus safety has been made by Lester C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louis , Missouri . He observes that school buses " are purchased on a strictly low-bid ' basis and it behooves the manufacturer to eliminate as much as possible to cut down the price . " As an illustration , " Mr. Winder goes on , " school buses are manufactured and in operation throughout the country without emergency brakes . Due to the efforts of the humane societies and the national trucking regulations , in many cases more consideration is given to the safe transportation of animals to market than to the transportation of children to school . " Mr. Winder points to the fact that the federal government regulates commercial truck and bus operation throughout the nation . Why , he asks , do n't we have regulations governing the manufacturing of safe school buses and restrictions upon school boards to purchase only equipment meeting specifications ? The concept of a school that neglects fire drills is unthinkable to the average parent . But school-bus-evacuation drills are wholly overlooked in many communities . As for kick-out or push-out windows , only a limited number of school buses are thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The school-bus driver receives a good deal of sympathy , much of it deserved . For one thing , he usually is n't paid well . ( No national salary average has ever been tabulated . New York pays up to $3,700 ; the Nebraska average is around $800 . ) All too often , the driver is not a good disciplinarian , and student monitors are inefficient . In one case , a driver who neglected to maintain discipline also failed to stop the shooting of paper clips . As a result , a child lost an eye . In another case , no one prevented shoving and pushing when children boarded a bus . A thirteen-year-old was pushed beneath the wheels . The problem here is clearly defined : drivers and school authorities have a safety responsibility for maintaining  | order . As a parallel obligation , drivers should obey the standee regulations for their district ; often they do not , with the result that standing children are often injured . Some systems of pupil transportation are excellent , and it is not the position of this magazine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unseen rider in all school buses . But the mass of evidence suggests that nationwide improvement in pupil transportation is the proper concern of every parent and school authority . No matter how the situation is glossed over , many school-bus systems endanger the lives of the young passengers . IF YOUR community is one in which there is need for improvement , what can you do ? Here are some ways to make sure that your child gets to and from school safely : 1 . Send a letter to your state supervisor of pupil transportation requesting information about existing regulations in regard to driver selection and training . If you feel they need improvement , hammer away at your state representatives . 2 . Ask your school board if your transportation fleet uses the school-bus safety service sponsored by the National Safety Council . This excellent service provides safe-driver awards and offers an abundance of helpful information . 3 . Find out at local level how your school buses are being purchased , equipped and inspected , and how frequent inspections are . 4 . Explore such questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , overloading , evacuation drills , etc. 5 . Tell your congressman to work for uniform laws , particularly in regard to school-bus signaling devices and regulations regarding stopping and passing . 6 . Your own driving is important . Obey the existing laws . And report any incidents of hazardous school-bus driving . The initial letters in the preceding suggestions spell the word " safety " ? safety for your children and the children of your neighbors. and safety of a sort that can no longer be disregarded .                     