@@491984

The Saturday Erenixtg POST FOUNDED IN 172813Y THE TROUBLE BY Ste lr Also , WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT What 's wrong with the State Department ? People began asking that question in the days of Thomas Jefferson . The question is still being asked . There was a recent time , for example , when it was often on the lips of President John F. Kennedy . It is also often on the lips of a great many other Americans  --  the volume of congressional mail critical of the State Department is higher now than it has been for many years . What , then , is really wrong with the Department of State ? A taxi driver once gave me a memorable answer to that question . He was dropping me at the State Department . As I was fumbling for the change , he turned around and looked at me . " Treachery , " he said . " Fruits and treachers . That 's what this place is full of . " " What makes you think so ? " I asked . " Look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I pick up a fare here , it 's a couple characters that 's talking funny , and they 're wearing these tammyshanters and fur-covered shoes . Fruits and treachers , the place is full of them . " That was ten years ago , at the height of the McCarthy era , when a lot of people honestly imagined that the State Department was crawling with perverts and traitors . But the taxi driver 's remark still has meaning . Those characters he picked up were no doubt wearing berets and suede shoes , and they were certainly foreigners . Dealing with foreigners is the State Department 's business . ft is a suspicious business to many Americans , and always has been . When things go wrong abroad  --  as they have a way of doing  --  the State Department is suspected of putting the interests of those wily foreigners , with their " tammyshanters and fur-covered shoes , " above the interests of the United States . The business of dealing with foreigners is , moreover , now infinitely more difficult and cornplicated and dangerous than it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge , expensive and utterly characterless new State Department building there may be people wrestling with such matters as how to decorate the new consulate in Zanzibar ; how to respond to a new threat to the Berlin access routes ; how to negotiate with the Russians an agreement to control the flight of virus-bearing migratory birds ; how to negotiate with the Russians an agreement to avoid mutual suicide ; how to seat the official dinner in the vast new state dining room . Undersecretary of State George Ball , one of the rising stars of the Kennedy Administration , has a large , lighted globe in his office . He is thinking of having it removed . " Whenever I look at the damn thing , I see another problem , " he says . " There used to be three or four major trouble spots in the world . Now there are dozens , and they 're all connected together . That globe gives me a headache . " Ball 's headache suggests the first and underlying thing that is wrong with the State Department . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department , of both right and left , look for easy , simple , sweeping solutions to the problems of foreign policy which confront the United States . There are no such solutions . Here one thing that is not wrong with the State Department ought to be pointed out firmly . It is not full of " fruits and treachers. " 1 t is not even full of " fuzzy-minded liberals , " or " striped-pants cookie pushers . " On the contrary , the 14,000 Americans employed by the department are by and large exceptionally able people . A few 1 -1 months ago Charles Lewis , solidly conservative president of the American Sumatra Tobacco Company , served as a public member of the Foreign Service Selection Board , which rules on promotions . " As the record unfolded , " he said , " I became simply flabbergasted at the quality of the young womenand young men we were reviewing . Frankly , they were so much better quality people , in my judgment , than comparable people in business . . . it was hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the State Department all the same . Before writing this report , l talked with the present Secretary of State , two former Secretaries of State and dozens of other knowledgeable people both in and out of the department . I found rather general agreement on the following six things that are wrong with the Slate Department . First , there are too many people in it . Second , partly for this reason , the department produces too many " waffle papers " ' ( to borrow a phrase from that peerless phrasemaker , former Secretary of State Dean Acheson ) and too few clear , clean and rapid policy decisions . Third . partly because there are so many people producing so many waffle papers , nobody  --  except the drones  --  has enough time to think . Fourth , for understandable reasons , the career Foreign Service tends to put a greater premium on avoiding mistakes than on bold and original thinking about foreign policy . Fifth , our ambassadors abroad do not have enough independent authority and prestige . As one ambassador remarked to me in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every time I want to go to the bathroom . " Sixth , too many departments and agencies have got into the foreign-policy act , thus weakening the State Department 's authority . All these things that are wrong with the State Department are hound together in a seamless web , and this seamless web is what is known in the State Department as " the system . " " The system , " moreover . is not simply something that is wrong with the State Department . It is something that is wrong with the United States Government . I I you want to get an idea of how the system operates , consider a recent episode . Shortly after the pro-Communist Cheddi Jagan took power in British Guiana , President Kennedy asked a White House aide , " What is our policy on British Guiana ' ? " He added that he would like to know the answer that afternoon . The aide picked up a telephone and called the appropriate level in the State Department . Consternation resulted . That afternoon ? Impossible . Maybe in a couple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department should n't have a good policy ready and waiting , " said the White House aide later . " What the devil do those people do all day ? " But my God , man , " a middle-level career officer said when this incident was reported to him and an explanation asked . " You ca n't expect a subordinate officer to produce a policy out of his hat . It would be as much as his career was worth . First , a paper would have to be drafted , and then it would have to move up through the various levels of the office of Inter-American Affairs . Then there would have to be clearances and concurrences  --  European Affairs , International Organization Affairs , Intel ligence and Research , Political Affairs . Then when it got up near the secretary 's level , there would have to be interagency clearances  --  the Pentagon , the Central Intelligence Agency , the foreign-aid people , the Information Agency , maybe Treasury or Commerce . And finally the paper would have to be approved by the National Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This small episode suggests some of the reasons IN , hy the question  --  what 's .. vrong with the State Department ? ? has often been on the lips of John F. Kennedy , an impatient man who likes to move quickly . The system of " clearances and concurrences " has a sensible objective , of course  --  letting the left hand know what the right hand is doing . What appears to be wise to those in charge of the Congo or Angola may not appear so wise to those responsible for Belgium or Portugal . Other departments and agencies , notably the Pentagon , have a legitimate interest in foreign-policy decisions . But the system has got out of hand . Even the most trifling matters must be cleared and concurred in to the point of sheer nonsense . Not long ago a couple of influential businessmen W rote the Secretary of State a polite note to the effect that they had been well taken care of by one of the European embassies . The note was referred to the " country desk " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on that desk . A few years ago , there was one . The lowliest of the six drafted the obvious polite reply , which made its way up to the officer in charge . The draft then went up to the Office of European Affairs where it was concurred in and passed on to the Office of Congressional Relations and the Office of Educational and Cultural Affairs for more initialing . Days later it arrived back at the Secretary 's office . By this time the Secretary had left for abroad . One of his secretaries , a bright girl , tore up the now massive bundle , wrote the businessmen a polite note and signed it herself . Meanwhile , uncounted man-hours had been wasted . If this sort of effort is required to answer a bread-and-butter letter , imagine the viscous bureaucratic sludge that surrounds more important policy matters . Ten or fifteen years ago , before the system really took hold , it required a day or two to get approval for routine negotiations . Now it often requires six to eight weeks . The man-hours devoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sludge is the ancient bureaucratic curse of overstaffing . George Kennan , ambassador to Yugoslavia , former ambassador to Russia and one of the two or three most brilliant men the State Department career service has produced , believes that the State Department might well operate more efficiently with half as many people . When Dean Rusk took over as Secretary of State , Dean Acheson suggested that former Secretary of Defense Robert Lovett and Acheson himself should perform a surgical operation on the department , to cut the staff by thirty percent . Rusk demurred , which he may now regret . Without authorization from Congress a surgical operation is impossible . Under present Foreign Service , Civil Service and veterans ' legislation , the jobca n't be done at all . When the State Department is hit . by a R.I.F. ? reduction in force  --  the good new people go , while the drones , protected by veterans ' legislation and seniority , stay on . The problem is complicated by the intelligence and ability of most people in the department . An intelligent and able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is afoot , everybody wants to get into the act . Thus committees keep getting bigger and bigger . The " Berlin Task Force " was set up by the President as a small interdepartmental committee of a dozen or so second-level men to keep an eye on the Berlin crisis . A recent attendant at a meeting of the Berlin Task Force counted sixty bodies present . The committee system in turn produces the phenomenon of the waffle paper . The result of government by committee , George Kennan has written , is " compromised language , obscurity , a hodgepodge inferior to any of the individual views out of which it was brewed . " A journalist recruited into the State Department recently attended a meeting of fifteen people who were supposed to write an official reaction to the Soviet nuclear tests . " I was appalled , " he says . " By the third hour we had two sentences written , and we were haggling over the punctuation of those two . " Former Secretary of State Christian Herter has thus described his experience of government by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the editing of a sentence or a word that you say , ' My God , v by am 1 spending so much time on this ' ? ' " The " bodge-podge " which results from this collective literary effort is often totally worthless . One New Frontier ambassador , who returned to Washington to report to the President , showed him the lengthy , vacuous and meaningless " policy guidance " he had received from the State Department . " Honestly , Mr. President , " he asked , " what would you do with this guff if you were in my shoes ? " " This , " said the President and dropped the papers in the wastebasket . At the apex or the system is the National Security Council , the nation 's highest policymaking body . Sen. Henry Jackson , who did a useful study oldie NSC , crisply concluded : " The NSC spends most of its time readying papers that mean all things to all men . " One result of the time-wasting process of producing " papers that mean all things to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think . Another result is that the career Foreign Service officersF.S.O. ' s for short  --  get out of the habit of making decisions on their own . The 3700 F.S.O . ' s are the guts of the State Department . Secretaries of state come and go , but the F.S.O . ' s go on forever . A Foreign Service career does not in any case promote the habit of independent decision . An F.S.O . may be forty before he has done much more than stamp visas , concur in reports and remember to be nice to the ambassador 's wife . When he 's abroad , a junior F.S.O . is a small frog in a very large pond . Former Secretary Herter estimates that upward of thirty departments , agencies and bureaus  --  from the Fish and Wildlife Service to the Department of Health , Education and Welfare  --  have got into the foreign-policy act . As a result , an American ambassador abroad presides uneasily over a vast competitive gaggle of people from the Pentagon , the CIA , the foreign-aid and information agencies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . These people owe their allegiance  --  and their chance of promotion  --  to organizations other than the State Department . Thus an ambassador has to be a very tough fellow to be boss of his own show , and a lowly Foreign Service officer is lost in the motley mob . Moreover , the ambassador and his subordinates constantly feel the hot breath of Washington on their necks . The American Government habitually proceeds on the assumption that its representatives abroad are knaves or fools , incapable of making the smallest independent decision . A Soviet ambassador can on his own authority offer bribes , scholarships , dams or anything else he needs to fight the cold war . At least until recently , an American ambassador had to have Washington 's permission to send one boy back to America on a scholarship , to send one of his men out for treatment in a medical emergency , or even to redecorate his living room . Washington 's habit of neck-breathing can reach ludicrous proportions . Not long ago consular officials abroad received an elaborate order  --  which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been adjudged " moral turpitude , " thus excluding adulterers from the right to an American visa . The officers were instructed to interview all suspected adulterers in depth and return the transcripts to the State Department for review by a special panel on adultery . One official remarked that , in certain sunny and libidinous lands , the order , if literally complied with , would have excluded the entire male population over fourteen . Abroad an F.S.O . thus becomes accustomed to being tied to Mummy Washington 's apron ? ? 1.111 ? mr strings . Back home he finds himself smothered in the committee system  --  often thankfully , for the system is designed to lift the load of making decisions off the individual official 's back . As Henry Kissinger has written , " The committee approach to decision making is often less an organizational device than a spiritual necessity . " Recent history has also tended to crush any spirit of independence or originality in all but the bravest Foreign Service breasts . There was the McCarthy era , when career officers learned how dangerous it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was the Dulles era , when John Foster Dulles , emulating Louis XIV , was the State Department , leaving nothing useful for the career men to do . And there was the " Wristonization " of 1955 . In that year a plan for " democratizing " the career Foreign Service , proposed by a committee headed by Dr. Henry Wriston , was adopted . As a result about 2000 State Department employees with little or no experience in diplomacy , including accountants and other specialists , were lumped into the career Foreign Service , which was thus almost tripled in size overnight . Some of the Wristonees are able people who have turned into good F.S.O . ' s . But almost everyone agrees that this meat-ax operation demoralized the Foreign Service and added to the bureaucratic sludge . The Foreign Service has produced many bold and able men  --  like presidential adviser Charles Bohlen , Assistant Secretary Foy Kohler , or George Kennan himself . Yet the fact remains that , as Kennan has written , the system itself places a premium on " the cultivation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But the price paid for the system can not be measured in " colorless semicompetence , " or wasted man-hours , or delayed decisions . The price is really higher than that . Before they took office , both President Kennedy and Secretary of State Rusk strongly criticized the " airborne diplomacy " which became the rule in the Eisenhower Administration . But both men have taken to the air at least as much as President Eisenhower or Secretary Dulles . The reason is simple . The system denies the men with the final responsibility the clear , sharp choices which they need to make . Instead , they get those " papers that mean all things to all men . " The system also makes it next to impossible for their representatives abroad to make American policy vigorous and effective . So in the end there is nothing for the top men to do but to leap into their planes and take off for foreign parts , to see for themselves , and to try to make American diplomacy come alive . But this can only be an intermittent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sporadic , uneven and defensive quality which the conduct of American foreign policy has displayed in recent years . Can anything be done about the system ? No , says George Kerman . " Only some form of catastrophe  --  natural disaster , financial collapse , or the atomic bomb , " he has sadly written , could " dismantle ( the system ) or reduce it to healthier dimensions . " But surely this is a counsel of excessive despair . In fact , President Kennedy and the new Kennedy men came to office determined to do something about the system , and they have accomplished quite a lot . A " committee-killing outfit , " first proposed by Averell Harriman , was established in the White House , and at last count some three dozen useless interdepartmental committees had been killed . The elaborate machinery of the NSC , which contributed heavily to the luxuriant growth of the committee system , has also been partially dismantled . In a letter to all American ambassadors ( drafted by Chester Bowles , who did a lot of useful things before he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that henceforth he expected them to be chiefs of their missions in fact as well as in name . The President 's habit of involving himself in such matters as policy in British Guiana has also paid off . The career men 1Nisecrack that the President is " the highest-paid desk officer in history . " But the State Department has begun to produce policy papers , not in an afternoon , perhaps , but sometimes within forty-eight hours . The new Administration also brought into the State Department a needed transfusion of new faces . There are not many of them  --  at last count , just seventy-four Kennedy appointees in the whole huge State Department building . Not all these new people are foreign-policy geniuses by a long count . But for the most part they are able and energetic , and they have done a useful job of stirring things up . The key new face is , of course , the round , square-jawed face of Secretary of State Dean Rusk himself . In his first few months Rusk gained a reputation for excessive caution and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he played his cards close to his chest , even with the President . One slightly miffed White House aide dreamed up an imaginary conversation between Rusk and the President , alone together in the President 's White House office . " Mr. President , " says Rusk , " I believe that at last I have the solution to the Berlin problem . " " Fine , " says the President . " What is it ? " " I should be delighted to tell you , " says Rusk . " But this is a most sensitive matter , and I believe it would be best if half of those present would first leave the room . " Given his situation , Rusk had good reason to be cautious . He was confronted with insoluble problems , and he was surrounded by at least four big operators  --  Averell Harriman , Chester Bov. les , " Soapy " Williams and Adlai Stevenson  --  who had once dreamed of the Presidency itself and who would not have turned down Rusk 's job . Above all , when he took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of State stands or falls by his relationship to his chief . Now that relationship is on a solid footing , by all accounts . The President began calling Rusk " Dean " last September , and he particularly admires Rusk 's ability to sum up a complex problem in a maximum of four minutes . In other ways Rusk has been finding his feet . He has launched a war against waffle papers . Some months ago , when the Congo crisis was boiling , a portion of the fleet had been ordered to sail toward Leopoldville , in a show of strength . Rusk asked for opinions as to whether the fleet should proceed on course and got the usual waffle paper . He returned it with a notation which can be paraphrased : " What is wanted is orders to the admiral . Shall we proceed north or south ? " His subordinates muffed the opportunity to produce We shortest policy paper in history : " north . " But that was the substance of the answer , and the paper was uncommonly short . Rusk has also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special assignment to act as a sort of devil 's advocate , stating the case against important policy recommendations . Rusk 's purpose is to achieve the sort of clear choice the wale papers deny him . Rusk himself has said that he is by nature " more of an inside man than an outside man . " As a result he has remained a rather dim and faceless figure both inside and outside the department . But Rusk now realizes that it is part of his job to be " an outside man . " A Secretary of State must rally support for his policies and for himself , in the country , in the Congress and in the State Department itself . Although Rusk dislikes doing this sort of " outside job " ? he hates making speeches , for example  --  he realizes that the job must be done . Since he is a most able man , he will no doubt do it well . In that case , he will be on the way to becoming what a Secretary of State must be  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign policy are concerned . But almost everybody agrees that more must he done , if the system is to be brought under control . First , some such surgical operation as that proposed by Acheson is still needed . The legislation required to permit such an operation should be permanent , not temporary . Short of a return to the spoils system , some way must be found to take the right to hire , fire and promote out of the hands of a vast , impersonal machinery and return it to where it belongs  --  the immediate superiors of the man concerned , who know his strengths and weaknesses . Second , the pride and prestige of the Foreign Service must be restored . In the pre-Wriston days the Foreign Service was castigated as an undemocratic " elite . " The word " elite " is defined in my dictionary as " the choice or best part , as of a body or class of persons . " That precisely describes the kind of Foreign Service we need . Third , where the committee system survives , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to be followed : " What you need in order to make a committee work is , I think , a chairman who will take responsibility to get a decision made , even when all the members of his committee are against it . " In short , the chairman must be boss , not a referee . And where the issue concerns foreign policy , the boss-chairman must represent the State Department . On these points almost all the experts I have consulted agree . But there are those who believe that something more drastic is needed  --  the sort of unification in the foreign-policy field which is at last being forced on the three defense services . Throughout the Government , there is a sullen resistance to the domination of foreign policy by the State Department . One reason is that di . ' plomacy is nowadays only one of the instruments of foreign policy . Other key instruments are secret intelligence , propaganda and foreign aid , both economic and military . Yet the State Department is thought to speak  --  and often does speak only for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among career officials , only the F.S.O . ' s now have a serious chance of reaching the top , of becoming ambassadors or being appointed to high policy-making positions . The jealousy and sense of unfairness this engenders contributes heavily to the sullen resistance to the State Department elsewhere in the Government , and thus to the sludgy system of clearances , concurrences and government by committee . The Brookings Institute , among others , has proposed that all instruments of foreign policy ought to be brought directly under the Secretary 's control . There would then be an under-secretary of intelligence , foreign aid , and information . Moreover , although an elite diplomatic corps is essential , it should not be confined to the F.S.O . ' s . Above a certain level , specialists in other fields of foreign policy  --  CIA men , for example , many of whom are very able  --  should have a chance to join the elite . Thus the sullen resistance to the Department 's domination of foreign policy would be sharply reduced , while the Secretary of State became the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least , everybody who has studied the problem seems to agree . Something has to be done to clear away the sludge which surrounds the infinitely complex business of meeting the enormous challenges which confront the United States abroad . The human material to meet the challenge is there , in those people whose high quality " flabbergasted " Mr. Lewis . But as long as the system puts a premium on a " nice mixture of noncontroversialness and colorless semicompetence , " our foreign policy will be sporadic , uneven and defensive .                     