@@478197

Why he must win the coming election if the Labor party is to survive .. . What kind of men he will pick to run the country . . and the five issues which will shape England 's future . Sometime this year , as soon as Sir Alec Douglas-Home recovers from the unusual experience of simultaneously turning himself into a commoner and a Prime Minister , he must go to the Queen and ask for the dissolution of Parliament . He can choose his own time for calling a general election ? a tactical advantage that the British system gives an incumbent ? but he can not delay beyond October . With a slight improvement in Conservative fortunes visible at the end of 1963 , party managers began to bet on a snap election , possibly on Thursday , March 19 , before the Budget and the annual round of municipal elections in April and May . Yet , by the current odds , the man who must be most impatient for Election Day is Mr. Harold Wilson . Like Sir Alec , he is a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sudden illness last year put Sir Alec into Downing Street not long after Hugh Gaitskell 's early death gave Mr. Wilson his chance , and the two men will have to face each other at the pulls before they have had much time to try each other out in the House of Commons . Each is a symbol . The Conservative aristocrat confronts the young self-made intellectual ; traditional Etonian faces the challenge of the scholarship boy from the Yorkshire grammar school . This alone would give a certain interest to the coming election . But more than a contest of personalities is at stake . If the Conservatives should manage to win again ? they won in 1951 , 1955 , and 1959 ? the question may well be what useful role the Labor party , in its present shape , can continue to play in British politics ; the Opposition can not be defeated four times in a row and continue to look like a serious candidate for government . For Mr. Wilson , therefore , the election will be a crucial one , something more than a routine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party has a leadership and a program relevant to Britain 's national needs , knowing that if he fails the party ' might come apart at the seams and possibly open the way to the long-forecast Liberal revival . And he will be asking the voters to do something they have never yet been willing to do : choose Labor as the alternative to an incumbent Tory administration . For Labor has never won a decisive parliamentary majority in peacetime . Mr. Wilson has an additional handicap . The alternative government he offers most consist almost entirely of men without previous experience in office , whose reputation rests on their talents as party spokesmen in opposition , or as skillful operators in the intramural politics of their own party . After a dozen years of Conservative rule , the voters may long for New Men ; but it helps if the newcomers have names and faces that the TV voter can recognize . Mr. Wilson himself is known , and if it were simply a matter of running against Sir Alec he would he very hard to beat . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attlee picked him out after the war ; he has proved a formidable debater , a capable and , it seems , unifying leader of his own party . But almost all his potential colleagues are relatively new in the public eye , and they have one further disadvantage . For ten years after 1951 Labor was convulsed by the Bevanite controversy . Aneurin Bevan , then Minister of Health , together with Harold Wilson and John Freeman , resigned from the Attlee government in protest against certain cuts in welfare , a rearmament program they thought unwise and impracticable , and , to a lesser extent , the growing moderation of Labor 's program . The inner party tight , marked by great bitterness , went on for years , and most of the men around Wilson today were on one side or the other . Any government he would form would have to bundle to74 HAROLD WILSON 'S BRITAIN gether men whose scars prick uneasily in each other 's presence . Public memories may be short , but they are probably long enough ? with promptings from the Conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor 's team comes more from the hope of office than from years of experience in working happily together . Suppose , however , that Labor does win , and Mr. and Mrs. Harold Wilson soon have to pack for the move from Hampstead Garden Suburb to the recently renovated premises in Downing Street . What next ? What would Harold Wilson 's Britain he like ? Curiously , the question has neither been forcibly put nor adequately debated , either in public or within the Labor party . During the period when Labor 's policy was being reformulated , after the defeat in the 1959 election , public attention was focused less on the slow and solid work of policy-making and more on the struggle Mr. Gaitskell was waging to keep the party rank and file from swinging behind the nuclear-disarmament campaign . After Mr. Wilson took over , a year ago , both Parliament and the newspapers were preoccupied with the Vassal and Profumo affairs , and then with Mr. Macmillan 's resignation and the fight for the Tory succession . There was not much chance for Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for modernization of Britain 's social structure , for emphasis on education and science , and for confronting the external problems of a world which does not owe Britain a living . He is on record on all these points , and over a period of years . Yet he stands a chance of becoming Prime Minister more because the public has come to dislike Britain as it is than because it is positively enthusiastic for the way he proposes to make it over . This fact , should there be a Labor government , may prove to be of vital importance , both in determining what it does and public reactions to it . The first two Labor governments of 1924 and 1929 were minorities that stumbled into office unprepared , ill-equipped , and without real power . The third came in during the final stages of a long war , able to use planning powers that it had inherited from Winston Churchill 's coalition Norman MacKenzie , who is now visiting professor of political science at Williams College , was for many years an editor of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the new University of Sussex at Brighton and was twice a Labor parliamentary candidate . Cabinet , supported by a country accustomed to hardship and regulation and willing to tackle postwar reconstruction in a way that combined strong central administration with a rough-andready egalitarianism ? the idea of " Fair Shares . " Clement Attlee 's government simply married nationalization schemes , conceived in principle in the 1930s , with social legislation that was based on such nonpartisan wartime projects as the Beveridge Report on social security and various inquiries into town planning . The fourth Labor government , if Mr. Wilson wins this year , will face a novel situation . The country has had more than ten years to see , as the Tory slogan put it at the last election , how " Conservative Freedom Works . " Its temper , social structure , and economic system have all been changed , and though living standards have risen for much of the population , Britain 's trade and political standing in the world have steadily deteriorated . It is against this background that Mr. Wilson will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed to renovate , stimulate , and educate their society out of stagnation . Five Crucial Issues Will it do so ? How does this program match up to the issues that it is urgent for any British government to face realistically but imaginatively ? For the sake of simplicity I put these issues as a series of propositions . 1 . The British economy must be reorganized in such a way that it can provide a steady growth in national income of not less than 3.5 per cent annually . This involves higher investment , some limitation of incomes and consumption , increased productivity , and the creation of priorities for the private and public sectors of the economy . It will require more central planning , the use of both fiscal and physical controls , and a degree of cooperation from industry and organized labor . If this objective is not achieved , Britain can neither afford extensions of welfare nor make the economy truly competitive in world markets . 2 . Britain must try to hold its present share of world trade , help develop new markets , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customer . The failure to achieve this objective has been the major structural weakness of the British economy in this century , accentuated by the effect of two world wars . It has been partly concealed by income f rom past investments overseas , injections of U.S. aid , and favorable turns in world trade due to falling prices of food and raw materials . But it remains the crucial problem for a nation which is heavily dependent on imports and exports , and it is the source of the recurrent crises in the balance of payments . ( Six scrambles have been made to " save the pound " in fifteen years . ) Economic expansion at home , without an expansion of exports , simply increases the strain on the pound because more has to be imported ; but stagnation at home merely provides the temporary respite of reduced imports while it makes British exports - relatively more expensive . Britain therefore has to modernize old industries and develop new ones to earn a high export income . Without this , economic growth will proceed only in fits and starts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investment capital for developing countries . 3 . Britain can not , in the long run , avoid some closer economic relationship with her European neighbors , the United States , or both . The attempt to maintain the pound as an independent international currency is exhausting ; the Commonwealth is an important but decreasingly interdependent economic grouping ; the competitive power of the European Union is growing . While this should not mean that Britain must collapse into the Common Market on any terms , it does require a new and systematic effort to find a viable form of economic cooperation . 4 . The limitation of consumption ( necessary to prevent inflation and to free resources for investment ) is politically acceptable only if public policy offers marked compensations by way of welfare legislation , the rapid raising of educational standards , and a sustained attempt seriously to modify the grosser inequalities remaining in Britain . Without such a social program , neither the trade unions nor the public at large will cooperate in limiting private consumption and securing the necessary diversion of resources from the private sector to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in scope than mere redistribution of wealth in favor of the aged , the poor , the sick , and other dependent groups . They must include social utilities and amenities , such as efficient and low-cost transportation , an adequate road network , town and country planning , the improvement of general health and hospital services , and a resolute effort to cope with a continuing housing problem . The difficulty with these general propositions , of course , is that both the Conservatives and Labor would subscribe to them in a broad sense , Indeed , since Sir Alec became Prime Minister he has promised such large-scale spending on health , education , and scientific and industrial development that the Conservatives , normally the advocates of economy in government spending , run the risk of losing votes for " extravagance . " The crux lies in the way in which the problems are tackled . And on these five points , the record of the Conservative administrations since 1951 has been demonstrably poor : they have either failed in the problems they confronted , or failed to confront certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above , national income has not risen steadily ; investment has been haphazard ; clumsy monetary rather than selective planning controls have been used ; and there has been no coherent system of priorities . Under Point 2 , it is sufficient to say that Britain 's relative trading position has continued to deteriorate . Of ( 3 ) I need do no more than recall the failure of the much-heralded attempt to enter the Common Market . Public social policy ( 4 ) has tended to increase rather than diminish inequality , and ( 5 ) amenities and public services have deteriorated while private consumption has risen . I would add , moreover , that even the gains of affluence have left large parts of the population almost untouched , Less than 40 per cent of all households have a washing machine , less than 30 per cent a car , and less than 20 per cent a refrigerator . Out of twenty-six million incomes , nearly 90 per cent are below $3,000 a year . The distribution of wealth ? one per cent of the population owns nearly half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . More than two million persons , predominantly the aged , depend on the relief payments of the National Assistance Board for their basic subsistence . Piecemeal Deterioration NVhat is Mr. Wilson 's alternative ? For that I must turn primarily to a document called Signposts for the Sixties , issued in July 1961 , when Hugh Gaitskell was party leader ? but accepted by the party and approved by Mr. Wilson . " The danger that faces us , " it then said in words that remain applicable now , " is not the sudden catastrophe of slump and mass unemployment , but piecemeal economic deterioration and gradual political decline . These processes of decay have , indeed , already begun . But there 76 HAROLD WILSON 'S BRITAIN is still time to halt them and to restore that public spirit and collective dynamic which this country needs . " To remedy this state of affairs Labor first proposes a National Industrial Planning Board which , by means of tax incentives , by some physical direction of industry and control of resources , and by formulating a policy on incomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steady and cumulative growth in the key sectors of the economy . Such governmental intervention , however , immediately raises the thorny issue of public ownership . Recalling the large-scale nationalization schemes of the 1945-51 Labor administration ( coal , electricity , gas , railroads , steel ) , and the proclivity of the militant party membership to insist on further extensions of social ownership , the public may feel the greatest uncertainty on this issue . Harold Wilson , some will remember , was one of the opponents of Hugh Gaitskell 's attempt to remove or drastically amend Clause Four of the Labor party 's constitution ? the clause which long ago committed it in principle to common ownership of the means of production , distribution , and exchange . But this does not mean that Mr. Wilson is a fundamentalist , anxious for whole-hog socialization . Apart from the renationalization of the steel industry ? a move considered vital to planned industrial expansion ? and a second attempt to use public ownership as a means of integrating road and rail transport , Labor is unlikely to venture on any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selective techniques , These could take various forms . One type would be the starting of new publicly owned enterprises in expanding industries , or vital industries , where massive government support may be needed . A second type would permit the purchase of parts of industries which already depend either on government subsidies or largescale government purchases ( such as the expenditure of over $150 million annually for pharmaceuticals prescribed by the National Health Service ) . A third method would permit existing publicly owned enterprises to start subsidiary services which may be competitive with private enterprise . Finally , a Labor government would empower itself to intervene when threats of monopoly create a situation inimical to the public interest . The significant fact lies in the implied motives for extensions of state ownership : they are much less doctrinal than they were in past Labor programs , and much more expedient , the primary justification beingoverall economic growth rather than the making over of Britain 's social structure . They could ultimately lead to profound social changes , but the immediate test that Mr. Wilson would apply to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the central objectives of economic expansion and an improved competitive position in world markets . Class-ridden and Wasteful The remainder of Labor 's program has to be seen against this setting . But though in a basic economic sense much of the program is a " remainder , " socially and in terms of electioneering it is the vital part . It is an attack on four stubborn problems that , despite half a century of social reform , remain to plague successive governments . These are education , social security , housing , and inequality ; and in all four respects they reflect the basic dilemma of contemporary Britain ? the effort to reconcile the demands of modern society with an archaic class system . As I look back on the period from 1945 to 1951 I consider that the outstanding failure of the Attlee government was its inability to realize that the wartime Education Act would give Britain neither a democratic nor even an adequate education system . Almost twenty years after the war , close to four-fifths of British children are excluded from the approaches to higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dead-end inferior schools . Even the privileged remnant are further sorted , and forced into increasing competition for the scarce places in higher education itself . Britain has had relatively fewer such places than any other advanced country . In October last year , the committee of inquiry headed by Lord Robbins reported that what is needed is a dramatic expansion of the college population , an increase in the proportion of science and technical students , and at least a doubling of university facilities . But even this reform would not really meet the problem . The crying need is for a thoroughgoing overhaul of the school system , both to meet Britain 's demand for skilled people and to insure social justice . Today , Britain has effectively three school systems . The " modern " school for the majority ; the " grammar " school for most middle-class and a small proportion of working-class children ; and the elite " public " ( independent and private ) schools which , at a given moment , educate the 12,000 boys who will later claim a disproportionately high percentage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in politics , business , and the public service . How to convert this class-ridden and humanly wasteful structure into something more egalitarian , modern , and sensible ? It will not be easy , even if large-scale expenditure goes hand in hand with structural reforms . Money could do something to provide new schools and more teachers for a school system in which 25 per cent of primary and 66 per cent of secondary classes are officially overcrowded . Labor 's objective , in this respect , is to reduce the average size of classes to thirty ( from forty ) , raise the schoolleaving age to sixteen , provide substantial additional building grants to the local school authorities , and make the salary of teachers a national ? rather than local ? responsibility . It proposes to encourage the comprehensive school , rather like the U. S. high school , as an alternative to the present double-decked state system , and to find ways of integrating the exclusive and private " public " schools into a unified pattern . Technically , and in terms of Britain 's tight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult and controversial aspects of Labor 's policy , for it strikes directly at the training ground of Britain 's power elite . It will be far easier , though demanding of money and trained teachers , to achieve the planned expansion of higher education , than to democratize and improve the secondary school system . People speak of Britain 's " double standard " in education , But R. M. Titmuss , the quiet professor from the London School of Economics who leads Labor 's brain trusters on social policy ? and who could well turn out to be Mr. Wilson 's nominee for a new Cabinet post as Minister of Social Security ? has driven home the " doublestandard " charge even more effectively in terms of welfare . Over the last few years , with a small but highly influential group of colleagues , he has repeatedly drawn attention to the persistence of " two nations " in the structure of Britain 's oncevaunted welfare state ; Britain 's provision for social dependency , indeed , now falls below that of some of her European neighbors . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stride forward two decades ago , now looks Less like a milestone than a millstone , for it has failed to keep social-security benefits in line with rising national earnings and its meager allowances are supplemented for a few privileged millions by employer-financed welfare schemes . Those at the bottom of the scale have to be further helped by supplementary state relief payments . The aged , the sick , and the workless who have no otherresources than what the state provides are in or near extreme poverty , and are possibly worse off in relative terms than ever before in modern times . It was with this in mind that , in 1957 , Labor came forward with a new scheme to relate retirement pensions to lifetime earnings , more or less as a private insurance scheme might do ? the first step toward a complete recasting of the principles on which British welfare programs have rested since the Lloyd George reforms before World War I. The new principle , in a modified form , was actually taken over by the Conservative government ; but since then Labor ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed itself to the " half-pay " concept for all types of social security . The new scheme promises a basic income guarantee to all those who are too close to retirement to earn substantial increments to their pension rights , and this new basic income will be fixed in relation to average industrial earnings ; if these rise , through inflation or higher productivity , the basic pension will rise automatically , thus ensuring the aged some stake in national prosperity . But those who are still at work will pay a graduated social-security tax which , for the average person , will earn a pension roughly equivalent to half his earnings in the preretirement years . Similar rules , for shorter periods , will be applied to sickness , unemployment , and widows ' benefits . Such matters may seem complex , but they can be comprehended and appreciated by millions of British people who still live near enough to the poverty line ? or the prospect of it in old age ? for such questions to move them more than almost any other issue except housing . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what political questions seem most important to ordinary people . In the ease of housing , the difficulties are twofold . There are simply not enough decent houses available at reasonable rents for those who want and need them : Labor is talking of a housing target of 400,000 a year , to provide for long-overdue slum clearance and replacement of decaying properties . Who Are the New Men ? Ihave so far been setting out the major , rather than the minor , aspects of Labor 's policy . I must add to them an increase in progressive taxation , the imposition of an effective capital-gains tax , and the tightening up of many loopholes that permit tax avoidance and all kinds of covert perquisites for the managerial and rentier groups . All these measures , taken together , mean that Mr. Wilson will not merely have a formidable legislative and administrative task ahead of him ; he will also be engaged simultaneously on many fronts . Of his personal capacity for this there can be little doubt . He is a cool-headed organizer , a hard worker , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is widely asked is whether he has , within the Labor party , sufficient colleagues with ability and experience to provide the necessary support . More than a decade of opposition has taken its toll . While a Labor victory at the coming election would sweep in some newcomers , and some younger men have gained seats from Conservatives in recent by-elections , there would be only a few new men to whom office could he given before they had a chance to prove themselves in the House of Commons . This is one reason why eminent outsiders are being talked about . I have already mentioned Professor Titmoss . Another possible academic is Professor P. M. S. Blackett , a scientist of international repute , who could perhaps be persuaded to accept a seat in the House of Lords and become Minister of Science and Higher Education . A third outside candidate is obvious : Frank Cousins , the secretary of Britain 's largest trade union , a man of strong socialist convictions , who might appear as Minister of Labor , charged with the difficult task of mobilizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or as Minister of Transport , trying to coordinate road and rail services . A fourth is Gerald Gardiner , one of Britain 's outstanding advocates ( he successfully defended Penguin Books in the famous Lady Chatterley trial ) , who might be induced to become Lord Chancellor ? Britain 's highest legal post ? if he felt Mr. Wilson would accept his passionate conviction that capital punishment should be abolished . These four personalities , however , are at present outside the charmed circle of those on whom Harold Wilson must first and unavoidably depend . The most powerful man in his Cabinet , and last year his rival for the party leadership , would he the ebullient , tough , and plain-speaking George Brown ? the man who openly quarreled with Khrushchev during the latter 's 1056 visit to Britain . Brown is often in trouble . In December , he was attacked for his " indiscretion " in a TV discussion of President Kennedy 's death , when he referred to the late President by his first name . The row was serious enough to make Brown take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinions of those who , last year , thought him personally unsuitable to lead the party . But , unless his health really fails , he will remain the second most powerful man in Labor 's leadership . He would become Minister of Production and Economic Planning , with overall home-front responsibilities . Patrick GordonWalker , the only Labor leader left , apart from Mr. Wilson himself , with any experience in a senior government post , would become Foreign Secretary . James Callaghan , the third of the competitors for the leadership , is in line to become Chancellor of the Exchequer ; and R. H. S. Crossman , the talented intellectual who has in recent years devoted much of his time to the changing of Labor 's social-security plans , would probably get a different " social " assignment ? Housing and Local Government . Politically speaking , the bias of such a Labor Cabinet would be toward the right wing of the party , Mr. Wilson himself being somewhat to the left of the majority of his potential colleagues . It would seem , on paper at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government , though it is hard to say how it would settle down as a team and even harder , in advance , to see where good replacements could easily be found for inadequate Ministers . Shunning Nuclear Force Ihave said nothing about the prospects for defense and foreign policy , partly because these are fields in which prophecy is most risky . An event as unforeseen as President Kennedy 's tragic death may have profound effects on allies as well as antagonists . One of the first Conservative reactions in Britain was the suggestion that it made Britain 's independent nuclear force all the more necessary ad interim , until President Johnson had time to accustom himself to leadership of the Western alliance ? and until the fall election settles the matter of the Presidency for another four years . But Labor has already committed itself on this issue . In the first debate after Sir Alec became Prime Minister , Mr. Wilson and his colleagues made it clear that they would give up Britain 's expensive and militarily obsolete nuclear force , and rely upon the twin commitments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could well become an election issue in Britain , but it has little direct relation to domestic issues ? save for the degree to which either party proposes to pay for 80 HAROLD WILSON 'S BRITAIN other government programs by cuts in defense spending . There remain problems outside my list of priorities which are harder to define precisely , more difficult to cope with in formulating policy , and likely to be accentuated by certain aspects of Labor 's program . They are matters which affect the style and quality of life , the human anxieties , deprivations , and deviations which we see in all modern industrial societies and seem peculiarly unable to do much about . Some of them can be simply put . Whichever party wins , but especially if there should be a Labor victory , there is bound to be a growing extension of public power , much of it animated by paternalism and directed to socially desirable ends but all of it further reducing the sphere of individual choice and responsibility . With this there will be an increase in bureaucratic devices for translating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed from public accountability . Indeed , the better the government does its job . in one sense , the worse the situation . Whatever material gains may come from rising standards of welfare , or increasing health in the economy , efficient benevolence is not all , nor is economic growth the only valid criterion for public policy . We have already seen the slow disintegration of many of the institutions from which people derive strength and identity ? from units of local government , through voluntary associations and religious bodies , to the primary unit of the family . Just as economic power is being concentrated in fewer and fewer big units , state or private , and political power has been ever more narrowly focused as its nominal base has been broadened , so social power is concentrating at the expense of the individuals who make up society . The condition that sociologists call " alienation , " the mass society in which the old securities vanish and the individual feels adrift in an alien world are secular facts about which party programs do nothing . As Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will sharply reinforce the effect of growing social mobility in modern society ? it could well contribute to this kind of social atomization , helping to create a world of statistical aggregates , of computer-fodder . The vital question is how far Labor is aware of this trend , with all its implications . Britain moves fast in this direction . For all the good I expect it to do , I still fear that a Labor government might unwittingly , and even unwillingly , accelerate the drift . For the underlying and dominant assumption of Labor policy is Benthamite ? the concepts of social calculus , the efficient public servant , the doing of good to the greatest number . From the moment 14 when Sidney and Beatrice Webb , through the Fabians , latched this idea onto the trade-union movement , the pattern has been ingrained . And it is hard to challenge it just because many of Labor 's declared objectives are patently sensible and , if achieved , would greatly ameliorate the lot of millions of people . The Awkward Squad Yet , even if one can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how viable alternatives could be devised , there has long been another tradition in Britain 's Labor movement ? one that I think comes closer to the feelings of younger people , and especially of the influential younger writers , such as John Osborne , Arnold Wesker , Alan Sillitoe , and Robert Bolt . The bureaucratic reformers dub it " millennialist , " the belief in the New Jerusalem . ( One of Wesker 's plays is entitled l 'm Talking About Jerusalem . ) And it does have a quasi-religious , or at least an ethical , base , a suspicion of bigness , a toleration of personal and intellectual eccentricity , a dislike of centralization , a faith in individuals rather than intellectual systems . This quality has always been endemic in British Labor , and has often been a source of trouble to its more orthodox leaders . Yet it is the quality , irritating as well as stimulating , that has somehow preserved radicalism in Britain from the follies and orthodoxies the Left has perpetrated elsewhere . It is a quality which , if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuing reminder that society is its people , not a machine to manipulate them . This " awkward squad " state of mind could , perhaps , act as a brake upon all the forces which threaten to carry us into the hygienic , depersonalized never-never land of the Consumer Society . In the short run , the British public and the world at large may judge Mr. Wilson by the conventional standards of success ? how Britain fares economically , how he succeeds in spreading education and welfare . In the long run , perhaps , the real issue is the one Britain shares with all dwellers in mass industrial society , American , Russian , German , or French . Can we treat our own capacities and the resources of nature reasonably , making a more human as well as a more efficient and prosperous society ? 