@@207053

Prime Minister John Diefenbaker 's government and his Conservative Party lay in shambles . Triggered by a bluntly undiplomatic U.S. note accusing Canada of reneging on its nuclear defense commitments , a rebellious Parliament shot down Diefenbaker 's minority government on a vote of no confidence . And then , as he faced an election on April 8. several of Diefenbaker 's key Cabinet ministers and some of his staunchest supporters turned against him . <P> Unresigned . In a shattering political week , Diefenbaker struggled desperately to save himself . Yet at every turn , his own inability to make a firm decision , either about nuclear weapons or even politics , worked against him . After two years of patient argument , Defense Minister Douglas Harkness made one last effort to get Diefenbaker to honor Canada 's three-year-old commitment to arm Canadian planes and missiles with U.S. nuclear weapons . Once again , Diefenbaker refused . Exasperated beyond endurance , Harkness resigned . It was , he said , " a matter of principle . " <P> Backed by a " Diefenbaker , resign " editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Hees led a second palace revolt . Going to Diefenbaker 's Ottawa home , Hees asked him face to face to resign for the good of Canada and the party . Stung to tears , Diefenbaker refused , and set out to rally his strength . Loyal supporters whipped up the prairie-province backbench M.P.s , and there were cheers as Diefenbaker entered the House of Commons to answer no-confidence motions brought by the opposition Liberals of Lester B. Pearson and the funny-money Social Crediters . In a fighting speech , Diefenbaker lashed the Liberals and tried to get the Social Crediters to change their mind by offering to meet their conditions . But it was no use . In the final tally , 44 out of 46 minor party M.P.s joined with 98 Liberals to vote down Diefenbaker and his 108 Conservatives . <P> Party Asunder . At that , another Conservative newspaper turned against Diefenbaker . Snapped the Toronto Telegram : " This man can not expect again to lead his country . " At a stormy party caucus , Trade Minister Hees once more urged Diefenbaker to resign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not campaign on a platform of destructive anti-Americanism . Diefenbaker seemed to agree , but then in his first TV speech , he angered the Cabinet rebels all over again with statements about " loss of sovereignty " and " domination . " <P> For Hees and Acting Defense Minister Pierre Svigny , there was only one course . Both men resigned . John Diefenbaker 's party was torn asunder ; his government had not been able to pass a single major piece of legislation in eight months in office ; some of his most powerful Cabinet members would , in effect , be campaigning against him . It was hard to see how his party could conduct a coherent campaign . Lester Pearson kicked off the Liberal campaign by announcing , " The people will now have a chance to replace this government with one which I feel confident will do a better job . " As of last week , Pearson 's chances were looking up .                     