@@431717

 | Formosa : Asia 's Heartening Success Story @# PRIDE WAS shining on the faces of the Free Chinese in Taipei , capital of the Republic of Ina , last June 30 . This was the y when U.S. economic aid ceased cause it was no longer needed , and they were on their own . No less proud were U.S. aid officials , busily closing their books and moving out of the offices from which , for the past 14 years , they had dispensed technical advice and some $r.5 bil-  | lion in grants and loans . It was , as one observer stated , " the first time in Asia that any U.S. aid program had accomplished its ultimate aim : to put itself out of business . " For Chiang Kai-shek especially , it was a day to remember . In December 1949 , with 500,000 beaten soldiers and more than a million refugees , he landed on Taiwan ? the Chinese name for Formosa ? for a last-ditch stand against the Chinese Communists . Today the island is one of the free world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's newest economic miracle . Next to the Japanese , Free China 's 12,500,000 people enjoy the highest standard of living in the Far East . Once heavily dependent upon imports for survival , Taiwan now sells abroad at a great clip , giving it a highly favorable trade balance of $52,700,000 in 1964 . The whole island , 240 miles long and 90 miles wide , is bursting with economic ferment . Factories pop up so fast that machines are put to work under bamboo shelters while permanent buildings are still under construction . Taipei is rapidly being transformed from a squat , ugly provincial city into an imposing metropolis of multi-story buildings , including half a dozen new hotels and , on the outskirts , urban housing developments . The countryside is booming even more . A landscape once marked by toiling peasants wading through water-filled rice paddies behind water buffalo has given way to prosperous farms with tractors , mow scooters and sturdy red-brick houses , Morning and evening the roads ar jammed with cyclists ? farmers riding to and from the nearest market , men going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , in fact , a dramatic re minder to all Asia that communis is not the short cut to success tha its prophets claim . On Taiwan , in stead of hunger there is plenty ; in stead of scarcity there is abundance instead of mass regimentation there is comparative political freedom And Free China achieved thi through adopting precisely the opp site means the communists used t impose their tyranny on 700 millio Chinese . Throughout Asia and els where , that lesson should not go un heeded . How to Succeed . Why has the Republic of China succeeded magnificently in its use of U.S. aid First , as even his severest detractors must admit , Chiana 's regime h supplied a stable government . Second , the average Chinese is indu trious and responsive to the free-enterprise concept . But most important is the program of well-ordered ste which Nationalist China 's leaders took on the path upward . By design , Taiwan began where economic and social progress mu begin in most basically agricultura countries : with prime attention given to the peasantry . " Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport , as do many underdeveloped countries , " a U.S. aid official pointed FORMOSA : ASIA 'S HEARTENING SUCCESS STORY 141 out " they asked for help with a program beginning at the grass roots . " By satisfying peasant hunger for land , the Nationalist regime has de the island into one of the most productive pieces of real estate in the world . ' Taiwan 's land-reform program had three phases . The first , begun 1949 , was aimed at providing both security and a better livelihood for the island 's 500,000 sharecropper families . A new law created a ceiling rental of 37.5 percent of a tenant 's main crop ; gouging landlords previously had charged up to 70 percent . Also , the tenant 's contract with the landlord ? hitherto oral and subject to cancellation at the latter 's whim ? had to be in writing and for period not under six years , with right of renewal . The program went into its second phase two years later when the government made 247,000 acres of public land available for purchase by tenant farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annual crop yield , payable in 20 installments over ten years . Under this scheme , between 1951 and 1961 , more than 203,000 formerly landless farmers became owners of the land they tilled . The third and most far-reaching phase was the " land to the tiller " program begun in 1953 . Ruling that no landlord could hold more than seven acres of rice lands , the government bought the excess at the going rate of 21/2 times the annual yield . Lands , thus acquired were sold to incumbant tenants on the same terms as public land . As for the former landowners , " Some 40 percent of their compensation by the government found its way into industrial and business investments , " says Wolf Ladejinsky , who helped guide Taiwan 's land reform . " It is the one known case in Asia where agrarian reform succeeded in transferring capital formerly tied up in land into the general developmental field . As a result , this land-reform program worked well for all . " The results of Nationalist China 's amazingly successful land-reform program : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inch of Formosa is tilled ; more than 85 percent of all the farmers in Formosa now own their land and have achieved the highest unit productivity in the world . In ten years rice production increased by 41 percent . The average farmer is banking his earnings at a record 30 percent of his cash income . Business Boom . For a sound economy , the next step was to revitalize light industry , to provide goods for a ready-made market and for export . When Chiang Kai-shek and his government came to Taiwan , the island had not recovered from the battering it received during World War II . Its cities were scabrous , its economy was in ruins ; its harbors were choked with sunken shipping , its railroads wrecked , most of its factories leveled . Once the war damage had been repaired , Free China 's economic planners dug in for the upward pull .  | Among the planners were economists , engineers , a physicist , a chemist . The path they took was directly toward the road of private enterprise . In time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to national economic development . Government controls of business were relaxed , small entrepreneurs encouraged to new ventures , good labor-management relations rewarded . In response , small and mediumsized businesses sprang up rapidly . Before long , industrial growth outstripped even that of agriculture . In 1960 the government enacted a " Statute for the Encouragement of Investment " which provides , among other incentives , a five-year tax holiday for investors in new plant construction . Special tax treatment is also available to enterprises engaging in export business . As a result , foreign investors , including Japanese companies and a dozen blue-chip American firms , have pumped 176 , pillion dollars of capital into Free China . Consider a few examples of Taiwan 's extraordinary industrial growth : Textiles : In 1945 , when Taiwan was returned to China following the Japanese occupation , there were only two cotton mills on the island , with negligible production . By 1964 , 24 mills were producing 111 million pounds of cotton yarn , 265 million yards of cotton cloth , 6,400,000 pounds of woolen yarn , 31 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taiwan 's garment industry was practically nonexistent . Today there are more than 200 garment and knitwear factories , 30 engaged in export . Cement : In 1945 , the annual production was 97,270 tons , with large imports necessary . In 1964 , ten manufacturers produced 2,400 , ( tons , and exported 900,000 tons . Wood Products : More than half of the mountainous island is covered by forests , but these vast timber resources were barely touched until few years ago . Now there are some 400 privately operated sawmills . On Taiwan today there are also factories for the production of tire rubber boots , industrial belts an hoses ; pharmaceutical plants manufacturing more than 2000 types medicine ; 34 mills producing 301 86o tons of wheat flour a year . A motor manufacturer mass-produces cars , jeeps , trucks and motor scooter Chemical-fertilizer plants supply almost all that is needed by Taiwan farms . As proof of the wisdom of depending mainly upon private enterprise for economic growth , Economics Minister K. T. Li cites the fact that " between 1952 and 1964 the output of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average annual rate of 18.8 percent as against only 7.6 percent registered by state enterprises . " Even those industries still in government hands ? such as sugar and petroleum refining , power production , fertilizer and aluminum manufacturing 966 FORMOSA : ASIA 'S HEARTENING SUCCESS STORY 143 are destined eventually for private ownership . Sharing the Know-How . Free China 's phenomenal success has made Taiwan a laboratory to which specialists from Africa and the rest of Asia come to learn , and from which teams of Chinese technicians go out to share their skills with other nations . In recent years more than 200 foreign technicians have gone ere for technical training in agriculture , industry , public health , education and community development . Since 1961 , 433 Nationalist Chinese experts have formed demonstration teams for two-year missions to AfriMoreover , U.S. officials in the entries involved attest that these re Chinese visitors gain more enthusiastic response than do those m Western countries . Said one : hey are closer to the underdeveloped people , both in experience and aspirations , than we can ever be . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been impressive . Of the separate provincial - budgets , 26.4 percent is ear-marked for schools , and spending for education runs as high as 38 percent municipal budgets . Illiteracy been cut to less than ten percent , almost 97 percent of schoolchildren are in classrooms . ore than three quarters of midschool graduates seek higher education . During the Japanese occupation there was but one university - on the island ; today there are plus 24 colleges . The republic 's committment to the free way of life , no less than the excellence of its schools of higher learning , draws close to 6250 overseas Chinese and foreign students each year ? mostly from Hong Kong , Thailand , Singapore and South Vietnam . Evidence of Free China 's cultural explosion abounds . There are fine theaters , art galleries , concert halls , libraries and museums . A symphony orchestra tours the country . But despite the infusion of Western ways , traditional Chinese culture is still a powerful influence . Confucianism ? with its emphasis on filial piety , benevolence , justice , fidelity ? remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress has been greater than Chiang 's overseas critics care to admit . True , Chiang 's control at the top national level is complete and inflexible . Yet the Provincial Assembly is broadly representational and elected by popular vote . Of its 74 members , 68 are native Taiwanese . Provincial and local elections are free and lively , with an average of 76 percent of the voters exercising their franchise . And , while the Chinese press lacks complete freedom , several newspapers do keep the government under constant fire . Tensions between native Taiwanese and Chiang 's mainlanders have lessened considerably . For 18 years Thomas Liao , the native head of the " Independent Formosa " movement , waged a propaganda war from Japan and the United States against the Chinese Nationalists . He returned last May to Taiwan . " My decision to  | dissolve my movement , " Liao says , " came when I learned of the remarkable changes the Nationalists had wrought in my home island . I got a new view of Chiang ; now I want to work with him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the enlisted ranks ( but only five percent of the officers ) are Taiwanese . During the dark days following the U.S. State Department 's writeoff of Nationalist China in 1949 , V. K. Wellington Koo , then ambassador from that country to the United States , wrote : " The communists have made great promises to people of China , pledging gre abundance for all. - They simply not deliver on those promises . ( ' munism can not rule without stifling bureaucracy , the terror secret police and the degradation its slave labor .... Help Free China retain a foothold that can be defended , and we will demonstrate that any area of freedom can I communism in production , education , welfare and happy living . " Today , i 6 years later , that prop and that pledge have been more t fulfilled . @#                     