@@441557

AWHILE back President Kennedy drew upon his nautical past to say that the American people will have a choice this November of whether " to anchor clown or to sail . " This is the way Kennedy would like the voters to view the choice , on the assumption that most people are against standing still . But indications from the primaries this year and from reports of political scouts in various parts of the nation suggest that it is not going to be that simple for the Democratic Party . There are three categories of elections ? the House , where all members are up for reelection ; the Senate , where 38 seats are at stake ; the governorships , where 35 are to be filled ? and each . presents a different problem for Kennedy and his party . Midterm elections bring out fewer voters than do elections in presidential years , and the issues on which they are won or lost tend to be more localized and fragmentized than when the top national office is at stake . Nonetheless , the general public attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether it is or is not doing its job well , does affect the outcome of voting not only for Senate and House but also for the governorships . ? The President has said that he will concentrate his politicking " where there will be a very clear choice " between Democrats who back his Administration and Republicans who oppose it . But he has acknowledged the historical fact that White House intervention has never proved very profitable . Wilson suffered a disastrous defeat on the League of Nations issue . F.D.R. , despite a contrary view in many minds , never really tried , except to purge a few Democrats he found objectionable , and he won in only one case . Eisenhower did try , but the results were meager , at best . Still , Kennedy is not the type to shy away because of the record , and Democratic candidates have beenscrambling to get him into their states or districts because they believe that he will pep up the party workers . Of the three races this fall , the Senate is the easiest for the Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few others vacant because of death or resignation ) are up this fall , and it is impossible for the Republicans to capture control of the Senate . It is possible for them to cut into the generally liberal and pro-Kennedy nature of the Senate , however . On the other hand , the Democrats think they can increase their majority with as many as three more pro-Kennedy partisans replacing Republicans . A good possibility , for instance , is Kentucky , where Senator Thruston Morton is opposed by Lieutenant Governor Wilson Wyatt . Here is a case where the Kennedy plan for medicare is likely to give the voters a clear-cut choice . In Connecticut , Democrats are counting on former Cabinet member Abraham Ribicoff to replace retiring Republican Prescott Bush . The Republicans are optimistic about their chances for victory in Colorado and Idaho , and perhaps in Pennsylvania , and do not concede the Connecticut seat . The decisive seats in the House The real congressional struggle involves the House . The Republicans claim publicly that they can pick up the 45 seats or so it would take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Speaker . Privately , however , their hopes are more modest , for a gain of between 10 and 20 . But such a gain would be enough to make Halleck all but the de facts leader of the House , for he has skillfully blended his own forces with the thirty to fifty Southern Democrats who on occasion desert the Administration . Such a GOP gain this November would kill the prospects for most of the New Frontier domestic legislation . From Kennedy 's viewpoint , a Democratic House gain of 5 to 10 seats would , as the President has said , " change the whole opinion in the House " and mean passage of many a bill which has had to be trimmed or shelved in the current Congress . The psychological effect of any Democratic gain would be considerable . both parties agree . What about the new districts ? This year there is a new complicating factor in the redistricting after the decennial census . A number of Democratic seats in the South , long safe for the party , arc being eliminated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Republican conservatives may make further inroads in the South , but the picture is not yet clear . On the other hand , the Democrats hope to add two or three more or less pro-Kennedy congressmen in Florida , which will have 4 additional seats next year . However , the Republicans think Florida offers a good chance to add to their single House member from that state . The two biggest redistricting jobs were in New York , which lost 2 seats , and California , which gained 8 . In New York a Republican legislature with a Republican governor 's approval did its best to so redesign the districts as to cost the Democrats from 3 to 6 seats . In California , Democrats in the legislature and the governorship rearranged the districts so as to assure themselves , they hope , of from 6 to 11 more members of their party . On net balance across the country , however , redistricting should give the Republicans a slight plus . The Democrats are hoping that a big Democratic win in California will produce so many new pro-Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least , is a cheery way of looking at a loss . An important factor is the outcome of the California gubernatorial battle . The net of all the party estimates on the House is that there is unlikely to be any sufficient change to alter the present climate there . Unless there is a major upset one way or the other , the House will continue to support the President on foreign and military policy ; it will only grudgingly approve his new ventures in domestic fields , If the Republican governors win As to the third area of political conflict , the governorships , the Democrats look like the losers . Of 35 governorships to be filled on November 6 , 21 are now held by Democrats . But the importance this fall lies in the fact that the Democrats are in trouble in three big states : Pennsylvania , Ohio , and Michigan . They are also strongly challenged in California , and in the other big state , New York , the only one held by a Republican , they will be lucky if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to increase his 1958 margin of victory , when he topped his Democratic opponent by nearly 575.000 votes . Some of his supporters , thinking how useful it would be in furthering Rockefeller 's presidential aspirations , even dare to talk of carrying New York City . No Republican has won a clear majority in the city since Warren Harding in 1920 . Rockefeller lost it by more than 300,000 votes four years ago . In Pennsylvania the GOP is united behind an attractive candidate in the person of first-term Representative William W. Scranton . He faces former Philadelphia Mayor Richardson Dilworth , who has tried and failed before to win the governorship . High unemployment and long Democratic incumbency in the governor 's chair are working in Scranton 's favor . If he wins he will quickly join the list of those mentioned for President , or at least for Vice President , in 1964 . In Ohio Democratic Governor Michael DiSalle will have his hands full , the Democrats concede , against GOP State Auditor James A. Rhodes . However , nobody seems to think that even a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong possibility for another term in the same post . In Michigan the presidential talk about George Romney is already well advertised , and it may help him win the governorship , state pride still being strong . Romney has succeeded in giving the GOP in his state a far more moderate , and more modern , cast than it has had for many a year , and that should attract a lot of independents and conservative Democrats at the expense of ultraliberal Governor John B. Swain-son . Here , too , the Democrats have held the governorship a long time , and both the Republicans and many Democrats outside the Detroit metropolitan area dislike the Democratic ties with labor . In Romney they have an attractive alternative , and he will be a tough opponent for Swainson , who lacks the political flair of his mentor and predecessor , G. Mennen Williams . The California battle between Richard Nixon and Edmund ( Pat ) Brown promises to be a historic one if only because the former Vice President is fighting for his political life . He has had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected , which would snake it a difficult political trick to try again for the White House in 1964 . Two other Republicans , one in office and another likely to get there , are at least vice presidential possibilities . One is Governor Mark Hatfield of Oregon , who must win reelection ; the other is Fred Seaton , Eisenhower 's Secretary of the Interior , who is running for the governorship in Nebraska , It is evident that if the Republicans do as well as many Isere in the Capital think they will in the gubernatorial races , the 1964 GOP presidential and vice presidential candidates will probably be a pair of governors . Only two nongovernors are now on the political horizon : one is Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona , who insists he wants to run again for the Senate in 1964 ; the other is Robert Taft , Jr. , son of the late GOP Senate chief , who is expected to win Ohio 's new scat as congressman-at-large . A big win plus his name should be enough at least to start a Taft political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains would produce a crop of presidential hopefuls for the Republicans and headaches for the Democrats in 1964 . Kennedy has reason to expect an all but unanimous renomination of the Kennedy-Johnson ticket . But he would be in a stronger position if the big-electoral-vote states were under Democratic gubernatorial control , because governors control powerful party machines useful in drumming up votes on election day . Kennedy is well aware of this , and his campaigning this fall will be a combination affair for senators , House members , and governors . The President 's strategy The President hopes to make his medicare plan the centerpiece of the fall campaign . Some Democrats in Washington have been saying that they arc not sure this will be easy . If the public would accept the Kennedy thesis that Democrats by and large want to help the old folks , whereas Republicans for the most part are heartless , the President 's strategy probably would work . But the Republicans , plus the American Medical Association and other assorted foes of the Kennedy plan , have managed to shift the issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " socialistic , compulsory " Kennedy plan or some " individual choice " alternative which will not raise social security taxes ( even though it would mean a big charge on the Treasury ) . Kennedy 's first task this fall , if his political line of attack is to help elect Democrats , will be to reshape the issue closer to the way he wants the voters to see it . And that is not likely to be simple . Mood of the Capital The imponderables , of course , can not be overlooked . A sudden change in the economy , though not expected , could have severe political repercussions . A foreign crisis ? and the expectation here is for a chill autumn on the Berlin issue ? also can not be discounted , though its political effect depends both on the timing and on Kennedy 's skill in handling it . All things considered , it will be a surprise in Washington if the 1962 elections produce any major shift in the balance of power within the Congress or a new crop of GOP presidential and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American history when any sudden or basic shifts of attitude on domestic policy are likely to appear and thereby to alter the current balance between those who want " to anchor down " and those who want " to sail , " a balance that produces something which at times seems akin to drifting . TIE summer of 1962 seems to have brought only anxiety to the people of Germany . The political situation ? wilt the ' American-Soviet probe producing no concrete results ? has remained bleakly uncertain . The economic climate has been trou , bled by the impasse over Britain 's entry into the Common Market , by Dr. Adenauer 's sudden summoning of a D-mark conference to avert a further slide in the purchasing power of the currency , and by the spectacular Schlieker scandal , involving the utterly unexpected financial failure of West Germany 's most colorful post-war millionaire . ' The Communist Wall has continued to throw its depressing shadow over Berlin , where defiance is mingled with apprehension . West Germans have derived small comfort from the economic ills which increasingly beset the puppet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of concern to the Soviet Union , but they do not bring a solution of the German question any nearer . West Germans did not write off the Rusk probe as a waste of time . However impatient the lack of East-West agreement over Germany must make them , a great many West Germans have become aware of the need for the United States and the Soviet Union to remain in diplomatic contact over the German question , and especially over Berlin , The Wall In recent months the Wall has begun increasingly to resemble a sector of the front line on the Western front in World War I. The East Germans have in many places a double , and in some a treble , line of fortifications . East Berlin houses on the immediate sector boundary look like pillboxes , with windows blocked up and firing-slits left for the trigger-happy East German People 's Police to shoot at fleeing refugees . Road approaches to the Wall on the eastern side look like some kind of crazy and lethal obstacle race , consisting of concrete blocks in echelon , trenches , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Eighty new machine-gun emplacements have been built by the East Germans this year , and to neutralize the East German habit of firing indiscriminately from them into West Berlin , the West Berlin police have thrown tip earthworks and sandbag barriers for shelter . The current picture of the Wall is no longer just unnatural ; it is demented . Tension became extremely acute after the Wall 's first anniversary , on August 13 . Partly because of the particularly brutal shooting down of an East German refugee , Peter Fechter , on August 17 by the People 's Police , but partly out of sheer claustrophobia , the usually disciplined Berliners carried out wild and sometimes violent demonstrations along the Wall . Coaches bringing Soviet soldiers for guard duty at the Russian War Memorial in the Tiergarten were stoned ; crosses and banners were planted on the Wall ; and American guards at the Friedrichstrasse Checkpoint Charlie on the sector boundary were insulted for failing to succor Fechter , who lay dying for nearly an hour about two hundred yards away . Sooner or later the patience of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans have now been killed along the Wall , and on at least 370 occasions the People 's Police have opened fire across the sector and zonal boundaries into West Berlin . Underlying the anger of the West Berliners was the fear that Communist pressure on their city would be increased ? by the Russians signing a separate peace treaty with the East German Republic and seeking means to force the garrisons of the Western powers out of Berlin . On August 23 an East German commandant was appointed . Most Germans believed that these steps presaged the permanent division of their country . Failure behind the Wall The Wall has cut down the exodus of refugees to the West ( averaging 20 a day now , against 600 a day until August , 1961 ) , but it is a confession of weakness and a constant reminder of the failure of Communism to function in the East German Republic . The miserable failures of the Ulbricht regime have been abundantly illustrated in recent months . In spite of nominal increases in industrial production , there has been no rise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worker 2 hours to earn a pound of butter ( 1 hour in West Germany ) , 85 hours to earn a man 's suit ( 43 hours in West Germany ) , 521 hours to earn a small refrigerator ( 101 hours in West Germany ) . Even this disparity leaves differences in quality and in delivery dates out of account . An East German television set must be ordered three years in advance , and an order for an East German motorcar may never be filled . East German food shortages have become more frequent and more harassing . An " Eat fewer potatoes " campaign was launched in the early summer , and leading politicians told citizens it was disgraceful to stuff themselves with potatoes every day , when the Soviet . citizen has less to cat than they do . In July rationing of meat was reintroduced in East Berlin , hitherto treated as a Communist showcase for the Western world , and therefore better supplied with food and consumer goods than the remainder of East Germany . Rationing of butter had already been reintroduced throughout East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being strictly limited to a fixed amount each week . The Ulbricht regime admitted alarming shortages in agricultural production but blandly added that imports of basic foodstuffs could not be stepped up , " since this would mean the reduction of imports of coffee , lemons , and the other things we need . " The ultimate insult was offered by a Christian Democrat newspaper , Neue Weg , with the announcement that " Uncle Doctor " was against increasing supplies of meat and butter , " as this would be injurious to our health , " Food shortages , military conscription , and the total nationalization of agriculture as well as industry are draining the East Germans of even an elementary spirit of survival . During the last year , in spite of the Berlin Wall , the population of the East German Republic has shrunk by about 100,000 . As compared to a working population of barely 10 million , there are 3 million old-age pensioners . Endemic economic crisis drove the East German regime ? probably at the instigation of the Russians ? to the unprecedented step of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size . After the netts of this East German request leaked out in Bonn at the end of May , details were divulged with ladylike reluctance by the West German government , which was evidently utterly unable to make up its mincrwhether it was better to offer a loan on special terms or to let the East German regime stew in its own juice . Ulbricht wanted about 3.2 billion marks ' worth of raw materials and lbodstuffs , to be delivered over the next ten years and paid for over the next twenty-five . At the same time he proposed a 25 to 30 percent increase in interzonal trade , which had a two-way volume last year of 1.8 billion marks . The East Germans , it was revealed , began angling for these trade concessions at the end of 1961 . The West Germans did not know how to exploit East German insolvency . Yet increased interzonal trade and a long-term loan would make East Germany much more dependent on the West than previously , They would reduce to nonsense the declared East German policy of making itself economically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foster more contact with still anti-Communist East Germans . West German indecision The Federal Government could have stated its terms . Instead it succumbed to mental paralysis . The truth is that the closing phase of the Adenauer era has engendered a do-nothing complex . Any West German political initiative would require the radical alteration of Aclenauer 's policy of waiting for the Communist bloc to dissolve and for the Red Army to retreat behind the Oder . Failure by the Federal Government to exploit East Germany 's economic need may prove to be just another chance missed in the cold war . The West Germans , admittedly , have been preoccupied with their own troubles . One of these has been the three-legged race run by Dr. Adenauer 's Christian Democrats and their Free Democrat coalition partners . During the summer the government coalition began to creak badly . The Free Democrats complained that the government was failing to economize on federal expenditures and that Dr. Adenauer had intervened on the side of metalworkers and coal millers , who claimed and got major wage increases . The two parties argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and over government scandals . They attacked each other bitterly in the North Rhine ? Westphalia Land election in July , when they both lost votes to the opposition Social Democrats . The Free Democrats will not be contented partners as long as Dr. Adenauer stays in office , and they arc increasingly irked that he will try to prolong his term beyond the agreed date of October , 1963 . The fear of recession The West Germans are also worried by the possibility of economic recession . In mid-July Dr. Adenauer called an emergency D-mark conference of ministers and advisers . The labor shortage had become more pressing . There were 625,000 vacant jobs and fewer than 100,000 unemployed . More than 620,000 foreign workers were already in West Germany , but their further influx is limited by availability of housing . The labor shortage will become more acute next year and will be sharpened by the growth of absenteeism in industry . Meanwhile , the trade unions have been busily pressing demands for higher wages and shorter working hours . The wage level has risen 11 percent in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mark declined by 4 percent during the same period . The possibility of recession loomed larger as a result of the Schlieker scandal . The 48-year-old Willy Schlieker has in the last fifteen years built up a fifteen-firm steel , shipbuilding , and trading combine , which in 1961 had sales totaling $200 million . Schlieker was regarded as a genius . He made one big killing after another ? by selling steel and scrap to East Germany , by importing American coal during the Korean war , by securing a rent-free- lease of shipyards from the Hamburg city government , by inventing a new kind of ship through sawing old vessels in two and adding a " jumboizing " new midsection : Large-scale automation made his Ottenser shipyards the most efficient in Germany . His electrosteel plant at Neviges became the biggest in the Federal Republic . Because he kept his working capital far too small ( $5 million ) and invariably plowed back all profits into an expanding business , Schlieker ran short of liquid funds at a time when his shipyards were losing money . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Schlieker empire began to totter . The West German press claimed that this event seas " atypical " and " unique . " But within a week another shipyard ( admittedly , a small one ) , the Hanseatic , went bankrupt . A few days later the big Flensburger shipbuilding company passed its dividend . Two firms of a different sort , the Opal stocking company and the Buessing motorcar company , announced liquidation . West Germans began to consider other economic pointers with concern . The Federal Republic 's export surplus fell by more than half during the first six months of 1962 . For the first time in ten years the federal tax yield ran behind estimates , by around S75 million for the first half of the year . Behind these figures lurked the fear of creeping inflation , which has already produced a crisis for capitalism elsewhere in Europe . Nazi legacy On top of political and economic worries came an ugly jolt to West German prestige . In July the Federal State Prosecutor in the High Court at Karlsruhe , Dr. Wolfgang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had served on Nazi courts and had been involved in the sentencing to death of at least thirty-four people during the war . They included young Frenchmen and Belgians who had been deported to Germany as slave laborer ? . as well as Czechs , Poles , and Jews who had committed trivial offenses . In some cases the death sentence was substituted for imprisonment . Fraenkel was a meticulous , pettifogging jurist who faithfully administered Nazi laws and saw nothing wrong in doing so . And it was scandalous that such a man should have been appointed to one of the highest legal posts in the country in March of this year . Plenty of people knew something of Fraenkcl 's past , and the Ministry of Justice was culpably negligent in failing to examine his record . In addition to Fraenkel there were at least thirty judges and attorneys still serving in the West German judiciary who had passed death sentences of doubtful legality in Nazi courts . The worst feature of the situation was that the relevant information came from the East Germans , who arc in possession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West German judiciary has come too late . That does not mean that it is any the less welcome . Invitation for De Gaulle To turn to a happier theme for West Germany ? a visit to Bonn in the fall was arranged for General de Gaulle as a " return " for Dr. Adcnaucr 's supremely successful state visit to Paris in the summer . Occasions of this kind may be regarded by many people as mere formalities . But their symbolic value is still considerable . Who would have expected , a fete years ago , to sec a German Chancellor laying a wreath on the tomb of the unknown soldier at the Arc de Triomphe ? Or a French head of state receiving a rapturous welcome in the old Prussian garrison town of Bonn ? There has sometimes been a hint of contrivance about expressions of Franco-German solidarity . But the significance of the reciprocal visits of Adenauer and De Gaulle is that they could only be ventured in a strongly favorable climate , created out of mutual understanding and much good sense . Dr. Adenauer , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German unity , will probably find that the civilized world will look on Franco-German reconciliation as his supreme achievement . ALONG thousands of miles of central Asian borderlands , armed men face each other angrily across frontiers drawn in the days of the British raj . Those who drew them were primarily concerned with strategic considerations , especially the defense of the Indian subcontinent , and they also tried to take into account racial , economic , social , and political factors , and natural divisions , such as the Himalayan watershed . Two of the disputes have been settled to the apparent satisfaction of the countries concerned . Burma and Nepal have both agreed to border settlements with Communist China , and Pakistan and China have also begun negotiations . The India-China border disputes in Ladakh and the North-East Frontier Agency , the Indian and Pakistani dispute over Kashmir , and the Pakistani AA Afghan hassle over the nonexistent state of uunistan remain . The first is deteriorating steadily . The second seems insoluble . And the third has provided the Soviet Union with the matchless opportunity to create a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cause of the Afghan-Pakistani rift . Drawn after Britain 's second war with the Afghans in 1893 , its strength , so far as Britain was concerned , was that it left the Khyber Pass , the conqueror 's gateway to India , in British hands . This is a strength also appreciated by Pakistan , which in 1947 acquired the North-West Frontier Agency by plebiscite . The weakness was that by slicing through tribal territories , the boundary split the fierce and courageous Pathan , or Pushtu , people . Today about four million Pushtus live on the Pakistan side of the border , and about five million , of a total population of approximately thirteen million , in Afghanistan . Wanted : a window to the west Afghanistan , which says its representatives agreed to the Durand Line only under duress , argues that the 1947 plebiscite was improper , since it restricted the Pushtus ' choice to India and Pakistan . It wants to dissolve the frontier and to create a new state embracing all the Pushtus , who are spread to a depth of more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Full Afghan aspirations for Pushtunistan are even more ambitious . While they do not specifically include any Afghan territory , they embrace all of West Pakistan as far south as the Indus River and west to the borders of Iran and the Arabian Sea . Since Pushtunistan is really another word for Greater Afghanistan , its achievement would give the landlocked Afghans a much-wanted window to the west . As it is now , Afghanistan is denied access to Pakistan 's road and rail communications and port facilities , About the size of Texas , and split in two by the peaks of the Hindu Kush Mountains , Afghanistan is surrounded by Russia , China , Iran , and Pakistan . Deserts bar the way to Iran . Mountains limit contact with China . But the boundary line with the Soviet Union is more than seven hundred miles long . Part of it is demarcated clearly by the Oxus River , but elsewhere only stone frontier pillars mark the place where the tall , light-skinned Tadjiks cease to be Russians and become Afghans . The physical barriers separating Afghanistan from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two Muslim countries , sharing common developmental problems and fear of Communist intrusion into their religious societies , might have been friends as well as neighbors . But to this day , the Afghan elite believes that Britain 's policy was to keep Afghanistan weak and backward , and that Pakistan inherited this policy along with the tribal territories of India 's North-West Frontier . It is not open to argument that Afghanistan , only a decade ago , was both weak and backward . Without railways or navigable waterways , with fewer than 4000 miles of motorable roads and an even smaller number of civilian buses , trucks , and cars to run on them , it was a land of donkey pads and camel trains . A million and a half karakuls , the curly-haired skins of newborn lambs , accounted for most of its $35 million export income . Seventy percent of its population of between ten and twelve million lived in primitive mud-brick villages , built with high walls and watchtowers and loopholes for the defenders ' mostly homemade rifles . The rest were largely nomads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved back into the high pasturelands in Afghanistan only when the spring sun had melted the heavy snows . Fewer than a half million lived in the unsewered , unpaved , primitive towns , of which Kabul , the capital , with 200,000 people , was the largest and most advanced . ' Ihe country 's handful of doctors was quite inadequate to cope with rampant tuberculosis , malaria , and other endemic diseases . Fewer than a million people knew how to read or write , and everywhere the Muslim religion held dogmatic sway . It enveloped all women but the nomads in the shapeless ( gaga , which covered them from the crown of the head to the ankles , with only a latticed window for the eyes . It dictated social customs and modes of life . It was inflexible , conservative , harsh , and sometimes fanatic . Death was the penalty for adultery . Apostates from the Muslim religion could properly be killed . Today the changes taking place in Afghanistan are sweeping , impressive , and sometimes , in their cold-war context , alarming . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his slovenly appearance and homemade gun at the Khyber Pass now drives a Soviet T54 tank or cuts vapor swaths in a MIG-19 above the Hindu Kush . Women have discarded the borqa . Oil is gushing from new wells in the northeast . Glass , briquette , fruit-processing , textile , and fertilizer plants are in production . Fine new highways , already built or under construction , are linking the main towns and burrowing through the mountains . This is not to suggest that Afghanistan has taken one bound from medievalism into the twentieth century . Living standards are still primitive . Inflation has also brought corruption , especially among poorly paid government servants . In response to American pressure early this year , Pakistan opened the border to permit some SIO tnillion worth of heavy road-building equipment and other economic aid to enter Afghanistan . ' filen the frontier closed again to commercial traffic , leaving only the long , limited , and difficult route through Iran as Afghanistan 's pipeline to the west . For a period after World War II , the United States was Afghanistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export trade are primarily with the Soviet Union . The closing of the Pakistan border is , of course , the most important factor in this reorientation of Afghanistan 's trade . Time Kremlin tills the gap In 1955 , when the border closed for the first time , the Russians adopted the role of helpful neighbor and offered both supplies of gasoline to keep Afghanistan 's few dilapidated trucks on the road and long-terns transit rights . A year earlier they had agreed to provide a loan of $3.5 million for the construction of two granaries , a flour mill , and a bakery , and an additional $2.5 million for street improvements in Kabul . Approaches to the United States for similar assistance had not been well received . The U.S. view was that there were more urgent tasks to perform in Afghanistan , and that street improvement in Kabul did not rate as highly as assistance for agriculture ? in particular , for a slow-moving desert reclamation , resettlement , and power project in the Helmand Valley . Soviet aid was not taken very seriously by Americans in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gritty bread , and the Afghans ' least pressing needs were the Russian taxis which now appeared on Kabul 's newly surfaced streets . Afghanistan did not rate very high on Washington 's list of deserving causes , either . This was a period when investment in Pakistan as a military ally seemed a better bet than supporting Afghanistan 's irredentist and troublemaking royal oligarchy . The Soviet Union saw the opportunity and seized it . Radiating be- nevolence and goodwill , Khrushchev and Bulganin arrived its : Kabul its December , 1955 , with the offer of a $100 million loan , repayable over thirty years at 2 percent interest , This was only the first installment . Russian economic aid now totals more than 8300 million , with perhaps another $200 million pledged for the Second Five-Year Plan , which began in April of this year . ' fire figure for military aid is more difficult to determine . The Afghans claim they arc paying for their MIC19s and T54 tanks . Though the Russians have not given the Afghans all they asked for , they have given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the Pakistan border was closed for the second time , cutting off at a critical moment the traditional Pakistani and Indian markets for the Afghan vineyards , Russia lifted the entire grape crop to Tashkent in a fleet of transport planes . It was a million-dollar gesture words many millions in goodwill . Moscow has neither attempted to initiate a " sear of national liberation " nor ? openly , at least ? to Push Communism . It would be surprising if some of the civil and military technicians who have gone to the Soviet Union for training have not been subject to some ideological influence . But the Communist Party and all other political parties are banned in Afghanistan . Some of the Russian aid projects are spectacular , imaginative , and , though doubtless initiated with strategic interest in mind , are nevertheless of primary importance in the further development of Afghanistan . This is especially true of the Russian part in tier new 1300-mile highway system , which will link the interior towns and villages with the new factory areas , the market towns , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pieces , each separated from the others by jagged mountain peaks or burning deserts . The new roads will pull the country a little closer to the Soviet Union , but they will also mill the pieces together . Afghan officials ' feelings toward the Soviet Union are mixed . King . Mohammad Zahir Shall called the , Salang Pass road is " cherished dream . " Along with such dreams , however , there are a few nightmares , for the ultimate political dangers that may flow from economic dependence on the Soviet Union are obvious and understood . In this period of tremendous change in Afghanistan , standards , traditions , and loyalties are all in a state of flux . Afghan youth , with its new freedoms , is confused and uncertain as to where it is going . There is no serious overt or covert challenge to the power and authority of the ruling Yahya Khel clan , however . Since 1929 the family has ruled Afghanistan with much skill , a singular lack of public ostentation , and an extremely firm hand . One experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today the members are all carefully chosen before they are elected . Sardar Mohammad Daoud , the Prime Minister , who also holds the defense portfolio , is a member of the royal family , as are his deputies and the commerce and foreign ministers . They and other male members of the royal family are the policy makers . His ambition is to balance Soviet and Western aid , and the Second Five-Year Plan was delayed for some months earlier this year in the hope that the United States , with assistance from West Germany , might match the Soviet contribution . With ally Pakistan hostile and defiant on the Afghan question , and the only practicable overland route often closed or under the threat of closure , U.S. difficulties in helping the Afghans to preserve their neutrality are almost insurmountable . Pakistan has not forgotten that Afghanistan cast the only vote against it when it was up for membership in the United Nations in 1947 . Field Marshal Ayub Khan welcomed the Shah of Iran 's patient efforts to mediate in the dispute , but disapproves of Washington 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Afghanistan , and he is equally determined to continue tidying up his own frontier areas . Ayub is not impressed with the argument that this will drive Afghanistan into closer association with the Soviet Union , ON MAY 31 of this year a new nation , on the threshold of independence , the Federation of British West Indies , died by political suicide ; and one of the most imaginative experiments in peaceful transference from colonial dependency into economically viable statehood has ended in untidy ruin . The initiative for dismemberment sprang from the islands themselves , caused by the inherent difficulties of remoteness of one from another and by the political misjudgments or selfish ambitions of a handful of West Indian political leaders . Britain , wary of being pilloried again as it was in the case of the Central African Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland ? for allegedly enforcing political association on colonial peoples , however obvious the economic advantages to those concerned ? made no attempt to impose West Indian unity . Instead it relied with early success on letting the facts speak for themselves and giving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moments . After all , it has long been apparent , and is so today , that if any progress toward independence in more than name is to he made for all the small and scattered British Caribbean dependencies , association in one form or another remains the sole long-term answer . Only Jamaica and Trinidad have the capacity to go it alone , and these two islands are chiefly responsible for the failure of the concept of overall unity . The failure of a dozen scattered islands to form a single nation-state was driven home when Jamaica voted No last September to continued membership in the group on any conditions . What snakes it ironical is that constitutionally there was no need for the referendum that produced this fatal rebuff . The decision to bring about the federation had already been lawfully taken at its inception in 1958 . Instead of being a constitutional requirement , the decision to hold the referendum was the tactical maneuver of Norman W. Manley , then Prime Minister of Jamaica , who was pro-federation and was quietly confident of success , and who intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end to the constant hostile sniping of his chief political rival on the island , part-Irish , part-Negro Sir Alexander Bustamente . Swashbuckling " ' Basta , " as he likes to be called , who can fairly claim to be the most colorful of political personalities in a part of the world where they are plentiful , had no deep-rooted objection to federation . It was enough for him that ' his cousin , who had wrested power from bins at an earlier election , was in favor . Mr. Manley , a much more restrained individual than his flamboyant opponent , gauged too highly his own personal popularity and that of his party . ffle rated too low his cousin 's capacity to mobilize all Ise selfish fears and suspicions of the man in the street that Jamaica 's visions of a better life would be endangered by association with her yet poorer , smaller island neighbors . Basta made use too of the feeling prevalent at all levels of society that since Jamaica possesses more than 50 percent of the total population of the proposed federation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economically , instead of just a senior partner . Jamaica versus Trinidad This feeling , understandable though it may have been , took no account of the fact that any greater allocation of power to Jamaica would certainly never have been acceptable to Trinidad , which , despite the fact that its population is only half the size of Jamaica 's 1.6 million , never will he prepared to play second fiddle to Jamaica or any other Caribbean entity or grouping . It is this rivalry which snakes one question whether the federation as originally planned could have been held together under present circumstances . Trinidad , growing increasingly restive under the egotistical leadership of its nationalistic Premier , Dr. Eric Williams , had emphasized from the start that it would not share its comparatively rich resources with the impoverished Leeward and Windward Islands unless Jamaica paid a much bigger share of revenue to the central government for overall distribution than Mr. Manley and his colleagues were prepared to concede . Jamaican reluctance to impose fresh fiscal burdens on its new post-war sources of wealth can be readily understood . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long last brought about a substantial rise in the standard of living of people long inured to poverty . Jamaica 's vote against federation gave Trinidad the excuse to back out that Eric Williams had been waiting for ; and he took it , claiming with narrow justice that if Jamaica could go it alone , he , with a greater apparent economic potential , at least in mineral development , could do it still better . In this context , continued federation with the smaller islands was a hindrance which could reap neither economic nor political dividends . As first conceived , the aim of federation was " not only to include all Britain 's Caribbean island possessions but also to extend the federal umbrella to its mainland dependencies of British Guiana and British Honduras . However strong the arguments undoubtedly were , and are , for British Guiana , grossly underpopulated , with a huge undeveloped land area of 83,000 square miles and barely half a million inhabit to link up with other stalittursting at the seams with people , the chances that it would do so were never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the area , has a population in which East Indians manage just to outnumber those of Negro descent and all other smaller racial groups combined . While paying lip service to the ideals of association , the Indian political leaders of this colony have no intention of allowing themselves to be subordinated to a federal government in which Negroid peoploswauld predominate . As for British Honduras , a small British enclave in Central America , only officials impelled by a sense of unrealistic tidiness could ever have thought that it would wish to become politically involved with a far-off archipelago of Caribbean islands with which it never has had and never could have any true kinship at all . Picking up the pieces British Guiana and British Honduras being nonstarters , and Jamaica and Trinidad having withdrawn , the problem besetting both the U.K. government and the local peoples concerned is whether a possible alternative to complete disintegration might be found in some sort of political and economic association . No one pretends it could be other than a second best , but there are no good alternatives . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial status and exacerbate their already grave economic difficulties . The alternative of attachment to Canada on the pattern of Puerto Rico 's relationship with the United States has been mooted locally , but has not evoked any favorable response in Ottawa . One or two of the smaller islands nearest to Trinidad , notably Grenada , have been flirting with the idea of merger . Dr. Williams has seemed mildly interested , because this could gain him several thousand extra Negroid voters to offset the growing influence in his electorate of the large Asian community , which is inexorably moving toward numerical superiority , owing to its higher birth rate . However , the only price Dr. Williams seems prepared to pay is complete political submergence to Trinidad of any such smaller island dependencies , with not even the minimum degree of autonomy acceptable to them . The Little Eight In default of any better solution , the prospects are for a federal association between all the Leeward and Windward Islands , often referred to as the Little Eight , comprising Barbados , the largest ( 166 square miles ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federal capital , plus Dominica ( 305 square miles ; population 59,479 ) , St. Lucia ( 233 square miles ; population 86,194 ) , Antigua ( 171 square miles ; population 54,354 ) , St. Kitts-NevisAnguilla ( 152 square miles ; population 56,644 ) , St. Vincent ( 150 square miles ; population 80,005 ) , Grenada ( 133 square miles ; population 88,617 ) , and tiny Montserrat ( 32 square miles ; population 12,000 ) . These Eight may be small , but what they lack in size they certainly make up for in temperamental individuality and a blissful disregard for the economic facts of life . So long have they been accustomed to grants-in-aid and other forms of financial underpinning from the United Kingdom that there is an understandable reluctance to accept the fact that economic viability is an essential concomitant of true political sovereignty . Thus each one of the Little Eight insists that it must have , in addition to its elected representatives to the federal parliament and government , its own separate assembly and cabinet as well . Surely , it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nine legislative houses are a little excessive for three quarters of a million inhabitants of a total land area of 1342 square miles , with a net income of $31,326,400 a year and a chronic 20 percent annual deficit . ? However , because of the lack of any true bond of unity , the sole course open to Britain has been to try to secure agreement on a sensible concentration of responsibilities federally and to prune as much as possible of the heavy political trappings , and hope that time will bring a local realization of the costly folly of such excessive parochial nationalism . After all , it is not surprising that there should be such a tenuous sense of unity when one takes into account the hundreds of miles of sea separating the islands , which prevented any significant social contact between them until the advent of the airplane . History too has played a significant role in their strongly individualistic outlooks . Barbados and Antigua alone have always been under British influence . Actually the former island is often referred to as Little England and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is devoted to cricket and other British institutions . All the other islands indeed had a turbulent past between the time of their discovery by Columbus at the end of the fifteenth century and the imposition of unchallenged British supremacy at the beginning of the                     