@@488071

Mr. Walton was the principal Voice of America correspondent at the United Nations for five years . He then resigned to write The Remnants of Power The Tragic Last Year of Adlai Stevenson ( Coward-McCann ) . He is now at work on a study of the foreign policy of President Kennedy , to be published by Viking Press . A symbol of peace , the glass tower of the United Nations Secretariat building stands tall and splendid alongside New York 's East River . There and in the other modernistic buildings clustered around it , international civil servants and delegates from 126 countries go about their business : peace . The idealism of this place and these people draws hundreds of thousands of visitors each year , for the UN has become one of the world 's great tourist attractions . At a time when the world is eager for the peace it so seldom sees , they come to visit the halls of peace and most of them leave with a sense of uplift , even inspiration . So it was meant to be . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and even busier , there is in these halls , undetected by the casual visitor , a deep and pervasive melancholy . It has come not because the United Nations often fails to find peace . What else but frequent failure can be expected in the quest for a goal that has eluded man since his first days on earth ? Failure can be borne , but what can not be borne is the growing fear that the United Nations is irrelevant . This institution , conceived in faith , often called " the last great hope of mankind , " this institution born in the waning days of a cataclysmic general war , founded " to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war , " seems to be consigned to the most futile and frustrating of fates , empty ritual . There are more meetings than ever , the documents pile higher than ever , the parties continue their endless round . But what is the purpose ' ) To try , to fail , to try again ; no one can ask more of man or institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disillusioned Indian , " a glass house growing hothouse plants , " would undermine the morale of any but the most bureaucratic . The UN , after all , is nothing but the reflection of the world it is supposed to represent , and how does its highest officer , Secretary-General U Thant , see the world ? He said in his 1968 annual report : " There has been a serious decline in the standards of international ethics and morality , with states relying increasingly on force and violence as a means of resolving their international differences . This tendency to return to force as a means of national policy strikes at the very basis of the United Nations ; just settlement is sacrificed to superior might . . . If this trend is not reversed , and if the principle of nonintervention in the free destiny of nations is not re-established , the future of international peace vad security itself is indeed a very dark one . " 440 That was a year ago . Has there been an improvement since ? U Thant opened his 1969 report as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterioration of the international situation . . . has continued . " And the Secretary-General said later : " Furthermore , I have a strong feeling time is running out . This is true as much in regard to international peace and security , including disarmament , as it is true for economic and social development " And the new president of the General Assembly , Miss Angie Brooks of Liberia , used such phrases as these in her opening address : " the gradual decline of the United Nations m the eyes of public opinion . . . the delusion that we are doing our best . . . . " She went on to say . " The sense of satisfaction , upon adoption of a resolution pleasing the purposes of one delegation or of a homogeneous group of delegations , has helped to perpetuate the mythology of achievement , so that many of us tend to go happily from one agenda item to the next without seriously considering the possibility or even probability that the resolution adopted will not be implemented . " Why this gloom ? Almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U Thant that the responsibility for the grim situation rests primarily with the United States and Russia . The two nations most important in creating the UN have in recent years not only disregarded the principles on which it is based but have brushed aside such attempts as it has made to influence them in its role of international keeper of the peace . Again , U Thant 's words : " It is , certainly , a frightening commentary on the ominous state of world affairs that one superstate or the other can become exercised to the point of resorting to military action because of the liberalization of a regime in a small country like Czechoslovakia , or because of an internal upheaval in another small state , such as the Dominican Republic . . . . It is . .. a dismal outlook for the small and militarily weak states of the world  --  as the overwhelming majority of states are  --  if they can hope to control their own affairs only insofar as they do nothing to displease a powerful neighbor . " Extraordinary words for Thant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Secretary-General impossible . There is a lovely irony in this situation . In April 1965 , when American troops poured into Santo Domingo to crush the rebellion intended to return the democratically elected Juan Bosch to the Presidency , the Soviet Union burst out in righteous indignation against the United States in the Security Council , only to have the United States tell the Council to mind its own business , that the question was a matter solely for the Organization of American States , a puppet of the United States . And when Russian troops poured into defenseless Czechoslovakia , a righteous United States condemned the Rus- . THE NATION/October 27 , 1969 mans in the Security Council , only to have the Russians tell the Council to mind its own business , that the question was an internal matter solely for the Warsaw Pact , a puppet of the USSR . But if it is possible at the UN to equate Russia in Czechoslovakia with the United States in the Dominican Republic , there is nothing to balance against the American intervention in Vietnam . This intrusion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations into despair For years , as the casualties mounted , the UN has been forced to watch from the side lines ; an organization whose raison d ' ? tre is the maintenance and restoration of peace could do no more than wring its hands . This distressed a number of Americans , including many who , though they should have known better , kept calling on the UN to act . But everyone at the UN knew that it was totally powerless . In the first place , the United States , certain that its domination of the Security Council would prevent any major embarrassment , went before that body solely to make propaganda statements . Further , it was apparent to the delegations that North Vietnam and China would not , could not , permit the UN to play a substantial role as long as they were not members . Nonetheless , U Thant for years sought behind the scenes to arrange peace talks . When he got Hanoi 's consent to private talks , the United States shrugged off the arrangement . Despite these rebuffs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bore him out , that America had only to halt the bombing of North Vietnam to get prompt peace talks . However , Vietnam and Czechoslovakia and the Dominican Republic are only part of the story ; the UN 's problems are still more profound . Its writ is supposed to run the world over , but look at the map . From the day World War II ended , the great powers declared Europe out of bounds for the UN . The Monroe Doctrine has effectively kept North and South America outside its jurisdiction . With Communist China not a member , the UN 's influence in Asia is marginal . That leaves only the Middle East and Africa . And the Middle East is a snake pit with neither Israelis nor Arabs , Americans nor Russians able to contribute to the area 's stability . With Vietnam the UN can offer at least the legalistic excuse that North Vietnam and South Vietnam and China are not members , but what can it plead with respect to the Middle East ? Israel is a creation of the UN , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Israel and its Arab neighbors are all members and thus pledged to settle differences peacefully . But again , the UN must stand idle as the Middle East seems to slide inevitably toward catastrophe Thus only Africa remains . The UN played a major role in hastening the pell-mell rush of African nations to independence in the early years of the decade , but that is now over . Almost all of Africa , except the bedrock racist southern tip , is today ruled by Africans . And with the racists the UN has made absolutely no progress in years of anguish . By overwhelming majorities the UN has passed hundreds of resolutions directed to South Africa , Southern Rhodesia and Portuguese-ruled Angola and Mozambique . They are ignored THE NATioN/October 27 , 1969 by those to whom they are directed land dismissed as " unrealistic " by the United States , Britain , France and their ' allies . Unrealistic they certainly are , for these resolutions often call on the Western industrial nations to back up with political and economic action their always eloquent pleas for self-determination by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to expect the industrial nations to risk their investments and trade for the sake of the dignity , even the lives of the blacks of southern Africa . To the dismay of the African delegates , President Nixon in his empty speech of September 18 to the General Assembly did not even mention Africa . And the Russians offer almost unbounded verbal support , but little else . The result is obvious . Without the active support of the industrial nations , UN action would be worse than ineffective ; it would be a joke . But what is the UN to do- overlook cruel injustice ; or try to act , only to be stymied by the very nations that founded it ? Thus many African and Asian delegates have become bitter ? and worse , apathetic and complaisant . Some tactics whereby the Afro-Asian bloc rams through the General Assembly resolutions on such pet questions as colonialism and South African racism . But cynically or foolishly , they confuse rhetoric with action , for these resolutions are usually without real effect . Huge Afro-Asian majorities notwithstanding , power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resides with the great powers . It is true , however , that the Afro-Asian bloc contributes much less than it could , that it seldom uses what power it has . The Afro-Asian group , joined by such relatively disinterested nations as the Scandinavians , Canada , Ireland and a few others , could raise a powerful voice . Economic and military power , to be sure , would still be limited , but if such a large group spoke out with a single voice for peace and reason , if it challenged with common sense and human concern the hypocrises of the great powers , if it proposed realistic but imaginative solutions , the UN could at least , in Thant 's words , be " a vigorous and articulate third force which could serve as the voice of conscience and mankind . " That would be no little achievement . But although the Afro-Asian bloc can pull together on certain colonial , racial and economic issues , it is seldom able to do so on other great issues . Perhaps its members fail to see why they as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disputes of the great powers , perhaps they take a certain understandable satisfaction from great power discord , perhaps they do n't want to jeopardize economic or political aid from one or the other of the superpowers , or perhaps they just see no point in trying . It often seems that the Afro-Asian delegations are content to live in their seductively pleasant but make-believe world on the East River , perhaps because the real world outside those immense glass windows is so inhospitable . But it is one world and if the weaker nations wo n't even try to work together on all issues for the purposes of the Charter , they must share with the 441 . great powers some of the blame for the UN 's impotence . Only if the Afro-Asian group can rise above the diplomatic busy-work referred to by Angie Brooks can it make more than a parochial contribution to the UN and world peace . One such empty ritual is the annual debate on the seating of Commumst China . There is absolutely nothing more vital to the United Nations , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society . U Thant has often said in private , and less bluntly in public , that the absence of China harms the UN in every sphere of its activity . Yet even though the importance of China 's presence is beyond question , the annual debate has become perfunctory , a disagreeable chore rather than a great issue . Last November , as before in recent years , it was accomplished quickly , with little passion or conviction , even without much canvassing for votes , except possibly in a routine way by the United States and Nationalist China . Everyone knows that as long as the United States wants China kept out , it will be kept out ; the merits of the case are thus irrelevant and not worth anyone 's excitement . Since America 's grip on its client states , mostly in Latin America but with a few others scattered elsewhere , shows no sign of being weakened by the Vietnamese debacle , it is a matter of waiting until the United States changes its mind  --  if it ever does . The bitter humor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blocked China 's legitimate claim to a seat in 1949 , the Korean War might never have taken place , and would almost certainly not have assumed such disastrous proportions . And since American fear of China was plainly behind the U.S. intervention m Vi tram . it is possible that that political , military and moral disaster could have been avoided if China had been a member of the family of nations . That is not to say that only the United States wants China kept out . A good many nations have settled comfortably into the UN club and fear , with good reason , that China 's presence would upset the pleasant routine . They have visions of grim , implacable Chinese stalking the halls in their Mao suits , insisting in the extreme language of Radio Peking that the UN mend its ways , that it stop kowtowing to Washington and Moscow , that it encourage revolution . Some say that Chinese representation would mean a return for at least a decade to the bitter language of the worst days of the cold war . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would at least bring some life to the UN . To quote Earl Foell , the able Los Angeles Tones correspondent , " the United Nations is more likely to die of gentility than of adversity . " But since President Nixon , no friend of China , can not be expected to do an about-face ( although his anti-Communist reputation gives him much more freedom of maneuver than any Democratic President would have had ) , the presence of China will remain a matter for academic discussion . All this would seem to be enough woe for the still young United Nations ( although at 24 it has already outlived the effective life of the League of Nations ) , but there is much more . In the 20th century , political problems always mean financial problems as well , as the UN has learned to its sorrow Only an accountant can make real sense out of the UN 's complicated bookkeeping , but it is no overstatement to say that the world organization is almost broke . Much of the difficulty stems from the contention of Russia and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the General Assembly assessments for the Congo and Middle East operations were illegal because they had not been approved by the Security Council . These nations stuck to this position even though the International Court of Justice in an advisory opinion called the assessments mandatory . The resulting deadlock caused the General Assembly to be almost completely paralyzed in 1964-65 . When finally a compromise ended the political crisis , Russia and France agreed to make " voluntary " contributions to end the ' associated financial crisis . But four years later they have not paid up . In any case , there is still no agreement  --  despite six years of talks since the crisis began  --  on how to finance future peace-keeping operations . If the UN were to take on another expensive operation , it would have to improvise a method of payment , as it has done in Cyprus . For five years the UN has maintained a force on the island , keeping peace between the Greek and Turkish Cypriots . This time , the force was established by the Security Council . but because there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to rely on contributions . How adequately they support what is , after all , a collective effort is indicated by the UN 's Cyprus deficit of about $12 million at mid-December 1968 . This inability to agree on how peace keeping is to be paid for is a crippling handicap , for the membership will not be eager to take on another expensive effort without knowing how the bills are to be met . And if circumstances make it imperative that the UN act swiftly , without agreement on financing , the subsequent haggling can only weaken the organization still further Money is behind another of the UN 's great disappointments . On September 25 , 1961 , President Kennedy appeared before the General Assembly and proposed that the 1960s be officially designated the United Nations Development Decade Within three months the General Assembly had adopted the idea unanimously The hope was that the rich and poor nations would work together to raise to decent levels the lives of the millions in underdeveloped nations The goal was for each industrial nation to devote 1 per cent of its national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over and the project , launched with such hope , has been an utter failure There are many reasons the enormity of the problems , the lack of competent direction in the recipient nations , the scarcity of trained personnel , inflation . But the major reason has been the failure of the rich countries to provide enough money . The United States , richest of all nations and the one that invented foreign aid as we know it , has been the most serious defaulter . It is only thirteenth in percentage of national income devoted to official and private aid It contributes barely half of the proposed quota , 0.57 per cent , with some of that going for military aid . ( For whatever consolation it may offer , Russia 's performance is still more niggardly ) It seems almost certain that foreign aid will shrink even more under President Nixon . We near a time when responsible statesmen , not Cassandras , foresee not only that the gulf between rich nations and poor will grow wider but that there will be widespread famines , famines of Biblical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase in food production , remarkable as it is , can not keep pace with the exponential growth of the world 's population . Yet while the rich industrial nations grow richer , aggravating the inevitable hatred of the have-nots , their own societies disintegrate . That is why C. P. Snow said at Westminster College last November : " I have been nearer despair this year , 1968 , than ever in my life . " But this is a commonplace at the UN where the poor nations , by far the most numerous , have been telling the rich for years that they desperately need help . To be sure , the rich make some response , but whether in commodity and tariff agreements or in funds for capital investment in public projects , it is almost always too little and too late . The industrial nations , whatever they may say , are still interested in the poor nations primarily as suppliers of cheap raw materials and as markets for manufactured exports . The United States , obsessed by the doctrine of free enterprise , is forever advising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital . Many countries do so , but private capital is interested in quick , high profits in the private sector and will seldom invest in schools , roads , hospitals , public transportation systems , the infra-structure so essential to a nation seeking economic viability . So in economics as in politics the poor nations at the UN feel themselves the victims of hypocrisy . THE NATioN/October 27 , 1969 Although the bulk of the UN 's major problems , are caused by the policies of its member states , a good many have their roots in the institution itself . One would think that the UN might generate an excitement that would attract the young , the imaginative , the innovators . It may have been so in its early years , but today even though it is not completely without such appeal , it certainly does not match Washington in the early days of the New Deal or in the first weeks of the Kennedy administration There is nothing like the Peace Corps in the UN and if a young idealist wants to change the world , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , middle-aged organization that wants to do good without rocking any boats And it is certainly no magnet for the brightest young people being graduated from American universities . They know how difficult it is to get anything original through an international bureaucracy , past the great powers and past a majority of 126 member states whose collective views act as a sieve to winnow out all but the most conventional ideas . Nor do young American idealists fancy being fingerprinted and subjected to a security check by the FBI , which has long had free access to the UN There are , to be sure , a few swingers around the UN but their influence is social not political . If that makes the UN sound like any other bureaucracy , the impression is essentially correct True , it provides a cosmopolitanism seldom found elsewhere ; its friendliness and altruism would be most surprising in other governmental bureaucracies ; and its physical surroundings are so beautiful as to be seductive . Yet most of the 5,000 or so employees have become increasingly submerged in routine , insulated by growing walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's a clich ? to bewail the proliferation of paper work in the modern world , but at the UN the bulk is awesome , as impossible to comprehend as the distance to Sirius , the Dog Star In 1968 the UN print shop produced 525 823,676 pages , the equivalent of 2 million books ( Continued on page 454 ) 443 UNITED NATIONS ( Continued from page 443 ) ? and more were printed commercially . Nearly a quarter million pages were translated into various languages . Much of this verbal inundation originated in the 2,580 meetings held by delegates . The number of individual speeches is beyond calculation , and since many of the speakers regard their words as imperishable , most of the meetings are transcribed verbatim or in extensive summaries . They are also recorded on audio tape ( in several languages ) and often on video tape . And this is just the output of headquarters . Even more meetings ( 3,331 ) were held at the UN 's European office , the old League of Nations headquarters in Geneva ; others at various permanent UN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of these meetings are useful , but many others are self-generating and trivial . There seems to be no way to stop the flood . The Secretary-General has pleaded with the delegates to curb their passion for meetings , the delegates themselves agree that restraint is necessary , but there seems to be no one with the courage to stand up and say that a meeting proposed by a colleague is unnecessary . So they increase , even though there is n't enough physical space for them , even though trained personnel to service them , particularly interpreters , is not available , even though , despite incredible efforts , the UN Secretariat can not keep up with the necessary documentation . It is no wonder then that the UN is hoping to expand dramatically beyond its original 18 acres . The plans are not modest . They include a 3-acre park to be built on pilings in the East River , a square block for office and storage space , a large part of a block for the new hnme of the united Nations International and 2 blocks for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotel space for UN delegations  --  all at a cost of more than $50 million . Most of this expansion can , no doubt , be justified , for the UN has grown in membership by two and a half times since 1945 , its members constantly give it new tasks in the economic - land social fields , and it does not offer enough social and recreational facilities for the members , many of whom are Africans and Asians who do not feel welcome in the city . But it does seem ironic that at a time when the UN grows increasingly hollow at the center , it should grow more luxuriant at the edges . This bleak pidture is far from meaning that the United Nations is without use . The nations of the world want it , not only as the embodiment of an ideal that most peoples cherish but because it has achieved real successes , some permanent , some temporary : the Congo , the Middle East m 1948 and 1956 , Korea perhaps , Kashmir , the independence of most of Africa , the nuclear test-ban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons from Latin America and from space , and the treaty to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons . And despite a desperate shortage of money , the UN has done important and often overlooked work in the economic and social fields . Employing about 65 per cent of its budget and 80 per cent of its staff , the UN is building a tradition of international cooperation thatthe theorists  --  and U Thant -- hope will gradually begin to influence the political field . The United Nations has still other uses . It is not the conscience of the world , for a committee can not be a conscience ; yet the Secretary-General , because of his unique constituency , can sometimes serve such a role and U Thant often does . However it is by no means evident that his diplomatic thrusts have had any influence in major capitals . Indeed , the chances are that Thant has occasioned anger more often than action . But if the UN can not directly influence the actions of the superpowers , its very presence serves to modify them . Or as one long-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outraged nation to cry help and the very cry sometimes frightens the robber " Who knows what the Russians might , have done if they had not been hailed before the Security Council ? And where else could Czechoslovakia have made its brief but poignant protest ? Also the UN undoubtedly had some beneficial influence on developments in the Cuban missile crisis , in the Dominican Republic , in Suez , and even in Vietnam , for the great powers can not completely ignore the assembled voices of the nations of the world , even if voices can not stand up against armies . The UN is sometimes dismissed as Just a forum , no more than a diplomatic stock exchange , but even that is useful . How else could almost all the nations of the world be in immediate diplomatic contact , thus improving the chances of avoiding crises based on misunderstanding2 The UN is also indispensable for sealing agreements and giving them added weight and validity . It is one thing for a couple of nations to make a bilateral agreement , but if the UN becomes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compliance . , Adso ( and this is no small matter ) , the UN allows a nation to compromise in an international dispute , when otherwise it would appear to be backing down U Thant 's appeal to both sides to avoid a physical confrontation in the Cuban missile crisis allowed Khrushchev to pull back , claiming he was responding to Thant 's request and not to Kennedy 's ultimatum . Having acknowledged all this , the blunt fact remains that the UN is not in the mainstream of big- power international politics , Although it was born in the belief that balance of power politics and spheres of influences would become anachronisms , these twenty-four years have proved the visionaries wrong . The old brutal realities still exist and show no signs of departing . Collective security does not work because the powerful nations will not let it work . Their interpretation of national interest is too narrow . Thus hopes too long deferred have led to disillusion . There is nothing wrong with the UN that the United States and . Russia could not change overnight , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But in the immediate future they will neither respond to the collective will nor surrender their sovereignty , and without one concession or the other the UN is impotent . Meanwhile , the machinery of peace remains , waiting to be used . Until it is used , as one observer put it , " the United Nations is Like the Church in the Dark Ages . "                     