@@494325

In Washington today it is considered " square " to be greatly alarmed over the influence of lobbying or the spread of monopoly . These are regarded by many as the conceits of a simpler day , outmoded by present countervailing pressures from business , labor and consumers . To those who hold this view James Deakin is a square . Twelve years as a Washington correspondent for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch have convinced him that lobbying is a growing , not a diminishing , danger to our form of government . Contending pressure groups do not exert equal , or nearly equal , power on government . Monopoly industrial power so far outweighs the other forces at work that organized lobbying advances the greatest good of a select few most of the time , Deakin 's investigations disclose . This comes as no surprise to those who have read , let alone studied , the Lobbying Act of 1046 which Congress passed to reform the system . Its purpose was to establish rules of fair play in the lobbying trade . Few people today , including Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad and should be outlawed , as Justice Hugo Black advocated when he was a senator . The last Congress to legislate reforms in 1.046 sought instead to distinguish the professional lobbyist from the private citizen petitioning his government . The authors of the 1046 measure therefore limited its application to those whose principal purpose ( my italics ) is to influence legislation for pay . In order to pass their bill , its sponsors bargained for votes by agreeing to make no mention of what lobbyists could or could not do within the law . What finally went on the books was the sole requirement that lobbyistsfor-hire register with the Congress , report their income and its sources and how much of it they spend in lobbying . Twenty years of life under this puny law has produced predictably puny results . As Deakin reports : " The private interest lobby operates without any effective rules or limitations . There is a lobbying law , but it is a mockery . " The Lobbyists is largely given over to documenting that charge . The phrase " principal purpose " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associations and their employers . Washington representatives of those organizations immediately claimed exemption on the ground that direct lobbying of members of Congress is only part , not the principal purpose , of their work . Some of the most active and influential operators on Capitol Hill have successfully declined to register under the Lobbying Act , using this legal alibi . To those who could not get through the " principal purpose " escape hatch , the Supreme Court opened a wider exit in 1954 . The 15146 Lobbying Act as drawn applies only to direct pressure on members of Congress , the Court ruled in US v fiarriss , That made life sweet and easy for those who make a living building up pressure at the " grassroots " ? wherever that may be ? for one well-heeled cause or another . Mr. Deakin details what the Court decision plus the vagaries of the 1046 Act have made possible for the enterprising lobbyist . Item : The President of E. I. du Pont , Crawford W. Greenewalt , personally pounded congressional corridors for three months to put through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Most congressmen and administration officials of any importance to his cause received the honor of a call from Greenewalt during that time . His bill passed and President Kennedy signed it . But Mr. Greenewalt 's name never appeared on the Lobby Registry . He is not paid for the " principal purpose " of lobbying , du Pont officials explained . Item : The top-ranking Hill &; Knowlton public relations firm directed the " grassroots " campaign to kill the drug regulation bill for its drug industry clients . It also ran the grassroots pressure push on behalf of natural gas producers to exempt them from federal regulation . But Hill &; Knowlton has not registered as lobbyist for any of its clients since 195o . " Grassroots lobbying " is not covered by the 1046 Lobbying Act . Item : The National Association of Manufacturers has not reported under the Lobbying Act since 1950 either . Yet three-fifths of its budget annually goes to grassroots lobbying or opinion formation . The Lobbying Act does not tell the public , or Congress , how many lobbyists are in business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , feeble intent of the law . Slightly more than a thousand are registered ; those who know say they number five times that . Lobby spending reported to Congress in 1964 was $4.2 million . The true figure was closer to $1 billion , the same sources estimate . Deakin is too wise in the ways of the world to believe that tightening the disclosure law will accomplish much . What he hopes , one gathers , is that more facts about the effects of lobbying will inspire the public to the moral indignation that stirred him to write his book . For a starter in this direction Deakin points out that , " The majority of Americans pay more taxes than they should because of special privileges arranged by lobbyists for wealthy individuals and powerful corporations . " Deakin estimates we pay a billion dollars more in taxes than we should because of dividend withholding , pay a 6,000 percent markup on prescription drugs because of the victory of the drug lobby in Congress . These and other consumer facts Deakin cites may be attention-getters but they are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had thought twice before limiting The Lobbyists to the hired hands who operate in the marble halls of Congress . How exciting it would be to read in the same authentic detail he devotes to lobbying in Congress the story of what the special interest men do day-by-day downtown in Washington where the big spending goes on . The Lobbying Act now in effect cov-ers only Congress . " Considering the tremendous pressures on the Executive Branch ? especially the Defense Department ? and the federal regulatory agencies , this is a staggering defeat , " Mr. Deakin notes . The Lobbyists brings up to date and redefines the continuing problem of special interest pressure on Congress . It does not bring up to date the larger problem of how far those pressures have spread into the pockets of power in Executive Washington ? the new frontier for lobbyists.                     