@@270747

After a few days delay to conceal the workings of their detection systems , U.S. authorities began last week to release a few details about the 30-megaton nuclear test in the Soviet Arctic . A 30-megaton explosion is not easy to hide . The island of Novaya Zemlya adjoins the international waters of the Barents Sea , and U.S. airplanes were presumably cruising near the Soviet test range . U.S. submarines were probably watching through periscopes , just as Russian submarines keep track of U.S. rocket shots from Cape Canaveral . Besides such eye and camera witnesses , the U.S. had a varied array of instruments to measure vibrations in the earth , air and ocean . The light given off by the explosion can tell a great deal about the size , height and development of the fireball . Analysis of the radioactive residue caught by filters on high-flying airplanes can reveal the composition of the Russian explosive and trace its nuclear reactions . <P> Local Fallout . Not much of this information has been made public , but besides estimating the power of the Russian blast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it took place at 12,000 ft. above the ground . The bomb was carried aloft by a rocket , perhaps , or , more likely , suspended from a captive balloon . However it was hoisted , the bomb 's height was carefully chosen to minimize local fallout . If the fireball did not touch the ground before it stopped expanding , little or none of its radioactive material would mix with pulverized soil blown out of its massive crater . <P> Soviet citizens living south of the test area have reason to hope that the fireball actually did clear the ground . If it did , most of its fission products were carried into the stratosphere , from which they will fall gradually over several years , covering a broad zone around the Northern Hemisphere . If the fireball touched the ground , its local fallout would seriously contaminate a cigar-shaped region many hundreds of miles downwind . U.S. weathermen calculated that the north winds blowing just after the Soviet test would carry local fallout southward into Soviet Russia down to the latitude of Leningrad . <P> Unwelcome Cloud . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surely created some fission products that stayed below the stratosphere to drift with the winds of the lower atmosphere until rain or snow brought them down . By studying their charts , U.S. meteorologists figured that this cloud of tropospheric fallout moved southward into Russia , then swung eastward to cross Siberia . At week 's end , it was heading across to the U.S. ( see map ) near Oregon and Idaho where rain was expected to wash some of its radioactive debris to earth . <P> The cloud crossing U.S. territory may or may not have lost most of its radioactive intensity . There was no immediate reason for alarm , said the U.S. Public Health Service , but the PHS is taking no chances . The unwelcome cloud , and all the clouds that may follow it , will be watched attentively . U.S. air , water , milk and other foodstuffs will be examined continuously for a possibly dangerous content of Soviet radioactivity.                     