@@494319

DECEMBER 10 , 1966 worth their while to examine the possibility of joint action by the two superpowers to provide both guaran ? tees and anti-missile protection to nonaligned nations such as India . In the technology of area defense against missile attack the United States and the Soviet Union are probably not far apart . And they have demon ? strated a common interest in ending proliferation of nuclear weapons and in protecting India . Such cooperation might even , some day , extend to the Central European front . There is much broader national support behind Brit ? ain 's new drive to get into the European Common Market at " a hell of a pace " ( the phrase is Harold Wilson 's ) than in 1962-63 , and a far greater expecta ? tion of failure . The prime minister 's assertion that " we mean business " was followed up with columns of applause from businessmen and editorial writers flanked by dispatches from Paris stating dogmatically that nothing is changed and General de Gaulle 's veto " still stands . This has left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prompt appearance in its midst of Paul Henri Spaak , the retired " Mr. Europe " who crossed the Channel to tell first a private meeting of Labour MPs and then the influential Foreign Affairs Club that Britain should lose not a moment in enter ? ing the Community , and that she should join forces with true ( i.e. federalist ) Europeans in challenging every one of President de Gaulle 's characteristic pol ? icies and attitudes , even to the point of helping France 's partners to reopen the terms and conditions of the common agricultural policy . British ministers are very far from taking it for granted that they are going to be blackballed , and there are some reasons for thinking they may be right . Pace M. Spaak , the fact that the Community 's common agricultural policy ( CAP ) has at last been settled , since July , as between the Six is one of them . This is a very substantial achievement since a CAP has never hitherto been a feature of a customs union between independent states , the very reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own agri ? cultural provisions in much detail . For France , how ? ever , the sharing Sy others of the expense of sub sidizing the replacement of her peasant economy by a commercial agriculture which would supply a conti ? nental market and export its surpluses to the world on a two-price system was the essential counterpart of dropping her traditionally high industrial protection . Now that the French are satisfied , they will no doubt make a great point about a new member 's needing to accept all the Community 's decisions as well as the original Treaty of Rome rules . Everyone who has been through the awesome experience of drawing up the agricultural decisions will surely , despite M. Spaak , be very keen to avoid a replay . This is advice which Messrs . Wilson and Brown , on their projected Grand Tour of the capitals of the Six to see what the pros ? pects of negotiation really are , will probably get not only in Brussels but also in Bonn . What would rather take the wind out of these Gaullist sails @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common agricultural policy , merely requesting a seven-year transitional period to move from one system of farm support to the other . ( Such a transition is so much in accordance with the Community 's standard procedure that not even France would challenge the principle , though there would be arguments about stages and total length . ) It is cer ? tainly a clumsy system from the British point of view , raising food prices to the consumer , giving excessive incentives to some farm products ( mainly wheat , milk and beef cattle ) while lowering the return to British farmers for others ( pigs , eggs , chicken , fruit and vegetables ) , and involving an extremely awkward addi ? tional payment in foreign exchange of some $600 ? million'a year in levies collected on food Britain would still need to import from outside the Community . It would also be disobliging to the Australian and Ca ? nadian exporters , who would find themselves discrim ? inated against by more high-priced European rivals . ( New Zealand which would be sunk by a literal appli cation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French , consent be specially taken care of . ) But although Wilson has been muttering about " safeguarding essential British and Commonwealth interests , " the strong impression in London is that he has looked hard at all these drawbacks and , recogniz ? ing them to be disagreeable but finding them out ? weighed by the positive economic merits of British membership , has decided , if needs must , to swallow the lot . There is a second sense in which the completion of the CAP may be of help . The delay over this had for years been holding up the Kennedy Round trade negotiations in Geneva . If it had continued unsettled a month or two longer there would have been no possibility of beating the July 1 , 1967 deadline set by the US Congress for the expiry of the Trade Expansion Act which gives the President wide tariff-cutting au ? thority . Timing of the new British initiative , after the CAP was completed and just in advance of the major bargaining sessions in Geneva , will , it is hoped , enable many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations to be dealt with in ad ? vance at a world level . This is important because the general impression in European capitals is that the slimmer the agenda at any future round of negotiations on British entry , the less opportunity for de Gaulle 's men to filibuster , obfuscate , prove to all that Britain was not psychologically " ready " to go European . A second major point in Britain 's favor this time as compared with 1963 that the Nassau agreement be ? tween Macmillan and Kennedy , which , as General de Gaulle recently confirmed , was the immediate cause of his use of the veto , has to all intents and purposes petered out . The Labour Party was actually committed by its 1964 election platform to " renegotiate " the agreement . It did not literally succeed in doing so , because , for one thing , four of the five Polaris missile systems for Britain were too advanced for cancellation . But presumably the aspect of Nassau which de Gaulle found most objectionable was the British agreement to a multilateral nuclear force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committed . This , he considered , made Britain a military satellite of the United States and thus disqualified her for European status . Fortunately the Labour government 's project for an Atlantic Nuclear Force ( ANF ) which was designed to honor the pledge to " renegotiate " has worked like an anti-missile missile . It has blown up the idiotic MLF ( Multilateral Nuclear Force ) while blowing itself up in the process . Technically the two stricken projects are still before the NATO governments . But they are no longer alive enough to constitute even for General de Gaulle a presentable reason for barring Britain . It is , of course , true that the cancellation of a num ? ber of advanced British military aircraft and the de ? cision to buy American instead may have confirmed de Gaulle in his former opinion . But as against this there have been in recent years a mounting number of joint Anglo-French aircraft projects in various stages of talk or action , the supersonic transport Concord being the most sensational and furthest advanced . And according to the doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F-1115 to be pur ? chased from the US are only meant to fill a gap in time before the projected Anglo-French swing-wing planes are ready to replace them . It is the French who have now begun to throw doubts on this project be ? cause of leaping cost estimates and the competing strains of their nuclear program . The Pooling of Technology This leads to the third factor that might help ease negotiations : the acute awareness of all West Euro ? pean countries , including Britain and France , of the alarming gulf opening up between American levels of investment in research and technology and those of the European states put together . Americans are out ? spending Europeans in developing the sophisticated products of tomorrow by a ratio of about four-to-one every year . The result is that in the second , science-based industrial revolution Europe may be nowhere , and that before long all the major growth industries in Europe may be owned by Americans . Here Britain is in a position to make a major contribution ; inadequate though her research and development record is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; she possesses skill and inventive power in excess of the scale of her present home market . It was therefore sound psychology on the part of Harold Wilson to couple his announcement of a new British initiative in Europe with a proposal for a tech ? nological community . On the other hand , defense procurement is so intimately bound up with the high levels of research in the US and the Soviet Union that one wonders how the full benefits of a tech ? nological community are to be achieved unless there is a common European defense policy . The increasing difficulty of harmonizing specifications for Anglo-French military aircraft , for example , arises in some cases from the fact that the British have uses for such planes east of Suez and the French do not . And could such intimate technological pooling be visualized with ? out the closest links between British and French nu ? clear policies ? There is , in short , a bait in this for de Gaulle , but also a big temptation to counterploy on the grand scale ? to put the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see DECEMBER 10 , 1966 whether the postulant has shaken off sufficiently such past heresies as respect for the prohibitions of the McMahon Act . Finally , there is a fourth possible factor working for Wilson which can be of little satisfaction to France 's existing partners ( and which greatly shocked M. Spaak when the suggestion was put to him a little brutally in London ) . It lies in the desire of General de Gaulle , made evident during the June 1965-January 1966 con ? stitutional crisis within the Community , to exploit every diplomatic opportunity to erode the supra ? national features of existing European institutions . When the French agreed last January at Luxem ? bourg to resume their participation in the Com ? community 's work at the end of a seven-month boycott , they insisted on registering their unilateral view that " when very important issues are at stake , discussion must be continued until unanimous agreement is reached , " provisions of the Treaty of Rome to the contrary notwithstanding . So far the open disagree ? ment on this principle has not produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be out-voted on one minor question and nothing divisive that could be called " very important " has since come up . The acceptance of new members is not directly in ? volved , since at all stages of the Community 's evolu ? tion this requires unanimity . But it might well occur to France that the desire of the Five to admit Britain would be a brilliant opportunity to wrench concessions out of them on this and cognate matters . Of these there are several pending . For example , the decision to merge the executives of the three communities ( Coal-Steel , Common Market and Euratom ) can not at present be implemented because of disagreement over the per ? sonnel of the new combined executive . Such is the dis ? trust in which French intentions are held , that the Dutch and Belgian parliaments decline to make the necessary ratifications of this merger until the new commissioners ' names I- lye been agreed upon . ( The Netherlands , it may be noted , is every bit as tough in using its bargaining opportunities to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in seeking to undermine them . It was the Dutch , abetted by Professor Hallstein , president of the Common Market Commission , who sparked off the constitu ? tional crisis by trying to tie a bunch of federalist riders onto the last installment of the CAP so much desired by France . This gave de Gaulle his pretext for start ? ing the boycott . ) It is well known that the French want to get rid of Professor Hallstein , whose term has expired and who is only continuing because of a treaty provision that commissioners ' terms are automatically extended if there is no unanimity about reappointing or replacingthem . The Five on the other hand want Hallstein as the first president of the new combined executive , since they , in direct contrast to de Gaulle , approve of the way in which he has advanced the stature of his office . The quarrel goes even beyond this . The French prefer to appoint civil servants and technicians with a passion for anonymity to the new single commission , rather than outstanding personalities prominent in their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ing it rotate among the members every second year . Furthermore , there is a strong belief among the Five that when the merger of the executives is followed logically by the merger of the three communities them ? selves and their treaties , making the much-needed common energy policy a feasibility , this will be taken by France as the golden opportunity to eliminate all references to supranationality , especially in the man ? date of the Coal-Steel High Authority . Theoretically , this authority has sovereign powers in its limited field ? which are not in so many words conferred on any other of the European executives . In a sense the High Authority still represents the most provocative fed ? eralist breakthrough ? and therefore is a most im ? portant symbol for those who hope that one day federalism will regain momentum , though in practice the High Authority 's powers , too narrowly defined , are proving ineffective to deal with the present state of chronic excess capacity in both coal and steel . Is de Gaulle Anti-Community ? The removal of the challenge to national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European political leadership operating on the principle of unanimity , have been consistent long-term objec ? tives of France since de Gaulle took office . But it would be a great mistake to assume that because he wants to reduce the commissions to the level of ad ? visory technical bodies he is against the European Community having a political content . Both in his press conference of September 9 , 1965 , while the boy ? cott of the Community was still on , and in that of February 21 this year when it was just over and he was announcing French withdrawal from the organizational part of NATO , he emphasized the need for political union and linked this project with the question of admitting new members . " In opposition to this proje ? ct devoid of all realism " ( i.e. a European federation ) , de Gaulle had said at the September conference , " France proposed a plan for organized cooperation between the states , evolving no doubt toward a confederation . . . This plan alone would one day permit other countries like England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? selves do not wish to lose their sovereignty . " And again in February he held up the performance of the foreign ministers ' meeting at Luxembourg as a model of how broader issues should be tackled . " Since , following Luxembourg , " he said , " the eco ? nomic organization of the Six has resumed its normal course , France believes it is more than ever appropriate to put political meetings into practice . " Then , calling for joint action among the Six " in such fields as science , technology , culture and space on which the future of mankind depends " ( a phrase that might have given Harold Wilson the idea of proposing his technological community ) , he added that " the union of the Six , once achieved ? and all the more if it comes to be supplemented then by new European memberships and associations ? can and must be toward the United States a valid partner in all areas , I mean powerful and independent . " If de Gaulle could first be satisfied that a Europe in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , then he might well consider it worthwhile trading his veto for bitter concessions of principle by the Five . But the proviso in this assessment is all important . Wilson 's " east of Suez " policy , which is becoming increasingly unpopular in Britain itself , does in de Gaulle 's opinion make Britain excessively dependent on the US , militarily , financially , diplomatically . So does the use of sterling as an international reserve currency . In both of these cases , de Gaulle 's views are shared by many outside France who would not themselves choose to go to his lengths in advancing them . And over sterling he can expect support in the Commission , thus enabling him to play his little game of being " the best communitarian of them all . " That " Special Relationship " Behind all this lies the more fundamental question of the " special relationship " between Whitehall and Washington . Not only must this be seen to be dead if Britain is to be taken as a " valid partner " into Europe , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially the capital of France , must be seen to have replaced it . This does not mean that Britain should pick phony quarrels in public with the US simply in order to ingratiate itself with de Gaulle . That would be absurd . But Britain will have to free itself , if it really wants to get into Europe , from its habit of instinctive deference to American opinion . Was it , for example , absolutely necessary for the former foreign secretary , Michael Stewart , to incor ? porate so entirely into his speeches the State Depart ? ment 's historically indefensible version of how the present situation in Vietnam arose ? If the notion of making a new effort to get into the Common Market was already in the government 's mind , need Stewarthave been quite so eagerly prominent in rounding up NATO 's Fourteen to denounce France 's withdrawal from the organization ? Granted that the present for ? eign secretary , George Brown , is well known to be a " European , " was his first major speech on the new approach to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this policy was intended to alter the ties that bind Britain to the United States ? A short time ago there was a small but very char ? acteristic episode , which provided a perfect specimen of those long-ingrained habits of thought of the British establishment ( not this time Labour ministers , but the same sort of people as those who currently advise them ) which grate in the Elysee . The House of Lords was debating Sterling and World Trade . Lord Harlech ( President Kennedy 's great friend , David Ormsby-Gore ) , deputy leader of the opposition and former ambassador in Washington , argued in urgent terms that matched very closely those of de Gaulle 's favorite economist , Jacques Rueff , that " there is now a very real danger of a technically induced world trade recession . " He alluded to Rueff 's proposed solu ? tion of doubling the price of gold , only to dismiss it instantly in these words : " But in fact it is not worth ? while arguing the case , because the decisive voice in this matter rests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase the price of gold and so devalue the dollar and ' there 's an end of it ' as Dr. Johnson would have said . " And the ex-ambassador of the Eisen ? hower age , Lord Sherfield ( the former Sir Roger Mak ? ins ) added sagely : " As regards the price of gold there are many theoretical reasons for contemplating the step of raising its value , but there is one decisive prac ? tical argument against it , already given by Lord Har ? tech ? namely , that the United States would not agree . " Nov it happens that in this case there is a rather strong , purely British argument against pursuing a course that would strengthen the resources of South Africa at a time when Britain is in imminent danger of coming into collision with that country . But this argument was never used . And so long as the climate of opinion exists in London in which a proposal , strongly advocated by France but unpopular in the United States , is automatically ruled out of court with ? out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French veto vanishing . This in turn raises the question of what degree of importance the United States any longer attaches to British membership in the Common Market . In the late i88o 's Bismarck once sent a message through in ? formal channels to Lord Salisbury , then both prime minister and foreign secretary of Britain , begging him not to be so overtly pro-German in his policies lest he compromise his political survival . Perhaps now is the time for LBJ to drop a similar hint to Mr. Wilson . 