@@488214

A West Germany armed with nuclear weapons is no longer inconceivable . Steps already taken , if followed to their conclusion , will lead at least to indirect German control of nuclear arms , if not to their outright possession . But a nuclear Germany is still not inevitable , and the time to discuss this possibility is while doors that have been opened unwittingly or unwisely can still be shut . Once Germany gets its nuclear force , it will be too late . One avenue through which atomic weapons might come under West Germany 's control is the so-called multilateral force ( MLF ) . With American public opinion absorbed by the war in South Vietnam , the civil rights movement and the coming elections , this proposed naval group is receiving less public comment than it ' deserves . The MLF is expected to be composed of tvverityfive surface vessels , each armed with eight Polaris missiles bearing nuclear war heads and each manned by crews drawn from ' several nations . Seven European countries have agreed to ' consider participating in the forde : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Netherlands , Greece and Turkey . The MLF was intended to embrace all the NATO allies , but Norway and Denmark , and of course France , have refused to take any part . It is believed that Britain will not join if the Labour Party wins the general elections this month , and it may possibly not do so even if the Conservatives are returned . Italy is wavering and would ' almost surely stay out if ' Britain does . West Germany , while initially lukewarm toward the MLF , is now enthusiastic . It is committed to paying up to 67 per cent ? of the European costs of the MLF . In a seminar I conducted recently at the Leadership Academy in Hamburg ( the German equivalent of the War College ) , several high-ranking German officers described the 200 nuclear missiles as their ultimate defense in the event that U.S. ground forces withdrew from Europe . The MLF is raising a co ; 71 siderable technical debate that Clouds the central political issue . Various naval experts have expressed doubt that ' a ship can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very least , the Greeks and Turks , it is said , will have to be kept on separate decks . And it has been pointed out that whereas the United States put its own Polaris missiles on submarines in order to make them invulnerable , The NATION the proposed MLF ships are to be surface vessels , perilously exposed to enemy fire . Hence it is understandable that various authorities have , on purely technical grounds , referred to the MLF as " military nonsense " and a " multilateral farce . " Among these , Royal Air Forbe Marshal Sir John Slessor and Lord Montgomery have both stated that the MLF has no military value . Initially , Pentagon officials and other American military spokesmen offered similar opinions , the consensus being that MLF was a sop to the European desire to share the nuclear , sword . But When the German representatives complained that if the MLF were publicly dismissed as militarily valueless they would have a hard time , defending the large expenditures involved before , their parliament , the Pentagon accommodated them by providing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not how efficient this nuclear sting might be Even if it Were perfectly manned and coordinated , its 200 missiles would not amount to much in the East-West Military scales ( the United States alone commands about 40,000 nuclear arms and More than enough means of delivery ) . The crucial question is who-will control the nuclear trigger of this new force . Our original position , as Walter Lippmann reported in Western Unity and the Common Market , was that " within the Western Affiance the ultimate responsibility in nuclear affairs must be in one capital , not in two or three . " But according to this position there is not even a political purpose in setting up the MLF : we already have in Europe an abundance of nuclear weapons which we exclusively control . President Kennedy then suggested in. his July 4 , 1962 , speech that the United States would be able to deal with a United Europe " on an equal basis , " and that was interpreted as covering questions ' of nuclear strategy . Such an offer looked innocuous enough in mid-1962 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such United Europe , and unity itself seemed far away Two years later we still hold that we are prepared to share the control of ! nuclear weapons only with a United Europe , but the meaning of the phrase is changing rapidly . Britain is in all likelihood out of it , and a federation of EurOpe is no longer considered a prerequisite for participation in nuclear triggering ; a committee that will speak for Europe is now thought sufficient . Since several European ' countries have refused to participate in the MLF , we , have consented to share its control not with a - United Europe but with one slice of it  --  and one in which West Germany looms larger and larger . That , as of now , is our official position and policy . Our position on control of the actual firing of the MLF 's weapons , which started with a demand for exclusive American authority and has ' already arrived at a we , agree-to-share compromise , may continue to erode . Several proposals for the voting procedures of a committee that would speak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be pushed to launch a missile ) have already been discussed in the ' State Department . Initially , unanimity was deemed essential , but since that would enable the smallest country , let us say the peace-loving Dutch , to spike the whole striking force , new proposals were outlined . These include a committee composed only of the bigger powers , or one in which ' the smaller ones would participate on a rotating basis , or one in which votes would be weighted according to contributions . Any of these , arrangements , and in particular the last one , would give West Germany a considerable control of the trigger . " Farsighted " strategists are already two steps ahead of these most recent proposals . The MLF , as depicted GO far , would still reserve one of ' the two firing buttons to the United States ; thus even if the Germans should gain virtual control of the European button , we could still veto any firing . But some strategists already argue that an MLF thus controlled would not solve the basic problem that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not assure the Europeans that ? they could trigger a war if they deemed this vital to their defense . Ever since de Gaulle raised the question of whether the United States would ' sacrifice its life for the defense of Europe , other European spokesmen have been chiming in . Their desire for atomic autonomy would be satisfied only if they could launch nuclear weapons without our concurrence . Hence some strategists , whose voices have been heeded often in the past , advocate a European-controlled nuclear force ? a force , however , in which at least de Gaulle 's France will not take part , and one from which Britain is likely to with-draw . In practice , Germany could be expected to dominate such a force , as today it dominates NATO 's European ' conventional armaments . At worst , a European deterrent would enable the Europeans to involve us in a nuclear war over matters , and at ' a stage , when we believed ' conflict should be avoided . At best , it would bring about the dis'semination of nuclear weapons and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union and the East European countries are haunted by the threat of German militarism 's gaining atomic strength . Why are we setting up the MIT and why ' are we considering a purely European deterrent ? Four arguments are given , and since , unfortunately , anost of them apply both to an **28;1920;TOOLONG MLF and to a purely European deterrent force , the arguments given for the former are sometimes used to justify the latter . The save-the-alliance argument : The basis of Anierican foreign policy , since 1947 has been to ally free societies in opposition to expansionist communism . NATO is the . central link of this chain . De Gaulle , by weakening it , has endangered the unity of the West , We must prevent him from seizing leadership of Western Europe , which he might then convert to a third force . If , by satisfying its aspirations , we bound West . Germany more tightly to the Western Affiance , it would become a counterweight to de Gaulle in Europe ( something Britain was riot able to be ) ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaulle 's foreign policy and would prevent Western Europe from leaving the alliance . In short , it would save the alliance . Moreover , it is suggested , that , after de Gaulle 's departure , France might return to the fold , and thus- the split of Western Europe would be healed . This " argument overlooks three points : ( 1 ) France 's nuclear force was initiated before de Gaulle came to ' power and whoever succeeds him 210 will probably continue to maintain it ; ( 2 ) West Germany 's ambitions can not be satisfied by a half share of an American-European ; trigger ; and ( 3 ) if the MLF were released to exclusive European control , the effect would be ' to undermine NATO still further , since we Would be under pressure to dissociate ourself from an ally - whose small nuclear potential ' could be used to trigger our big one . We can scarcely justify an alliance with a nuclear France , and we frown upon Britain 's deterrent ; if a country that has active territorial claims against Soviet-controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brandish the atom , the alliance would fly asunder . The inoculation theory : In informal talks with Soviet represen-tatives , frightened East Europeans and liberal friends in Western Europe and West ' Germany itself , all of whom worry about the consequences of a nuclear-armed West ' Germany , we keep repeating that the Pest way to Idiscouxage ' Germany from acquiring ' a full-fledged nuclear force of its own is to provide it , as part of Europe , with a small one . But the medical - analogy of inoculation is more vivid than logical . Why should the Germans be satisfied with a small nuclear force ? Have we not repeatedly and correctly explained , with reference 16 ' the - small British and French forces , that a small deterrent is worth less than no deterrent at all ? A country armed with -a nuclear sting would be strong enough to provoke the Russians but not strong enough to shield itself or to deter a war . I have discussed this matter with German military men and I am certain that most of them are quite aware that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would not balance the invulnerable strategic Soviet force ( most of which is of intermediary range and aimed at Western Europe . not at the United States ) . The leaders of West Germany would never be content with a nuclear sting . The learning theory : President Kennedy was continually worried lest a nuclear doomsday be unleashed by a human or mechanical mistake When observers praised his masterful use of power in the Cuban blockade , he emphasized that if anyone on either side were to make a major miscalculation in such a confrontation , there would be 150 million dead within eighteen hours . He was won over ' to support of the MLF , one of his advisers re- ' ports , by the ' argument that the Europeans should be allowed to learn prudence by the awful responsibility implied in sharing the control of atomic weapon 's . It is a fine theory , with only one flaw : who will assure us that during the learning period no firing will occur ? And could we expect Russia to sit out our Deweyan experiment , risking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the we-have-no-choice argument must be considered . When I debated at New York University with Herman Kahn , he suggested that if we do not - give nuclear weapons to the Germans they will obtain them ' anyhow . ( Germany ' has a research reactor ' at Karlsruhe , and German missile experts are at work in Egypt . ) Thus , by withholding nuclear arms , we should lose their - gratitude and support without preventing their nuclear armament . However , Germany is committed since 1955 not to produce nuclear weapons . This commitment can be flouted at any moment , but without our ' backing Germany would invite a Soviet attack , at least on its missile and nuclear reactor sites . It is only under our military shield that a German nuclear force could grow . Producing such weapons secretly is inconceivable , , since what is in-volved is not two bombs , as in the Manhattan Project , but the large-scale manufacture of bombs and delivery systems , which could not be built , deployed and coordinated surreptitiously . A declaration by the United States that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitment would be enough to prevent the " inevitable " German acquisition of nuclear weapons . Blut what ' about the Germans ? Do they actually desire nuclear vveapons ? Their position is rapidly changing . A few years ago only a ' small group of Germans , men like Herr Strauss , would as much as breathe such a possibility . More recently , the current German defense minister ihas said that the MLF would not be a genuine military instrument until the United States veto was withdrawn , and listed such a withdrawal as a goal of the Bonn government . A special reason for present anxiety is Bonn 's ' commitment to the reunification of Germany , which is interpreted as encompassing not only East Germany ' but also the territories east of the Oder-Neisse line , now held by ' Poland . Until recently , ' German ' officials would tell American visitors ( strictly off the record ) that their reunification demands were for public consumption , made out of ' domestic political considerations to keep the refugee vote . But over the last six months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminded two Bonn officials , who were talking about reunification , " but you do not mean it , " the snap answer was " the hell ' we do n't . We have relatives there who must be liberated . " I met no one in Germany who wanted war or who believed that the liberation of his relatives would require it . But I met quite a few who would like West Germany to be fully ' armed in order , " at an opportune moment , " to attain reunification by threats and military pressure  --  best effected , some believe , by nuclear weapons . Perhaps the most unsettling aspect of this whole question is the present widespread German reluctance to discusS it in public . At conference of the Federation of German Scientists held in Wieneck last May , I found ' that quite a few of the scientists attending thought that Germany 's own interests  --  reunification included  --  would be better served by a thaw , by a Soviet-American accommodation , and , as they put it , by a " de-coupling " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' arms race . But most of them felt that they could not so express themselves in public without endangering their academic position ( German professors are civil servants ) and being ' showered with public abuse . An editor of the Suddeutsche Zeitung of ' Munich similarly explained his inability to support such a view in his columns . An interviewer of the Bremen Radio station listened to an American professor warning that Germany should refrain from acquiring nuclear weapons and ' describing the positive role the country could play in forwarding , rather than seeking to retard , disarmament negotiations . The interviewer then turned to him and said , " When we go on the air , I shall have to express my dismay at your views , though I perfectly agree with them . I hope you Americans will do , something to stop us from the terrible temptation . We can no longer control ourselves . "                     