@@270939

" There are risks and the risks are great , " warned left-wing Socialist Leader Pietro Nenni . We must accept " the margin of risk , " declared Christian Democratic Chief Aldo Moro . The atmosphere plainly was more suspicious than auspicious for the new Italian government . After months of dickering , while the nation marked time under a caretaker Cabinet , the Christian Democrats finally were ready to conclude their marriage of convenience-or perhaps inconvenience-with Nenni 's left-wing Socialists . It was the first time in 16 years that a doctrinaire Marxist party would share power in any major West European Cabinet . <P> " I 'm Going Ahead . " Biggest obstacle had been the divisions inside Nenni 's own party , whose warring factions range from halfhearted supporters of the Atlantic Alliance to faithful followers of the Communist Party . At the last minute , the pro-Reds threatened to rebel against the proposed coalition with the " capitalists , " but Nenni declared flatly : " The door is open . You can go through it with me or not . I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a 59-to-40 vote . <P> Spurred on by the Kennedy assassination-both Nenni and Moro feared that President Johnson might not be as sympathetic to the " opening to the left " - the negotiators then hammered out an 8,000-word program of cooperation that was just vague enough so that either party , or any faction , could interpret it as desired . On foreign policy , the Socialists balked at pledging " fidelity " to NATO but settled for " loyalty " to the Atlantic Alliance and agreement to continue discussions with the U.S. over Italian participation in MLF , the proposed fleet of Polaris-equipped surface ships . In return for accepting anti-Communist Social Democrat Guiseppe Saragat as Foreign Minister , Premier-designate Moro promised the Socialists that he would engage in a " passionate pursuit of peace " -a semantic exercise which seemed to be satisfactory to everyone . Nenni himself was slated to become Vice Premier in the Cabinet ; other left-wing Socialists are due to take over lesser ministries , including transport , industry , public works , health and tourism . <P> Details of the domestic program were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said he favored economic development " through planning , " but insisted that private enterprise would receive the greatest possible initiative . Both sides also agreed to limited controls overspeculation in urban real estate , gradual abolition of sharecropping and raising tenant farmers ' share of the profits from 53% to 58% . The agreement also included a political loyalty oath : the partners promised not to join in Parliament with either the Communists on the left or the free-enterprising Liberals , Monarchists and neo-Fascists on the right . But outside Parliament , on the local level , the Socialists are still free to collaborate with their old Communist allies . This could become particularly troublesome in the new " regional governments " to be set up at some unspecified future date in 15 areas , including the key northern industrial sections .                     