@@431668

 | Dr. Wernher von Braun Answers Your Questions on Inertial Guidance Q Why does a rocket need a guidance system ? @# A To keep a rocket on its prescribed flight path despite disturbances by wind , or by slight deviations from the rocket 's standard weight or performance , we must continuously generate and apply commands that correct its motion . We can take our choice of two guidance systems : remote control or inertial guidance . Guidance commands may be generated by tracking the rocket with optical instruments , radar , or radio , and comparing the actual track with the prescriber ) flight path . A remote-control command passed on by radio instructs the speeding rocket to reduce any difference between " is " and " should he " to zero . Such guidance systems , based on remote control by radio , have several basic drawbacks . For one , they are subject to intentional as well as unintended interference , which makes them particularly vulnerable in military operations . For space-flight operations , an even more serious drawback lies in the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rocket except along a line of sight between them . For economy in consumption of propellant , an orbital rocket must ascend to its orbit along a very shallow trajectory ? and so the burn-out point of the last rocket stage is frequently well below the horizon of the launching site . In deep-space missions , the rocket may stay in one or several " parking orbits , " and must restart its engine at a very precise instant for the ensuing power maneuver that leads to injection into a trajectory to the moon or the target planet . The orbital restart point may be over Australia or the Pacific Ocean , while the launching was from Cape Canaveral , Fla . Radio-guidance schemes for such operations would involve a complicated globe-circling network . An inertial-guidance system does away with all these communication difficulties by generating the guidance commands on board the rocket . Such a system is entirely self-contained . Q What is the principle of inertial guidance ? A The basic idea behind an inertialguidance system for a rocket is to measure its accelerations in three " orthogonal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , right-and-left , fore-and-aft . The three accelerations then are " integrated , " an operation that a following paragraph will make clear . to obtain the velocity in each direction . In turn , the three velocities are integrated to get the displacement , or distance traveled , in each direction . This answers the rocket 's ever-repeated query , " Where am I ? " Knowing from an electronic memory where the rocket ought to be at any moment , and noting any deviation , the @#  | guidance system produces the needed commands to correct the flight path . The heart of any inertial-guidance system is thus a set of three orthogonal accelerometers , to measure the three components of the rocket 's acceleration . Q How can you measure accelera-tion ? A Acceleration is what sports-car drivers call " getaway . " It manifests itself as a force that presses the driver against his seat back when he steps on the accelerator . This force is the result of his body 's inertia , which resists the sudden change of pace ? whether the car is accelerating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pass a lumbering truck . There are many types of accelerometers , but they all measure that " force against the seat back " due to the inherent inertia of mass . The simplest is the spring-mass accelerometer in my sketch . As the rocket accelerates in the direction shown by the arrow , the inertia of the mass causes it to lag behind . stretching spring A and compressing spring B. A sliding-contact variable resistor , labeled " pickoff potentiometer. - produces a voltage that corresponds to the acceleration at any instant . Q How are accelerations integrated ? A The speedometer in our sports car clearly indicates that the velocity is increasing , second by second , as long as we feel that pressure against the seat  | throughout the flight . At takeoff it stands upright . At injection into orbit it speeds along horizontally . Moreover , as it passes through the atmosphere , it is tossed around by turbulence and shifting wind , changing its attitude temporarily . Our three orthogonal accelerometers must therefore be placed on a gyroscopically stabilized platform . However the rocket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have and retain a fixed orientation in space . To meet the stringent accuracy requirements of inertial-guidance systems for space rockets , the stabilized platform must maintain its angular position within a fraction of a degree , for several hours . 2 . Any mass permitted to make constrained movements is subject to friction . In our spring-mass accelerometer , for instance , the inert mass is constrained by springs , whose stretching or squeezing involves some friction . ( Just bend a piece of wire a few times , rapidly , and feel the heat produced by the friction ! ) Also , unless the accelerometer operates in a vacuum , there will be air friction . The potentiometer pickoff is another source of friction . All this friction reduces the accuracy of the whole system . It is no overstatement to say that the success of modern inertial-guidance systems is the direct result of a relentless fight against friction . Many methods have been tested in this fight : There are " flotation bearings " where the suspended mass floats in a fluid of equal density . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon a cushion of air or nitrogen . There are electrostatic supports , and even magnetic supports , which utilize the strange effects of electrical superconductivity at extremely low temperatures . Accuracy of the system is improved . too , by increasing the forces created by acceleration . Gyro accelerometers , utilizing the phenomenon of gyroscopic " precession , " have proved superior to simple mass-spring accelerometers . Further gains in accuracy have come pith a GUN : s immeall those r chores home . Weather , vines to Ina wire Awnings - seeding p covers piing jobs . o INC. city 1 , N.Y . and Office from performing integration operations . not with friction-plagued electric motors . but with friction-free electronic digital computers . Present-day inertial-guidance systems can place a satellite in orbit with an injection accuracy of a few feet per second in velocity , and a fraction of a mile in altitude . Q What is a solar battery ? A It is a source of electrical power for spacecraft . A solar battery is made up of a bank of solar cells . These are small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contaminated by exposure to boron vapor . Sunlight striking these cells is converted directly into current . Here is how this works : The smallest unit to which electricity can be reduced is the electron . Similarly , light energy can not be subdivided beyond a unit called a photon . A light photon impinging on the boron-contaminated surface of a silicon shingle is absorbed within a layer not exceeding 1/100,000 of an inch in depth . Its absorption invariably leads to the displacement of an electron . While free electrons are few and far between within the boron-containing layer , they are in ample supply in the pure silicon beneath . As a result , when enough energy has been imparted to a displaced electron to propel it from the boron-doped layer into the pure-silicon region , it is free to move into an external circuit where it helps to deliver power . Solar batteries produce only a few watts of electrical power per square foot of panel surface . In order to drive highpowered transmitters for deep-space communication , they usually feed their weak but round-the-clock power into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ **30;341;TOOLONG Dr. von Braun will consider answering questions from readers of POPULAR SCIENCE in the magazine , but he can not undertake to answer each one by mail . Letters to him should be addressed in care of POPULAR SCIENCE , 355 Lexington Ave. , New York 17 , N. Y. f i ANNOUNCING WITH A BF Car of the Year " now offers high-K ere 's America 's newest V-8 tire size tested , proved and ready to a11-eleeti ring you new V-8 perform- Resist ce and economy . perform It 's a maximum-efficiency remar erformer with a new V-8 this ower train engineered for its engine ew capabilities . And that 's more backed by a new and huskier See tl suspension , new brakes , new now at RAM Winner of Motor Trer : '                     