@@210144

John F. Kennedy : Years of Lightning , Day of Drums . The solemn hoopla attending this tribute to the late President reached its climax with an Easter Sunday opening in Manhattan , a bit of corny religiosity that would certainly have brought a derisive snort from Jack Kennedy . Made in 1964 by the United States Information Agency for showing abroad , the film became available for U.S. audiences by express congressional approval after enthusiastic press previewers launched a crusade extolling its virtues in terms usually reserved for such timeless Americana as the Gettysburg Address . Though Years of Lightning can now be seen by all , it is largely for the moviegoer who measures the magnitude of an experience by the size of the lump in his throat . <P> " No man could take away the years of lightning with a single day of drums , " says Narrator Gregory Peck , as he eulogizes the authentic youth , vigor and intelligence of the Kennedy attack on half a dozen major issues . The Peace Corps , the Alliance for Progress , the " conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the projects ticked off-sometimes in conventional shots of happy peasants and hopeful Negroes , more often in briskly edited footage of Kennedy 's trips abroad . The President 's motorcade in Mexico City is barely visible through a blizzard of red , white and blue confetti . In Dublin and Berlin , the running , grasping crowds give massive support to the making of an image . As violent contrast , the movie cuts with maudlin frequency to Kennedy 's funeral preparations in Washington . Every sequence is anguishing , relentlessly focused on the ordeal of a benumbed young widow guiding her children through the protocol of official grief . <P> For contemplative Americans , Years of Lightning offers little more than an idealized shadow of the real J.F.K. , a monochromatic coin likeness . His resilience , his zest for tough political infighting , his wild Irish humor are scarcely touched upon at all . His weaknesses are ignored or glossed over so swiftly and uncritically that the Bay of Pigs " setback " seems a mere preliminary bout for the Administration 's sword's-point showdown over the dismantling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who disagreed with the President , " says Peck . But they obviously do n't matter very much . On the New Frontier , once unreliable U.S. rockets sail obediently into orbit . In the movie 's oversimple view of Washington under Kennedy , intramural shoptalk and crackling press conferences disappear , for the city is " transformed into a cultural capital . " In fact , this is neither Kennedy 's Washington nor Washington 's Kennedy . It is a legend for export , smoothly put together , fiercely partisan and as heedless of history as a love letter written in sand .                     