@@243513

William J. Dorvillier , 53 , editor and publisher of Puerto Rico 's San Juan Star , is a Roman Catholic . But last fall , during the Puerto Rican elections , he had angry words for three bishops of the island 's Roman Catholic Church . Said Dorvillier in a front-page editorial : " The Catholic bishops who signed the pastoral letter forbidding Catholics from voting for the Popular Democratic Party have transgressed grievously against the people of Puerto Rico , against their country and against the Catholic Church . " Last week Dorvillier 's uncompromising fight for separation of church and state won him the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing . <P> Even though the Star is one of the youngest ( 18 months ) and smallest ( circ. 12,300 ) dailies ever to win a Pulitzer , the award was well earned . Last October , when the bishops sought to unseat Governor Luis Muoz Marin for what they called " anti-Catholicism " ( among other things , they objected to his approval of government birth control programs ) , Dorvillier 's Star was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the clerics ' intervention . While San Juan 's Spanish dailies , El Mundo ( circ. 58,586 ) and El Impartial ( 51,720 ) dropped out after protesting the pastoral letter , the Star persisted boldly with 20 editorials that drew a stinging answer from the church . James Edward McManus , Bishop of Ponce and leader of the church attack on Muoz Marin , charged Dorvillier with being " emotionally unbalanced , " in a letter which Dorvillier published in full , without comment . <P> Born in Massachusetts , Bill Dorvillier went to Puerto Rico on his honeymoon and decided to stay . For the next 20 years , he aspired to do just what he is doing now : run a successful English-language daily in San Juan . The Star is his third attempt . During the 1940s , Dorvillier edited the Puerto Rico World Journal , English-language subsidiary of El Mundo , but El Mundo dropped the paper when many of its readers-U.S. servicemen stationed in Puerto Rico-went home after the war . Dorvillier also presided over the World Journal 's brief and ill-fated revival in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cowles ( Look Magazine , the Des Moines Register and Tribune ) came to San Juan . Dorvillier talked Cowles out of enough money to start the Star ( TIME , Sept. 21 , 1959 ) . A tiny tabloid , the Star stirred little more than amusement around the city room at El Mundo . As a result of its own bitter experience , the paper was convinced that an English-language newspaper could not survive in San Juan . Said the Star 's Dorvillier dryly : " That impression will be corrected shortly . " As it turned out , " shortly " was precisely the word .                     