@@249804

In Pope Paul 's Vatican diplomacy , realpolitik blends with visionary hope : a so-so deal is better than none if it gives promise of some day leading to attainment of the church 's goals . Last week , at the Foreign Ministry in Budapest , Monsignor Agostino Casaroli of the Vatican 's Congregation for Extraordinary Ecclesiastical Affairs signed an agreement with Hungarian Bureaucrat Jozsef Prantner that will provide a small but significant bit of breathing room for the country 's 6,000,000 Roman Catholics . <P> <P> Casaroli , who recently negotiated the disposition of Roman Catholic property with Moslem Tunisia , took over the job of dealing with Hungary from Vienna 's Franziskus Cardinal Knig . Originally , the Vatican tried to arrange the departure of Josef Cardinal Mindszenty from asylum in the U.S. legation in Budapest , hoping that an agreement about the status of the church in Hun gary would follow . When that approach failed , Casaroli started dickering for some freedom for the church , on the theory that sooner or later a solution to Mindszenty 's problem might be found . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six Hungarian bishops ; the Communists dropped their insistence that any appointments to the hierarchy be chosen from the Red-lining " peace priests . " The church agreed to let priests take an oath of loyalty to the government and gave jurisdiction over Rome 's Pontifical Ecclesiastical Hungarian Institute-run by exiled priests who specialize in anti-Communist propaganda-to the country 's bishops . <P> The agreement noted that several other questions of church-state relations remain to be negotiated . Among them are how much freedom the bishops will have to rule their dioceses and communicate with Rome , and the right of the church to carry on religious education . As for Mindszenty , he has always insisted that he could not leave Hungary until freedom for his church has been guaranteed . Now that the Vatican and the Hungarian Communists are ready and willing to negotiate , most observers think that his leverage is gone and the proud , heroic prelate will soon leave for Rome .                     