@@485835

THE Senate has acted well in passing so promptly the Hoar Presidential Succession Bill . It will now come before the House among its first business , and we presume will be passed without serious opposition . Mr. Randall is credited with a purpose of opposing it with a measure of his own which provides that the Presidential electors shall hold their offices for a term of four years , and shall be given the power to fill vacancies in the offices of President and Vice-President . This proposition is so palpably unwise that it is likely to receive small support either in the House or out of it . Instead of being a solution of the succession problem , it would add to its complications . It would confer the power of selection upon a body of men from whom it has been so completely removed by force of public sentiment that for the past thirty-five or forty years they have merely acted as recording clerks . No elector in recent years has presumed to exercise any individual choice in voting for President and Vice-President . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it has diminished in power . It has now 401 members , and the chances of confusion from deaths and other causes are proportionately great . The idea of trusting the power of choosing . a President and Vice-President to thirty-eight different bodies of men , meeting in thirty-eight different States , and all originally appointed to exercise merely nominal clerical functions , is almost grotesque . The debate in the Senate on the Presidential Succession Bill hinged on an amendment offered by Mr. Hoar to his own bill , which amendment repealed the existing law providing for a new election of President and Vice-P resident in case vacancies occur in both offices at a period more than five months before a regular election would take place . The effect of this amendment was to make the Secretary of State President for the unexpired portion of the four years ' term , the other Cabinet officers succeeding in a specified order in case of further vacancies . Senator Edmunds objected to this amendment as an innovation of a radical sort , substituting in place of the choice of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate . Virtually , said Mr. Edmunds , the Senate , in confirming the President 's Cabinet officers , will , in every case , be voting for a possible President . A Republican Senator will be thus asked to vote for a possible Democratic President  --  an act which Mr. Edmunds as a good Republican could not perform , although persons holding such lax views of party fealty as Mr. Hoar entertains might do so . There is a modicum of humor in this argument which goes to soften the asperities of debate ; but we think that the distinction which Mr. Edmunds draws between a five months ' acting President and one holding for a longer period , even three years and five months , is not a distinction grounded upon principle , but wholly upon policy- . Since somebody must act as President during the supposed vacancy , and while the machinery of a national election , preceded by sufficient notice , is being put . in motion , it follows that Senators when they vote to confirm a Cabinet officer are voting for a possible President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only five months , or , in a very remote contingency , three years and five months , is one of policy . It involves the question whether a new election , changing the quadrennial period , is desirable . Such an election would disarrange a large number of State elections which have been purposely adjusted to the existing Presidential term , and would therefore produce a good deal of inconvenience , and this inconvenience would be repeated as often as the quadrennial period should be changed . As against this we have to reckon with any possible inconvenience resulting from Mr. Hoar 's plan of devolving the duties of the President upon the Secretary of State during the whole of the unexpired term . We can not think that these would be greater in any case than those which commonly result from the succession of the Vice-President to the Presidential office , of which it may he said that the country is not likely to borrow any distress about them . An interesting question has been raised as to the attitude which a Secretary of State , who should become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Department .. A careful study of the constitutional provisions regarding the succession seems to leave no doubt that he must remain Secretary of State , just as a President pro tem. of the Senate who should become acting President of the United States under the old law would remain President pro tern , of the Senate . The reason in each case is the same  --  because it is only by virtue of holding the office of Secretary of State or President pro tern , of the Senate that he can act as President . There is a clear distinction between the language which the Constitution employs regarding the contingency of a Vice-President succeeding a President , and that used regarding a case where a third person succeeds both a President and a Vice-President . In the formercase , " the powers and duties " of the Presidency " shall devolve on the Vice-President , " who becomes as fully President as his predecessor ; in the latter case Congress may declare " what officer shall then act as President , and such officer shall act accordingly " until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , Congress can only designate as acting President some " officer " of the Government. , and this man can only act accordingly while he remains such officer . For instance , if Mr. Cleveland were to die and Mr. Bayard enter the White House under the Hoar law , he would act as President only by virtue of being Secretary of State , and he must remain " such officer " as the condition of continuing acting President . The consequence would be that be could make an entirely new Cabinet except as regards the State Department , but he could not resign as Secretary of State and appoint another man than himself to the office , because it is only as being Secretary of State that he has the power to exercise the functions of President . The practical working of the system would be that the Secretary of State thus acting as President would throw off as much as possible of the Cabinet officer 's work upon his assistant secretaries , and especially the First Assistant Secretary , just as he now does when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would virtually become Secretary of State , and if the acting President were not satisfied with the person whom he found in that office he could appoint another , so that there would be no practical difficulty about his retaining himself the title and power of Secretary . The House has adopted the report of the Committee on Rules distributing most of the appropriation bills among the several committees appointed to consider affairs of the several departments for which the money is asked , instead of leaving them in charge of the Appropriations Committee proper . The majority in favor of the change was overwhelming , exactly three to one among the Democratic members , and a little more than three to one among the Republicans . Mr. Randall 's tyrannical course as Chairman of the Appropriations Committee has been the most potent cause in producing this strong sentiment , although doubtless many Republicans supported the movement because they hope that the change will result in extravagance on the part of the Democratic , majority , from which the Republicans will gain a partisan advantage . Personal and partisan considerations aside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties have supported the movement for distribution , because they believe that it is in the interest of good legislation . While there is force in the claim that the tendency will be for the several committees to exaggerate the importance of their respective spheres and to ask larger appropriations , there will also be motives at work in the other direction , and we are quite ready to see the experiment tried . Whatever opinion one may hold as to this matter , all good citizens will rejoice over an-other change which was carried through at the same time , abolishing the right to attach legis-lation to appropriation bills . The practice of allowing " riders , " often incorporating impor-tant changes in the laws , upon acts which are nominally and should be really confined to the , appropriation of money for carrying out exist-ing laws , is demoralizing to Congress and . unjust to the Executive , who may thus he into , approving measures against his will , because he considers the extra session of Congress which a veto would require as the greater evil ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted . It is a great gain to have it positively forbidden in future . This reform should be supplemented by another , which will allow the President to veto carts of an appropriation bill without endangering the rest , New York , Pennsylvania , and some other States have adopted this principle , and it saves the taxpayers a great deal of money every year . We are glad to see that Mr. Randall has introduced a constitutional amendment to bring about this end , and we hope that he will be able to push it through the House . If Congress will only send such an amendment to the States , there can be little question of its prompt ratification . Senator Logan 's position on the Presidential appointments appears to be the prevailing one among Republican Senators . They are disposed to grant the President 's request for a frank and sincere mutual effort to get only good men into office . The President has assured them that where unfit men have been named for office by him it has been through misinformation , and that he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in when such is furnished , immediately withdraw the nominations . The Senators , on their part , say they will make no factious opposition , will confirm without question all appointments of undoubted fitness , and will cordially cooperate with the President in his efforts to administer the public service for the public good . Here is certainly a new and most important departure from the old way of doing things , but it is due entirely to the President 's directness and sincerity of purpose , or what an amusing partisan critic of him calls in one breath his " incarnation of the commonplace " and " his sturdy independence , which the people like because they imagine it to be a kind of genius . " It is both . His view of public office as a public trust is in one sense commonplace . It means the application of commonplace business ideas to the public service , administering the great office of President on the commonplace basis of honesty , integrity , and simplicity . But it is so rare a thing for us to have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that it becomes also a " kind of genius . " We must not let eagerness to put down polygamy in Utah carry us into mischievous excess . The bill introduced by Senator Edmunds providing for a seizure of the property of the Mormon Church seems to point in this direction . It empowers the President to appoint fourteen trustees to administer this property , and to make reports on it to the Secretary of the Interior . The sole reason for this is the fact that certain members of the Mormon Church practise polygamy , and the Mormon clergy teach its lawfulness , if not its righteousness . Apart from polygamy there seems to he no more objection to the Mormon Church than there is to any church in which the clergy are very powerful and the people very ignorant . Polygamy is now a legal offence , and it has been the practice of the United States hitherto , and a very wholesome practice it is , when legal offences are committed , to search out and punish those , and those only , who commit them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the seizure of property , whether belonging to corporations or individuals , such as the Edmunds bill contemplates , is , we believe , something hitherto unknown in our jurisprudence or politics , and might prove a most unfortunate precedent . If the Mormon Church as a corporation has no legal or proper standing , it ought to be wound up in the usual way , and its property distributed among the parties in interest . Its seizure and administration by Government trustees would be a proceeding which we trust Congress will never sanction for any purpose whatever . Mr. Vest 's resolution in the Senate . apropos of the Kelley- correspondence , " denies the right of any foreign government to assert against any citizen of this country disqualification for office by reason of his religious belief or that of his family . " This is an absolutely impregnable position . Any foreign government which claimed such a right would act in a very silly way . Mr. Vest evidently thinks Austria has done this foolish thing . But he is mistaken . She has not , tier position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what reasons you please , to whatever office you please on your own soil ; but do not send your officers here unless I agree to receive them , and I will not receive them unless I can guarantee their comfort and usefulness while they are in my territory . " This is the whole story . The affair no more calls for a resolution in vindication of religious liberty than one in vindication of cleanliness or monogamy . Everybody is right in this matter . We have a right to appoint anybody we please to be minister to any court on earth , and every court on earth has an equal right to reject anybody we appoint . It is a perfect arrangement all around , and Mr. Vest may sleep soundly . Senator Hampton , of South Carolina , has reintroduced an old bill once offered by Mr. Trumbull , of Illinois , prohibiting Senators and Representatives in Congress from recommending persons for office to the President of the United States . Some difference of opinion is entertained as to Senator Hampton 's purpose in reintroducing this measure , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or to produce a desirable change in the existing mode of filling the Federal offices . It is certain that Mr. Trumbull 's purpose in presenting it was perfectly serious . Mr. Hampton 's usual gravity leads us to infer that he intended at least to draw public attention to a notorious evil with a view to its ultimate extinction . Mr. Trumbull supported his motion mainly by the argument that Senators and Representatives were robbed of their time in running errands for office-seekers , and were unfitted for their real duties as legislators by being put in the attitude of solicitors of favors from the President and heads of departments . Every visitor at Washington who has had occasion to call at the Executive Mansion or at any department , during a session of Congress , finds the way blocked during the morning hours by a throng of Congressmen  --  it would hardly be disrespectful to call them a mob  --  with their hands full of the " papers " of applicants for office . Very frequently the applicants themselves are present also , putting the Congressman through . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress at all , is thinking about the committee meeting that he ought to attend , and is inwardly cursing his inexorable companion who insists upon seeing the President or the Secretary under the Congressman 's " pass . " The typical Southern Bourbon was a man whose case was absolutely hopeless , and it was therefore a mercy to him as well as a benefit to all whom he influenced that he should leave a world to which in its present state he could never become reconciled . There are Northern Bourbons whose condition not long ago appeared scarcely less hopeful than that of Toombs , but the country is watching with amazement the process of their rapid transformation into sympathy with the age in which they live . Take the case of Mr. George F. Hoar for instance . Only a few months ago this Massachusetts Bob Toombs was in a state of the wildest despair over the election cf a - Democrat to the Presidency , and only the fact that the Republicans were sure to control the Senate prevented him from predicting the downfall of the Republic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the past fortnight we have seen this same Mr. Hoar bringing in his old Presidential Succession Bill with a new provision , which in case of Cleveland 's death would make a Democratic Secretary of State President for the remainder of the term , instead of insisting upon a new election , with its chances of Republican victory , at the earliest possible moment . More wonderful still , we have seen this same Mr. Hoar proposing to remove the curb which the Tenure-of-Office Law enables a Republican Senate to keep upon a Democratic President , and thus to give Grover Cleveland larger control over the civil service than any Republican President has enjoyed since Andrew Johnson 's day . There has been nothing to equal this conversion since the days of Saul , and the people who maintain that the age of miracles is not past can establish their proposition beyond cavil , by merely setting some of the threatenings and slaughter which Mr. Hoar was breathing out against half of the American people only a few months ago beside the gracious tone of his present deliverances . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectional wing of the Republican party . His bitter ravings about the inferiority of the negro to the white man , based upon his well-known declaration that if God had not intended the negro to be inferior , he would not have created him black , have been of great service for many years . He was always ready to give these views a fresh airing , and whenever a campaign showed signs of dulness a reporter was sent to interview him , with the inevitable result of securing the same old talk about the negro and the sacred cause of secession . The talk was at once cited as evidence that the whole South was simply waiting its opportunity to put the negro back into slavery , and to try the war over again . Whenever Toombs was not sufficient to arouse the North , the cooperation of Jeff Davis was sought , and seldom failed to be obtained . In the course of nature , Davis must follow Toombs within a'few years , and it will then be necessary for the sectional agitators to go out of business , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Grant 's on the Fitz-John Porter case has been published , and shows how thoroughly convinced he was , after full investigation in a field in which he was an acknowledged master , of Porter 's innocence of the charges against him . Grant 's opinion of President Arthur 's veto of the relief bill of last session is concisely expressed by describing it as " the merest sophistry . " It was one of the most discreditable of the many discreditable small things which marked the late Administration . The continuance of the wrong which was done Porter , after every one of his opponents , except the most passionate , and prejudiced , and unjudicial of them all , General Logan , has abandoned the field , is becoming a national disgrace . The Boston Commercial Bulletin wants to know how we have ascertained that the average ad-valorem duty on screws is 110 per cent , It " points with pride " to the last report of the Bureau of Statistics showing that the rates of duty actually paid on the importations of the year 1884 were only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " have never averaged 100 per cent. , and the free-trade falsehood to that effect should be nailed upon the spot where it originated . " We assume that when the Commercial Bulletin parades the figures of the Bureau of Statistics , it knows full well that the Bureau takes no account of articles upon which the duty is prohibitory , which happens to be the case with all except the very small sizes of screws . The Bureau deals only with actual importations of goods . We stated that prior to July 1 , 1883 , the average duty on a general assortment of screws such as a hardware dealer would commonly keep on hand , was 110 per cent . Of course , the facts are surrounded by the thickest kind of a fog , in order that common people may not know how much they are swindled by the tariff . Screws are sold by the gross and taxed by the pound at different rates , according to the sizes . There are 106 different sizes in the price lists , although our tariff classifies them all under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 12 cents duty per pound . A very intricate mathematical calculation is required to show what the ad-valorem duty on a general assortment would be . Such a calculation was made for the use of the Ways and Means Committee in the month of February , 1883 . Under the preexisting tariff only the smaller sizes ( i4 , a8 and 3- ; inch ) could be imported at all , the duties on the leading sizes  --  those most generally used  --  being prohibitory . The duty on the small sizes under the old tariff was 11 cents per pound . It was increased to 12 cents by the tariff of 1883 , while a show of virtue was made by reducing slightly the rates on the larger sizes which would not be imported at either the old or the new rate , and could not be , even if the duty were reduced 50 per cent . Indeed , there is not the smallest room for doubt that if the duty on wire rods for screw-making purposes were repealed , and the duties on screws repealed at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of screws imported than heretofore , but there would be an immediate and large sale of American-made screws in foreign markets . It is a fact that American screw manufacturers have undersold English manufacturers in the English colonies at times within the past four years , even under the adverse conditions imposed by the tax on their raw material . As the raw material is not produced in this country , even under the stimulus of 70 per cent , protection , the only reason for not repealing all the duties on screws and screw material is the intelligent one assigned by the Iron and Steel Association , that the tariff is a thing too sacred to be talked about . There has never been a more impressive illustration of the Mugwump 's potency as a factor in elections than that afforded by last week 's voting in Boston . An examination of the figures in detail shows not only that Mayor O'Brien ow-es his increased majority over last year to the support of independent citizens who are for the most part Republicans in their political vie ws , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wards had gone the same way as the " Democratic strongholds . " There are five wards , three of them at the North End , which are usually Democratic by six , eight , and even ten to one . In these five wards Mr. O'Brien as a strictly partisan candidate had last year 6,348 majority , while this year , by reason of his independent course in office , he received only 5,149 majority . If he had lost in the other twenty wards in the same proportion , he would have been beaten in the whole city by a majority of 2,674 . In fact , he was victorious by a majority of 8,580 , and he owes this to his immense gains in the ten Republican wards , where he cut down the Republican majorities from 1,492 to 440 in one instance , from 1,144 to 378 in another , and in a third case transferred a Republican majority of : 368 last year into an O'Brien majority of 283 this year . It is worth noting that these are precisely the wards in which Cleveland last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for President . We commend a study of these figures to such Democratic papers as the Atlanta ( Ga . ) Constitution , which the other day defined a Mugwump as " a man who considers himself , as a rule , too good for political duty , especially for the short and simple act of putting a vote in a vulgar election box . " Further evidence was hardly needed to demonstrate that prohibition is a failure in Iowa , but if anybody has still entertained doubts on the question , they must be removed by the candid and exhaustive study of the subject recently made by State Senator Sutton , of low-a , himself hitherto a believer in prohibition , published in the Chicago Tribune . Mr. Sutton has made a thorough investigation as to the workings of the system in nearly all the counties , and makes detailed reports as to every city and town of over 300 inhabitants . A summary of his discoveries shows that since the law prohibiting the sale of liquors went into effect the number of places in the State where liquor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over 400 dealers are selling by the side-door device . The change for the worse has naturally been most marked in the cities . Des Moines , the capital , had reduced the number of its saloons under a high-license law to 60 , while under prohibition it has 175 ; in Dubuque the increase has been 126 ; and the number of liquor-sellers has increased in greater or less degree in almost every city . Waterloo , a place of 6,500 people , which is one of the very few exceptions , has reduced the number of saloons from 20 to 16 , but this has been done by allowing their ex , istence and then levying upon them an annual tax of $275 , for which there is , of course , no warrant in the law . There are plenty of villages where liquor is not sold , but they are places where public sentiment prevented liquor-selling without a prohibitory law , while in the cities , where restriction upon the traffic is most nceded , it was never so free as under nominal prohibition . The wiser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme for its object of diminishing intemperance , and although the Fusionists failed to carry the Legislature upon the platform of a license law , there is believed to be a chance that a local-option system may be substituted . The anxiety of the English Liberals who do not know their own minds , to have it appear that Mr. Gladstone has no plan for conceding home rule , begins to be rather amusing . That he has a plan , however , though not a plan which he is ready to lay before the public , is just as certain as that he is alive . He will not put himself on paper , or produce anything formal , till Parliament meets , or perhaps not until he finds himself Prime Minister again ; but , as he says himself , he is in the meantime " thinking , and thinking , and thinking . " That home rule in some shape is going to be conceded during the coming year is as sure as anything in politics can be , and Gladstone will be the father of it if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily , however , if it came from the Tories , for the House of Lords will offer some resistance if the Tories oppose it . The London nines apparently builds some hope of its defeat on the action of the Massachusetts Legislature in taking away the appointment of the Police Commissioners from the Mayor of Boston and giving it to the Governor , " on account , " it says , " of the growth of the Irish element and the consequent disorder and corruption . " But the effect of this will surely be neutralized by the reelection by a heavy majority of an Irish Mayor , Mr. O'Brien . Moreover , we have little doubt that if the Massachusetts Legislature found that its action with regard to the Boston police was damaging the prospects of home rule in Ireland , it would reverse it . The Irish Orangemen are raising their voices in opposition to home rule , and threaten dreadful things if it comes to pass . They will , however , probably have as much influence in the matter as their 17 or 18 votes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . All parties in England now recognize what a curse to Ireland they have been , and how little they amount to in politics . They represent nothing now but a survival of the ferocious religious bigotry of the seventeenth century , and are perhaps the only body of men in our day who openly clamor for a restoration of religious intolerance and persecution . Their threats of civil war are ridiculous , but they evidently hope to frighten the English public with them . One of the fraternity predicts , in a letter to the London Times , as a result of home rule , " bloodshed , pandemonium , and massacre , " which is certainly an awful programme ; but massacre besides pandemonium would seem to be unnecessary . 