@@478839

Late last summer , in a pious setting of green mountains , stone fences , unpolluted streams , and other reminders of our lost pastoral purity , two prominent writers made statements that were in fact outrageous attacks on the moral and emotional integrity of American life . The occasion was the Bread Loaf Writers ' Conference in Vermont , and the writers were William J. Lederer and Norman Mailer . Lederer spoke with a full charge of anger about Vietnam , the organized graft and political corruption behind our activities there in this age of the Great Society . Mailer spoke like a bad boy in church about obscenity in literature , the necessary filthiness of language in this age of cancer , foiled feces , and pinched orgasm . Lederer 's materials were facts and figures he had gathered at considerable personal risk from firsthand observation of the Vietnam scene . Mailer 's were the radical intuitions of a mind almost pathologically sensitive to the psychic currents alive in the contemporary world . Yet one could not escape the feeling that in spite of their very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same phenomenon . There might be no literal connection between Vietnam and obscenity beyond the fact that both could be considered dirty words . But on some level beyond or beneath the literal , one sensed the possibility of connection , and for some time afterward was haunted by that possibility . It therefore seemed something more than a nice coincidence when , a month or so later , Mailer published a new novel bearing the portentous title , Why Are We In Vietnam ? , One was of course a bit baffled to discover that the book was not really about Vietnam at all but about an Alaskan bear hunt . Yet perverse whimsy could " Issued by Putnam , $4.95 . Harper 's Magazine , February 1968 not have been Mailer 's sole motive for using the title , although nothing else seemed to account for his decision to run two photographs of himself on the back of the jacket , one depicting a mean , sullen Max Baerish Mailer with an enormous black eye , the other showing a handsome , quite respectable face that smiled slightly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some renewal of excitement , that the book was **31;2314;TOOLONG , hilariously obscene , very probably the most obscene novel ever published in this country , and that , in view of Mailer 's declarations at Bread Loaf , seemed far too pat for any coincidence . There appeared to be good reason for supposing now that the book just might contain hidden depths and secrets , that if Mailer had two faces , so might the book ? a verbal surface of grinning , foul-mouthed iconoclasm and a concealed interior of diabolically subtle , even murderous intent . Little by little this suspicion grew stronger and one 's reading of the book warier . Then suddenly the Jekyll and Hyde effect dissolved : the two faces became one face possessing features of remarkable coherence . Now for the first time the title seemed appropriate and the obscenity imperative . For it became clear that Mailer had indeed managed to bring Vietnam and obscenity together in a marvelous synthesis , and that his book , properly read , could be seen as telling us something important not only about the obscenity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , about the possible power of obscenity to help alleviate that situation . To appreciate the success with which the novel justifies these claims , it is first necessary to see that the action does not literally stand for the Vietnam war , but is rather a complex metaphorical statement of the moral and emotional sickness that may be responsible for the war . The book is not , in other words , merely a charade in which elements of the war are pantomimed , or in which the bear hunters represent generals , their weapons the Air Force , and the animals the poor napalmed women and children of Vietnam . Certain minor parallels of this kind may he suggested , and the book may finally become an outlandish comic parable of our national tragedy , a grotesque anatomy of our psychic melancholy , a nightmare map of LI3J 's route to certain disaster . But it arrives at none of these incarnations all at once , nor do they exist simultaneously on the same plane of subtlety . Mailer has in the past cautioned his readers not to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is imperative . One muves toward something like full comprehension of what he is saying only by slow degrees and only after excavating down through levels of significance that grow progressively larger the more carefully one studies them . On the simplest level , the story the novel tells is familiar to the point of clich ? because almost every major American author from Melville to Faulkner has written his version of it . Two Texas adolescents , D. J. Jethroe and Tex Hyde , go to Alaska , in the company of D. J. 's father and two guides , to hunt grizzly bear . At a particularly dangerous moment of kill . D. J. bests his father in courage and in so doing figuratively murders him and takes possession of his manhood . The boys are then freed to act independently of adult authority . They strike out alone into the mountains and climb far above the timber line . There in a state of complete isolation and as vulnerable as men can be to the elemental perils , they are able to put aside their fears and hatreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition as human beings . The story , in short , appears to be nothing more than a modernized and even rather banal retelling of the classic American mythic tale of quest , initiation , and ultimate absolution . Moby Dick , Huckleberry Finn , and Faulkner 's The Bear loom behind it and create both its historical precedent and its archetypal pattern ; the escape from the repressive hypocrisies of civilized society : the search for reality in the wilderness which , BOOKS symbolically , represents a return to the Great Mother womb of nature ; the test of strength and courage ; the achievement of moral rebirth in the renewal of harmonious relations between the self and the natural world . One may be intrigued to see how a writer of Mailer 's radical imagination has turned to perhaps the most conventional and idealized of American literary modes for the structure of what is surely a subversive attack on the American character . But if that were all he had done , one would be justified in writing off his book as still another watery helping of instant ritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this story had always their dark other side , a haunting intimation of violence and terror working just beneath the idyllic pastoral surfaces , so there is a demonic center to Mailer 's book . The story may seem innocuous enough in its details . But the story is told , and it is told by D. J. , and that makes a difference as powerfully sinister as Ahab 's madness or the horrors that pursue Huck and Jim as they float on their raft down the tranquil Mississippi . For D. J. is also mad in his way as well as very probably a genius , and he is a magnificent perversion of the ideal of wholesome , clean-cut American boyism which we sentimentally but erroneously associate with Huckleberry Finn . In fact , D. J. is a perversion of both the idealized Huck and the idealized Jim . In his white incarnation he is Ranald Jethroe Jellicoe Jethroe , handsome sixteen-year-old stud from Dallas . Big D. , Texas , that Eden of assassinations . He is also Disk Jockey to the world and Doctor Jekyll to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son of a necrophiliac undertaker . But when D. J. is high on pot , his relation to the universe becomes transistorized , and he imagines himself plugged into the brain of a bedridden genius Negro . White boy and black boy talk out of his mouth at the same time , and the result is the most brilliant babble of verbal ghastliness ever heard in literature . D.J . speaks by turns with the tongue of a Hell 's Angel , a Harlem hippie , a small-town Southern deputy sheriff , a drunken tent-revivalist preacher , and the filthiest-minded top sergeant in the U. S. Army . But he is a militant moralist at heart , and his obscenity functions as the terribleswift sword of conscience that slices through the pretensions of everything he finds obscene in American society . Ills most outrageous eloquence is directed against the pretensions of his father , Rutherford ( Rusty ) David Jethroe Jellieoe Jethroe , top executive of a firm engaged in manufacturing plastic cigarette filters called Pew Rapports ? the filter with the purest porosity of purpose ? which eventually cause cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corruption of his father 's world , and from the moment the hunting party arrives in Alaska , we recognize that he and Tex are as much the hunted and victimized and finally as desperately at bay , as the animals of the Brooks Range country ? because both they and the animals are being exploited by the sick value system which has produced emotional casualties of men like Rusty Jethroe . Here , briefly , the Vietnam parallel emerges at the level of charade , but the effect is one of shattering and altogether successful tour de force . The methods employed by the invading hunters from Rusty 's world have so terrorized the animals that they have gone berserk . As the Indian guide , Big 011ie , says , " animal no wild no more , now crazy . " They have been fired upon by gigantic Magnum rifles of near howitzer size . They have been badly maimed and left , out of their minds with pain , to die a little at a time , black murder eating their hearts . Helicopters hare herded them together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have an easy shot . As a result , they have been reduced to a state in which their actions are no longer predictable or in keeping with the laws of animal decorum , in which they may charge without warning or reason , attack from ambush , carry on their own instinctual form of guerrilla warfare . D. J. and Tex are also fighting guerrilla-fashion , using as weapons D. J. 's outrageous rhetoric and their combined defiance of adult authority , to escape a similar brutalization at the human level . Toward the end of the novel it appears that they do escape . But we come to understand long before this that the obvious symbolism of the heavy weaponry , helicopters , guerrilla tactics , and the terrible plight of the animals is finally important to Mailer not because it pertains to the boys or pantomimes Vietnam but because it dramatizes the plight of the bunters . Their sickness of soul is the issue that interests him above all else . Around it he builds his case study of the individual and national psychosis which , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have created the Vietnam war . Rusty Jethroe stands in the book as the representative victim of this psychosis . The implication is that the forces that drive him to become a promiscuous slayer of animals are the same as those that have driven the nation into promiscubus military aggressiveness . In both cases the problem is creative energy subverted into a massive need to seek and exercise domination over others . At some point in Rusty 's development his native pioneer impulses toward adventure and self-challenge , impulses which might once have found an outlet in the testing hazards of the frontier , have been blocked in him and become the poison of his psychic life . There are voids in his eyes and gleams of yellow fire , reflecting the rage burning in the wastes of his unconscious . Sometimes BOOKS it seems to D. J. that there are fifty thousand miles of marble floor down those eyes , and you have to walk over them all to get to The Man . But it is questionable wiaether The Man is any longer there . For Rusty has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage , to develop his trust or his capacity for love . Hence , his existence has degenerated into a series of small , vicious , power-seeking conquests of the animal and business world . He achieves temporary relief from his frustrations in his sadistic version of the hunt , in the kind of compulsive trophy-ism in which the mounted heads of bear and deer symbolize not shooting skill but corporation status , in the humiliation of subordinates , whose obedience to him is measured , according to D. J. , by the degree of instant sincerity they can put into their " gut yes " whenever Rusty wants them to confirm the truth of one of his boasts . But all his victories are won in a contest that never engages him at the level of his deepest needs . Rusty has brought death to animals , and he may , as Hemingway once confessed about himself , be forced to kill animals in order to keep from committing suicide . But he has never faced the fact of death in his own mind . He therefore has never discovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dread , the great contemporary fear of defeat , and it is very possible that he will finally fall victim to cancer , the great contemporary disease of those who dread . For cancer , in Mailer 's view , is the revenge which the cells of the body take upon those who fail to discharge their aggressive impulses , and so cleanse themselves of dread , in emotionally healthy ways . Within the terms of Mailer 's almost medievally unitary vision of human life , the psychological character of a nation is indistinguishable from that of an individual . A nation too can embark on a cancer course when it finds itself balked in the effort to confront new challenges and move forward into new phases of creative growth . For America the most dangerous cancer symptom is Vietnam . We brutalize and slaughter the Vietnamese as Rusty brutalizes and slaughters animals because our eggressions are frozen in the traps of murder and we have lost the power to release them through other , less destructive means . There was a time , according to Mailer , when this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its westward expansion but on the psychological frontier of a free-ranging aliveness to the possibilities of romance , adventure , and imaginative self-discovery . For a moment , in history we were energized by the dream of the potential heroism of every man . When the West was filled , that dream turned inward and became a fixture of our fantasy life . As Mailer observes in his essay , " The Existential Hero , " it was once a vital proof of manhood and selfhood to he able to " fight well , kill well ( if always with honor ) , love well and love many , be cool , be daring , be dashing , be wild , be wily , be resourceful , be a brave gun . And this myth that each of us was born to be free , to wander , to have adventure , and to grow on the waves of the violent , the perfumed , and the unexpected , had a force which could not be tamed no matter how the nation 's regulators . .. would brick in the modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platitude ... it was as if the message in the labyrinth of the genes would insist that violence was locked with creativity , and adventure was the secret of love . " Briefly , during the second world war , life in America turned adventurous again . Some nerve in the national awareness came suddenly awake , and we lived for a while in repossession of our courage and once more on the fine edge of new possibilities for heroism . But the surprises , failures , and dangers of the war ended by sapping our resistance to insecurity , and in the bleak , dead years of Truman , Joe McCarthy , and Eisenhower , we retreated into conservatism and the ugly paranoia of the Cold War . America 's need at this time was , said Mailer , to " take an existential turn , to walk into the nightmare , to face into that terrible logic of history which demanded that the country and its people must become more extraordinary and more adventurous , or else perish . " To make this possible we needed a hero for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of heroism , and so allow " eacb private mind the liberty to consider its fantasy and find a way to grow . " In John Kennedy we had for a time such a President . When he was assassinated , the fantasy was forced underground , and in our frustration and rage we have quite simply gone berserk . We have become involved in a war whose end may he limitless , an obscene war which can " brutalize what is best in a nation and encourage every horror to rise from its sewer . " But a war we have needed because we have needed action , " not brave action , but action ; any kind of action ; any move to get the motors going . A future death of the spirit lies close and wavy upon American life , a cancerous emptiness at the center which calls ' or a circus . " this cancerous emptiness is finally that Why Are We In Vietnam ? is all bout . The book thus provides its own nswer to the question raised by the tle . But far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain alf-ludicrous , half-serious solution the dilemma it describes . For if the . nguage is obscenity of a particularly olent and imaginative sort , it is ob:enity used with a clearly radical oral intention : to help alleviate the been sound , and as much success as is good for me has come my way . Yet from early years I have experienced a deep sense of dissatisfaction which has forced me to look below the surface of things . it has also so happened that I have been brought into touch with people whose experiences are unusual ; some of a " psychic " nature and others with mystical glimpses . Also , for many years I have closely studied the records of psychical research and have made my own investigations and received sufficient evidence to disturb any complacency I might have had that the common-sense world was the only reality . I am constantly meeting people who , while apparently immersed in this world 's activities , are not so in reality . They are inwardly groping for some explanation of their existence . They are not what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , yet they are thoughtful , well educated , and are burdened with unanswered questions . . . . / ) psychological pressures that have driven us to commit the atrocity of Vietnam . There are two kinds of obscenity in the novel : scatological and fornicatory . Sometimes , in the mixed metaphors of evacuation and buggery , the two cohabit .. But the scatological predominates . D. J. 's talk is primarily lingual bowel movement , and this has its quirky appropriateness . For over the years Mailer has evolved a sort of eschatology of scatology , a highly idiosyncratic metaphysics of feces . Excrement . represents to him the organic form of defeat and dread . It is linked in his mind to the work of the Devil , who is engaged in unremitting warfare with God to determine the ascendancy of death or life in the universe , a contest which on the human level becomes the individual 's unremitting struggle against dread . Closely related to this is the concept of apocalyptic orgasm which Mailer first explored in his famous essay , " The White Negro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hipster is not merely the ultimate sexual spasm . It may he a physical consummation devoutly to be wished for , but it is above all else a psycho-mystical experience whereby new circuits of energy are generated in the self , which in turn come into connec-BOOKS tion with circuits operating throughout the universe . Finally , therefore , it is a means of attaining oneness with God . But for this to become possible , the Devil in us must first be vanquished . Hence , behind every apocalyptic orgasm is an apocalyptic defecation . From one exit we ejaculate toward divinity . From the other we evacuate the Devil 's work . The route to salvation is thus from anus to phallus , from organic excretion to orgasmic ecstasy . If there is in fact a Great Chain of Being , Mailer 's advice would obviously be to pull it . At the literary level scatological obscenity is a means of clearing the psychic bowels of defeat and dread . It is a way of ridding ourselves of the blocked aggressions , the spiritual constipations , which goad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creative self-rejuvenation . In the broad sociological terms suggested by Mailer in his Bread Loaf lecture and again in a recent Esquire article , the literary use of obscenity may also be a means of renewing vital contact between those portions of the population who habitually and at grave peril to themselves repress their aggressive impulses , and those to whom obscenity is part of the accepted vernacular language and thus constitutes a natural and healthy mode of release for those impulses . Ideally , the function of obscenity would be to mediate between the superego and the id elements of American society , releasing the buried fears and hatreds of the Wasp Establishment classes to something like the emotional freedom of the Negro and hipster . We live , " says Mailer , " in an American society which can remind you of nothing so much as two lobes of a brain , two hemispheres of communication themselves intact but surgically severed from one another .. . the Establishment will not begin to come its half of the distance through the national gap until its knowledge of the real social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is accurate rather than liberal , condescending , and overprogrammatic . Yet . for this to happen , every real and subterranean language must first have its hearing , even if taste will be in the process as outraged as a vegetarian forced to watch the flushing of entrails in a stockyards , ... . if the world is thus turned a shift more barbarous , it is also a click less insane . Each year , civilization gives its delineated promise of being further coterminous with schizophrenia . Good taste . . . may be ultimately the jailer ... The aim of a robust art still remains : that it be hearty , that it be savage , that it serve to feed audiences with the marrow of its honest presence . In the end robust art ... gives . light and definition and blasts of fresh air to the corners of the world , it is a firm presence in the world , and su helps to protect the world from its dissolution in compromise , lack of focus , and entropy , entropy , that disease of progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Devil 's foul mouth . Yeah , and yes ! Obscenity is where God and Devil meet , and so is another of the avatars in which art ferments and man distills . " The savage , robust art of Mailer 's novel not only proposes through its obscenity a purgative treatment for some of the major illnesses of the age . It ends in an act of purgation and in the achievement of precisely the kind of psychic renewal which Mailer believes should be the logical result of such an act . In a long closing passage containing some of the finest descrip ? tive writing Mailer or anyone else ha : ever done , D. J. and Tex leave behind Rusty 's " mixed shit " world and climb high into the snow-covered peaks of the Brooks Range mountains . There alone and , like Ike McCaslin in The Bear . sacramentally weaponless , they discover an animal paradise not yet corrupted or brutalized by men . The animals are therefore still living in a state of telepathic communication with one another and with the electromagnetic currents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be most heavily concentrated in the Polar regions . But he and Tex are also telepathically connected with the animals . They find that by sending out intense psychic voltages of murder they can frighten away a white wolf which threatens them , and a moment later they observe the destructive effect their message has had on his courage when he ineffectually fights off an attacking eagle . The boys too achieve harmony with the elemental forces of life , and during a long night while they lie awake under the electric blaze of the Aurora Borealis , they pass through the locks of homosexually homocidal impulses toward each other . They have hung together on the edge of a conflict between sexually possessing each other and killing each other . But " as the hour went by and the lights shifted , something in the radiance of the north went into them . and owned                     