@@441974

AS KHRUSHCHEV well knows , conditions within his East German satellite have been steadily worsening and are now at an all-time low in its checkered twelve-year history . There is a growing shortage of food and consumer goods in East Germany , an increasing and alarming drain on its slender resources of manpower , and an atmosphere of vocal discontent . For obvious reasons , the shortage of food is much more serious than that of other consumer goods . East German citizens can get along , the regime reckons , with badly cut suits and clumsy footwear , with everlasting shortages of pots and pans , thimbles and tin tacks , the so-called " thousand small things " which Walter Ulbricht , East Germany 's Communist Party head , is always prophesying will soon become available in profusion . They can get along without automobiles ? only 300,000 have been produced in East Germany during the last fifteen years ? and they can manage for the time being in their homes without washing machines , refrigerators , or decent furniture . But a food shortage is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the summer of 1960 there were temporary shortages in East Germany of vegetables , fruit , and milk . But this year , the shortages involved almost every vital foodstuff . Reports poured in from East Germany of the makeshift methods which the authorities were using in order to deal with the situation . Thus , in all areas fats were rationed by " availability . " This meant that customers were told by shopkeepers what they would get : in the Frankfort-on-Oder district in July , for instance , it was ten ounces of butter a week per head , but in Leipzig , only seven and a half ounces , and in Potsdam , only five ounces . Customers had to register with a single shop and could not buy else-where ; an army of 70,000 state inspectors saw to it that they kept the rules . Meat was rationed , with supply failures becoming chronic . In the Potsdam district , 4000 diseased bullocks and 7000 pigs were condemned and dispatched to the knackers ' yards . Huge consignments of imported canned meats were found to be contaminated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons of meat were slaughtered than in the corresponding period of 1960 . Yet the minimum weight of pigs for slaughtering had already been lowered from 240 to 175 pounds . In all East Germany 30,000 fewer tons of milk than usual were being sold each month . Grain , bread , and potatoes began to run short . An inept bureaucracy is always slow to take action . The East German authorities failed to step up food imports . All sorts of imported foodstuffs began to run short , too ? oranges and bananas , red and black pepper , nuts , tea , and cocoa . In midsummer , West German visitors were amazed to find a pineapple selling for 20 marks ( the West German price was 4 marks ) , and a pound of coffee for 35 marks ( West German price , 8 marks ) . They were equally surprised to find two meatless days in some towns , and to sec potatoes being distributed on the streets . Most surprising of all to these West Germans was the uninhibited grumbling of the normally tongue-tied East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent a letter to Ulbricht demanding the end of food rationing . Another such protest came from the students of Leipzig University . Even a Communist Party official , Willy Kuphal , secretary of the Socialist Unity Party in the Saxon town of Grimma , announced , " We can not put the blame onto Adenauer because there is no bread left in Grimma on a Saturday , because there are queues at the butchers ' shops in Nerchau , because half the chimneys in Naunhof need repairing and nobody can get a license to do the job . " The flight of the able The Kennedy-Khrushchev meeting in Vienna in May showed that the Soviet Union will no longer pay even lip service to the ideal of German reunification . In Vienna Khrushchev preached the virtue of " accepting the consequences of Hitler 's war , " chief among them the division of Germany into two separate states . Ulbricht has been insistent in underlining and emphasizing the desirability of division . He generalized , but he was also specific . He forecast the closing down of Tempelhof airfield , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over Berlin 's communications passed from Soviet to East German hands . Tempelhof is West Berlin 's only operating airport . Air traffic would be rerouted to Schoenefeld airfield in East Germany . Passengers by air would then be checked by the East German People 's Police . This would close the escape route to West Germany , used by three out of every four East German refugees . Ten years ago , 84,000 East Berliners worked in West Berlin , and 103,000 West Berliners worked in East Berlin . In July only 15,000 West Berliners crossed each day into East Berlin to work , but there were still 53,000 East Berliners coming in the opposite direction . Ulbricht decided that they could not be spared , and closed the border . Shortage of manpower was becoming a real danger to the economy . In five years , the number of East Germans working in agriculture , for instance , dropped by 330,000 , and the enforced collectivism of the land accelerated the drift to the towns . Last year nearly 700 doctors fled to West Germany , leaving one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the teaching profession lost 142 university and college professors and lecturers , and over 2000 other schoolteachers . Members of the East German armed forces and police deserted to the West at a rate of over a hundred a month . The departure of technicians to more profitable jobs in the Federal Republic has been a major hindrance to fulfillment of Ulbricht 's Seven Year Plan . The East German manpower problem goes even deeper than the flight of people . This year , only about 150,000 East Germans left school at the end of July and became available for regular work . But more than 250,000 East Germans reached pension age . This difference of well over 100,000 is due to the low birth rate at the end of the war . The East German government has itself estimated that the total labor force will be reduced by about 700,000 during the next five years . The flow of refugees had to be checked . There are no reserves of labor left . The number of women in full employment can hardly be increased ; it already is 3.6 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Recently , the district of Chemnitz was complimented on having 76 per cent of its women in full employment , a record for East Germany . Efforts to enroll women in " housewives ' brigades , " mainly for direction into part-time jobs , have not been very successful . By midsummer 3800 of these brigades had been organized , with about 28,000 " Comrade housewives . " Even less productive have been appeals to old-age pensioners to take part-time jobs . This untapped source of labor is extremely difficult to direct or integrate into the economy . The signs of trouble Lack of manpower has probably been the most important single reason for increased Communist pressure on Berlin . The flow of refugees out of East Germany can fairly be compared to a bloodletting operation which is robbing the East German Republic of its very life force . Ulbricht has had to lower his economic sights . He has retracted his promise to overtake West German living standards by the end of 1961 . He has scrapped the budding East German aircraft industry ; the aeronautical research station in Dresden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people have died in East German political prisons . Even in 1961 , there arc still 10,000 prisoners in East German jails who were sentenced for political crimes . Among them are known to be 106 who have been in jail since the East German rising of 1953 . Since the war , an estimated 8000 East Germans have been deported to the Soviet Union ; 69 per cent of them have never been traced . During the last ten years , 232 West German citizens have been kidnaped from West Berlin by the East German security services , which have undertaken another 85 frustrated kidnapings . In June of this year a number of employees of the East German railways and post office were sentenced to terms of imprisonment ranging up to two years . Their crimes were that they had allowed parcels of clothes and personal belongings to be sent to former East German citizens who had fled to West Germany . The grounds given for these jail sentences , passed in Eisenach and Erfurt , were " Aiding and abetting citizens fleeing from the Republic . " Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German regime allowed an Evangelical Church congress to be held in both parts of Berlin . This year the East German regime banned the holding of any meeting , during the congress , in East Berlin and instructed East German citizens not to attend meetings and services held in West Berlin . Yet several thousand risked the wrath of their Communist government and went . The East German regime , labeling decent West German clergy " atom bishops ' ' and " NATO clericals , " said that the congress was a " tactical move in the Cold War , " by the " new Church militant of the aggressor Strauss and the Hitler generals of the Bundeswehr . " East German militarism For a long time , the Russians and East Germans have been maintaining thirty divisions in an area of East Germany the size of the state of Tennessee . The East Germans have paramilitary forces which number at least 150,000 men . They have stationed 8200 well-armed and trained men of paramilitary formations in East Berlin , equipped with mortars , artillery , and light tanks . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , as well as a quartermaster department , the headquarters of their military counterespionage service , and a central recruiting office for their armed forces , with eight local branches . They have also built up an arms industry in East Berlin ; the Koepenick shipyards , for instance , have constructed for the East German naval forces twelve large mine sweepers , ten medium and small mine sweepers , and six motor torpedo boats . To the East German regime , the demilitarization of Berlin is a dead letter ; yet it proclaims the " remilitarization " of the Federal Republic as a crime . THE bolted and heavily guarded gates of Independence Palace in Saigon and the barbed wire and mine fields that protect the concrete blockhouses and family quarters of the civil guard posts in rural South Vietnam are symbolic of the nature of the " war of national liberation " by which the Viet Gong , the Communist guerrilla organization , directed from and supported by North Vietnam , hopes to overthrow the government of President Ngo Dinh Diem . They are symbolic , also , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . An average of nearly a hundred people are being killed or wounded each day in the war that has reduced the South Vietnamese countryside to a guerrilla battlefield and all but dried up vital rice deliveries to Saigon . At a time when the crisis demands the widest possible unity among all non-Communist and anti-Communist forces , President Diem has become more aloof and less inclined than ever to delegate authority , or to accept advice . Some hitherto loyal supporters , who rallied to him in the days when his courage and determination routed the dissident and exotic religious sects and promised the first real hope of saving the country from what had seemed certain Communist domination by 1956 , are now his despairing critics . Army officers who saved him from an abortive paratrooper coup last November no longer conceal their disappointment that the changes they hoped for have been effected only in form but not in substance . The November coup was an important milestone in the history of the Republic of Vietnam . Most people , including some of those who took part in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including those who did not participate , were happy that it had been attempted . For , despite the growing unpopularity of his Administration , Diem himself commands a great degree of personal affection and prestige . He is regarded as essentially a good man , and his shortcomings are put down to his Confucianism and the fact that he is and wants to be a mandarin , the " little father " of South Vietnam who knows what is best for his children . The coup , it was hoped , would have shocked him into appreciating that his children did not fully agree and wanted a liberalized and more representative form of government . Diem 's battle for survival Those who had such hopes misunderstood the President . Diem , now sixty , is not only Confucianist and a mandarin ; he is also a misogynist , a devout Catholic , and a pessimist . His life has been both divorced from material reality and dedicated to the service of his country . In June , 1954 , when all seemed lost in Vietnam and Diem returned from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who knew him best wondered how he would survive the shocking tests that lay ahead of him . To survive , Diem had to fight not only the Binh Xuyen gangsters , who controlled both the police and the organized vice of Saigon ; the Hoa Hao and Cao Dai religious sects with their own private armies ; and remnant elements supporting the former chief of state , Bao Dai , who had gone off into self-imposed exile at Cannes ; but also the British and French , who felt that he was the wrong man and not well disposed toward the Geneva Agreement by which Vietnam was temporarily partitioned to prepare for reunifying elections in 1956 . Diem beat them all . Ever since , he has worked an eighteen- or nineteen-hour day , making all the decisions . Only his brothers , especially Ngo Dinh Nhu , his political adviser , have any influence on him , principally because he trusts them as he trusts no one else . For years , confused and mostly ill-founded rumors have spread about the corruption of this group around Diem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some extremely dubious means is correct ; but the funds were raised , at least in principle , for Ngo Dinh Nhu 's Revolutionary Labor Party , a small , secret group dedicated to the preservation of the Diem Administration . The party believed it necessary to equip itself Report on South Vietnam with big secret reserves for use in emergencies , such as the cutting oil ' of American aid , or on projects of which Washington might be expected to disapprove . No rumors of the personal enrichment of members of the family were ever proved ; some ? for instance , that Madame Nhu , Ngo Dinh Nhu 's attractive and influential wife , laud invested large sums in Paris cinemas and Brazilian coffee plantations ? were disproved . The stories , nevertheless , continued to circulate . They contributed , over a long period of time , to the growing feeling of unrest about the Administration and its ineffective concentration in the hands of the family circle . Cabinet ministers became little more than heads of departments , most of them terrified by Diem . Military commanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own seniors . Rigged elections This state of affairs might have continued indefinitely if it load not been for the 1959 elections for the National Assembly . Diem intended the elections merely to bring together a body of carefully selected and obedient intellectuals . He wanted not opposition from the Assembly but support for his policies , and therefore he saw nothing wrong in preventing the moderate , Harvard-educated socialist , Dr. Phan Quang Dan , whose popular appeal in his electorate proved too much for the ballot stuffers , from taking his scat . Dan is now held in detention for his ill-advised , last-minute backing of the November coup . To many South Vietnamese , this misuse of the democratic processes was pretty shabby . To the Communists in Hanoi , however , it represented a major challenge . They were not shocked by election rigging but by the fact that the Diem Administration was beginning to sport the trappings of permanency . An elected National Assembly in the south tended to overshadow their own Assembly , in which seats had been left vacant for southerners . Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the Report on South Vietnam impact of the U.S. aid program , which distributed $1.3 billion between 1954 and 1960 , substantial results had begun to show . Rice production had increased from two million tons a year to five million tons . Rice exports were soaring , from $371,000 in 1956 to $28 million in 1960 . Rubber exports had doubled . Light industries were beginning to appear to take care of local needs in textiles and other consumer goods . The day clearly was in sight when South Vietnam might begin to look forward to self-sufficiency as a long-range attainable national goal , an achievement of note for a country which had been cut in two by the Geneva Agreement and whose population had been swollen from 11.5 million in 1955 to 14 million by a high birth rate and an influx of 800,000 refugees from the Communist north . The Communists decided to move by activating the cells they had prepared in advance in the southern countryside . The Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam thereby became a reality . Almost immediately it produced one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unrest , caused by widespread Communist guerrilla activity and army frustration , culminated in the attempted coup , which to many in Saigon provided a tragic but unique opportunity to persuade Diem to make substantial reforms . The frustrations of the army The tide of expectation rose sharply after the coup , and Diem seemed prepared to accept wise Western and Vietnamese counsel . lie agreed to the establishment of a field-command system which seemed to promise an end to his direct intervention in military operations ; he also promised a more broadly based government . Neither agreement has come up to expectations . Of the top thirty senior army officers , fewer than half a dozen are still regarded as dedicated Diem men . That does not imply that the rest are against him ; in general , the army leaders tend to be apolitical , but there are all sorts of minor dissatis factions within the army , including complaints of inadequate pay and promotion ? some long-experienced divisional commanders still hold only colonel 's rank . There are also charges that promotions come for personal rather than professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these frustrations and to examine the lessons of the coup . The result is an inevitable appreciation of Diem 's dependence on the army 's power and a realization that , if loyal elements had not responded to his call for help in November , the situation in South Vietnam would certainly be different , though perhaps not better , than it is today . This is a new factor in the situation ; the dissidence of hitherto loyal servants of Diem , including some whose relationship was second only to that of the more immediate members of his family , is another . The underlying concern of both these groups is whether Diem will ever succeed in bringing himself to make the changes that could rally the nation to the war against the Communists . Although once again many Vietnamese are talking quite openly and frankly about another coup d'etat , there is no unanimity among those who want change . Civilians fear that rule by a military junta would be worse ; and in all South Vietnam there is no man comparable in stature to Diem , or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or political following . These divisions inside South Vietnam have produced a situation that assists only the Communists . The Viet Cong has now moved guerrilla groups to the outskirts of Saigon , and any night , only a mile or two beyond the city , the sound of gunfire is clearly heard . This does not represent an armed threat to the city , but is certainly to be taken as an indication that the Viet Cong is ready to exploit any situation that may develop , following another coup . The insurgents On paper , everything would seem to favor the government forces . The army of 150,000 men is well equipped and trained ; with U.S. assistance , it is now being expanded by a further Report on South Vietnam 20,000 men and given a less conventional role by the creation of a hundred companies of commandos , who will fight the Viet Cong guerrillas with their own tactics . It is assisted by 60,000 members of the civil guard . And it is opposed by a guerrilla force of perhaps 15,000 , of whom only about half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rifles . Nevertheless , the initiative is with ? and is likely to remain with ? the insurgents . They do not attempt to make a stand against superior army strength . They fight when they think they can win and run away when they can not . They recognize their strategic inferiority and organize large-scale forces only when they hope to achieve tactical superiority for a specific purpose . In other words , they follow the instructions laid down years ago by Mao Tse-tung . Their armed striking force is of secondary importance at the moment to their forces of political cadres and professional assassins , who descend on the villages to make propaganda , levy taxes , raise recruits , and murder officials who are uncooperative or unpopular . This is , in other words , Laos all over again , a textbook application of the theory of fighting a " war of national liberation . " Hanoi 's hand is everywhere evident , but nowhere in a shape or form that SEATO would accept as evidence of overt aggression . Although Phnom Penh denies it , the weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army have their headquarters across the Cambodian border . From the swamplands there , orders arc received and transmitted in code by transistor radio to regular Viet Cong guerrilla units . Vietnamese authorities say they have identified a Muong tribesman from the central plateau , Duong Quoc Chinh , as commander in chief of the Liberation Army . Ung Van Khiem , the southern-born Foreign Minister of North Vietnam , is said to be secretary-general of the administrative committee of the " liberation " movement . Some supplies are known to be entering the south by way of the Cambodian and Laotian borders , and also by sea ; but the north 's principal contribution , as in Laos , is to provide the coordination and direction and to take southerners to camps in the north , where they are indoctrinated , trained , and shipped back for action . Capture by discontent The central plateau , which was once regarded as the one truly secure area in the south , has become an area of dissidence . The Communists have worked on the grievances , both real and imaginary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are already some places where the army , even in strength , does not go . Everywhere , in fact , the Viet Con is putting to good effect the well-proved Communist tactic of creating conditions in which the Diem Administration is often obliged to take unpopular action . In the thirty-eight provinces where the chefs de province are experienced enough to grasp the nature of the threat , some good results have been achieved . But not all chefs de province are men of talent , and many of their subordinates act like little mandarins and are sometimes corrupt , cowardly , and even brutal . It is not a criticism of the American economic aid program , which has had worth-while success , to note that , in the remote rural areas , its influence has not yet penetrated . Since the Communists these days are directing their " wars of national liberation " primarily at peasant communities , the lesson here is real and urgent . Revolts like this must he fought on the battlefields of the Communists ' choice ? in the grass roots of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political , and , only in the protection of the state , military . The struggle , as Field Marshal Sir Gerald Templer was Wise enough to realize when he fought a similar but , admittedly , much easier campaign in Malaya , was primarily for " the hearts and minds of the people . " Unless that lesson is learned in South Vietnam , there may soon be few uncommitted hearts and minds left to capture . Tim Tories go to their annual party conference this October uncertain for the first time in ten years and more than a little rebellious . Some have been openly rebellious over the Common Market ; almost all still have some anxiety , knowing now that the momentous question is no longer whether Britain should join the Common Market , but whether , on its own conditions , it can . Others are anxious about the swift hand-over of control in Africa to Africans in areas where societies are multiracial . Most suspect that their government 's policy of monetary restraint will fail to solve what is a different kind of crisis , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan finished the summer parliamentary session with authority , but seemed tired . He had admitted that his historic hope that Britain would " join Europe " is still a hope rather than a decision , despite the vote in Parliament ; he had taken tough measures to defend the pound ; he had left no doubts as to the government 's firmness on Berlin . Yet he had not united the party or rallied the nation . Gaitskell , in contrast , rebuffed last year by his own conference , has re-established his authority . He is certain to turn the tables on the proponents of unilateral disarmament at his own conference . Should the Tories be jostled or driven into an early election , he has an even chance again of being the next Prime Minister . The strange thing is that the Labor Party is no less divided than the Conservative . The unilateralists prove to be also the isolationists , man for man , in regard to the Common Market . The leadership 's Common Market policy is : " Perhaps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the polls , the party is still without a popular economic program . The Trades Union Congress , meanwhile , fights on two fronts , against the government over wages and against its Communists over their infiltration of its ranks . The T.U.C. fears that entry into the Common Market will abruptly halt the forwardmarch of wages , the issue of the moment , and its attitude receives inevitable support from the unwanted Communists . The country at large is in a mood for leadership . Macmillan has been inhibited by his memories from claiming as much as he might for his moves into Europe . His way requires great changes its the European Economic Community itself . Channels to the Commonwealth that the E.E.C . has kept closed will have to be opened . Macmillan 's Common Market also would contain 300 million people instead of 160 million . He might well be charged with trying to dilute it , as he was in 1958 . Otherwise , this could be a great unifying cause . The economic crisis The economic crisis the country is now living through is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British were paid more than two pounds extra for every pound 's worth of extra production . It is partly a consequence of the sudden drying up of invisible exports , particularly of shipping and the profits from overseas investments . Net invisible income ten years ago was running at the usual rate of 300 million pounds ; last year it was only 22 million pounds . The crisis is also a matter of prices , but most of all it is a crisis of reputation . Britain , once shipbuilder to the world , is now the biggest importer of ships . Its own exports arc now less than half the size of Sweden 's . In the United States , where German cars have increased their market in competition with compact automobiles , British cars have lost almost two thirds of their market . These happenings alone tell most of the story . For firms and industries with high reputations for quality , skill , and dependability still have no difficulty whatever in selling their products . Jaguar , among car firms , continues to experience steady expansion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pounds so far this year , electrical equipment by 14 million pounds , airplanes and jet motors by 6 million pounds . The British average national income , at 360 pounds a year per capita , still is considerably higher than the French , Dutch , Belgian , Italian , or West German income . There are 400,000 known industrial vacancies , and fewer than 300,000 registered unemployed to fill them . This is certainly not a country going through a slump . In the end , there can be only one way out of this crisis ? a great national effort to increase Britain 's exports . Some 250 million additional pounds would avert danger , but 600 million pounds a year would be required to ensure success . The need would seem to coincide with economic justice . The British are coming to the conclusion that when poverty is overcome , simple justice lies in seeing that efficiency pays best . Recipe for recovery A majority program for British recovery would almost certainly include these ingredients : a gradual end to the subsidizing of inefficiency ; a reform of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a design both to accommodate growth through financial policy and to keep the overall increase of incomes within that growth ; more industrial competition in the home market ; and plainly visible measures to put an end to an era in which , instead of efficiency , mere ownership of property , real and industrial , has paid most handsomely of all . Selwyn Lloyd 's measures , beginning in his April budget with the raising , from $5600 to $14,000 , of the level at which surtax is charged on top of the 37.5 per cent standard rate of tax on earned income , and ending with the application to join the Common Market , have to some extent conformed to this specification . But Lloyd seems to have made two serious mistakes . The lesser may have been to start freezing salaries in the field of education ; the greater , to shuffle so very unwillingly toward a kind of capital gains tax . The Labor Party 's touchstone A big , bold , definitive tax on unearned capital gains has become the touchstone of the Labor Party 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the wage restraint which Labor , too , in private , acknowledges as essential . Where the Labor Party 's program seems to go most obviously wrong is in its promise of a new attack on salary earners also . Indeed , Labor seems to be about to hit at all successful earners , whether companies or individuals . Ted Hill , boilermaker , a bit of a maverick but 1961 's chairman of the T.U , C. , has called surtax payers " the werewolves of society . " But if the dividends of growing industries are to be frozen and surtax reimposed on earners , how , then , is efficiency to pay ? The Labor Party answers that the first thing is not to make efficiency pay but to encourage it by planning and controls . Labor 's domestic program proposes a National Industrial Planning Board to " ensure speedy and purposive industrial investment " and to " direct the industrial expansion to areas where labor is available . " Steel and transport would be re-nationalized . The state would buy controlling shares in several other industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned . Half-pay pensions would be introduced for all . Communists in the unions The program is silent on one of the questions that most immediately matter to Britain , the relation of pay to productivity . Where Labor is silent , the politically insignificant Communist Party is loud . Its energetic support for increases of pay , earned or not , is going to be particularly embarrassing this winter . After a long court battle before Mr. Justice Wino , five leading officers of the Electrical Trades Union , including the president , Frank Foulkes , and the general secretary , Frank Haxell , were this summer found to have rigged the union ballot to get Haxell elected . Anti-Communist John Byrne , defeated candidate , was declared by the court the proper general secretary . The union leadership cynically passed a series of special rules to render Byrne ineffective , for which action they were investigated by the T.U.C. The Labor Party then had no alternative but to move in and order the E.T.U. to prove itself non-Communist or suffer expulsion from the Labor movement . After all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Labor . Most people had forgotten this . In other unions the Communists are content to exercise control , if they can , from below . In the London docks , for instance , they can call a strike almost any time there is a grievance , whatever the T.U.C. or the Labor Party or any court may say about it . A cheerful cockney Communist , aptly named Jack Dash , heads the Port Workers Liaison Committee . This is an entirely unofficial but totally effective body . Here in the docks the Communists have taken advantage of the administrative setup organized by Ernest Sevin . Nowadays the London docks are run by a board representing both employers and Bevin 's Transport and General Workers Union , led by Frank Cousins . When there is a grievance resulting from an agreed order , Cousins ' men on the spot are powerless to support the men with the grievance , for they can not whip up opposition to an order signed by headquarters . But Jack Dash can , and he does . Because of wildcat strikers , abOut a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London in the past two years . Communists also have influence in the Shop Stewards Movement . Shop stewards represent the union men in any particular factory shop on day-to-day issues . These , of course , are what spark wildcat strikes , rather than national issues . Communists are particularly strong in the car industry , at airports and seaports , and in shipbuilding . The wage issue The coming confrontation over wages , which seems inevitable following Selwyn Lloyd 's ill-prepared demand for a " wage pause , " has a climactic air . Big new wage claims have been made by engineering and shipbuilding workers , farmworkers , railwaymen , miners , the electric power industry , post office engineers , professional civil servants , and , of course , teachers . The professional men sound as adamant as the wage earners about getting what they demand . The government itself can say no to all except the engineering and shipbuilding workers , Taken to the limit , this clash could produce an economic crisis in the old sense , with unemployment and distress . A further wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the government , postponed in response to the pressure of public opinion , or called off out of a growing sense of union responsibility , the result might well be a better understanding of the natural **33;1418;TOOLONG equation . In this connection , it is not entirely impossible that a revolution that has come to British soccer football in this past year may have an influence . Soccer is the great British game . Until this year , the economics of the game in Britain has been based on the solid trade-union theory that all players arc equal . British footballers , throughout the past , have been bound by their clubs . The clubs might or might not transfer them to other clubs , for sums up to 60,000 pounds , of which the players themselves had no share . Their wage was the same for all-stars and extras ? 056 a week . Managements pointed out that , after all , this is a team game . Spectators , brought up front youth with a healthy respect for the concept of stage equality , rather agreed with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Italian clubs , willing to pay them $150 a week and up and to give them a substantial part of the transfer fees , which reach 300,000 pounds , broke this united front . The situation deteriorated so fast that Britain could have become a nation of second-rate teams . A new agreement was reluctantly signed . It is not yet considered satisfactory by the players . But , on many a ground this year , star players will take the field paid two or three times as much as their teammates on account of their extra skill or their drawing poster with audiences . And first-rate football can still be enjoyed by the spectators . The football game is not as portentous as a union meeting , but it is much nearer home . TIE present regime in Portugal shows increasing signs of internal stress and fragility . This year alone , the 72-year-old Salazar , who has ruled Portugal for the last twenty-nine years ( a longer period in office than that of any other dictator in this century ) , has had to face four separate challenges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved almost immediately abortive , all of them constitute unmistakable signs that Salazar 's grip is slipping . The first of these challenges took place last January , with the piratical seizure of the luxury liner Santa Maria in the Caribbean . That romantic venture proved a total failure and only threw discredit on a Portuguese opposition which it was supposed to electrify and mobilize . The Santa Maria never came close to the Azores , still less close to Angola , where the standard of revolt was to have been hoisted , and the rebels were ignominiously forced to seek asylum in Brazil . When the luxury cruise ship filially steamed back into Lisbon Harbor on February 16 , it was greeted by a huge dockside crowd and by Salazar himself . A second challenge to the Portuguese dictator 's authority was more serious . It began last November with a letter which a group of moderate oppositionists addressed to Admiral Americo Tomas , the figurehead President of the Republic whom Salazar had elected over General Humberto Delgado in the rigged elections of June , 1958 . The letter , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a petition of grievances , went unanswered , but when the petitioners renewed their request in late January , three of them were , surprisingly , granted an audience on February 6 . The following day , a newspaper in Oporto , a traditional hotbed of opposition sentiment , managed to slip a rather flamboyant account of the interview by the censor , and the government was forced to issue a statement . Nothing further was heard of the petition of grievances until early May , when a lawyer named Acacio de Gouveia called a press conference in his Lisbon office and distributed a forty-page " Program for the Democratization of the Republic , " signed by sixty-eight members of the opposition , many of them lawyers and doctors . This manifesto called for the restoration of democratic liberties , new electoral laws , the authorization of political parties other than the official Uniflo Nacional ( " National Union " ) , the lifting of press censorship , the release of all political prisoners ( estimated to number between 200 and 300 ) , the recognition of the worker 's right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the secret police ? in a word , the liquidation of everything that the Salazar dictatorship is based on . The government cracks down The government 's response to this act of defiance was typical of the subtle cat-and-mouse game it has long played with the frustrated opposition . The day after the press conference , Acacio de Gouveia and two of his colleagues were put behind the bars of the notorious Lisbon prison of Aljube , where political prisoners are incarcerated , and there they were joined shortly afterward by two other signers from Oporto . These arrests were intended to be a warning that the government was standing no further nonsense of this kind ; a warning which is often sufficient in a country where anyone can be arrested and placed in " protective custody " for six months without trial , for " manifesting a spirit of opposition " toward the regime . When a number of other signers sought to be arrested likewise , they were turned away by the authorities , who had no intention of creating an unnecessary number of political martyrs . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in April . Early in the month , the then Defense Minister , General Botelho Moniz , presented Salazar with a letter from General Albuquerque de Freitas , the commander in chief of the Portuguese air force , and a memorandum which had been circulated among a number of high-ranking officers with regard to the situation in Angola . Both expressed grave doubts about the government 's administrative and military policies and demanded new and more energetic methods and men to meet the threat of black nationalism in Africa . When no immediate reaction was forthcoming , the Supreme Council for Defense convened and passed a vote of no confidence in Dr. Salazar . A delegation was sent to the President of the Republic with the request that he dismiss the Prime Minister , which he is empowered by the Constitution to do . The President , who is a Salazar stooge , temporized , and Salazar had time to alert the Security Police and the National Republican Guard . For some time it was touch and go , and on April 12 , Salazar actually had to slip out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and take refuge in the headquarters of the Republican Guard . He found an unexpected ally in the former Defense Minister , General Sanchez Costa , who rallied a few troops and managed to cut off the Defense Ministry 's telephone communications with the outer world . The next day at noon , Salazar dismissed General Botelho Moniz and his associates , took over the Defense Ministry himself , and announced a sweeping revision of his Cabinet . He acted hours before the army , under orders front the Defense Ministry , was to have seized all key government offices . The war in Angola Many have since wondered why these top-ranking officers , having gone so far , allowed themselves to be outmaneuvered so easily . Perhaps the strongest reason is that no one in Portugal today is anxious to have to pick up the pieces after Salazar goes . For Salazar 's successor , whoever he is , will have to face an agonizing problem which is not just a challenge to Salazar 's personal rule , but a challenge to all of Portugal ? the war in Angola @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and partly economic . The Portuguese pride themselves on having founded one of the world 's greatest colonial empires , and they enjoy pointing out that they have been in Africa for four hundred years . They also maintain they have been the only European colonizers who have not been race-conscious and who have freely intermarried with Negro women . Most Portuguese are convinced that this distinction gives them a right of unlimited tenure in Africa . It is said that there is not a village in Portugal that does not have someone who has emigrated to Angola or Mozambique . This is certainly an exaggeration , but it is a fact that Portugal 's African territories have attracted a good quarter of the country 's 40,000 to 50,000 annual emigrants , particularly over the last ten years . To Inert the crisis in Angola , furthermore , many officers and noncoms have been called up , and the term of military service , which seas previously eighteen months , has been extended to two years . Thousands of reinforcements have been sent out to bolster the 2000 white and 6000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks broke out in February , and who had the task of garrisoning a territory fourteen times the size of Portugal itself . The great unknown at present is just how Portugal is going to finance the fierce war of repression whirls has been building up over the past eight months . Portuguese super-patriots in Lisbon have talked somewhat glibly of being ready to ship in 100,000 men if the situation calls for it  --  a staggering military investment for a country of nine million inhabitants , with the lowest living standard in Western Europe , which normally can just afford to maintain an army of 60,000 . The Portuguese government has already had to turn to West Germany for arms and ammunition , and this is not likely to improve the country 's present rather delicate balance of trade . To make matters worse , this year 's coffee crop in northern Angola , where many plantations have been ravaged or abandoned , is expected to be an almost total loss . Coffee is Angola 's biggest export , and last year the shipments to the United Report on Portugal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million . With close to $800 million of gold and foreign currency reserves , Portugal is in no immediate danger of financial collapse , and the escudo , which Salazar 's prudent economic stewardship long ago made one of the strongest currencies in Europe , has yet to show serious signs of slipping in the international money market . But the financial pressures are relentlessly building up , and already the government has had to introduce a more stringent control over all money transfers to impede a possible exodus of speculative capital . In all probability it will take time for these pressures to build up to a critical point . The Finance Ministry says it has affairs well in hand , and though overseas military expenditures have been tripled in this year 's budget , the overall budget deficit is still not expected to exceed $4 million . The government maintains , therefore , that there is no immediate danger of inflation to upset the general price level , which over the last ten years has remained remarkably stable . Salazar 's new trouble shooter For the moment , Salazar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding on and hoping for the best . There has been no sign that he intends to depart from the established policy of granting full political suffrage only to assimilados ? natives who can read and write ? who in Angola do not number many more than 100,000 , out of a population of 4,500,000 . Likewise , the new Overseas Minister , Adriano Moreira , has specifically condemned any idea that Portugal 's overseas territories , which since 1950 have been considered transmarine provinces , might be given a fully self-governing status , similar to that enjoyed by the former African possessions of Britain and France . Salazar 's choice of this young 38-year-old ethnologist as his trouble shooter in the most serious crisis he has yet had to face is characteristic of the Machiavellian wiliness he can display in disarming his former enemies . A one-time lawyer who flirted with Marxism in his student days , Moreira first achieved notoriety during World War II when he brought a lawsuit against the Men Minister of War , General Sanchez Costa , whom he accused of having hounded a fellow general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it prison in the Azores . The Minister of War had the brash young lawyer imprisoned , and he was allowed to languish in jail to meditate on the quixotic nature of excessive zeal in the cause of truth and justice . He was eventually released with the tacit understanding that if he were a good boy the regime would bestow its rewards on him . He subsequently entered the Advanced Institute for Overseas Studies and later became Undersecretary of State for Overseas Territories . Shortly after his ministerial appointment in April , Moreira flew to Angola to make an on-the-spot investigation and to quiet the settlers ' growing apprehensions . So favorable an impression did he make that , within clays of his return to Lisbon , rumors were circulating that he was likely to turn into a new political strong man and even pose a challenge to Salazar . Such rumors are bound to be rife in a capital where the whole subject of the political succession and Portugal 's political future is officially considered taboo . Salazar has kept singularly quiet on the subject . Far from relaxing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readiness to tighten up . The electoral statutes have been amended , so that when the next presidential elections are held , in 1964 , they will not be exposed to the menace of universal suffrage . Instead , the task of electing a new President will be entrusted to a carefully chosen body of several hundred electors . One hundred and thirty of these will be deputies of the National Assembly , which is due to be reelected in October . But since they will be hand-picked by the regime , as in the past , both elections promise to be mere formalities , Whether these authoritarian measures will suffice to insulate Salazar 's regime against the winds of change now sweeping Africa and the Iberian Peninsula is another question .                     