@@488075

DEAR SIRS ? l read the article " Scientology Total Freedom and Beyond " by Donavan Bess in your Sept 29 issue I found it quite agreeable and in parts rather amusing Despite Mr Bess 's left-handed portrayal of the church 's founder and laborious conceptions of the road to Clear , the unique character of our young religion came through . The story of Scientology is really simple As Dr S W. Jarvis , an English G P , put it , It is quickly told ( I ) L Ron Hubbard develops a philosophy about life and death . ( 2 ) people find it interesting ; ( 3 ) people find it works , ( 4 ) people pass it along to others , ( 5 ) it grows  --  and continues to grow " We ieally do n't want anyone to believe our claims  --  a lot of claims are made and I think we have all had our share of disappointments Our position is - Fly it  --  if you do n't feel you have gained , you are flee to leave with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ God Rev. Kenneth J Whitman Minister of Public Relations GIs for peace DEAR SIRS ? Many GIs on military reservations are eager to participate in the massive peace marches to he held Nov. 15 in San Fi ancisco and Washington , D C , but they need transpoi tation Funds are being sought to chartei buses . We ask your readers to show their support by sending their contributions to New Mobilization/Operation Transport 555 North Western Ave , Los Angeles , Calif. 90004 , or 1029 Vermont Ave , N W. , Suite 900 , Washington , D C 20005 . Donald Duncan , an , Van Nuvs , Roger Lee Priest , U S N. Journalist Seaman Apprentice Washington , D. C. Mr. Duncan Is a former Green Beret , active in the antiwa , movement Mr. Priest is an active duo sailor who is currently awaiting court-martial for his publication of an " under ourid " GI newspaper . the mocker mocked Brooklyn , N. Y. DEAR SIRS : Bitter irony and tragedy ' If Roy Cohn is convicted and destroyed , it will be due largely to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " which he perfected and employed , as special assistant prosecutor , to obtain the convictions and executions of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg Cohn 's cui rent defense must rest on establishing the unfairness of such " purchased accomplice testimony , " showing how it makes a mockery of justice . A jury which acquitted Cohn would , in effect , be finding him guilty of " legal murder , " having made a mockery of justice in the Rosenbeig-Sobel ' case . Aaron Katz none so blind New York City DEAR SIRS : The Pentagon chooses to inlet pret the present lull in Vietnamese hostilities ( U S casualties in the first week of Octobei weie the lowest in three years ) ? not as a political signal but as evidence that the Noi th is prepar-ing a new major attack The only signal that Nixon . Lan d and Bunker are watching for is a white flag over Hanoi . Robert Little EDITORIALS The Three-Day Travesty During the first three days of October , Congress reached a new ahyss rn representative government Some 10 million Americans are afflicted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substandard housing Yet in those three days the United States House of Representatives went through the motions of debating ( at the rate of $5 3 billion per hour of general debate ) and then passed a military authorization bill of $21 3 billion . This was $1 3 billion greater than the comparable bill passed in the Senate after two and a half months of debate , and nearly $500 million more than the Department of Defense had requested Bearing in mind that a recent Gallup poll indicated that a majority of the AFnerican people feel the military budget is too large , the primary conclusion that can be drawn from this charade is that the military budget is nowadays the largest pork-barrel legislation in the history of the country  --  and , of course , of the world . While the size and scope of the new authorization is outrageous when matched against the domestic needs of the country and the hurdens of the taxpayers , the blatant stifling of the dissenting minority voices by the House Armed Services Committee should make thoughtful citizens wonder whether the ! owe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents the interests of the country in any way at all The following incidents , which occurred during the three-day travesty , suggest that it does not . The House Armed Services Committee , which had been conducting hearings on military posture since March 13 , 1969 , did not furnish its hearings ( 2,666 pages ) to the House membership until three days before the debate began A report explaining the $21 3 billion bill on which the Representatives were to vote was not available to them until two days before the bill was brought up on the floor . The House Armed Services Committee , led by its master , Rep Lucius Mendel Rivers , staged a display of histrionics which spanned a range from childish petulance to sneering innuendo Early in the proceedings , Rivers questioned the propriety of " dignifying these amendments with debate " When Rep. Jonathan Bingham ( D. , Y ) attempted to discuss an amendment to delete production funding of the Navy 's F-14 airplane , Rivers drawled , " We can not he serious about this Why do you want to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote on this and get it out of the way2 " When Rep. Richard L Leggett ( D , Calif. ) intioduced an amendment to decrease funds and slow progress on the advanced manned strategic aircraft ( AMSA ) because Defense had admitted that the Soviets were not building long-range bombers , Rivers produced his own Russian threat , but refused to discuss it Defiantly he stated " 1 will not discuss the AMSA I will not discuss with you what the Russians have On my own responsibility I tell you the Russians are building a bomber You can take it or leave it " On the question of further procurewent of the Cobra armed helicopter , Rivers roared out in his demagogic style " We need those Cobras more than we need breath itself One visitor to the gallery shook his head and muttered , " Surely the American people deserve more than this " fiAt the instigation of the Armed Services Committee , debate on the amendment to trim back to the Senate level a new and incredibly expensive continental air defense system was the height of absurdity Rep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seconds in which to explain his amendment It this program is funded , it will mean tens of billions of dollars in future expenditures Rep Otis G Pike ( D . N Y ) later attempted to introduce an amendment which will remain lost to history because his whole 45-second allotment was spent attempting to find out how much time he had It was this shocking maneuver that infuriated many members and caused Rep Andrew Jacobs , Jr ( D Ind ) to thunder , " Shame ! Shame on this House " ' The C-5A program , which had for a year gained national notoriety . was voted on with humiliating dispatch Rep William Moorhead ( D , Pa ) , who had studied the C-5A for a year as a member of the Joint Economic Committee , was given 75 seconds to explain why additional planes should not he acquired 4 A number of amendments that had been passed overwhelmingly by the Senate  --  amendments dealing with defense contractor reporting to the government and studies to determine contractor profits  --  were defeated The contractor profit study stood a chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced a separate amendment to delete the whole section of the bill that was being amended In discussing the impending doom of his profitability study amendment , Representative Jacobs admonished his colleagues . " My , my , my , how badly , how badly some do not want to talk about studying the profits of defense contractors One by one , the House members voted amendments down in ever more rapid succession It was late Friday afternoon and the weekend beckoned , cVirtually all votes on these amendments were by division or teller Thus , the Congressmen could satisfy , the watchful eyes of the Armed Services C ommittee members and not have to worry about the constituents at home . There is no Way for the public to know how they voted With the debate almost over , Rivers launched into a a bitter personal attack on Representative Leggett , one of the five dissenting members of the Armed Services Committee , who had attempted to introduce at least a modicum of debate on the $21 3 billion This diatribe , like many- of his other more intemperate statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the printed Congressional Record Many Representatives seemed almost totally oblivious to the growing malaise , the rising dissent and the increasing dissatisfaction outside their insular chamber There was no meaningful debate , and basic questions of national priorities remain unanswered The members of the House undoubtedly feel relieved the ordeal is over  --  for this Year at least  --  and their inch ' dual anonymities remain secure Perhaps some of the more imaginative legislators shuddered slightly over the statement by one at mem colieagaes that it the 1merican people became aware ot this performance , 80 per cent of the House probably would be seeking new employment next year . High Cost of Nostalgia The price for taking the battleship New Jersey out of mothballs , sending her to Vietnamese waters for a month , and then putting her back in mothballs was about $100 million . What 's $100 million ' ) In The New York Times ( October 8 ) a physician protesting against the SST project compares its cost with that of a research center for the treatment of burns which is being disbanded because the government feels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the New Jersey episode would pay for 400 such centers . " How shall we account to our children for this set of values ? " the doctor asked . That leads one to ask why the New Jersey was exhumed . Lee Dye gives the answer in the Los Angeles Times ( September 29 ) . Initially at least , it was chiefly a matter of sentiment . In the summer of 1966. in San Diego  --  where rowed admirals and lesser Naval personnel abound  --  a group of such pensioners met to recall the past . The common bond was that they had all served on battleships , and their forgathering was as natural , and seemingly as harmless , as the annual meeting of the survivors of the great Northeastern blizzard ot 1888 . In the end , though , it poured S100 million down the drain . The principal speaker , Marine Corps Brig . Gen. James D. Kittle , now Assistant Secretary of the Navy for manpower and reserves , delivered an eloquent address to the old sailors . Do n't memorialize the battleship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The American Battleship Association did just that . The Chief of Naval Operations deplored the venture , but he was circumvented . Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara was initially opposed , but the Under Secretary of the Navy ( the office of Secretary was vacant at the time ) requested authority to reactivate , not mentioning the views of the CNO . The American Battleship Association had mailed 6,000 pieces of literature urging recipients to write , to their Congressmen . Within the Navy there was a great deal of professional opposition , but external pressure was heavy and , perhaps most important of all , Sen. Richard B. Russell . chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , was in favor . Anyway , the cost of reactivation was to be only $23 million . The equipment of the New Jersey was modernized , some retired Navy men were recalled to active service because no one else knew how to manage 16-inch guns . and an old Navy gun factory in Idaho was put hack in service to make thirty-three spare barrels , which were shipped to the Far East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 45,000-ton warship was ready for combat , the cost of reactivation had mounted to $50 million . 396 She was recommissioned at Philadelphia on April 6 , 1968. and left for I ong 13. - :ach . Calif stopping at way ports where great crowds viewed her and the Navy public relations officers had field days . Finally she cruised off the coast of Vietnam , firing at suspected ' hostile installations on both sides of the demilitarized zone But after a month the bombing of North Vietnam was halted . and this target practice ended . The New Jersey hung around South Vietnam for a while , but there was nothing for her to do and she was sent home into retirement . It had cost a lot ? S100 million is probably a conservative figure  --  but the battleship buffs had had one more moment of ecstasy . before they too go permanently into mothballs . Lockheed and the SEC Nearly a year ago . the Joint Economic Committee found that the original estimates made by Lockheed on the C-5A jet transport had been exceeded by nearly $2 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the committee then zeroed in on the C-5A as a classic example of cost overruns through careless procurement practices and policies The case against the C-5A is , in fact , perhaps the best documented of any of the systems under attack in the authorization bill which Congress approved this month ( see Congressional Record . October 2 , p . I-1-8901 ) . During the investigation . Senator Proxmire disclosed that the Air Force had helped conceal the large increased costs to protect Lockheed 's $125 million issue of debenture bonds and the price of its stock on the market . Thereafter both Senator Proxmire and Rep. William Moorhead ( D. , Pa. ) requested the SEC to investigate reports that twelve of Lockheed 's executives had sold more than 51.1 million of their stock when the trouble over estimates had developed . Representative Moorhead made no charges : he just released a staff study which correlated stock sales by Lockheed executives with adverse developments in the C-5A program , which did not become public knowledge until some time after they had occurred Senator Proxmire also requested the Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor the Department of Justice has submitted any reports in response to these requests . This state of affairs raises several questions . Why has neither agency responded to the requests ? More than five months have elapsed . If the investigation is on-going , when will it be completed ' If the investigation has been concluded , why has no report been released ? Is publication of such a report being delayed until after the military budget has been pushed through Congress ' In the recent debate on the military authorization bill an effort was made , by amendment , to withhold funds for procurement of C-5A aircraft beyond the number of fifty-eight ( three squadrons ) which had been previously authorized The amendment was rejected At issue was about 5500 million which had been requested THE NATION/October 20 , 1969 to manufacture a fourth squadron of twenty-three planes . The authorization measure must now go to conference and the appropriation has yet to be voted , so the issue is still current . The Nation is informed , on what it regards as excellent authority , that the staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not released On October 7 the A B C news network reported that a subcommittee chaired by Rep. John Moss had ordered an investigation to determine whether the SEC had expeditiously handled the requests from Senator Proxmire and Representative Moorhead and also to determine what if any information the agency had uncovered of attempts by Air Force and company officials to cover up a large Lockheed loss until these officials had made sizable stock sales What disturbs us  --  and it should disturb Congress  --  is the pattern of secrecy and concealment which has been part and parcel of the C-5A prolect since its inception Prodded by the pending investigation from Representative Moss 's subcommittee , the SEC should respond to the requests of Senator Proxmire and Representative Moorhead , and it should respond now  --  not after the appropriations have been voted What Makes News ? There is nothing like an unpopular war to bring to the surface a host of issues involving the military that , had the war appealed to the normal patriotic reflexes of the people , might never have emerged . Thus it is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current situation  --  are struggling " in a hog of unfavorable publicity and disintegrating morale that would have been unthinkable even a few years ago . ( See article by Edward F. Sherman , p. 399 ) Among the headlined stories of recent months have been racial disorders at Army and Marine Corps posts , the stockade " mutiny- in ' San Francisco . the Pendleton brig affair ( uncovered by The Nation ) . the whole question of military justice . the question of the civil rights of soldiers , heretofore practically nonexistent , and a series of outright scandals All of these cases have been given substantial attention in the printed and electronic media , whereas one suspects that , were it not for Vietnam . they would have been run in the back pages , if they were used at all . The point about most of this unpleasant news is that it is not news The scandal of the misbehaving sergeants is a case in point The current Senate inquiry has heard testimony that an investigation had been made from 1964 to 1967 into the activities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William 0 . Wooldridge , the first sergeant major in the U S. Army and one-time recipient of the Distinguished Service Medal ( since mysteriously revoked ) The investigation had been closed and the report filed only locally . The misdemeanors charged against Wooldridge were on such a scale that normal practice would have indicated a court-martial , either to clear the accused or to disgrace and punish him There were American newsmen in the Augsburg-Munich area who must have THE NATION/ October 20 , 1969 known of the charges . but if anything leaked out to tic pahli , it sas On an inconspicuous scale Wooldridge remained in the Army and apparently continued the practices which are now under investigation by the Senate . One reason for this cover-up within the Army and negligence by the press is said to have been a desire not to embarrass Gen Harold K Johnson , now retired , who as chief of staff had selected Wooldridge as sergeant major in July 1966 , even while Army investigators were looking into the sergeant 's activities . According to current sworn testimony , the internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than $300.000 a year from slot machines in enlisted men 's clubs General Johnson now says he had no knowledge of the investigation until last spring , which would indicate that subordinates , either to spare his feelings or for reasons of their own , concealed from him information vital both to his reputation and to the performance of his duties The unsavory case of gun dealing by the former provost maishal of the Army , Maj. Gen. Carl C. Turner , later chief U.S Marshal , also tends to degrade the service The media are always looking for news of a type that will build circulation Normally , the military are immune from the appetite for sensation . By focusing attention on the services , the disaster in Vietnam may be producing an unanticipated , unplanned windfall . Secrets , Secrets The first of the underground nuclear shots was detonated on October 2 at Amchitka Island in the Aleutians ; it produced no earthquakes or other untoward results . Anyone who regards this as an endorsement of future detonations is pressing his luck and showing his ignorance The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the affair An ad hoc panel , under the auspices of the President 's Office of Science and Technology , delivered a report on the safety of underground testing on November 27 , 1968. he chairman was Dr Kenneth S Pitzer , president of Stanford University and a former director of research for the Atomic Energy Commission , the other members were similarly distinguished scientists . The panel observed that in the past small earthquakes had been triggered by large-yield test explosions and concluded that such an explosion might one day set off a severe earthquake . either immediately or after a delay of some time It might , that is. make a seismic region more seismic , perhaps disastrously so . The panel pointed out that the public should be informed of this possibility , even though laymen would not he able to assess the risk Publication of their report would stimulate discussion among seismologists and other scientists , whose views could then be communicated to the public , especially in the areas which might suffer damage or loss of life in the event that heavy test shots did produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nattern in such a way that a subsequent natural earthquake would he the more 397 dangerous . Obviously no test that has been fired , either in Nevada or the Aleutians , precludes such possibilities . Instead of releasing the report in time for professional discussion , both the Johnson and Nixon Administrations kept it secret . Dr. Pitzer urged on September 29 of this year that large underground tests should be postponed pending an " open , broad-based review of all aspects of this situation " ; his recommendation was ignored . The report was finally released a week before the Aleutian explosion took place , when there was no longer opportunity for evaluation of the hazards . Pitzer told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that this was the first occasion , to his knowledge , that " an official governmental body has dealt in open session with the policy questions related to large underground nuclear tests . " There may be another reason for the brush-off Pitzer received . The current underground tests are for the purpose of developing ABM bombs . Speaking as an individual , Pitzer pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by that of the USSR . The totality of nuclear weapons of the world hover as a threat to all mankind . Our present array of weapons will deter any rational attack . In my view , we should give a higher priority to our efforts in arms control and in nuclear nonproliferation than to the further refinement of nuclear warheads " Such views are sharply at variance with the policy of secret decisions secretly arrived at . High-Level Disaffection Portland , Ore . Opposition to the war in Vietnam is no longer confined to the campuses , the streets and meeting halls , It has reached the higher floors and penthouses of the Establishment . A good deal of the high-power disenchantment with the American adventure does not get into the press , partly because many businessmen are as yet unwilling to be identified with the more militant dissidents , partly because their views might jeopardize current or future government contracts , and partly because they are traditionally close-mouthed . A business reporter who has discussed the war with at least fifty top executives in Portland has not met five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to be quoted . However , in recent weeks officers of two Portland-based nationally known corporations have expressed mounting dissatisfaction with the way things aie going in Vietnam . Neither statement was reported in the presss . In his annual report to stockholders , Howard Vollum. president of Tektronix , Inc , one of the world 's largest manufacturers of oscilloscopes , wrote that a stimulus to business - would be the end of the Vietnamese conflict . " He added : " War tends to siphon national resources away from more productive uses . Unlike companies that produce military materials or deal in direct government contracts , Tektronix has found wartime a business depressant . The economic benefits of peace-39S time are far secondary , of course , to the end of the human suffering " An even stronger statement was made by Harry J. Kane , executive vice president of finance of Georgia-Pacific Corporation , which last year grossed over a billion dollars . Speaking to the Investment Analysts Society of Chicago early in September , Kane said . " We see domestic problems ranging from poverty and sadly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the streets and threats of further campus rebellion There are hopeful signs in the Administration 's new domestic programs , but there are grave doubts as to their possible accomplishments as long as we are entangled so deeply in Southeast Asia We can not afford the casualties in the hundreds of thousands , the deaths of our young men by the tens of thousands , nor the billions of dollars this effort is costing us each month . The President has reiterated that the pull-out from this agonizing situation is his Administration 's No 1 goal , and it must remain so . " Battle-'hardened critics of the American involvement see Mr. Nixon 's talk of disengagement as deceit If that is so . we can expect more business leaders to Join the war foes , and it seems almost a certainty that their criticism six months from now will make today 's language seem embarrassingly mild Nixon has declared that the national protests on the campuses and in the streets will have no effect upon his Vietnam program . He is disdainful even of Congressional critics . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nixon , and as their voices of dissatisfaction increase in number and volume , he may find it imperative to bend with the wind . RALPH FRIEDMAN The Isolation of George Meany Atlantic City The blind alley into which George Meany 's policies have led the AFL-CIO was amply illustrated at the recent convention here . On the one hand . Meany denounced President Nixon for slowing down civil rights enforcement , for anti-inflationary measures which hurt the poor and increase unemployment , and , above all , for appointing Clement Haynsworth , Jr , to the Supreme Court On the other hand he insisted that the AFL-CIO leadership endorse the President 's Vietnam policies . The vote of approval was almost unanimous  --  which is something Nixon could n't get today even from the Republican Party . By in iting Melvin Laird , Secretary of Defense , to address the convention , rather than someone like Robert Finch , Meant ' made clear that his hard-line position is intact . Only one delegate , a young man from California named Art Carter , challenged Meany 's war views . Meany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union president 's insensitivity to youth emerged at a press conference when he was asked if he worried about its alienation from the labor movement . His curt reply was " No . " During the debate on expelling the Chemical Workers for having joined the Alliance for Labor Action , Meany THE NATIoN/ October 20 , 1969 again showed his basic views . He ridiculed the ALA platform , one of whose planks is " to develop policies and carry out programs that will enable the American labor movement to repair the alienation of the liberal , intellectual and academic community . " " Well , I could n't care less about that one , " Meany snorted . It must be added that this convention showed nothing like the enthusiasm for the war , or for Meany 's remarks about it , that could be felt last year at Miami Beach , when President Johnson 's and Meany 's hawkish speeches received an enormous response . But Meany 's belligerence on the subject prevented Hubert Humphrey from even mentioning Vietnam in his convention speech , and to talk about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war takes oratorical agility of the sort that cost Humphrey so dearly among the younger generation . Having denied for years that trade unions practice race discrimination , the AFL-CIO delegates now hail as progress not a mandatory ban on discrimination but rather a statement which recommends " to local unions throughout the United States that for a stated period of time they should invite the allocation of qualified minority journeymen for membership in their respective local unions and should accept such qualified minority journeymen provided they meet the ordinary and administered requirements for membership . " Since the majority of newemployees in building trades do not go through apprentice programs , as Secretary of Labor George Shultz confirmed at a press conference , the convention recommendation can hardly be expected to have much impact on Negro employment in that area . Fortunately , the AFL-CIO no longer speaks for all labor . The two most powerful and dynamic unions , the Auto Workers and the Teamsters , speak for themselves , and are more in tune with the times . And on local levels , there is far more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was reflected at this convention . Finally , if labor hopes to exert influence in the 1970 Congressional elections , it has no choice but to repudiate the current standards of " good guys " and " had guys " set up by Meany 's adamant policies . Michael Harrington won in Massachusetts with a position on the war exactly opposite to that of Meany , and the youth who are becoming more active politically will be a major segment of the voters in 1970 . Nor can the building trades policies of endorsing conservative Democrats , as in Detroit , New York and New Jersey , bring success to the trade unions or produce the Negro-labor alliance in politics that Bavard Rustin called for in his speech defending the AFL CIOrecord on race issues . At almost every turn , the AFL-CIO can break out of its self-imposed isolation only by repudiating the policies of George Meany . B. J. WIDICK                     