@@441726

Is : basic terms on which Great Britain can join the European Common Market have been established this spring . During June it should become clear at last whether Britain will or will not join ? a decision of profound consequence , of course , for the future of the Western alliance . But the decision will not be confirmed until sometime during the autumn . The delay in coming to a decision has been as frustrating to the Macmillan government as it has been to the Kennedy Achninistration . Each extra week spent in discussing terms , with the French negotiators seeming always to argue in circles , has only added to the suspicions of those in Britain who are opposed to British membership anyway that the terms , when known , will prove less than liberal . Delay has also deepened a fundamental difference of approach between the British and American governments . The Kennedy plan for trade is based on the assumption that Britain will first have entered the Common Market , Britain 's entry , however , depends , the British insist , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Market ( and the United States ) in advance . Without that , British membership could even yet prove impossible . The Kennedy Administration has shown no signs of understanding this . It is the liberality of the terms proposed for Britain 's entry , therefore , that will decide the issue . The government has to consult Commonwealth prime ministers ? probably fourteen of them ? and then report to the House of Commons before signing . After ten years in power , operating now within the confines of a mood of public disenchantment , the Conservatives are aware that it would be as much as their political life is worth to appear to take Britain in at the expense of the Commonwealth ? or , indeed , at the expense of their partners in the European Free Trade Association , including the neutrals Austria , Sweden , and Switzerland . Commonwealth versus Common Market British entry , even on the best terms , probably requires the acceptance of some sacrifices by most of the Commonwealth . Britain will give up the imperial preference system but will be compensated itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will gain no automatic compensation . In essence , their problem is simple . The Commonwealth consists of fifty-eight territories and islands . Thirteen are countries already independent . Nine more will probably be independent within a year . ( Most of the rest are too small to be viable . ) The new countries , in particular , vitally need the assurance of stability and economic growth . Up to now , they have enjoyed a free and protected market in Britain . But British entry into the Common Market means the removal of this free market and the substitution of active discrimination against the Commonwealth countries ? free entry into Britain for Dutch butter and Italian textiles , for instance , and tariffs or quotas on New Zealand butter and Indian textiles . Transitional arrangements can easily be made to ease the break . But the big question remains : for New Zealand and India , what is it to be a transition to ? Macmillan has to weigh the answer very carefully . If the electorate became convinced it was the wrong answer , because it was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Party their one big chance . For although a revival of the Liberal Party has been the most striking political phenomenon of 1962 , it is Gaitskell the Socialist , not Grimoncl the Liberal , who has been the one consistent advocate of getting a pro-Commonwealth pact with Europe or having no pact at all . On all other issues , the voters who have been deserting the Tory Party in such numbers have almost to a man sided with the Liberals . On this they could not , for the Liberals are committed to British entry on almost any terms . Since the Liberals are not strong enough to form an alternative government , the Tories can reassure themselves with the belief that , when it comes to voting for a government instead of for a single representative , as at a by-election , the lost 20 percent of Tory votes will be returned once more to the fold ? provided a Common Market agreement has not outraged the dissenters further . The Common Market apart , the swing to liberalism is the most significant political happening in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the budget , which promised to remove the extra tax levied on houses occupied by their owners , reduced the sales tax on cars , levied a tax On short-term investments and speculative profit from stock deals and real estate , and made property held abroad liable to death duties . Lloyd explained : " The purpose is to produce a feeling of broad equity of treatment among taxpayers . " A notable omission was the tax on all capital gains . The underprivileged middle class The majority of the votes the government has been losing to the Liberals have come from the professional classes and the higher-paid wage earners . These people are living on their incomes . For them , in a high-tax economy like Britain 's , an " incomes policy , " placing severe restraint on their salary increases , multiplies the inequality that already exists between them and the business community . Not only does the ability to make untaxed capital gains give many businessmen an obvious advantage ; not only do fringe benefits like company houses , cars , meals , entertainment expenses , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income ; but through generous company pension funds business executives under British tax rules can have almost all their saving chine for them tax-free , while most professional people with small pension prospects have to save what they themselves can out of taxed income . This inequality has consequences more serious than simply to produce a large floating vote , a mass of perhaps five million middle-class people who feel they have neither the privileges of the welfare state nor those of the organization man . It is also eroding the nation 's professional and scientific wealth . Nearly four thousand doctors have left England in the past five years , and probably as many young research scientists . Both parties must now take account of this strong middle-class revolt . The government is beginning to do so . The Conservative leadership Selwyn Lloyd 's National Economic Development Council is a Liberal rather than a Tory or Socialist concept . And it is on Liberal lines that Macmillan is expected to recast his government in late summer or autumn . While R. A. Butler will almost certainly remain in effect deputy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like MacLeod , Lord Hailsham , and Edward Heath are being canvassed now for promotion . Coming up among the juniors is Sir Edward Boyle , an economist who resigned over Suez . But perhaps the most intriguing question is this : what is the future of Lord Home ? With reform of the House of Lords under discussion , the possibility that peers may soon sit in the Commons can not be discounted . The making of " life commoners " ? peers who might be enabled to renounce their titles for their own lifetimes and so qualify both for a vote ( which they are also denied at present ) and a seat in the Commons ? has been proposed . This , however , would he constitutionally difficult , and it might denude the House of Lords of talent . An alternative which seems more likely is for the House of Lords , where nearly 900 peers can sit but only about 150 do , to elect each year several representatives to join the Commons . There is a constitutional precedent for this in the election of representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lord Home , disqualified now by constitutional tradition , could after all qualify as a future Prime Minister . Hiding his toughness , generally , in a mild manner , Lord Home seems to many people the most impressive recruit to the government since Macmillan took over . There remains the self-effacing Mr. Butler . Besides being Home Secretary , he was given the job of presiding over the cabinet committee dealing with the Common Market and was also made coordinator of African policy . Duncan Sandys and Reginald Maudling , Commonwealths and colonial secretaries respectively , have been brought together under him . Macmillan has given Butler two equally difficult , if not impossible , jobs . If he could bring both to a successful conclusion , his authority within the party would naturally become greater than ever before in his career . Africa presents the bigger challenge . Freeing British Africa The freeing of British Africa is almost complete . Ghana , Nigeria , Sierra Leone , and Tanganyika arc independent . Uganda is on the way . Kenya 's independence waits only on the completion of a constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The last act , however , is going to be the most difficult ? the organization of independence for what remains , but may not remain much longer , the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland . In a strictly economic context , if maintaining the unity of the Congo makes sense because its viability is based on Katanga 's mineral wealth , then maintaining the Federation , based as it is on Northern Rhodesia 's mineral wealth , would also seem to make sense . Unfortunately , the context has changed . The pressure for African racial independence is stronger than that for sound economics . Nyasaland , where there are few settlers , now has a constitution providing for a native African majority and an African chief minister , Dr. Hastings Banda . Northern Rhodesia , where there are more settlers and vast European financial interests , is being provided , however reluctantly , with a constitution which in its present form could soon produce an African majority there ; and if it does not , it may have to be . altered to make such a result certain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a new constitution , providing , for the first time , for African representation but not for an African majority . And the federal government is essentially , although not exclusively , white . Sir Roy Welensky , federal Premier , is , as he has always been , an advocate of racial partnership . ( It he were in South Africa , he would for this reason be liable to imprisonment . ) But he can not yet see that so unequal a sharing of racial partnership between territories in the same Federation , by producing unequal pressures , must sooner or later inevitably break it up . The British government , while it can not hack Sir Roy 's adamant intention of maintaining the Federation at all costs , even if he must use force , would nevertheless be appalled if it broke up altogether . The only possibility seems to he to reconstitute it as a looser association of states . But for this , if there is not to be a break with the British settlers , Sir Roy 's agreement will probably be necessary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a situation of obvious difficulty and danger which is further complicated by the semi-independent position of Sir Edgar Whitehead , Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia . Constitutionally , a solution can not be imposed on him from London either . And Southern Rhodesia is a close neighbor of South Africa . In the background is a newly appreciated fact : in all the African territories that are becoming independent , there is a need for white administrative and technical personnel that can not possibly be filled by Great Britain alone . Outside the Rhodesian Federation , more than half the British officials , experts , and farmers in Africa are leaving , either because they have been told to or because they feel there is no future for them . A British peace corps ( the Commonwealth Service ) is in existence and will be enlarged . Some fifty thousand Commonwealth students are studying in Britain . British universities are lending teachers to Africa in large numbers . But in every case the numbers simply are not and can not be large enough . The aid of the Common Market will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training , as well as in providing trade for Africa . The United Nations may also be called in . It is being realized at last in London that Africa has become a world problem . And so , of course , has the Common Market . Som months ago , President Kennedy was an-'toyed at reading a newspaper article charging that there was no " grand design " to his foreign policy . Since then , there has been not only a spate of articles on such a design , but , more important , the Administration has begun to form the outlines of its worldwide policy . Because much that this or any other Administration does in the foreign policy field comes under the head of countermeasures , a grind design at best can offer only a generalized set of guidelines to policy makers throughout the government . But that its itself is valuable . The military plan is the most evident of all , for it has been widely stressed and publicized by botlt the President and Defense Secretary McNainara . Since his meeting with Soviet Premier Khruslichey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on building the strength of American conventional military forces so that he may have what he has termed a " choice between surrender and all-out nuclear war . " Congress has provided the funds quite willingly , and the job has been nearly completed . Included in this buildup has been the beginning of forces trained to cope with guerrilla tvarfare. ' file war in South Vietnam is the testing ground for these MCI ) , and militarily the signs there are encouraging . In addition , President Kennedy has continued the Eisenhower policy of adding to the nuclear seconcl-strike capability , with emphasis on mobility ( the nuclear-powered Polaris submarines ) and on hardened bases for the solid-fuel Minuteman missiles now being buried in numerous parts of the United States . Trade and aid These military measures are well known , especially to the Soviet Union , but political and economic measures are equally important . They spring from the rapid liquidation of the colonial empires of our western European allies . First , the Administration is seeking to pull together the industrial free nations of the Northern Hemisphere  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan . The development of the European Common Market has propelled a new trade policy for the United States , now its the making by the Congress . Increased and freer trade among all these industrial nations is the aim , but greater political consultation is also very important . As long as the free world 's general economic health is good and continues to grow better , all the signs point to greater trade and closer political-economic relationships . Of course , there will be pulling and hauling , by the nature of the democratic process and the interrelation of free governments . But basically our government has nothing to fear from increased self-confidence and national strength in London , Paris , Bonn , Tokyo , or anywhere else . A great deal of effort has gone into Washington 's attempts to convince industrial friends and allies to play a larger role in aiding the underdeveloped half of the globe . Success has been spotty , but the Administration , led by the President , Undersecretary of State George Ball , and Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon , keeps plugging away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship between the former colonial world and the former colonial powers and other industrial nations . It is this relationship which the Communists are fighting hard to prevent , switching their outcry from " colonialism " to " economic imperialism . " Only a start has been made so far . Essential to the development of this relationship with the new nations is a greater sense of independence and a higher degree of modernization . Indeed , as Washington sees it , the fierce nationalism now increasingly evident in so many new nations , as well as in others which long have had nominal independence , is akin to the nationalism which swept post-Napoleonic Europe . It creates new problems , but it also is a mighty bulwark against the Communists ' efforts to penetrate and put their own stamp on other nations . Third , the Administration is trying to sort out its own often confused and contradictory policies on foreign aid to the southern half of the globe . A critical factor is our ability to bring to bear on the economic problems of the underdeveloped lands the coordinated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , already proving to be successful in the case of aid to India , is the international consortium , a mixture of public and private lending by several nations , by world organizations , and by private financial institutions . Studies are going ahead in Washington on aid problems in a half dozen sample nations , designed to explore the road ahead and the parts which should be played both by the United States and by its partners in aid . But even with the best-laid long-range plans , it will not be possible to escape emergency aid programs in many areas of the globe . It would help , however , if the emergency programs were better related to long-range aims than they have been in the past . Washington and the more progressive forces in the underdeveloped nations must find a way to convince the haves in each country ( especially in Latin America ) that their long-run security and their prospects for increased wealth lie in sharing more of what they have with the awakened have-not elements of their own societies . The Marxists contend that this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the contrary has yet to be proved in many places . Red split Despite sporadic efforts by Moscow and Peiping to conceal their differences so as to present a united front to the free world , it is believed in Washington that the crisis within the Communist world is too deep to be easily resolved . The economic desperation inside Red China has forced a retreat from the Great Leap Forward , but there is no evidence that it has altered the ideological thinking in Peiping . The problem for Washington is what to do in view of the Communist schism . Walt W. Rostow , the State Department 's planning chief , has suggested that the free world must find areas of " overlapping interest " with Communist nations . This is the significance of the talks between Moscow and Washington about joint efforts in space , of the continued cultural exchanges between the two countries , and of the attempts to find areas of agreement in the arms-control field . More can be done with the satellites aligned with Khrushchev , more of the kind of cooperation which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Yugoslavia . Khrushchev and his allies need this kind of cooperation with the free world , yet each effort deepens the division between him and Mao Toe-tong . In a speech at Berkeley , California , the President earlier this year took the long view by saying that " no one who examines the modern world can doubt that the great currents of history are carrying the world away from the monolithic idea toward the pluralistic idea ? assay from Communism and toward national independence and freedom . " He was careful to add that " the processes of history are fitful , halting and aggravating , " and that " the specter of thermonuclear war will hang over mankind . " Kennedy has been criticized for overoptimism , but his problem is to use the power and influence of America not in a boisterous militant way but with sophistication , to nudge history itself . The battle for the House In the elections this fall there is no practical possibility for the Republicans to capture control of the Senate , where only a third of the membership , plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All the House is up for election this year , and in many key areas the candidates will be running in newly created districts , the result of the shifts in the 1960 census . Redistricting , the experts believe , will net the Republicans a few extra seats , but this is by no means certain . The GOP target , naturally , is to capture control of the House . In fact , this is doubtful , and the Republicans know it . But the GOP hopes to increase its House membership by enough to cement more firmly the GOP-Southern Democratic coalition , which has balked , but not always defeated , the Kennedy legislative program . The Democratic target is to recapture the critical two dozen seats the Democrats lost in the House when Kennedy was winning the presidency . This margin would break the GOP-Southern Democratic power , or at least weaken it so that the Kennedy program would be assured a far higher chance of success in the next Congress . The issues involved are essentially domestic , not foreign . Only once in modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1934 , has the party in control of the White House increased its membership in the House in a non-presidential year . And F.D.R. 's 1934 increase was only nine seats . Democratic dreamers think that that record can be topped this year , and they are buoyed up by the Gallup poll , but they are far from being certain . The key issue , in the strategists ' view , is the Kennedy plan for medical care for the aged through Social Security . The aim is to force a record vote in the House , to make every member stand up and be counted . Both the Gallup poll and a number of polls taken by members of Congress offer encouragement . Kennedy is keeping up a constant barrage on the subject ; doctors hostile to the negative stand of the American Medical Association are being rounded up ; mass meetings are being held , including a big one for the President to address in New York . Aid to education One issue which disturbs the Democrats springs from the unresolved struggle over federal aid to education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from the senatorial struggle among the Democrats in Massachusetts for Kennedy 's old seat , that the President 's adamant stand against aid for parochial schools cuts both ways . Congressmen from predominantly Protestant and non-church areas say that their hopes for Democratic gains this fall depend in part on the President 's strict adherence to his position . But in city and suburban areas with big Catholic populations , some Democratic candidates are going to find it difficult to back the President 's stand . In a New York City special election earlier this year , a GOP challenger who came out for aid for parochial schools against a Democrat who stuck with the President came within an eyelash of capturing a normally Democratic district . There was a very small vote , but the shadow on the wall was readily visible to the party politicians . Such situations could mean the difference between success and failure in the Democratic drive to win a liberal , pro-Kennedy majority in the House . Off-year congressional elections never bring a voter turnout equal to that of presidential years ; only about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be expected to go to the polls this November . This gives additional power to the party organizations and to local issues and special pleading . House members react to their own constituencies , however much they may sympathize with or reject the Kennedy philosophy . It is for this reason that the Administration strategists are seeking national issues of concern in every congressional district , and they think the issue of medical care for the aged is a major one . Mood of the Capital The nagging , persistent refusal of the economy to boom and of unemployment to decrease sharply has tended to offset an otherwise increasing mood of confidence in the Capital . The economy seems to keep moving ahead just enough to prevent the kind of backfire on Congress which would produce votes for some of the Kennedy measures to give it a major shot in the arm . It has taken a maximum of pressure to win from Congress , especially from the House , even the minimum of tools asked by the President . The result is another big deficit this fiscal year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economists ' views . Still , the Congress and the country are so imbued with the conventional wisdom of budget balancing that even this deficit has been trimmed by congressional refusal to vote more Kennedy programs . Faster national economic growth , while recognized by almost all as essential , that remains the major unresolved domestic issue . And the limping economy is the major blight on otherwise increasingly hopeful prospects . 00 the young and dedicated Dutch administrators who arrived in West New Guinea in the early fifties , the task confronting them seemed difficult but magnificent . New Guinea had been at the end of the line in the Netherlands East Indies , a wild , impenetrable , tropical land , bigger than California , totally undeveloped , largely unexplored , and populated by people who hunted for and ate human heads . What there had been in the way of administrative facilities had been almost totally destroyed during World War II and the Indonesian struggle for independence which followed it . In virgin country , snore primitive by far than anything else in the former Netherlands East Indies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toin men who were determined to make good the old , proud , but now suspect Dutch claim that of all colonizers they were the best . While it is true that the desire to salvage something out of the wreckage of the Indies empire and the even more compelling need to appease the angry Dutch parliamentarians , who bitterly opposed the government 's submission to Indonesian demands , were the real reasons behind the decision to withhold the residency of New Guinea and its approximately 700,000 inhabitants from Indonesian sovereignty and administration in 949 , the Dutch sense of mission in New Guinea has been unique in the sorry story of colonialism . With little prospect of commercial gain ? and the certainty of considerable loss when the oil fields around Sorong at the western end of the island began to dry up ? the Dutch put $30 million a year into education , public health , economic development , and other fields designed to promote the Papuans ' welfare . The task was so formidable , and , even with the best-intentioned efforts , likely to take so long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or self-determination for the Papuans . As Indonesian pressures increased , however , the Dutch radically revised their ideas . Abandoning plans for long-term development , they embarked on a crash program to prepare West New Guinea for self-government . By 1960 , the Dutch intention was to hand over all but a handful of administrative posts to a Papuan elite within ten years , or Reels less . The following year , when Soviet military equipment began to give the Indonesian military forces real teeth , The Hague offered to bow out gracefully and , while continuing its annual subsidy , to transfer its own powers to an international authority under the United Nations . The United Nations against the Dutch This final bid for the principle of self-determination in West New Guinea was well intentioned but ill advised . Predictably , the Dutch failed to get the two-thirds majority required in the General Assembly even for a compromise motion . Except for Japan and Laos , both of which abstained , Asia was solidly for the Indonesians and against the Dutch . Asian leaders in the United Nations were unimpressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they asked , did the principle of self-determination end ? If every minority group claimed the right to self-determination , the United Nations would have a thousand members , not a hundred . If economic viability , now or in the predictable future , was to be the means test , it was as unreasonable for the Papuans to become self-governing as it was to suggest that the Karens and the Shans in Burma , the Nagas in India , or the Meo tribesmen in Laos should rule their own separate , independent states . Having failed to get the two-thirds majority it needed , The Hague was left with no further diplomatic cards to play . From this point on , it was clear , Indonesia would have the initiative . The need for a solution To the United States , which for years had maintained its neutrality in the dispute , the prospect that Indonesia might now use its newly acquired military strength , including long-range Russian jet bombers and fighters , submarines , heavy destroyers , and a considerable amount of other fairly sophisticated equipment , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attitude , if not quite a change of policy . As Washington saw it , a settlement of the dispute now became more important than the expedient principle of self-determination . Conflict in southeast Asia over an issue that Asians regarded as colonial , and in which the Communist bloc was only too glad to aid and abet the Indonesians , was , from the Western point of view , the worst possible solution . It would alienate Indonesia , the biggest , richest , and most populous southeast Asian state , and might drive it into the Communist camp . Australia , which had long feared the consequences in Papua and the mandated Territory of New Guinea if Indonesia became its neighbor in New Guinea , suddenly realized the greater danger of isolating itself from Asia . After years of lobbying on behalf of the Netherlands in the United Nations , it made an agonizing reappraisal of policy and decided to let Djakarta know it would be happy to have Indonesians next door in New Guinea . Many in Holland were no less anxious for a settlement . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woefully bad business of pursuing a policy that cost the Netherlands Djakarta 's goodwill and an estimated $1.6 billion investment in Indonesia . Responding to these pressures , Professor be Quay , the Netherlands Prime Minister , announced that his government was prepared to negotiate with the Indonesian government for a peaceful settlement " without preconditions and in the presence of a third party . " Indonesia 's advantage Knowing now that they had all the advantages , the Indonesians showed little interest in a conference on these terms . Though they softened their earlier demands for sovereignty with the proposal that they would be happy merely to take over the administration and eventually to let the Papuans choose for themselves , the idea of sitting down at a conference table with the Dutch seemed remote from most Indonesians ' thoughts . " We were born in the flames of revolution and will go on fighting until all our country is free , " declared President Sukarno when he issued his command for the " liberation of West Irian " ( West New Guinea ) on December 19 . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fighters who have been bathed in fire since 1945 . " It is a curious and singularly undesirable aspect of the evolution of the United Nations that this sort of bombast can also be good diplomacy . Article 24 of the UN Charter confers on the Security Council primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security . United Nations action in the event of an Indonesian attack would therefore mean , in the first instance , recourse to the Security Council , probably in the form of a Netherlands appeal . The Soviet Union , which has not only encouraged Sukarno to adopt his current line but has provided him with the means of making good his threats , would immediately veto any proposal unacceptable to Indonesia , such as a resolution calling for a cease-fire and withdrawal of Indonesian forces . Assuming that the issue were transferred to the General Assembly , Indonesia has already demonstrated that on the West New Guinea dispute it can count on a solid , blocking third of the votes . With every conceivable advantage on its side , Indonesia realized that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marking time abroad . Veterans ' organizations , worsteds organizations , former rebels against Sukarno ? almost everyone , in fact , except the modest and moderate leaders of the outlawed Socialist and Masjumi parties , who were clapped in jail ? announced their readiness to fight for the " liberation of West Irian . " The first clash occurred some thirty miles off the New Guinea coast . The Indonesians lost a motor torpedo boat ; Commodore Jos Sudarso , the deputy naval chief of staff , and eighty-two others were killed or captured . Djakarta reacted with moderation . Though some of Sukarno 's advisers were in favor of retaliatory action , there were no immediate incidents . Indonesia had the means to cause a rumpus in West New Guinea anytime it waisted to . But West New Guinea itself , not trouble , was its objective . With Australia backing away from its earlier solid front with the Netherlands in New Guinea and Washington anxious , above all , for a settlement , President Sukarno and his followers needed only to keep the crisis boiling and West New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fear in most Western capitals was that since Indonesia and the Netherlands had drawn so far apart over the years , the issue might be decided on the battlefield and not at the conference table . This fear became acute in March , when secret talks between Indonesia and the Netherlands collapsed almost before they had begun . Arranged after long and patient effort by the United States , which sat in as a third party , the talks got no further than the Indonesian insistence that the Netherlands should agree in advance to hand over the administration of West New Guinea . When the Netherlands declined to surrender its only bargaining point , the Indonesian delegate walked out . Djakarta was divided on the merit of this tactic . However , the advocates of a vigorous policy , led by President Sukarno and Dr. Sukarno , the Foreign Minister , prevailed . Indonesian infiltrators landed at scattered points along the coast of West New Guinea , and tension rose rapidly as both sides moved reinforcements into the area . A primitive and savage land Fewer lands have ever been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor in natural resources , West New Guinea makes the rugged , backward eastern part under Australian administration seem like an orderly , well-kept tropical garden . A magnificent range of mountains , capped with permanent snow and rising to 16,000 feet , stretches like a spine along the center of the island . There are a few foot trails through passes as high as 13,000 feet across the mountains , but no roads or even jeep tracks . Among the natives who live in the deep valleys in the mountain folds , even the wheel and the use of iron are not known . South and north of the mountains are some of the world 's largest swamps , malarial , crocodile infested , unproductive , and sparsely populated by natives , who in at least one coastal area are still headhunters . Planes shuttle around the coast linking the main administrative centers , and before the noonday clouds blanket the mountains , make hazardous trips to the mission and administrative outposts in the interior . Christian missionaries divide the island into the Catholic north and the Protestant south . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the missionaries have played a significant part in making contact with remote tribal groups . For nearly a century the church had the field to itself , and almost all the early progress in health and education was due to its efforts . Even today , when everyone is working against the clock to establish contact with the estimated 200,000 natives who still live beyond the administration , the missionaries are often first to befriend new and savage tribes . Hollandia , the capital , is a pretty little town on Humboldt Bay . As a precaution against air raids , General MacArthur 's forces deployed their installations over a wide area here during World War II . The Dutch , making such use as they could of what was left of the installations , have done likewise , and the population of the town , which reached a peak of about 17,000 in 1960 , is widely dispersed . About a third of the 150 miles of road and jeep tracks in all West New Guinea wind in and about the town and around the hills , which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Holland Today many of the houses are empty . The Indo-European refugees from the Netherlands East Indies who did not want to live under Indonesian rule in 1950 are fleeing again . this time to Holland , at the rate of about four hundred a month . Since they filled the clerical posi- Lions in the administration and in local Dutch import-export firms , their departure has been a serious blow , The largest Dutch firm now airmails its clerical work to Holland , where it is handled by the same clerks who only a year ago performed these tasks in Hollandia . The middle echelons of the administration have also been badly hit by the exodus . Replacements can not be found in Holland , and the crash training prOgram of local administrators has not yet reached the stage where there are enough skilled Papuans to take over . On the one hand , therefore , there are not enough trained Papuans to serve as clerks , and on the other , there is the New Guinea Council , whose sixteen elected and twelve nominated members have been promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to shape . Their vested interest in self-determination ensures that the council is strongly against an Indonesian takeover . Among others who have less to lose , the obvious merit in the Dutch effort and the constant emphasis on self-determination in recent years have built up a genuine resistance to the Indonesian propaganda , which is broadcast from Radio Makassar and spread by underground organizations . Since Indonesian is the lingua franca of the coastal regions , and such Netherlands East Indies administrators as there were before World War II came mostly from Indonesia , the Indonesians are not entirely without indigenous support . But , in any event , the issue is of direct interest only to the more sophisticated Papuans in the coastal towns and villages . To the tribesmen , who do not even wear clothing and work only to keep alive , the question of self-determination or rule by Indonesia is not merely of no interest or importance , it is not even known . Indonesia 's resolution to wrest New Guinea from the Dutch has become an intense emotional and deeply nationalistic campaign in which almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several years ago and made the most of it ; the West understood only at what may yet prove to be a little after the eleventh hour . 