@@488181

Suggest in a partisan group that education 's two warring employee organizations should merge and you are likely to be hooted from the room . " Their outlook and programs are poles apart , " it will be said . But this reply ignores the facts , some of which are recent developments . Privately , leaders in both factions admit that rivalry ' between the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association must eventually end in merger oralliance . Too much money and energy are being wasted that might better be directed toward common goals , and bitterness is building up which can be exploited by the enemies of both groups for decades to comes . Michael Moskow , a labor economist with the Drexel Institute , says : " Merger will definitely occur , but probably not for about five years . " He notes that already some NEA and AFT affiliates have made overtures , for merger at the local level . Until recently , the rivalry between the NEA and AFT may have served some useful purpose . For example , AFT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to intensify its teacher-welfare efforts see " Organizing the Teachers " by Stanley Elam , The Nation , June 29 , 1964 . The Urban Project , which has promoted scores of " professional negotiations " agreements between local associations and boards of education , was a direct result of the concessions and written contract that AFT Local No. 2 , the United Federation of TeacherS ( UFT ) , won from New York City 's reluctant board . The state-wide sanctions program , so effective in Utah and now on trial in Oklahoma ( a more difficult state ) is the NEA 's alternative to the strike , on which AFT locals depend as a last resort . Sanctions may involve a variety of actions by the local , state and national units : boycott , publicity , political action . Usually , after lengthy investigation , a school system will be declared " one where no professional person would want to seek employment . " Depending on the loyalty of teachers to their organization , it can close a school  --  but only after teachers have met their contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the NEA has been sponsoring legislation which favors state-wide professional negotiations as opposed to AFT-sponsored collective bargaining in Washington , Cregon , California and Connecticut . An aroused NEA can eventually dominate the teacher-welfare field everywhere except in the big cities  --  where , however , unioniSniris a way of life . The AFT , suddenly aware that its membership ' is not growing as rapidly as hoped , * decided at its August convention in Los Angeles to emphasize state organization , research and- publications . The new program will involve a considerable increase in dues , making them higher than the NEA 's annual $10 ? and that will be one more point of similarity between ' the two bodies . Are there real and important differences ? between the AFT and NEA ? AFT rank and file , for example , are accused of being less devoted to the professional aspects of teaching . Not true , says William T. Lowe of Cornell , who cites the fact that AFT members are actually more m likely than NEA members to belong to professional associations ( the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ English ) , even though these groups have a working relationship with the NEA . The most easily recognizable difference between NEA and AFT members is that a significantly higher percentage of men than women join the AFT . Related to this fact , perhaps , is a difference in morale . AFT members tend to be dissatisfied , and would choose some other career if they could make the decision again . The single salary schedule is widely , accepted in teaching , and a man can , hardly support a family on the average salary Current AFT membership is about 110,000 , up 50,000 from 1961 when the UFT won exclusive bargaining rights in New York City . Almost half this increase has been in New York City itself . Meanwhile , the ' NEA has groWn. - froin 714,000 to about 943,000. of less than , $6,000 ? at least not on the level college graduates and professionals have come to believe is their due . Thus they are activists and give the AFT its reputation for impatience and militancy . They are likely to be younger teachers at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrate in the public schools . ( That , incidentally , is probably why many of them join professional organizations , which are more important for high school than for grade school teachers . ) ? AFT members , then , are the people who prefer a rapid and more or less clean solution of salary squabbles ( the strike ) to a slow , cumbersome and messy procedure ( sanctions ) . But beyond this difference of attitude , what ideological , programmatic and structural differences between the NEA ' and AFT might prevent or delay merger ? Only two are usually regarded as crucial . First , within a month ' of its formation in 1916 , the AFT became affiliated'with the American Federation of Labor . It now pays AFL-CIO dues and makes much of the " mutual benefits ' of affilation . " NEA literature emphasizes the theme that by affiliation AFT teachers lose the independence of action that is important to professionals committed to objectivity and responsible to all the public . ' As NEA Executive Secretary William G. Carr puts it , " American teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one group in society . " But what entangleinents actually occur ? In August , 1963 , the UFT was on the verge of a strike in New York City . It ' was generating as much political preSsure as possible against Mayor Wagner and the city administration . When Harry Van Arsdale , head of the Central Labor Council , threw his ' complete support behind the UFT , a ' settlement was reached which the union found acceptable , It did n't produce , much money the firstyear , hut it got some for the second . The questionable result , so far as the UFT is concerned , was the " political debt contracted , for that debt is now . being ? called . According to the New York World- ' 14 " ? . Telegram of April 17 , the- UFT as part of its annual contract proposals asked the New York City board to agree not to buy textbooks , teaching materials or equipment transported or handled by any company with which the AFL-CIO has a dispute . If thiS can be done , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the price of , AFL-CIO support , - be asked to boycott a textbook critical of a position the trade unions have taken in resisting new modes of production . In the past two years the AFT and the NEA have locked horns in a series- of big-city elections to choose exclusive bargaining agents . One of the first of these occurred in Milwaukee . At the time ( early 1964 ) it was thought that direct intervention by the AFL-GIO would help the AFT cause ; hence - the election was not runsby the AFT but by the director of organization for the AFL-CIO 's Industrial Union Department . Walter Reuther , president of the IUD , made a personal visit just three days - before the election on February 12 . However , the Milwaukee Teachers ' Education Association ( MTEA ) won by a 600-vote majority out of 4,012 votes cast . The MTEA campaign stressed independence for teachers and freedom from ties with organizations outside the profession . Clearly , teachers resented the AFL-CIO " invasion , " and since the Milwaukee debacle the IUD has remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience of the organized profession in England and Canada is instructive on this point . In both countries , the leading teachers ' organizations have passed through a stage of labor affiliation . ' The National Teachers Union in England dropped the connection some years ago . In Canada , where teacher groups are far stronger and more experienced in collective negotiations than in the United States , none is now affiliated , although at one time  --  before provincial groups became effective in themselves  --  they were in the national union movement . The reasons given are pri-martly economic : it is believed that the considerable sums once spent in affiliation fees can be used more effectively by the Canadian Teachers Federation itself . It can be persuasively argued that should the nearly 2 million U.S. teachers band together , their economic strength would be such that the disadvantages of affiliation with organized labor would far outweigh the advantages . ' A second much discussed ' point of difference between the NEA and AFT concerns member- , ship in the bargaining unit . A basic labor-relations tenet is that management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employees . Accordingly , the NEA is routinely dismissed by the AFT as a " company union " because it welcomes all certificated employees  --  including principals , supervisors and even superintendents  --  in national and state organizational units , and in most local units as well . But the picture for bargaining purposes is by no means as simple as AFT literature suggests , and the NEA-AFT difference here is more assumed than real . The fact is that in one place or another the AFT welcomes " management " people and in one place or another the NEA excludes them , Overall , the NEA seems to hold the more flexible and pragmatic position- on this ' question  --  the AFT would call it equivocal  --  because NEA policies vary with locale , with job descriptions and with leadership qualities of individuals . Donald H. Wollett , a labor lawyer serving as a consultant , to the NEA 's Urban Project office , says that what holds ' a unit - together is community of interest , which is not the same as identity , of interest . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who possesses the skill is organized , whether supervisory or not He adds : " I would wish that in structure and membership every teachers ' organization could be like the Utah Education Association . There , - in an optrageous breach of faith over a year ago , Governor George Clyde refused to follow the recommendations of his own committee with respect to state aid for education . A two-day walkout by teachers resulted , and it was led. by the UEA president , Moroni I. Jensen . Jensen is 4 high school principal . The teachers did n't complain about administration domination . The complaints were leveled by school boards because their administrators were dominated by teachers . " Wollett reminds teachers that a big advantage in having an all-inclusive bargaining unit is that some of the most effective leadership may be found in the ranks of the Supervisory personnel . The UFT itself discovered this when it chose Charles Cogen for its leader in early New York City negotiations . At that time he was a department head , and ineligible to vote in the election forced by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AFT position on administrative personnel membership is by no means as consistent as the official line suggests . According to Wollett , the AFT wanted department heads excluded in Newark but included in . Philadelphia , although Philadelphia heads had more of the duties of supervisors than did their opposite numbers in Newark . From the foregoing it would appear that the facts do ' not support those who say there are two insuperable ideological barriers between the AFT and the NEA . Certainly labor affiliation is not essential to effectiveness for a national teacher on ganization . And the ancient difference over administrative membership in the bargaining unit is more imagined than real . It is true that the AFT wo n't permit superintend-ents , to be members , at any level , while the NEA will . ' But the NEA has learned that certain administrators can not be accepted in the local unit when the time comes for hard bargaining . And NEA teacher groups ' are apparently learning how to make use of leadership skill from the administrative branches when conflict of interest is not disabling . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered by AFT and NEA leaders , what could the AFT bring to the marriage that the NEA does n't already have ? Besides some very energetic and effective leaders , it could bring a structural change which has made the AFT more responsive to its membership than the NEA hasusually been . This change ' is the caucus system . At AFT conventions two very lively parties are in action , each with a well-defined program , a slate of officers and a mechanism for presenting both to the delegates . This means that there is always an organized group in opposition to the people who run the federation , a group looking for issues on which to embarrass those in office , and offering a platform to dissidents and minorities . Myron Lieberman , a frequent critic of both organizations , points out that there is nothing like the caucus in the NEA . In an organization of almost a million members , he says , there is no political machinery , no center around which a systematic ; continuing basic policy can be developed and then brought back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should politicize . the NEA , then , democracy would be well , served within this huge , cumbersome organization , ' Speaking before a national institute on collective negotiations in public education at Rhode , Island College in July , , AFT President Cogen said : " Increasingly , educational commentators have proposed that the AFT and the NEA merge into one organization . We would not rule out such a possibility . " He went on , of course , to say that there are fundamental points ? at issue ' between the two organizations , but we are . still waiting to hear an NEA spokesman come as near as Cogen to recognizing the need for merger . Perhaps , like the U.S. Government in Vietnam , , NEA leaders are waiting ' for military success . At that point the teachers ' new-found negotiating skill can bear fruit . 