@@478714

Why some poor countries are beginning to thrive ? while others drop farther behind , in spite of billions in American aid . An eyewitness report by the President of the American Economic Association .. Some time ago my wife and I spent a year traveling through Eastern Europe , the Middle East , and the Far East . In country after country we were deeply impressed by the striking contrast between the facts , as they appeared to us , and the ideas about the facts held by intellectuals . Wherever we found any large element of individual freedom , some beauty in the ordinary life of the ordinary man , some measure of real progress in the material comforts at his disposal , and a live hope of further progress in the future- there we also found that the private market was the main device being used to organize economic activity . Wherever the private market was largely suppressed and the state undertook to control in detail the economic activities of its citizens ( wherever , that is , detailed central economic planning reigned ) ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a low standard of living , and was largely bereft of any conception of controlling his own destiny . The state might prosper and accomplish mighty material works . Privileged classes might enjoy a full measure of material comforts . But the ordinary man was an inIf arper 's Magazine , April 1967 strument to be used for the state 's purpose , receiving no more than necessary to keep him docile and reasonably productive . By contrast , the intellectuals everywhere took it for granted that capitalism and the market were devices for exploiting the masses , while central economic planning was the wave of the future that would set their countries on the road to rapid economic progress . I shall not soon forget the tongue-lashing I received from a prominent , highly successful , and extremely literate Indian manufacturer when I made remarks that he correctly interpreted as criticism of India 's detailed central planning . Or the numerous discussions with professors at government-supported universities in India , where I was told again and again that in a country as poor as India it was essential for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocation of investment in order to assure that social priorities and not the market demand for luxuries dominated . Many of these discussions took place in comfortable university guesthouses , or relatively luxurious seminar rooms or lounges , well shielded from the nearby hovels where the common people live . One even took place in the magnificent Ashoka Hotel in New Delhi , a showplace built by the government . Yet not once was any question raised about the appropriateness of the " social priorities " reflected in the allocation of governmental funds for these amenities . I remember , also , the attitude of my audience at the University of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur . They listened politely , though with clear signs of rising hostility , as I expounded the merits of the market and the demerits of central planning for underdeveloped countries . The one remark that brought down the house was by the Malay chairman ? the head of the economics department of the university . India 's current difficulties , he instructed me , were nut the result of central planning but rather of the suppression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian independence ) . " Do n't Bother Me with Facts " A few examples show how clear the fads are . East and West Germany provide almost a controlled scientific experiment . Here are people of the same blood , the same civilization , the same level of technical skill and knowledge , torn asunder by the accidents of warfare . On the one side of the frontier , communism , tyranny , and misery ; on the other , capitalism , freedom , and affluence . In addition to teaching economies at the University of Chicago , Dr. Friedman serves on the research staff of the National Bureau of Economic Research . His best-known book is " Capitalism and Freedom . " This editorial is an expanded version of the preface to the Japanese translation of that book . Even two communist countries , Russia and Yugoslavia . offer a similar contrast . Russia is far more closely controlled from the center ; private property and a moderately free market have almost no scope . In agriculture only 3 per cent of the cultivated area is in private plots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though this 3 per cent produces one-third of the total agricultural output of the Soviet Union . In industry there is no legal scope at all for private activity , though apparently there is substantial black-market activity . In Yugoslavia , on the other hand , the great bulk of agricultural land is privately owned , there are many private handicrafts , and a deliberate attempt has been made to decentralize industry . Yugoslavia is far from free and its ordinary people are far from affluent by Western standards . Yet it strikes the traveler as a paradise in both respects compared with Russia . As it happened , we went from Russia directly to Yugoslavia , and both our departure from Russia and our arrival in Yugoslavia emphasized the contrast . On our way to the airport in Moscow , we had an Intourist guide assigned to us , as we had at every arrival and departure in Russia . This one turned out to be a young man who was in his final year of studies in American and English literature at the university . After desultory discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do after he finished school . " I do not know , " he replied ; " they have n't decided yet where I can be most useful " ? no annoyance at having his career decided for him , simply a matter-of-fact statement . Three key questions were asked us as we went through the formalities for embarkation : " Are you taking any papers or letters out for any Russian ? " " Do you have relatives in Russia ? " " Did you visit anyone except as arranged by Intourist ? " Having truthfully answered no , we were permitted to embark on a plane headed for Accra via Belgrade and carrying mostly Ghanaians returning home after an extended stay in Russia for military training . ( To judge by the unrestrained comments of our seatmates , whatever the stay might have added to the military effectiveness of the Ghanaians , it had certainly inspired strong hostility toward the Russians THE EASY CHAIR and a heightened admiration of the West . ) When we landed in Belgrade , questions by the authorities were strictly perfunctory . What surprised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absence of any governmental official to meet and shepherd us . We were left on our own , much to cur great delight . Without difficulty we were able to wangle , for a modest side payment , a ride into town on the one vehicle that was going there . The dinars for the payment were advanced to us at the hotel where we had privately made reservations . ( In Russia , we had been required to pay in full in advance and did not know what hotel we were to stay in until informed by Intourist on arrival . ) In the Middle East , Israel and Egypt offer the same contrast as West and East Germany ; in the Far East , Malaya , Singapore , Thailand , Formosa , Hong Kong , and Japan ? all relying primarily on free markets ? are thriving and their people full of hope , a far call from India , Cambodia , Indonesia , and Communist China ? all relying heavily on central planning . We were struck most forcibly by the contrast between facts and ideas in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of competitive capitalism . Singapore , which was still part of Malaysia when we were there , was built on free trade . It has a vigorous industry and the standard of living of the ordinary Chinese or Malay citizen is many times higher than in neighboring Indonesia or nearby India . Malaya itself was mostly an unsettled jungle three-quarters of a century ago . Today it is an attractive country with widespread cultivated areas . The standard of life of its citizens , though somewhat lower than that of Singapore , is much higher than that of its other neighbors . Rubber and tin are its main export crops . Yet rubber is not even native to Malaya . The rubber tree was imported by private enterprises from South America ; the tin mines were developed entirely by private concerns . Malaysia , now independent , is in the process of deciding what economic policy to follow . Its own past offers one example . Its populous neighbors , Indonesia and India , offer another . Both have embraced widespread and detailed central planning , with resultsthat are as depressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living and the condition of the ordinary man has clearly deteriorated in the nearly two decades since independence ? a major factor in the recent political turmoil . In India , the situation is only a little better . Which example does Malaysia propose to follow ? If the intellectuals have their way , as it appears they will , the new nation will follow India and Indonesia , The chairman of my meeting at the university , his colleagues , and the civil servants had no doubt that it was they who should control the direction of investment and development . A central bank had been established and a government development agency was already making long-range plans . A World Bank mission , headed by Jacques Rueff of France , a liberal in the nineteenth-century sense , had nonetheless bowed sufficiently to the temper of the times to recommend tariff protection , government development subsidies , and other measures of central planning . How clear it is that the world is ruled by ideas ? not facts ? and that ideas can for long periods live a life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offers another striking example of the importance of ideas and the intellectual climate ? less present-day Japan than its experience a century ago . We were much impressed by modern Japan : by the high level of income , its wide distribution , and its rapid growth ; the aesthetic content of everyday life and common household goods ; the dignity of the Japanese people , and their courteous hospitality to the visitor . A century ago , just prior to the Meiji restoration in 1868 , the situation of Japan was very different . Japan had experienced centuries of deliberate and enforced isolation from the rest of the world . Though by no means completely stagnant , Japan 's social and economic structure had altered little in that time , and it had fallen far behind the advanced Western countries in scientific knowledge and productive techniques . Why the Japanese Succeeded There is a remarkable parallel between Japan just after the Meiji restoration and India after it achieved independence eight decades later in . 1948 . In both cases a major political change permitted drastic alteration in economic arrangements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political change placed in power a group of able and patriotic men determined to convert prior economic stagnation into rapid economic progress-though for somewhat different objectives . In both eases these events occurred in countries with ancient cultures and a high artistic and literary civilization . And in both cases the countries were technologically far behind the leading economic powers of the time . Both had an opportunity to make major economic gains by using techniques developed at great cost in the West . There were also , of course , differences-mostly favoring India . India 's physical resources are distinctly superior to Japan's-except only for the sea around Japan , with its easy transportation and potential supply of food . Japan had been almost completely out of touch with the rest of the world ; India had had extensive and widespread contact . The British , moreover , left India an excellent railroad system , many factories , much physical equipment , and-even more important-functioning political institutions , numerous skilled administrators , and many men trained in modern industrial techniques . In my own contacts , the top Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any civil service with which I have had experience-including the American . True , they are few and there is a tremendous gap between them and lower-level civil servants , but progress in any area has always depended on small numbers of people . Finally , in the years since 1948 , the rest of the world has made available to India-largely as gifts-an enormous volume of resources , roughly equal to a quarter of India 's total capital formation . Japan had no comparable advantage . The closest parallel was the fortuitous failure of the European silk crops in the early years of the Meiji restoration , which enabled Japan to earn more foreign exchange by silk exports than she otherwise could have earned , Japan herself financed the training of Japanese abroad and the importation of foreigners with technical skills . During the whole of the first half-centuryafter the Meiji restoration , Japan had not only no net grants from abroad but not even any net capital import ; she provided the whole of her own capita from domestic sources . There is a widespread tendency to attribute India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its people , and the climatic conditions under which they live . Religious taboos , the caste system , a fatalistic philosophy are said to imprison the society in a straitjacket of tradition ; the people are thought to be unenterprising and slothful . I find it impossible to accept any of these explanations . The Indians who have migrated to Africa or to Southeast Asia have in country after country formed a major part of the entrepreneurial class , and have often been the dynamic element initiating and promoting progress . In the Punjab , an industrial revolution is taking place in towns like Ludhiana with thousands of small and medium-size workshops , reproducing , or so it seemed to me , the experience of Manchester and Birmingham at the end of the eighteenth century . There is no shortage of enterprise , drive , or technical skill ; on the contrary , there is a self-confident , strident capitalism bursting at the seams . For a nation to progress , it is not necessary for every individual to be an enterprising , risk-taking economic man . The history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community sets the pace , undertakes the path-breaking ventures , and coordinates the economic activity of hosts of others . Most people everywhere are hewers of wood and drawers of water . But their hewing of wood and drawing of water is made far more productive by the activities of the minority of industrial and commercial innovators , and the much larger but still small number of imitators . I have no doubt whatever that India has an adequate supply of potential entrepreneurs , both innovators and imitators . The appearance of sloth and lack of enterprise is surely a reflection of the absence of rewards for different behavior , not a reason ; the fatalistic philosophy is more likely an accommodation to stagnation , not a cause . Many early foreign residents in Japan reported similar impressions . Wrote one : " Wealthy we do not think it Japan will ever become : the advantages conferred by Nature , with the exception of the climate , and the love of indolence and pleasure of the people themselves forbid it . The Japanese are a happy race , and being content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wrote another : " In this part of the world principles , established and recognized in the West , appear to lose whatever virtue and vitality they originally possessed and to tend fatally towards weediness and corruption . " They were wrong and so too , in my opinion , are those who are similarly pessimistic about India . Although the circumstances of Japan in 1868 and India in 1948 were highly similar and the opportunities much the same , yet the outcome was vastly different . In Japan there was a thorough dismantling of the feudal structure , a vast extension of social and economic opportunity , rapid economic growth , and widespread improvement in the lot of the ordinary man ? though , unfortunately , nothing approaching real democracy in the THE EASY CHAIR political sphere . In India there was much lip service to the elimination of caste barriers yet shockingly little actual progress ; differences in income and wealth between the few and the many have widened not narrowed ; economic output per capita has been nearly stationary ; and there has probably been an actual deterioration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population . With all this has come a growing network of deadening and restrictive controls . Why the difference in results ? I believe the contrast between the two countries reflects primarily the difference in the techniques of economic organization adopted , though no doubt other factors played some part . Japan followed essentially a free-market policy , taking the Britain of its time as its model . True , the state intervened in many and diverse ways , and played a key role in the process of development . It subsidized the technical training of many Japanese and the importation of foreign experts , established pilot plants in many industries , and gave numerous subsidies . Yet at no time did it ever try to control the total amount or direction of investment or the structure of output . It sold off most of its pilot plants to private firms within a few years . The state maintained a large interest only in shipbuilding and iron and steel , industries that it deemed necessary to build military power . It retained even these industries only because they were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These subsidies were a drain on Japanese resources . They impeded rather than stimulated Japanese economic progress . Finally , by international treaty , Japan was prohibited during the first three decades after the Meiji restoration from imposing tariffs higher than 5 per cent . This restriction was an unmitigated boon to Japan , though naturally it was resented at the time , and tariffs were imposed after the treaty prohibitions expired . India has followed a very different policy . Its leaders , schooled in the doctrines of Fabian socialism and central planning , have regarded capitalism as synonymous with imperialism , to be avoided at all costs . They have taken Russia as their model and embarked on a series of five-yearplans with detailed programs of investment allocated between government and private firms and among industries . Certain areas of production are reserved to government . Tariffs , quotas , and subsidies to exports are widely used to shape foreign trade . When exchange difficulties arose , detailed and extensive exchange control was imposed . The Indian government controls wages and prices , prohibits private enterprises from building factories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes that are highly graduated on paper though largely evaded in practice . Reliance on the market in Japan released hidden and unsuspected resources of energy and ingenuity , prevented vested interests from blocking change , and forced development to conform to the harsh test of efficiency . Reliance on governmental controls in India frustrates initiative . or diverts it into wasteful channels , protects vested interests from the forces of change , and substitutes bureaucratic approval for market efficiency as the criterion of survival . An instructive specific example is the different experience with homemade and factory-made textiles in the two countries . Both Japan and India had extensive production of textiles in the home at the outset of their development . In Japan home production of silk was for Iong little affected , but home spinning of cotton , and later , hand-loom weaving of cotton cloth , unable to meet the competition of foreign spun yarn and factory-made cloth , were all but wiped out . A Japanese factory industry developed , at first manufacturing only the coarsest and lowest-grade fabrics , but then moving on to higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In India , hand-loom weaving was subsidized and guaranteed a market , allegedly to ease the transition to factory production . Factory production is growing gradually , yet there is no sign of an end to the subsidy . Indeed , hand-loom production is now larger than it was when the subsidy was introduced . Had Japan followed a similar policy , it still would have an extensive home cotton-textile industry ? and a drastically lower level of living . The most dramatic illustration of the waste that has been created by substituting government for market control in India is in automobile production . For some time now , the importing of both secondhand and new cars has been prohibited , supposedly to save foreign exchange by reducing " luxury " imports . Naturally the price of secondhand cars has skyrocketed . When I was in Bombay in 1963 , a 1950 Buick ? much like one I had sold in New Hampshire a few months earlier for $22 ? was selling for $1,500 . The government has licensed the production of new cars , mostly copies of foreign makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at extremely high cost . India , its government apparently believes , is too poor to use secondhand cars ; it must have new ones . I estimated in 1963 that about one-tenth of total American aid was being absorbed in the extra cost to India of getting motor vehicle transportation by building new cars instead of importing used ones ? a glaring example of the wastes of conspicuous production . The tragedy of the industrial revolution in the Punjab lies in this same waste and misdirection . Businessman after businessman told me that one-quarter of his time was usually devoted to getting around governmental restrictions ? price control , rationing , and so on . Even more important , the distortion of prices and costs through governmental intervention means that the businessman 's energy and ability are being directed toward doing the wrong things in the wrong ways . An Erponeous Notion in the West Ironically , the men who took charge of Japan in 1867 were dedicated principally to strengthening the power and glory of their country . They attached no special value to individual freedom or political liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political control by an elite . Their political ideas were the basis for later tragic totalitarian excesses . The men who took charge of India in 1948 had very different ideas . They were ardently devoted to political freedom , personal liberty , and democracy . Their aim was not national power , but improvement in the economic conditions of the masses . Yet it was the Japanese leaders who adopted a libera/ economic policy that led to the widening of opportunities for the masses and , during the early decades , a great gain in their personal liberty . It was the Indian leaders who adopted a collectivist economic policy that hamstrings their people with restrictions and continues to undermine the large measure of individual freedom and political liberty encouraged by the British . The difference in policies reflects faithfully the different intellectual climates of the two eras . In the mid-nineteenth century , liberalism ( in its original , not its current American sense ) was the dominant view . It was simply taken for granted that a modern economy should be conducted by free trade and private enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow any other course . In the mid-twentieth century , collectivism was the dominant view . It was simply taken for granted that a modern economy should be conducted by centralized control and five-year plans . It probably never occurred to the Indian leaders to follow any other course . Ideas can for a time lead a life of their own , independent of reality . But sooner or later they must meet the test of evidence . It may be crucial for the fate of mankind that they do so soon . We , who are fortunate enough to live in the West . take for granted the freedom and affluence we enjoy and regard them as the natural lot of mankind . They are not . They have been achieved only for brief intervals in the long history of mankind . At no time , and certainly not now , have they been achieved by more than a small fraction of the world 's population . We have been generous in our material aid to the less fortunate ; we have given them a fine set of aspirations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have also transmitted a climate of opinion hostile to the market arrangements that appear to be a necessary condition for both free- dom and affluence . We have a sufficient margin of protection to survive such ideas for a long time . The less-developed nations do not . In their failure , they may destroy us as well . The continuing ascendency of such ideas may doom mankind to a renewed era of universal tyranny and misery .                     