@@431779

41.  | VIETNAM AND THE END OF THE AGE OF SUPERPOWERS Neither the Soviet Union nor the United States can contain by military power alone the surge of nationalism sweeping the globe . A new American foreign policy must be developed to meet the demands of a new age and new international relationships . The contemporary crisis of American confidence comes in great part from a growing sense of our inability to manage violence . The rise of violence at home has done more than anything else to create doubt about the internal prospects of American life ; while , ironically , it has been the failure of violence to achieve our aims in Vietnam which has created equal doubt about the prospects of our foreign policy . When President Johnson spoke to the nation about Vietnam on March 31 , 1968 , he did more than suspend military escalation , intensify the search for negotiation , and remove himself from the impending Presidential contest . Though he did not of course put it this way , he announced the collapse of a policy and even perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or at least a drastic modification , of the premises which have governed American foreign policy since the end of the second world war . Postwar American foreign policy grew from a series of legacies ? Stimsonian collective security , Rooseveltian social evangelism , Dullesian antiCommunism . Each bequest had been tempted into universalism ? by which I mean the belief that the United States has an active and vital interest in the destiny of every nation on the planet ? and even into messianism by the power vacuums left in the wake of the second world war . It was this combination of factors which beguiled America into a course which much of the world today regards as imperialistic and which even Americans must concede as imperial ? the course which reached its disastrous climax in Vietnam . Yet , if there is an American imperialism , it is imperialism of a peculiar sort . The classical theories of imperialism derive from the European experience , and it is hard to fit American policy into the conventional categories . The attempts of pious Marxists , for example , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? as the result of the need for investment outlets ? is self-evidently absurd . The American government has already poured more money into Vietnam than American business could hope to get back in a century . Nor is it convincing to argue that we  | " needed " . to spend $30 billion a year in Vietnam in order to preserve business profits at home . The effect of the Vietnam spending has been to overheat the economy , to stimulate inflationary pressures , and to require an unpopular tax increase . Except for firms specifically dependent on production for Vietnam , everyone would be happier if the war spending came to an end . Business leaders have not been notably enthusiastic about the war ? especially once the Army stopped relying mainly on poor whites and blacks and started drafting their own sons . A more sophisticated version of the Marxist thesis is that the United States must suppress revolution everywhere because , if revolution succeeds in a country without American investment , the contagion of success may lead to revolutions in other countries with American investment . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an argument than the strict thesis , except for the fact that American policy in the Third World , while it has been uniformly anti-Communist , has by no means been uniformly anti-revolutionary . Nor do nationalist revolutions in the Third World invariably lead to Communist rule . Quite the contrary ? the Communists have come to power in only three new nations in the last quarter century : China and North Vietnam , because they put themselves at the head of nationalist movements during the second world war , and Cuba . because Fidel Castro for reasons of his own led a revolution undertaken on other grounds into the Communist empire . Actually the American government has accepted nationalist revolutions in most countries which have had them ; and it has given surreptitious assistance to progressive nationalist parties and even to non-Communist revolutionaries in a number of countries in Asia , Africa , and Latin America . The objection to the Cuban revolution ( at least within the Kennedy Administration ) was not to Castro 's program of internal reconstruction but to his potential role as an instrument of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of October 1962 showed , was hardly without point . Nor do other classical theories of imperialism work much better . Hannah Arendt 's argument @# ( in The Origins of Totalitarianism ) that imperialism was the result of " the alliance between mob and capital " does not apply here ; there was no surging popular demand for the adventure in Vietnam . Nor do the theories tracing imperialism to the instabilities and temptations created by disparities in power explain why there were half a million American troops in South Asia rather than in South America . The Rise of the Warrior Class But of the classical theories of imperialism the one which throws most light on American behavior is that proposed by Joseph A. Schumpeter. the economist . Schumpeter saw imperialism as " the objectless disposition on the part of a state to unlimited forcible expansion " ? a disposition created and sustained by the habits and interests of a warrior class . There would always be , he said , rational pretexts for military action -- national security , spoils , and so on ? but the essential urge would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion . European imperialism of the late nineteenth century , in Schumpeter 's view , was the work of martial and feudal elements surviving in bourgeois society . Believing that the instinct for physical combat was fading rather quickly in the industrial world , he felt that imperialism would be a passing phase in a society which had " neither warlike instincts nor structural elements and organizational forms oriented toward war . " He was particularly optimistic about the United States which among all capitalist countries seemed to him " least burdened with precapitalist elements . survivals , reminiscences , and power factors " and would therefore be " likely to exhibit the weakest imperialist trend . " But what Schumpeter omitted in his argument , though it was implicit in his theory , was the possibility that war among industrial states might produce new structural elements and organizational forms oriented toward war , a new warrior class and new forms of imperialism . Has not something like this happened in the United States ? The American imperialism of the turn of the century was a clear case of Schumpeterian atavism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who as historians had celebrated the Federalist vision of the American role , - reached back as politicians and strategists to the Federalist past in the hope of redeeming the new commercial society by giving it a martial purpose . But , lacking a serious institutional base  | in that society , neo-Federalist imperialism could not , and did not , last . Half a century later , however , two world wars had brought a great military establishment into existence , and the Cold War made it permanent . During the war , Roosevelt relied more on military advisers like General Marshall and Admiral Leahy than he did on his State Department . After the war , the establishment of the Department of Defense and the National Security Council consolidated the military influence on national policy . For many years the military have absorbed by far the largest portion of the federal budget . Defense contracts have enlisted large sections of the industrial community in the military effort . With America predisposed to foreign involvement by the legacies of collective security and social evangelism and , in a sense , propelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , with , in addition , the unitary Communist movement of the age of Stalin posing a quite genuine threat and generating crusading absolutism in response , the new warrior class became the agency for both the militarization and the enlargement of our interventionist policies . One must not overdo all this . The military machine suffered a succession of restraints ? first , from within , by the second world war generals of the **27;701;TOOLONG generation ; then , from without , by Presidents Truman , Eisenhower , and Kennedy as well as by civilian elements of the national security bureaucracy , by such men as Acheson ( when he was in office , though not so much thereafter ) , Harriman , Lovett , and , in later times , McNamara . The National Security Council was never very effective as a source of national decisions . Nor has the military caste always been united in its views . In 1954 the Navy and the Air Force favored American intervention in Vietnam ; the Army , forcefully represented by Generals Ridgway and Gavin , opposed intervention and carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corps dissented from the recommendation of the Joint Chiefs for a surprise air attack on the nuclear missile bases in Cuba . Secretary McNamara was engaged throughout his time at the Pentagon in argument with the Chiefs . By 1967 he had become the particular custodian of the negotiating interest within the government , leading to that peculiar exchange of roles by which the Secretary of Defense sat in his office trying to figure out how to start negotiations with Hanoi while the Secretary of State sat in his office picking out bombing targets ( perhaps in part because , as Mr. Rusk revealed in an interview , he was " within three days " of taking his oath as a career military officer in 1946 when General Marshall offered him a civilian post in the State Department ) . In the last years of the Vietnam war the CIA and the Secretary of Defense were far more skeptical than the Joint Chiefs or the Secretary of State about the effectiveness of American bombing . Yet , if the national security bureaucracy is often divided in its views , the warrior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had increasingly behind it the power of sheer momentum ? especially in a time when new military technologies , by making America vulnerable to attack from almost any spot on the planet , gave the argument of " national security " an unlimited application , and when duty required the military of one nation to advocate constant growth to forestall adversaries from gaining technological superiority . " Created by wars that required it , " Schumpeter wrote of the military establishment in ancient Egypt , " the machine now created the wars it required . " In whatever sense America can be said to be an imperial state , the active carriers of that imperialism are not our bankers or our foreign investors or our traders ? not any of the conventional Marxist villains . The carriers are our politicians , our diplomats , and , most particularly , our military leaders . It is our military leaders who ? for military , not for economic reasons ? have conned both the executive and legislative branches of the government into voting enormous military appropriations and into building enormous military installations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world ( and who , as the price we must pay , insist we must do nothing to offend such splendid countries as Portugal or South Africa ) . It is they who argue for military intervention . It is they who forever oppose agreements , like the Test Ban Treaty of 1963 , designed to slow up the arms race , and who forever demand new systems of offense and defense . The forward role of the military has been notably evident in Vietnam . First , they succeeded in defining the problem in the terms stated by General Wheeler in November 1962 : " It is fashionable in some quarters to say that the problems in Southeast Asia are primarily political and economic . . . . I do not agree . The essence of the problem in Vietnam is military . " Subsequently , at every point along the way , the generals promised that just one more step of military escalation would at last bring the victory so long sought and so steadily denied . The Pentagon , in  | addition , has seen Vietnam as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new techniques . Here surely lies a major cause of our imperial drift : the incessant pressure of the professional military in an age of international crisis . The warrior group , because of its own internal needs and preoccupations , constantly demands more money , more weapons systems , more military involvement , more military intervention . Its members invoke the emotions of virility and patriotism to strengthen their case . Their importunings affect the way choices are defined and the atmosphere in which decisions are made ; the pressure is often effective in amorphous situations and with irresolute leaders . But this is not a question of bureaucratic determinism . The warrior group does not inevitably control United States policy , nor are the warriors evil men or war criminals . They are professional men trying to do a professional job and making exactly the arguments the nature of their profession requires . It is foolish to be surprised by the advice they give or to blame them for it . It is far more to the point to blame those who take their advice . What matters is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidents take these recommendations seriously . President Kennedy accepted the recommendations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on one major decision in his Administration ? the Bay of Pigs . He rejected pressures for direct military intervention in Cuba twice ? after the failure of the Bay of Pigs and again during the missile crisis . He was entirely skeptical of military plans for intervention in Laos . He declined to follow JCS counsel on Berlin in 1961 or on the Test Ban Treaty of 1963 . President Johnson , on the contrary , seems to have flinched from overruling the Joint Chiefs , except on occasion by not giving them quite all the troops or bombing targets they wanted . The Messianic Phase The tragedy of Vietnam is the tragedy of the catastrophic overextension and misapplication of valid principles . The original insights of collective security and liberal evangelism were generous and wise . But compulsive Stimsonianism and compulsive New Dealism , stimulated by the illusions of Superpowership , rigidified by an absolutist anti-Communism , and pressed ever forward by the professional demands of the new warrior class , brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ History and our own achievements , " President Johnson said on February 12 , 1965 , " have thrust upon us the principal responsibility for protection of freedom on earth . . . . No other people in no other time has had so great an opportunity to work and risk for the freedom of all mankind . " This messianic phase led us to lose our sense of the relation between means and ends . I do not see that our original involvement in Vietnam was per se immoral . What was immoral was the employment of means of destruction out of all proportion to rational purposes . The wreckage we wrought in Vietnam had no rational relationship to a serious assessment of our national interest or to the demonstrated involvement of our national security . ' The messianic phase transcended and transformed the constituent elements of our past foreign policy . Yet the existence of these traditional elements gave the Johnson Administration a sense that it was executing a legacy and endowed it therefore with an overwhelming conviction of the rectitude of its mission , the purity of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was this which must have led Secretary Rusk to say on February 9. 1968 , " There gets to be a point when the question is. whose side are you on ? Now , I 'm Secretary of State of the United States . and I 'm on our side 1 " Given the perhaps excessive self-righteousness which could lead a Secretary of State to suggest that his critics must be on the side of Ho Chi Minh , given too the reluctance of proud and stubborn men to admit that they could possibly have made mistakes , only the abject failure of the policy could force its supporters to draw back . The failure of the Vietnam policy had long been evident to most detached observers . The evidence against the effectiveness . of military escalation was just as strong , for example , on March 31. 1967 , as it was on March 31 , 1968 ; and if President Johnson had given his speech a year earlier . many Americans and many Vietnamese , now The total bomb tonnage dropped on Vietnam , North and South , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total tonnage dropped during the second world war in both the European and Pacific theaters was 2,057,244 tons . This means that American planes dropped almost 50 per cent more tons of explosives on this hapless country than were dropped on Japan , Germany , and other enemy territories during the last world war . I owe these figures to the pertinacity of I. F. Stone who elicited them from the Pentagon press office and published them in his highly erratic but sometimes useful Weekly .  | dead , would today be alive . But in the end the failure of the policy became so plain that even the President had to admit it ? everyone had to admit it except , inevitably , General Westmoreland . What was announced on March 31 , 1968 , was more than simply the collapse of the American policy in Vietnam . What was announced was the collapse of the messianic conception of the American role in the world ? indeed , the end of the entire age in which two Superpowers dominated the planet . To understand the reasons for this collapse we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noon . There were always decisive differences between the United States and the Soviet Union on internal values and policies . But their views of the world outside had remarkable similarities . Each Superpower saw mankind as divided between forces of light and forces of darkness . Each assumed that the opposing bloc was under the organized and unified control of the other . Each insisted that every nation line up on one side or the other and condemned neutralism as anomalous if not as immoral . Each expected its own side to accept its own ideas of political propriety and economic organization . Washington supposed that what was then known as the Free World should reshape itself on the American model , while Moscow , that the Communist World should reshape itself on the Russian model . But the world itself did not sit still ; it began to change . And the most basic change of all was the rise of a new force in revolt against the reign of the Superpowers ? or rather the resurgence of an older force now endowed in the years after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and the rise of nationalism meant growing opposition to the United States in the Western bloc , growing opposition to the Soviet Union in the Communist bloc , and growing opposition to both America and Russia in the Third World . Nationalism means , first of all , the determination to assert national identity , national dignity , and national freedom of action . It can also mean , as the memory of prewar Germany , Italy , and Japan reminds us , the determination to assert these things at the expense of other nations ; and in this sense nationalism has been and will be a source of tremendous danger to the world . But the nationalism which arose after the second world war was , in the main , not the aggressive and hysterical nationalism which had led nations before the war to try and dominate other nations . It was rather the nationalism generated by the desire to create or restore a sense of nationhood . In the years since 1945 nationalism has redrawn lines of force around the planet . Take Europe , which Churchill described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charnel house , a breeding ground for pestilence and hate . " Economically shattered , politically demoralized , militarily defenseless , Western Europe in the Forties was absolutely dependent on America for social reconstruction and military protection . Then the Marshall Plan set in motion the process of economic recovery . Economic recovery led to the revival of political self-confidence , and political self-confidence to a determination to assert European autonomy . No doubt the turn given this mood in recent years by General de Gaulle is exaggerated and extravagant . But it would be a great error , I believe , to suppose that Gaullism does not spring from a profoundly real impulse in contemporary Europe : a deep pride in European traditions and capacities , a growing will to reaffirm European independence against the twin colossi . And even those who reject the narrow nationalism of de Gaulle do so in the name of the larger nationalism of Europe . The contagion of nationalism runs everywhere . Today nationalism is seeking home rule in Scotland and Wales ; it is dividing the country of Belgium ; it is threatening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own country it finds expression in the mystique of Black Power . And it has wrought even more spectacular changes within the empire which Stalin once ruled so calmly and implacably . The Yugoslav heresy of 1948 represented the first serious rebellion of national Communism against Russian primacy . In another decade China burst forth as an independent Communist state , increasingly determined to challenge Russia for the domination of Asia and for the leadership of the international Communist movement . With the clash between China and Russia , the unified Communist empire began to break up . Moscow long ago had to accept the Yugoslav heresy , and on Yugoslav terms . It has conceded a measure of national initiative to the once cowed and compliant satellites of Eastern Europe . Albania and Romania are going their own way . In a desperate effort to preserve the dominant Russian position , the Soviet Union had to resort to military intervention in order to discipline Communist Czechoslovakia . Even Poland , even East Germany may some day insist on national freedom . " Everyone chooses the truths he likes . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pope Paul VI , but  | it might as well have been said by Brezhnev . The unity of Communist discipline , the unity of Communist dogma ? all are vanishing as international phenomena , crumbling away under the pressure of nationalism . In the contemporary age of polycentrism there is no longer any such thing as " world Communism . " A Communist takeover no longer means the automatic extension of Russian , or even of Chinese power . Every Communist government , every Communist party , has been set free to begin to respond to its own national concerns and to pursue its own national policies . One Communist state , Cuba , has even performed the ingenious feat of being simultaneously at odds with both Moscow and Peking . As nationalism has transformed the democratic and Communist worlds , so too it has transformed the Third World . After the war , many people ? Communists and anti-Communists alike ? supposed that Communism was the wave of the future and accepted the thesis of its inevitable triumph . In particular , it was anticipated that Marxism would sweep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia , Africa , and Latin America shaken by the deep-running demands for economic development and social justice , new states everywhere , it was believed , would turn to Communism , if only as the most efficient technique for modernization . Some in the West became mesmerized by the notion that , when a nationalist revolution began in an underdeveloped country , Communism was bound to win out . This has not happened . There has been an abundance of nationalist revolutions in these years . But the striking fact is plainly the failure of the Communists to ride to power on nationalist upheavals . The reasons for the failure of Communism in the developing world is the same as the reason for the expulsion of colonialism from that world : what the new nations want more than anything else is the assurance of their national freedom of decision . And this very fact too , while it has endowed the new nations with spirit and audacity , has prevented them from forming , as some once feared they might do , a unified bloc against the West . Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Cold War ? and in the hope of shaking down the developed countries , Russia as well as America , for all the economic aid they can get . Beyond that , they too are deeply divided by nationalist resentments and rivalries . Nationalism has thus changed the relations between America and the Western world and Russia and the Communist world , and it has defeated expectations of Russian and American in- fluence as well as of a unified neutralist bloc is the Third World . It has emerged as the most powerful political emotion of our time . The Age of Superpowers is coming to an end . A Common Frustration Or at least this is evident to everyone ? except to the Superpowers themselves . A mail source of trouble in the world today is , as often before , the failure of Superpowers to recognize a new historical situation . This is natural enough . England and France , though knocked out of the running after the second world war , continued to try and act like great powers as late as their attempt in 1956 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superpowers are always slow to realize the decline in their capacity to command events . So America and Russia , operating on the momentum of ideas generated in the immediate postwar years , have persisted , despite a new age and a changed world . in those habits of thought and action which worked more or less between 1945 and 1955 . The illusion of Superpowership thus lay behind the long American attempt to determine the destiny of Vietnam . It lay behind the Soviet attempt to enter the Caribbean in 1962 , as it lies behind current Soviet attempts to dominate the Middle East and dictate the future of Czechoslovakia . In 1967 Chairman Kosygin visited the United States and had a meeting with President Johnson in New Jersey . He came at a moment when Russia and America were in sharp disagreement over the two most urgent items on the meeting 's agenda ? Vietnam and the Arab-Israeli war . Yet .. in spite of this disagreement , the meeting itself was surprisingly cordial . This caused puzzlement at the time . In retrospect there is no great mystery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were evidently brought together by considerations deeper than conflicts in Southeast Asia or in the Middle East . They were brought together by a common sense of international frustration and a common fear that their mutual interests in world management were under challenge . They shared most of all a deep perplexity and anguished exasperation over the inability of their two countries to run the world any longer . The partnership of Holly Bush was above all a partnership of irritation and chagrin . The world had for some time been approaching the point when the common American-Russian interest in global management was becoming more important than their disagreement on ideo- logical issues or than the clash of their national interests . The irony , of course , is that these two countries were not at all concerned with collaboration during the Era of Superpowers ? at a time when such collaboration might have gone far toward ordering the planet . But , as the recovery of national initiative in the rest of the world began to threaten the very idea of Superpowership , the tendency grew to consider it more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open up the game . So , like two cartels which have been competing bitterly against each other for the world 's supply of a vital commodity ? in this case , power ? they now tend to prefer to divide the market between themselves as against the risk and uncertainty which would follow from the admission of new competitors . The clearest expression of this drawing together can be seen in the attempt to limit the control and availability of nuclear weapons . I do not suggest that the Test Ban Treaty of 1963 and the treaty to stop nuclear proliferation are not excellent things in themselves . They are surely the greatest formal strides toward peace the world has taken in this generation . But it is important also to consider how these proposals look to the non-nuclear nations . Their obvious effect ? and , some cynics have suggested , their secret intention ? is to exclude the rest from the nuclear club and thus to preserve American-Russian nuclear dominance . This is why , of course , these treaties have been so bitterly denounced by the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China in the Communist bloc . Alas , the drift of the Superpowers toward collaboration , generally encouraging as this new mood may be , has come too late , at least too late to save their joint hopes of world domination . " What forces in the world could resist us ? " Kosygin said to Life in February 1968 . " Nobody . " Kosygin is wrong . The pathos of the present situation i ? that , just as America can not unilaterally impose its will on Southeast Asia and Russia can not unilaterally impose its will on the Middle East , so America and Russia together , even if they agreed on every detail of policy and worked together to put a common policy over , can no longer settle affairs in Southeast Asia and the Middle East . The events in the rest of the world have developed a life of their own-a future as well as a past of their own ? and they are passing beyond the reach even of joint American-Russian dictation . Indeed , the very process of Russian-American rapprochement hastens the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tional action is likely to provoke the great powers into nuclear war ; it thereby increases every nation 's sense of its own freedom of maneuver . Nothing exhibits more arrestingly the decline of Superpowership than the spectacle in recent years of Superpowers pushed around by their satellites ? the Soviet Union by East Germany , Cuba , and North Vietnam ; the United States by South Korea , South Vietnam , and Taiwan . Tocqueville 's old forecast ? America and Russia , each " marked out by the will of Heaven to sway the destinies of half the globe " - has had , in the end , an exceedingly short run . Ordinarily it takes defeat in war to persuade a Superpower that it has been living beyond its means . Sometimes one defeat is not enough . It took two defeats , for example , to convince Germany it was not a Superpower ; there are those who fear that the Germans may not have learned - this lesson yet . Great Britain , on the victorious side in the second world war , persisted in the illusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The American failure in Vietnam has produced a striking reassessment of the world position of the United States . Vietnam has been an expensive and horrible education ; but no one can question the fact that most Americans are now determined to have no more Vietnams . Only the Soviet Union , sustained by a dogmatic faith in the infallibility of its ideology , still seems dogged in the pursuit of Superpowership , and this in spite of spectacular setbacks in Cuba and the Middle East . The world must hope that Czechoslovakia may in time have the same effect on Russia that Suez had on England and Vietnam on the United States . A New American Policy The last-ditch champions of the American Vietnam policy like to argue that the only alternative to universalism is isolationism . This , of course , is a self-serving definition of the issues ; and the debate should not be established in these terms . A headlong dash from the world , a retreat to our own shores , even a retreat to our own hemisphere : all these are impossible options . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be false to our ideals . The United States can not resign from the task of helping to build a rational world order . But what form is this world order likely to take ? As Franklin Roosevelt construed the universalist world a quarter of a century ago , it would be a world in which order would be en- forced by the great powers . The decline of the Superpowers dooms this world . But it would appear equally to doom the sphere-of-interest world sought by Stalin . Thoughtful people still argue that spheres of influence offer the only alternative to universalism . But is it probable that , in the age after the Superpowers , the sphere-ofinterest policy will be as easy to work as it was in the past ? Confronted by nationalism in Czechoslovakia , Russia had to use military force to maintain its sphere of influence in Eastern Europe . Confronted by nationalism in the Dominican Republic , the United States had to use ( or thought it had to use ) military force to maintain its sphere of influence in the Caribbean . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short run . But both know that , where they are unwilling to use military force , they can no longer count on the automatic compliance of the countries of Eastern Europe or Latin America . It is highly doubtful whether China will be any more successful in putting together a submissive sphere of influence in East Asia . My guess is that the most realistic evolution in the future would be along the lines of the proposal made by Churchill in 1943 ? a development of regional groupings within the United Nations , thereby merging universalist and sphere-of-influence conceptions , strengthening the " middle powers " and discharging the great powers from the supposed obligation to rush about putting down every presumed threat to world peace . This would be a policy neither of universalism nor of isolationism but of discrimination . It would imply the existence of what " President Kennedy called the " world of diversity " ? " a robust and vital world community , founded on nations secure in their own independence , and united by allegiance to world peace . " And it would imply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy put it in 1961 , We must face the fact that the United States is neither omnipotent nor omniscient ? that we are only 6 per cent of the world 's population ? that we can not impose our will upon the other 94 per cent ? that we can not right every wrong or reverse each adversity ? and that therefore there can not be an American solution to every world problem . Kennedy 's profound insight was forgotten when his successor reinstated Dullesism and plunged ahead with the policy of overkill . But today , in melancholy aftermath of Vietnam , we must ' , ; f ; understand more urgently than ever that " there can not be an American solution to every world problem , " and that we must therefore demand a sense of proportion and priority in the conduct of our foreign affairs . In light of the Vietnam tragedy and of the current world mood , what would be the basic principles for a new American policy ? What are the lessons of Vietnam ? First , that everything in the world is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of vital importance for Asians and Africans , and they are of some importance to us . But they are not so important for us as they are to Asians and Africans , nor are they as important for us as are Europe , Latin America , and- Soviet Russia . In the last three years we have given most of our attention and resources to a marginal problem on the mainland of Asia while our position has steadily deteriorated in parts of the world far more indispensable to our national security . Second , that we can not do everything in the world . The universalism of the . older generation was spacious in design and noble in intent . Its flaw was that it overcommitted our country ? it overcommitted our policy , our resources , and our rhetoric . It estranged our friends without intimidating our enemies . Vietnam should teach us that in the last half of the twentieth century armed white men can not determine the destiny of a nation on the mainland of Asia . It should teach us , more generally , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are doomed to failure . Third , that we can not be the permanent guarantor of stability in a world of turbulence . Violence is epidemic in the developing world ; and we can not regard every outbreak as a summons for the American fire brigade . " Every country , " a wise Englishman said , " has a right to its own Wars of the Roses . " Not every revolution , not every change in political and economic systems , not every assertion of belligerent nationalism is necessarily a mortal threat to the security of the United States . Fourth , that all problems in the world are not military problems , and that military force is not necessarily the most effective form of national power . So long as we continue to define our world problems in military terms , so long will we strengthen our own warrior class and plunge the nation into further military intervention . This is a self-defeating course . We have never had more military power in the world than we have today ? and we have seldom in recent times had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Kennedy in Paris in 1961 , the French had learned that exerting influence in Southeast Asia and taking military action there were almost incompatible . We should ponder this statement . And , as we free ourselves from the military hang-ups of our foreign policy , we can begin to combat the militarization of our domestic thought and institutions . Fifth , that the basis for our international influence in the coming period will lie less in the power of our arms than in the power of our example . As the Superpowers themselves begin to realize that their time is over , then they will recognize that future world leadership will demand persuasion as well as power . Political ties , economic assistance , cultural relations : these we must strengthen as we can . But military intervention is another matter . We should undertake military intervention only when the national security of the United States is directly and vitally involved , when the people whom we think we are supporting display a capacity for resistance themselves , and when there are reasonable prospects for success ? all conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Vietnam . We must take advantage of the fact that modern military technology ? intercontinental missiles , nuclear submarines , rapid means of airlift ? reduces the need for the physical presence of American troops and bases in foreign lands . The time has come for a policy of " selective disengagement . " Of course , it seems easier in the short run to throw military weight around like an international bully than it is to appeal to the reason and conscience of mankind and to validate that appeal by the values we display in our national community . Yet we have exerted our greatest influence in the world precisely when ? as in the days of Woodrow Wilson , of Franklin Roosevelt , of John Kennedy ? American leadership , in great part because of its identification with progressive policies at home , has been able to command the confidence of ordinary people everywhere . Mr. Nixon 's goal of " clear-cut military superiority " will never be a substitute for American idealism as exemplified in action . The Price of Progress We can restore our influence only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin to display reason , restraint , and magnanimity in our dealings with other nations . Above all , we can restore our influence only as we live up to our highest ideals in our national community . " Those are not wrong , " Carl Schurz wrote seventy years ago , " who maintain that the nation which would assume the office of a general dispenser of justice and righteousness in the world . .. should be held to prove itself as a model of justice and righteousness in its own home concerns . " The industrial order is undergoing vast and fundamental changes as the mechanical society created by the first industrial revolution is evolving into the new electronic society . " Because your country is further on the path of industrial development than ours , " Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber told a meeting of American intellectuals , " many of the crises you are living through today are the ones we shall increasingly have to face in the future . " If America is in turmoil , he continued , this was not the proof of decay but the price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the point in social transformation where they are raising and debating fundamental questions long buried in tradition and dogma : the relationships between rich and poor , between black and white , between parent and child , between structure and spontaneity . " From the answers that you will find to this new set of questions will come a new social contract , ' a new definition of the relationship between man and society with this second industrial revolution . " The experience of Vietnam has shown that we can not run two crusades at once -- that we can not wage even a small war against an underdeveloped country and at the same time move creatively to meet the problems of our own land . The policy of total involvement in the world is incompatible with the policy of social reconstruction at home . It would appear that in the years ahead America will exercise international influence less by trying to run the planet than by trying to solve the new problems of the high-technology state ? the accelerating pace of technical change , the humanization of the city , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plight of the individual in a world of great organizations . In the years immediately to come , the world will follow us less because of our armed might than because of our capacity to heal the disruptions and fulfill the potentialities of the electronic society . If this is so , then we return to an earlier conception of the way America should seek to lead the world . " She will recommend the general cause by the countenance of her voice , and by the benignant sympathy of her example , " said John Quincy Adams . " . . . But she goes not abroad in search of monsters to destroy . " Harper 's Magazine , March 1969                     