@@493968

Smith 's Declaration of ( White ) Independence London The layers of fantasy and make-believe in the Rhodesian crisis have become more numerous than any situation can truly bear . The present phase started in No. 10 , Downing Street between the 7th and loth of September 1964 , when Mr. Ian Smith confronted the Conservative Prime Minister Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Commonwealth Secretary Duncan Sandys . At these meetings Smith made two statements which strained all credulity . The first was that his Rhodesia Front Party now recognized the 1961 constitution and wanted complete independence on this basis . The second was that 75 to 90 percent of Rhodesia 's Africans wanted that too . When faced with such preposterous statements what does one do ? There are only two alternatives : ( a ) to call the man a liar , or perhaps just treat him as such without actually using the word , or ( b ) behave as if you think he is serious and devise some test against which to verify his assertions . Considering the balance of forces in Southern Africa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground in her nominal " colony , " Conservative ministers can not be blamed for choosing the second course . The then opposition headed by Harold Wilson has done exactly the same since it came into office . As for the 196i constitution , this contains a built-in mechanism designed to produce an automatic progression of the African majority to political power , paced according to their rising achievements in terms of education , income levels and property ownership . The then Prime Minister of Rhodesia , Sir Edgar Whitehead , speaking to the UN in 1a62. when he wanted to make the most favorable international impression , estimated that it would be 15 years before there would be African majority rule , and even then only if there had been an immense expansion of four-year secondary schools during that time . It is important to remember that Mr. Smith 's Rhodesia Front was a new party formed out of an amalgam of various oppositional fragments precisely in order to fight that constitution , and after it had passed to prevent its being implemented in the relatively liberal spirit which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Conservative ministers Ian Smith was candid ? or disingenuous ? enough to say that he planned after independence to make a few changes in the constitution . One was to alter the method of amending the constitution itself . It subsequently emerged that what he had in mind was that in place of the existing provision for the " entrenched clauses " which made them virtually unamendable , he wanted to substitute a new procedure which would make them only too easily amendable by the Rhodesia Front . The " entrenched clauses , " one may add , include the Bill of Rights and the mechanism for bringing the Africans toward majority rule . The spirit in which an easy amending process might be used was shown in a remark thrown off by Smith a year later , in September 1965 , when negotiating with Harold Wilson . " He must make it dear , " the official minutes record Smith as saying , " that the government party in Rhodesia did not believe in majority rule . They accepted that the 1961 constitution would eventually bring it about ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process ! ' But it was the second of Mr. Smith 's assertions to the obviously incredulous Conservative ministers that has led everybody concerned with the Rhodesian negotiations through the mirrors and into the looking-glass world in which they have been wandering ever since . Sir Alec Douglas-Home had publicly committed himself as far back as November 1963 to the principle of " no independence before majority rule " in Rhodesia . Mr. Smith told him that he would have to change his tune about this because the majority ( i.e. , the Africans ) did not want majority rule and did want independence . What 's more , he said , he could prove it . Mr. Sandys suggested he should do so by means of a referendum . No , said Smith , the complex and sophisticated issues involved in the concept of independence were beyond the mental capacity of the average rural African . But , said Sandys , you yourself have admitted the principle of the rural Africans voting in elections . ( Smith had in fact told British ministers that after independence he would concede something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in choosing MP 's for the 15 seats out of 65 virtually reserved for Africans , largely because he hoped the nationalist parties would be less strong outside the townships where most presently qualified African potential voters are to be found . ) That 's different , said Smith . There 's not much mental effort required in choosing between two candidates but there is in voting " yes " or " no " to independence before majority rule . Well , then , said Sandys , how about the rural Africans electing representatives to take part in a constitutional conference ? That , said Smith , would undermine the chiefs . The Rhodesian leader argued almost in the same breath that ( a ) the chiefs and the chiefs only must be consulted because in African tribal society they are the only true spokesmen and therefore consultation with them is the most truly democratic course and ( b ) the Rhodesian government has been laboring hard to build the chiefs up from the low estate into which they had fallen , and that unless they and they alone are seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . In the end Smith went away after being told that he would have to do something better than simply ask the chiefs . At the same time the British government committed itself publicly to the formula that it would only grant independence once satisfied that its basis was " acceptable to the people of the country as a whole . " The minutes show that this phrase , now famous as the Fifth Principle of the six to which the Wilson government has nailed its colors , was adopted to cover the retreat from the previous commitment to majority rule . But the retreat was conditional on Smith 's somehow proving his point in a respectable way . In the middle of the 1964 election , Smith tried to slide over the obstacle unnoticed . He announced that chiefs only would be consulted and asked the British government to appoint observers immediately . In their last hours of office , Douglas-Home and Sandys rejected this procedure and refused to name observers . Surprise , surprise , the chiefs and headmen , whose already shaky position would be fatally compromised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted unanimously for independence on Smith 's terms . This was the situation inherited by the Wilson government . Nothing in the meantime had essentially changed ? except perhaps that Duncan Sandys , who was tough with Smith when in office , now as an opposition back-bencher favored giving in to him . We are still pursuing the mirage of putting to the test Smith 's confident statements about African wishes . Just before Smith made his Unilateral Declaration of Independence in November 1965 , it seemed there might be a compromise in the form of a Royal Commission of mixed British and white Rhodesian membership which would travel around taking evidence of African opinion and finally pronouncing on the wishes of " the people of the country as a whole . " But just as the commission was about to go Smith slapped on a state of emergency which made it out of the questionthat the Africans should express themselves freely . Then followed UDI . Subsequent " talks about talks " between London and Salisbury yielded no progress . Then when the deadline set by the Commonwealth prime ministers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the good ship Tiger . The working document drawn up on board concerned two subjects : the proposed independence constitution and the period of " return to legality . " On returning to Salisbury and consulting his colleagues , Smith announced that they accepted the first but rejected the British plan for the second . At his press conference Smith said that the constitution was splendid and if only he had been offered this in 1965 there would have been no UDI . But the interim period of " return to legality " during which the Royal Commission would test African reactions to the proposed independence constitution would amount to submitting to " a Quisling government with a tough British proconsul supported by British troops . " This is moonshine . The constitution which Smith says he would have accepted in 1965 reproduces , point by point , the safeguards for African political progress insisted upon by Wilson in the negotiations before UDI and then rejected by the Rhodesians . As for the " return to legality , " this represents an attempt to ensure the bare minimum conditions of freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The " Quisling government " would be headed by Mr. Smith , with five ministers out of 12 drawn from outside the Rhodesia Front . The " tough British proconsul " would be the harmless Rhodesian civilian governor , Sir Humphrey Gibbs , acting on the advice of Mr. Smith , and there would be no British troops . When questioned , Smith was extremely revealing about this farrago of nonsense . Supposing , he said , contrary to his expectations , the Royal Commission pronounced against him . He would then have given up his UDI , acknowledged the governor once more , and got nothing out of it . So the long detour through the looking glass is nearly over . Wilson pledged himself , at the Commonwealth Prime Ministers ' conference , to withdraw all offers and embrace the principle of " no independence before majority rule " if Smith rejected this last round of talks , and provided also that the Commonwealth African members of the Security Council , Nigeria and Uganda , were helpful to Britain in steering through mandatory UN sanctions against the Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruinous to Britain The trouble is that these limited sanctions are widely expected to fail . There could thus be deadlock in the Security Council . Much therefore depends upon the United States . American interests are affected to a THE NEW REPUBLIC very limited extent by the list of banned Rhodesian exports which Foreign Secretary George Brown has proposed to the UN . America 's chrome and tobacco imports from Rhodesia have increased since voluntary sanctions began and there is no legal way for the President to put a stop to them until the Security Council has acted . But the African countries , including those in the Commonwealth , are demanding action against Rhodesia 's imports of oil , which if enforced , would provide a much brighter prospect of toppling Smith . However , if the UN tried to enforce such a ban on a noncompliant South Africa , South African retaliation against British investments and trade could undoubtedly bring the pound sterling crashing down . A firm warning from the United States to South Africa that there is no limit to which America would not go in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might alone cause Mr. Vorster to tell Mr. Smith that the game was up .                     