@@488067

DEAR SrRs " Labor and Foreign Policy " by Ronald Radosh The Nation , Sept. 81 is full of unstated and questionable assumptions , half-truths , and pseudo-sophisticated misunderstandings T shall skeptically await some documentation in what you indicate is to be . a forthcoming book One general key to the inadequacy of Radosh 's analysis Is to be found in his characterization of the mainstream of the American labor movement as " corporate unionism " This seems to him to mean that the unions are perverted creatures of and controlled by American corporations , rather than properly dedicated to overthrowing the individual enterprise 01 capitalistic system While Arne ! ican unions have " accepted " capitalism , worked within it , and worked to humanize and restrict it ( both through collective bargaining and political means ) , their actual goals and programs are not that different from the Socialist unions of most of the Western European countries today , except for France and Italy As for American unions generally going along with U S foreign policy one can as readily fault the labor movements in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well An ideologically united world labor movement is impractical , I believe , though Radosh seems to assume there should be one Phillips I Garman Professor of Labor and Industrial Relations University of Illinois New YorA City DEAR Sias Mr Garman both defends and denies the existence of corporate unionism The basic purpose of unionism is to protect the interests of wage earners economic , social and political Corporate union leaders reveal their limitations when they fail to wage fights for crucial demands , whenever these demands conflict with the limits of reform set by the large corporations and government spokesmen During World War I , Samuel Gompers decided not to call for an eight-hour day , because Newton D Baker and Woodrow Wilson defined that demand as revolutionary " ... During Woild War II , Sidney Hillman supported FDR 's use of the Army to bust the North American Aviation strike , since it interfered with the defense effort The corporate- unionists proved all too willing to abandon their original commitment to the workeis when they were told not to rock the boat These and other points will indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly be true that the goals and program of American unions diffei little from those of most West European Socialist unions , or for that matter , the Communist unions of France and Italy . But all of these bodies are social-democratic , and follow a similar corporate orientation In May of 1968 , the French CGT thus worked to curb revolutionary demands for workers ' control of production and occupation of factories , and tried to channel the workers ' momentum into traditional trade union considerations it was this essential conservatism of the CP unions , in fact , that Irving Brown played upon when he skillfully manipulated to create a split in their ranks As for an " ideologically united world labor movement , " it was exactly the desire of Jay Lovestone that all labor follow the path set out by the AFL leaders creation of a world labor movement pledged to the line of the State Department . . . Ronald Radosh correction We regret the misspelling of the word dirigisme in last week 's review by Emile Capouya of Leo Huberman and Paul Sweezy 's Socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for love , sympathy and unqualified support , Lyndon B. Johnson pleaded , " I 'm the only President you 've got . " It was the American version of the " cult of personality , " and it failed . Now this wrongheaded view of the democratic process is being raised again , by a chorus of diverse types Hubert Humphrey , having said quite distinctly at the Midwest Democratic Conference that Mr. Nixon 's honeymoon was over , informs us after a nice talk with Dick that " we have only one President at a time . " David S. Broder , who nowadays is the voice of the Establishment among political commentators , does a piece about how easy and wicked it is to " break " the President This theme is picked up m the House , and Dean Acheson warns us of a major constitutional crisis " if we make a habit of destroying Presidents " This " breaking the President " bogy needs to be looked at both in general and in the current situation Most of us were taught to respect the office of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whether or not the second is possible depends more on the President than on its Every President enjoys an enormous lead time of approval and support and can count on great backlogs of public favor if he knows how to make a halfway intelligent and honest appeal to the public These are the facts we must start with Long before he reached the White House , Mr. Nixon gave many Americans what they regard as good reason to distrust him So he assumed the Presidency under a cloud of political and partisan misgivings as to his sincerity  --  even that measure of sincerity an active politician is expected to exhibit Yet both the public and the politicians gave him the benefit of the doubt . He could not possibly complain that he did not enjoy an extended " honeymoon . " His detractors remained silent and the press leaned over backward to be fair So the long summer days passed at San Clemente , with the mood of the country seemingly quiet and serene We suggested at that time that the Administration was misjudging the underlying temper of the people , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of confidence the President has only himself to blame . As a candidate he made promises which as President he did not keep . That is scarcely a novel failing , but in Mr. Nixon 's case the promises were so sweeping and direct that a total failure to live up to them could not go unobserved " The next President , " Mr. Nixon declared , " must take an activist view of his office . He must articulate the nation 's values , define its goals and marshal its will Under a Nixon administration , the Presidency will be involved in the entire sweep of America 's public concerns . " This and other statements of purpose have been blandly ignored . Mr Nixon has never been strong on principle , and political tricks and posturing do not suffice He has not been candid , his press secretary is the least informative in recent history , and his director of communications seems to view his job as that of running an advertising agency . Three months were allowed to go by without a press conference It is little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 