@@246511

The meticulous grilles of Piet Mondrian look as if anyone with a ruler and a paintbox could have done them . The delight they inspire as design has strongly influenced architecture and graphic advertising . If . upon familiarity , they now seem somewhat sterile , they were no mere gimmickry but the deadly serious result of a lifetime of intellectual search for the truth beyond the surface of reality . Seldom has an artist traveled a more complex route to achieve such striking simplicity . <P> Last week Manhattan 's Sidney Janis Gallery had on view a small retrospective show that traces some of the steps along that route . It begins with the year 1903 when Mondrian , then 31 , was painting the common sights of his native Holland - houses and windmills , rivers and canals . As the years passed , Mondrian began to strip awyay the outer layers of nature to reveal its skeletal geometry . A tree was not made up of a trunk and branches but of horizontals and verticals . When Mondrian painted a flower , he was primarily interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constant . Though Mondrian admired the impressionists , he had no desire to follow in their steps . Nor did the cubists go far enough . " Instinctively , " he wrote , " I felt that painting had to find a new way to express the beauty of nature . " He decided that the colors of nature could not be reproduced on canvas , so he gave up " natural color " for " pure color " - the primaries , red , yellow and blue . He also gave up all effort to reproduce natural forms , for these , he said , were at the mercy of the artist 's subjective feelings . What Mondrian was looking for was the " constant elements of form , " the " pure reality " in nature that was forever immune to emotion . <P> The curved line gradually disappeared from Mondrian 's paintings , and his verticals and horizontals inevitably created rectangles . Eager to scourge any suggestion of form from his work , Mondrian insisted that these were not rectangles , for in his definition a rectangle could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He argued , for example , that a rectangle placed next to a circle would take on an individual identity ; when compared only with other rectangles it loses its individuality and becomes a universal . Mondrian was determined to destroy everything that shackled his painting to outer appearances or confused the face of nature for its inner reality . <P> To Catch the Rhythm . The process of destruction-or liberation , as Mondrian saw it-continued . For many years he filled some of his rectangles with primary color . But in time Mondrian came to feel that these rectangular planes were too dominating and would somehow have to be destroyed . His solution was to drain the color from the rectangle and pour it into the lines . The unhampered play between the verticals and horizontals then seemed to produce a kind of rhythm , a " dynamic equilibrium " that was like the pulse of life .                     