@@488091

Mr Drinnon is a professor of history at Bucknell University . He is the author of a biography of Emma Goldman . The U S Government is the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today . Martin Luther King , Jr . So let us , for God 's sake , resolve to live under the law . Lyndon Barnes Johnson Violence in America is now out in the open  --  in the streets , so to speak , and in the libraries , offices , conference and hearing iooms . Violence finally exists for the simple reason that it can no longer be denied . But once recognized , it must be immediately reconcealed , rendered politically irrelevant , like an earthquake or a hurricane . After all , one of the traditional claims of the national state is that it provides security to its subjects More important , the recognition of significant internal violence would call into question all the current myths that legitimize official violence . Seen in this light , Chief Justice Warren headed 370 up our first national commission on violence ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by President Kennedy 's assassination This was accomplished by establishing the pretty truth that the ugly event had no meaning . Oswald was a nut . After the assassination of Robert Kennedy , Mr. Johnson followed what had become standard operating procedure he quickly announced the appointment of " a commission of most distinguished Americans to immediately examine this tragic phenomenon " Milton Eisenhower took up where Warren left off , Eric Hoffer replaced Gerald Ford as the solitary man of letters on the commission , and a new team took over . Though the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence has pretensions , as its name suggests , which go beyond those of any of the recent spate of investigations , it is in origin and operation a political body moving into politically contested areas. * The study *Thus far the commission has issued a Progress Report to the President , as well as statements on Campus Disorders , Firearms , and Violence in TV Entertainment , five Invest-1gaTHE . NATION/October 13 , 1969 team on San Francisco State , for example , having found " instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been omitted from the final version of their report . James Brann , one of the researchers , told newsmen the deletion " appalls and saddens me " The special report on " Shoot Out in Cleveland " carefully lists the names of black nationalists and omits those of the police who were obviously involved in acts of violence . Why ? Both reports contain conclusions at variance with data introduced in preceding pages . Why ? Any meaningful answer to these questions awaits a careful , independent study of the inner workings of the commission and its relationships with its athisory panel , executive staff , directors of research , task forces , study teams , consultants . Evidence already available , however , suggests the kind of political infighting associated with , say , the McClellan subcommittee 's inquiry into " college violence . " But an understanding of the commission 's politics must be sought , in the main , at a much more subtle , sophisticated level . " For purposes of commencing our study , " the commission noted , " we have defined ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that results , or is intended to result , in the injury or forcible restraint or intimidation of persons , or the destruction or forcible seizure of property . " It is not true that this is " simple , " nor does it follow that " there is no implicit value judgment in this definition . " The definition blurs over distinctions that must be made between intimidation , force , coercion , vandalism and violence . By bringing in destruction of property it confuses the sensible distinction between property crime and violent crime . More important , once a definition deals with property as well as people , the exploitation , neglect and abuse of the wretched of the earth must be taken into account . The commission assigned no task force to that area . Further , though it granted that wars fell within the above definition , it predictably failed to assign a task force to study the violence of the United States Government . In laying out seven areas of inquiry , the commission demonstrated a keen interest in black and white protest politics and individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the questions- the commission 's " conclusions " will almost certainly find their way back to its definition . The " Preface " accompanying each report shows how violence can be stripped of its social meaning and made into a " problem " of manipulation and control . Violence is quickly whisked under the carpet of behavioral science rhetoric . James F. Short , Jr. , and Marvin E. Wolfgang , directors of research , were impressed by the encouragement and response of the " scientific community . " They enlisted " scientists " ? even historians are generously honored with the title  --  for the staff and helped tive Reports : Chicago , Cleveland , Miami , Counter-Inaugural , San Francisco State , and three Task Force Reports : ( 1 ) " Violence in America- Historical and Comparative Perspectives " ; ( 2 ) " The Politics of Protest : Violent Aspects of Protest and Confrontation " ; and ( 3 ) " Firearms and Violence in American Life . " Four other Task Force Reports have yet to appear . Technically , statements are made by the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission . them " in structuring the strategy of design for each Task Force . " They kept a close eye on the " delicate details of some of the statistical problems and computer runs . " They made every effort to blend the work of lawyers " with the methodology of science and statistical reasoning . " They show in their prose the bureaucrat 's contempt for the " irrationality " of good craftsmanship : " Partly because of the freedom which the Commission gave to the Directors of Research and the Directors of each Task Force , and partly to retain the full integrity of the research work m publication , these reports of the Task Forces are in the posture of being submitted to and received by the Commission . " Short is co-author of Suicide and Homicide ( The Free Press , 1954 ) He and Andrew F. Henry tried to demonstrate " that the acts of both suicide and homicide are undifferentiated responses to extreme frustration arising from extreme loss of position in the status hierarchy relative to the status position of others in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this hypothesis will not work , once deciphered , see Martin Gold 's critique in Society and Self , edited by B. H. Stoodley ( The Free Press , 1962 ) . Wolfgang collaborated with Franco Ferracuti on The Subculture of Violence ( Barnes &; Noble , 1967 ) . Showing remarkable detachment from the tragic history of blacks in American society , the authors confessed to an unreadmess " to assert how a subculture of violence arises , " and concluded with a cheerful discussion of Orwellian techniques for better controlling members of the unexplained phenomenon . These included " television block-scanners relaying street scenes to the police , and stationed strategically throughout the city . " Short and Wolfgang proudly remark on the " uncommon degree of prominence accorded research " by the willingness of the commissioners to let them participate in meetings and engage in discussions " at the highest level of decision making . " Their awe and elation are understandable : This latest recognition of the enhanced status of the technical elite puts them in a strategic position to hook scientifically processed and evaluated data directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their sense of freedom is less impressive . Like other objective scholars Who have undergone the painful process of internalizing their mission of mystification , they could be trusted to act " reasonably " and " responsibly . " So far as I can tell , the freedom granted them differs in no material respect from that granted the members of an Institute of Defense Analysis or a panel of government trouble-shooters assigned to work out ways to win the hearts and minds of exotic but recalcitrant foreigners . Ithiel de Sola Pool , champion of CIA support of the social sciences , moved with grace from studies of how to immobilize Vietcong cadres to an assignment with the task force on " Individual Acts of Violence . " Other scholars include John J. Guidici , Captain of Police of Oakland , Calif. , and Raymond Tanter , the 1967 Deputy Director for Behavioral Sciences of the Advanced Research Projects Agency , Department of Defense The quality of Tanter 's impartiality comes through in the introductory comments to his paper : " The media carries sic the message of the violent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no , we wo n't go ' , . . " Given this parentage , the two volumes on " Historical and Comparative Perspectives " provide few surprises . No critic , novelist , poet , or playwright explores the rich area of American imaginative expression . There is only an inadequate paper by Kenneth Lynn , who goes out of his way to pummel Leslie Fiedler and other " messianic " critics  --  meaning apparently those , like Fiedler , Baldwin , Sontag , Mailer and others , whose absence seems such a distracting presence . In any event , Fiedler and his like are guilty of an " indictment of American books which has opened the way to the conviction of American society " The contributions of historians are , on the whole , only slightly less disappointing . Charles Tilly 's " Collective Violence in European Perspective " establishes some of the connections between political life and forms of collective violence . Unfortunately these connections , the politicalization of modern patterns of violence , the rise of the centralized state and the concomitant nationalization of repressive forces  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other contributors . Sheldon Hackney does demonstrate that violence in the American South can not be explained by any of the behavorial models of interpretation and thereby leaves the door open a crack for suspect historical accounts of manners and beliefs . Louis Hartz goes some way in " A Comparative Study of Fragment Cultures " to isolate what is unique about American patterns of violence . The colonies were founded and the United States has been run by WASP immigrants , Hartz points out , who fled from the social revolution in Europe , established a fragment culture based on the absolute taking for granted of bourgeois values , buttressed 372 this with a peculiar sense of mission , and articulated the whole through a particularly virulent strain of nationalism . The result was a " shrunken consensus " which other fragments within , or other societies without , could reject only at great peril If this valuable lead , which in Hartz 's formulation necessarily remains abstract , had been fleshed out by inquiries into the means by which the consensus was enforced , the discussion of vigilantism would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that prime enforcer of them all , the national state . Some historians , however , simply make collections of violent episodes , frontier or urban , and hang them from a time line with a few observations . Others seem undone by the challenge of their new status as scientists . Prof. Richard M. Brown , for instance , devises a typology of violence : there is " negative " violence and there is " positive " violence . Vigilante groups can be otherwise divided : For purposes of analysis , the 116 Eastern vigilante movements and the 210 Western vigilante movements have been divided into the categories of large ( L ) ? a large movement or one of particular significance ; medium ( M ) ? a movement of medium size or significance ; and small ( S ) ? a small movement or one for which there is insufficient information to otherwise categorize . For a still , more advanced use of refined techniques , one must turn to the behaviorists themselves . James C. Davies , a political scientist , brings scientific method to bear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rising and Declining Satisfactions as a Cause of Some Great Revolutions and a Contained Rebellion . " In several case studies , including one on the American Civil War , Professor Davies found that revolt was each time preceded by a long-term improvement in conditions that had very recently been reversed . Rebellion arose from the resultant gap between expectations and satisfactions . You might visualize the J-curve as a shepherd 's crook , grasped by the straight end and held out at an angle of 45 degrees ; the curve is turned downward to indicate the sharp decline in satisfactions . Applied to the Civil War , the J-curve indicates a rising level of satisfactions in the South from the invention of the cotton gin to the panic of 1857 , at which point satisfactions drop off sharply during four years of economic depression . The curve ends with the firing of " the first shot , on the federal Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor , on April 21 , 1861 . " Obviously Professor Davies had no premeditated intention of firing the first shot at a fort which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 12 and the garrison surrendered the following day . But there are more serious problems . He makes " the immediate and very threatening economic crisis of 1857 " an event of decisive importance : " This was the final critical downturn in the gratifications of Southerners . " If it was , the South 's leading economist did not know it . In 1857 , J. B. D. De Bow gleefully reported in his review that the South had suffered less than any other region from the effects of the temporary breakdown : " The wealth of the South is permanent and real , " he announced , " that of the North fugitive and fictitious . " Of the tens of thousands of volumes on the Civil War , Davies lists four references : A summary of census statisTHE NATION/October 13 , 1969 tics , W. J. Cash 's study of the Southern mind , an 1897 study of the cotton industry , and Robert R. Russel 's Economic Aspects of Southern Sectionalism , published in 1924 . While Russel 's work remains a valuable summary , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state of the slave economy in the 1850s . Flush times apparently continued throughout the decade , with only a slight pause in 1857 . Lack of acquaintance with the issues and sources leads Davies astray in less important areas , as in his great howler : " In America the South denied the desirability of education and anything other than agricultural technology . " And he apparently thinks planters were called " plantationers " Even J-curves owe a measure of respect to the materials they so abstractly pretend to explain . Besides , how do you measure satisfactions ? No and Rosalind Feierabend and Betty Nesvold use the J-curve and its variants in their still more ambitious study of social change and political violence . Investigating eighty-four countries over a thirty-year period , they find that political violence is least in traditional and modern societies and greatest in transitional or modernizing societies . Think of an elliptical curve on a chart , with traditional and modernity stages at the ends and a transitional stage in the center , where the gap between aspirations and achievements is greatest . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unhappily . the model does not fit the data on violence in the United States . It is admittedly the most modern nation in the world , yet in measurement of political violence it falls at the median position , with half the nations having more violence and half less . Moreover . all of the turmoil indicators show that rates of American violence have increased in the 1960s . Are the elaborate model and laboriously collected evidence to smash on the rocks of precisely what was to be explained in the first place ? Feierabend , Feierabend and Nesvold gallantly try to salvage what they can : perhaps the United States , as the most modern nation , is moving into yet another transitional stage not yet experienced elsewhere ; perhaps its relatively high level of violence can be explained by the presence of traditional subcultures only now experiencing the frustrations of modernization ; perhaps " the transitional process within our own society was intensified by the demonstration effect of the global process at mid-20th century . " Perhaps . " The demonstration effect of the global process " : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and kinship felt by Malcolm X and others with the rise of the Third World . Ideas and feelings must slip into behavioral studies by the back door . Counted millions disappear to become bits of data for the frustration-aggression hypothesis or , as Ted Robert Gurr more dogmatically puts it , " The frustration-aggression mechanism . apparently a fundamental part of our psychobiological makeup ' For Feierabend , Feierabend and Nesvold it is a hypothesis and for Gurr a mechanism Is there no difference ? The assembly-line characteristics of the collection leave other rough edges over such issues as the improved status of American blacks , the relationship of rising levels of education to rates of violence , and so on . THE NATION/October 13. 1969 I do not recall that any of these writers refers to racism or colonialism or imperialism . Gurr rules out of his tabulations official violence , " the violence used by regimes to maintain social control-. and in his ranking of 114 nations by " total magnitude of strife , " he has the effrontery to put South Vietnam in third place , behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . The role of the United States in the " strife " in Vietnam  --  the war against the people and the countryside , the accelerated " urbanization " of peasants  --  hardly bears mentioning at this point . And the tabulated results are not what they seem for other parts of the world In Guatemala . for example . which Gurr lists in twentieth place , the level of strife has something to do with the American intervention of 1954 , which stopped the pitifully small steps toward reform then under way , and with the subsequent use of Panama-based planes to drop napalm on suspected rebels . But enough . With a few exceptions , like the fine contribution by Louis Hartz , the papers in " Historical and Comparative Perspectives " posit a world without meaningful history , without real people , without felt experiences . Violence  --  notwithstanding the admission that Americans are " bloody-minded " ? is pulled into all the tables , charts and figures and J-curved over the horizon . It would be nice to think that " The Politics of Protest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such sharp contrast to the other commission reports because of student and black efforts to establish the connections between private and official violence . It was undertaken at Berkeley , in any event , while that campus was declared to be under a " state of extreme emergency. - The early lessons of the counterinsurgency campaigns of cops and National Guardsmen on that campus  --  leading on down to the People 's Park confrontation last spring and the symbolic appearance of a helicopter dropping C.S. gas on people in Sproul Hall Plaza  --  could hardly have been lost on Jerome Skolnick and his associates For whatever reasons , it is an analysis rather 172 than an investigation , as Skolnick insists , and it properly starts out by clearing away much of the ideological underbrush . Violence is declared to be an ambiguous term defined by the political process . The war m Vietnam is present in its soul-deadening fullness as a genuine experience of our time . Even the illegality of the war is taken into account . The ideology of black nationalism is treated with respect , and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the police in causing violence is emphasized . White militants receive due credit for being , outside those in official positions , the single most violent force in American history . The Skolnick analysts see contemporary violence as a sign of the desperate need for fundamental change in American society . They warn against interpretations of riots in terms of the " carnival , " " contagion " and " control " preoccupations of sociologists such as Morris Janowitz They have , in short , produced a valuable , courageous document . This much said , I must add that Skolnick and his associates have hardly escaped the official bag . They seem never to have come to grips with the implications of " the suspicion with which this Commission is viewed by many militant black leaders " ( the blacks flatly refused to cooperate with the study team on San Francisco State andheld back from full cooperation with this inquiry ) And , after all , the assignment given the Skolnick task force was the violence of protesters , not the connections between official and protest violence . Thus in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention it demands , they rather lamely conclude that " other priorities and other claims still seem to dominate the nation 's budget . " Good enough , but why not come right out and say that the trillion dollars we have spent on " defense " since 1945 are among the trillion reasons that we are in the present fix ' Finally , even this important step toward understanding violence amongst us will be trivialized , lost like Hartz 's essay in the mass of surrounding jargon . It will come out distorted in the commission 's final report . which will he a judicious and irrelevant balancing of measures of concession and control . Suspicion by militant blacks helps put the commission in its proper context . Or imagine Thich Nhat Hanh , the Vietnamese monk and poet , working his way through the reports He might be bemused by the sleight of hand whereby President Johnson directed attention away from the task forces waging a war of desolation against Vietnam . and toward the task forces considering the " violence " of those protesting it or suffering from @ @ 