@@494486

Mr. McGuire writes : Charlton Ogburn 's rejoinder to Mr. Katzenbach ( " Mr. Katzenbach 's Puzzle , " November 4 ) is itself puzzling . The arguments it sets forth in attempting to demonstrate the differences in our Korean and Vietnam policies make one wonder if Mr. Ogburn was not too long in the employ of the Department of State . " We intervened in Korea because an independent if truncated Korea representing an indigenous political expression ( the Republic of Korea ) was threatened with destruction by foreign ( Soviet ) aggression operating through a puppet ( the Pyongyang regime ) . Our purpose was to defeat a foreign intervention aimed at depriving the Koreans of the right of self-determination and of national independence . " First , was Korea actually " independent , " though " truncated " ? What does this mean ? Were there two Koreas , both independent ? Or was there but one Korea , the Republic of Korea established by the US military government in Korea in February 1946 ? If so , how did there come to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of History , Philosophy , and Social Sciences , at San lose City College , California . MR . OGBURN has served in the State Department Division of Southeast Asian Affairs . There is indeed a parallel to be found in US policies in Vietnam and Korea , not exact , perhaps , but sufficiently clear as to make Mr. Ogburn 's case far less convincing . The US army under General John R. Hodge landed in Korea on September 8 , 1945 and promptly ignored the People 's Republic government which had been established only two days earlier . On October lo , 1945 the US military government in Korea proclaimed itself to be the only government in South Korea . This action may be likened to the actions of the French in Vietnam from 1946 to 1948 in undermining the Republic of Vietnam , with Syngman Rhee playing a role similar to that of Bao Dai under the French . The Rhee government was nothing if not a " puppet regime . " It was headed by a man who had spent 37 of his 7o years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on right-wing support from landlords and other conservative elements , while Korean liberals refused participation in the US sponsored " Representative Democratic Council . " Can such a government be accurately described as " an indigenous political expression " ? Was it any more indigenous than the government of Kim 11-Sung in the North ? The latter 's credentials as a Korean nationalist leader , albeit a communist one as well , were most certainly better than those of Rhee , whose wartime activities against Japanese occupation were no more impressive than those of Diem against the French . Second , was the Republic of Korea " threatened with destruction by foreign ( Soviet ) aggression operating through a puppet ? . " ? Or is this an earlier version of Mr. Rusk 's present version of " aggression from the North " ? Is it an established fact that the invasion of South Korea from the North was directed by Moscow ? Where is the evidence ? This is much too facile an explanation for the causes of the Korean war and strongly resembles the contemporary role assigned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only half convinced of his own argument , for he later attacks the common view of communism as a " monolithic , centralized , supranational force , which began to look very doubtful when the Yugoslavian communists stood up to the USSR . . . . " The Yugoslav defection , be it noted , occurred two years prior to the Korean war . Mr. Ogburn 's case for " foreign intervention aimed at depriving the Koreans of the right of self-determination and of national independence " is similarly fraught with Ruskian perils . Are we to believe that the North Korean armies were foreigners ? Was this just another " aggression from the North " ? And the right of self-determination , did this belong only to the Republic of Korea established by the US in the South ? Or could a case be made for Korean nationalism and the invasion from the North seen as an attempt to unite a nation " which foreign powers had divided " ? There are indeed too many parallels between US policy in Vietnam and US policy in Korea for Mr. Ogburn to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels at our present Vietnam policy could be used to attack our Korean policy , e.g. , " If at any time since the Japanese surrender all foreign intervention had been excluded from Vietnam ( Korea ) , those against whom we are now ( were then ) waging war would quickly have come to power . " Or , " Surely no one could be so naive as to believe that we should have intervened in Vietnam ( Korea ) had the Hanoi ( Pyongyang ) government and the NLF done exactly what they have done but had not been communist . " And again , " We should in that case have taken the view that they were doing what anyone of national self-respect would be doing in their place ? trying by the only means available ( italics mine ) to reunite their country , which foreign powers had divided , and get rid of the Saigon ( Seoul ) regime , which foreign powers had installed . " Or , " We sent an army to Vietnam ( Korea ) to force a settlement of a civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ogburn 's article suggest that he is so strongly committed to the role playedby the US in the Korean war that his opposition to the current war in Vietnam compels him to establish differences where none exist . Or to employ arguments which are unsupportable either logically or historically , e.g. , " The separation of southern Vietnam from northern at Geneva was as morally wrong as the separation of northern Korea from southern and of eastern Germany from western , which the USSR forced upon the world . " ( Italics mine . ) Now , if the separation of Vietnam at Geneva was " morally wrong , " if that is indeed the case , it was also morally wrong that Korea was divided . But to assert , as Mr. Ogburn does , that this was an action " forced upon the world " by the Soviet Union is either a revelation of the extent of the author 's chauvinism or his inadequacy as an historian . Korean separation was no more permanent than the division of Vietnam at Geneva . The Korean occupation was agreed upon at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the United States and it was the United States which proposed the 38th parallel as the demarcation line . But at the Moscow Conference in December 1945 the decision was made by the foreign ministers , without consultation with the Koreans , that Korea should be held as a joint trusteeship for five years by the two occupying powers . Thus when Mr. Ogburn speaks of " an indigenous political expression " in reference to the Republic of Korea , he is speaking no more candidly than the present Secretary of State when the latter refers to the " independence " of South Vietnam . The upper reaches of the US State Department would seem to have strange effects upon the reasoning powers of its inhabitants . Mr. Ogburn , for example , says that " the Secretary justifies our intervention in Vietnam as a move in the containment of Communist China . " But Mr. Ogburn employs the same device in justifying US support of the Rhee government on the grounds that our " indigenous political expression " in South Korea was " threatened with destruction by foreign ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy in Vietnam because we are intervening " unilaterally in another country with military force to make our will prevail there . " It would be interesting to know how Mr. Ogburn justifies the American military thrust across the 38th parallel to the Yalu River in late 195o if it was not " to make our will prevail there . " It seems to me that what is really at issue , and what Mr. Ogburn and all too many liberals in the United States today choose to ignore , is that US policy in the postwar years was clearly set forth in the Truman Doctrine of 1947 and that we have held consistently to it for zo years , viz. , " I believe that it must be the policy of the United States to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures . " This is a policy of global intervention on behalf of the status quo ; both Korea and Vietnam are true to Mr. Truman 's policy . Mr. Ogburn replies : To begin at the beginning , the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate the military operations of the Soviet Union and its own . That the division was agreed on was fortunate . Had it not been , the Soviet Union would most probably have pocketed the whole peninsula . As it was the Red Army reached the line before the United States was able even to land any troops in the country . That the Korean nation became divided along the parallel was not the fault of the United States , which exerted itself to the utmost to have Korea administered as a unit ? only to have an iron curtain rung down between the two sectors . An American proposal merely to integrate the key public utilities was rejected with the rejoinder that such unification would impinge upon the Soviet Union 's absolute authority in the northern zone . It is true that , pledging itself to Korean independence , the United States in 1945 proposed a five-year , multinational trusteeship for Korea ? surely not an unreasonable provision for a people who had had absolutely no experience in national self-rule for a generation and none at all in representative government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupation , Korean nationalists jibed at the proposal , the United States urged that , regardless , they be drawn into consultation on the setting up of a provisional Korean government . It was the Soviet Union that blocked the way . It insisted that consultations should be only with those Korean groups who had voiced no opposition to the trusteeship ? which meant only communists . During the war with Japan the United States had declined to recognize the Korean provisional government , heir to the government-in-exile set up in Shanghai by Syngman Rhee in 1919 , in order not " to compromise the right of the Korean people to choose the ultimate form and personnel of the government which they wish to establish . " Similarly , when the war ended it ignored the Korean People 's Republic . Should it have acceded to the claims of an unknown political quantity , all of two days old , to be the governmental authority in that country ? The situation of the French in Indochina was not in the least comparable . They were returning to reinstate a singularly odious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had recognized , had established itself on the basis of nationwide elections and been providing effective government for over half a year . It is true ? again ? that the United States military government in Korea did favor Koreans of conservative outlook , partly because these included most of thosewho spoke English . It was criticized at the time for doing so , doubtless with warrant . Given the factionalism that was rife among the Koreans , however , whatever it did would probably have been in some degree a mistake . The point is ? and this is what counts ? the United States had from the beginning of the occupation one overriding objective , which was to set Korea on its feet as an independent nation ( or that part of it for which it was responsible , if it could do no better ) under an effective , representative government and get the military forces of the occupying powers out of the country as soon as possible . To this end , in September 1947 , it turned the matter of Korean independence over to the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a United Nations commission to Korea and the election of a National Assembly in South Korea in the spring of 1948 with the commission observing both registration and voting , in which 90 percent of the electorate took part . The election was not nationwide because the commission was denied access to North Korea . The election gave Syngman Rhee 's party more seats than any other . Any American official who ever had to deal with Rhee would surely be amazed to learn that the old gentleman was an American puppet . That presumably would include General Hodge , the American commander in Korea , who ( I am told ) was so averse to the idea of Rhee 's coming out on top that Rhee went to Washington to try to have him recalled . The assumption that Rhee 's patriotism must have suffered dilution during his years in the United States ( mostly in Hawaii ) is puzzling . Many of the outstanding , militant Koreans had been emigres . Why Rhee 's war service should be thrown up to him is also puzzling . He was head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploits , exactly , should have been expected of a man already 65 in 194o ? The first prime minister under Rhee had fought the Japanese as a general in the Korean army in China . If there is no communist monolith today , if , indeed , there never really was one , it remains a fact that the satellite regimes set up by the Soviet Union in the seven countries occupied by the Red Army toed the line with unvarying consistency for some years . The North Korean regime was put together under absolute Soviet control . North Korea was a thoroughly Sovietized state : " The northern regime , " the United Nations commission declared , " is the creature of a military occupant . " ( In Indochina , the occupying powers pending the return of the French , were Great Britain in the south , Nationalist China in the north . The government of the Republic of Vietnam under Ho Chi Minh came to power by exclusively indigenous political processes . Apart from such Japanese arms as it obtained and the small amount of aid it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outsiders . The Chinese Communists were over a thousand miles away and the Soviet Union , to avoid embarrassing the French Communist Party , did not even give it political support . The returning French , by contrast , bristled with American arms . If Vietnamese nationalism became what it has under Ho and Giap it is because it saw little of the West but truncheons , perfidy and bullets . ) Given the relations that existed between the Soviet Union and the Pyongyang regime it can hardly be doubted that the former was fully behind the North Korean invasion of South Korea of June 25 , 1950 ? the " carefully planned " invasion , as the United Nations commission pointed out . Whether Stalin approved the invasion or demanded it seems to me , in the circumstances , a distinction with little difference . In any case , the success of the invasion would have visited upon Korea as a whole the status of North Korea . Anyone who believes that national independence and the right of self-determination went with that status can not be one vvho remembers what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they might prove to do so . Was Pyongyang simply trying by the only means available ( italics Professor McGuire 's ) to reunite Korea ? Hardly . It had all along the option of reuniting the country by agreeing to elections observed by the United Nations to fill the seats set aside for North Korea in the National Assembly in Seoul . Granted these were in a minority , but so was the population of the North . At Geneva in 1954 North Korea rejected a proposal for all-Korean elections under United Nations supervision . Is it true that if at any time since the Japanese surrender all foreign intervention had been excluded from Korea , those against whom we waged war would quickly have come to power in a unified nation ? In fact , had the elements placed in authority in North Korea by the Soviet Union been denied the enormous advantages with which their sponsors endowed them , there is no reason whatever that I know of for believing that they would have come out on top in a purely Korean free-for-all . Quite the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision to go to the aid of the victim of the North Korean attack ? I do not believe it . Other nations had seemed in danger of falling to communist attack from within ( and two had done so ) without ( so far as I know ) serious consideration being given to United States military intervention ? China , the Philippines , Burma , Greece and Yugoslavia . I doubt very much that we should have sent an army to Korea if circumstances had been such as they were later in Vietnam , where under indigenous , communist-led attack , a government artificially created under a Western military aegis wascrumbling for lack of popular support ? and let us remember that before the massive intervention of our military forces it was overwhelmingly the South Vietnamese who were threatening the undoing of the Saigon regime . We sent military forces to Korea because we and most of the rest of the world were convinced that the Republic of Korea was the victim of an act of international brigandage , of aggression by surrogate , the success of which would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ super-power . The question of whether our advance to the Yalu was justified ( about which I ventured no opinion ) is an interesting one but , I think , extraneous . Our response in Korea was no doubt in accord with the Truman Doctrine , and ( I believe history will find ) the one redounds to the credit of the other . Our intervention in Vietnam , however , is something else . The Vietnamese have not been threatened by " outside pressure " ; the pressures ? other than those we are exerting ? are internal . Even if we arbitrarily put the Vietnamese in the category of " free peoples who are resisting subjugation by armed minorities " our " support " of the Saigon regime would not , under the Truman Doctrine have gone beyond political and material support . It was never ( to the best of my knowledge ) contemplated in 1947 or for many years thereafter that the United States would send military forces to other countries to help their governments deal with indigenous armed insurrections . The prevailing view in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments to defend themselves against internal attack with the United States assisting , if at all , only from the sidelines . If we have embarked on a policy of global intervention by military force on behalf of the status quo , it is a departure long post-dating the Truman Doctrine . In both the Korean and Vietnamese wars the issue has been whether a people , a nation , is to be master in its own house . Having in the one acted in defense of that crucial principle we have in the other , through a conditioned reflex triggered by deceptive superficial parallels , acted to deny it . Perhaps the bitterest and most heartbreaking irony of our history is that without the precedent of Korea , where we had the international community with us and showed at our best , we should probably never have embarked on our present course in Vietnam , in which we are presenting ourselves to the world in the guise of a monster . If Professor McGuire 's thesis is not supported by the facts as I see them ( and as I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word ) , I still believe his thoughtful letter is a valuable one . It is high time for a completely detached reexamination of our attitudes ? and policies in the cold war , of the kind to which Mr. McGuire is subjecting our actions in Korea .                     