@@208441

COMPARED with most other areas of cold-war conflict , the Dominican Republic is a small country , its civil war a minuscule affair . Yet in the six weeks since the first of 20,500 U.S. Marines and paratroopers landed in Santo Domingo , the Johnson Administration has faced a drumfire of criticism unequaled in range and volume since John F. Kennedy tried and failed to blast Fidel Castro out of power at the Bay of Pigs . <P> In the Dominican crisis , as in the Cuban fiasco , the deepest source of disquiet is the widespread assumption-at home and abroad-that the U.S. intervention marks a return to " gunboat diplomacy . " Many persistent critics , particularly in academic circles , further argue that the Administration acted , in fact " overreacted , " without provocation ; that the rebels in Santo Domingo represent a legitimate democratic revolution . " On the evidence presented so far , " wrote Notre Dame History Professor Samuel Shapiro in the Nation , " the Dominican revolution is no more Communist-controlled than the C.I.O. or the civil rights movement . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old myopia of the McCarthy days . " On more realistic grounds , a number of experts concede that the intervention may have been justified , but they object that by acting " unilaterally " and in violation of the OAS charter , the U.S. irreparably damaged its standing in Latin America . <P> In both the Dominican and Vietnamese wars , much of the mistrust of U.S. policy is related to the belief held by many intellectuals that the Communist threat would disappear if the free world would only quit fighting it . Some Americans , said Presidential Adviser McGeorge Bundy after returning from Santo Domingo , seem to think that " the bear will turn into a golden retriever if only we treat him that way . " Bundy argued pointedly : " There is in many-and perhaps especially among those whose concern is for ideas and ideals , and those whose hope is primarily for peace and progress-a reluctance to give full weight to the role of power and its necessity in the world 's affairs , a reluctance to recognize and accept this element in the affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dissent have not been dispelled by the oversimplified and curiously defensive fashion in which President Johnson and his aides have at times presented their case . Thus , in releasing the names of 58 known Communist agents who had infiltrated the rebel movement , the State Department made it appear that only 58 Reds in all were involved . Undeniably , even a few dozen trained subversives are enough to manipulate the rebels ' cause , as the Castroites did in Cuba . But many skeptics agree with Stanford Professor John J. Johnson that " You can find 58 Communists in New York City or San Francisco or anywhere else you want to look " - ignoring the fact that neither New York nor San Francisco is in the throes of bloody civil war .                     