@@243716

Konrad Adenauer 's discussions with Charles de Gaulle in West Germany this week will almost certainly encompass their mutual doubts about Britain 's desirability as a partner in Europe 's Common Market . Adenauer , whom Britain once considered a staunch ally in its efforts to join Europe , has taken the line of late that , politically and economically , the Common Market may already be too big for its own good . Last week , after a TV interview in which the Chancellor bluntly questioned " whether Britain really wants " political union . Prime Minister Harold Macmillan treated the undiplomatic incident as a threat to Britain 's chances of admission to the European Community . <P> Awakening Whitehall . Deliberately disregarding private assurances from Macmillan that his government is committed to political integration with the Six , West Germany 's Chancellor based his misgivings on the purposefully vague statements in the House of Commons by which Macmillan has sought to soft-pedal this potentially explosive issue . When cables reporting Adenauer 's TV comments came clattering into London from the British embassy in Bonn late one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office into action forthwith . At i a.m. , when it takes a major crisis to awaken Whitehall , the government released excerpts from a letter written by the Prime Minister to Adenauer emphasizing Britain 's " wish to join wholeheartedly " in Europe 's " efforts to move toward greater political union . " <P> Back in Bonn , Adenauer 's views were publicly disavowed by his Foreign Minister , Gerhard Schroder , who declared in a magazine interview that Europe had everything to gain from political and economic partnership with Britain . Though Schroder later explained that he had expressed this view without reference to Adenauer 's prerecorded TV interview , he effectively strengthened his position as a successor to the Chancellor with the majority of West Germany 's Protestant voters , who are generally more eager to bring Britain into Europe than to strengthen Germany 's ties with France . <P> The Challenge . Short-circuited by Schroder and harshly rebuked for his tactlessness by opposition German papers , Adenauer kept silent . On the eve of De Gaulle 's visit , he was plainly unwilling to take any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain . <P> Moreover , the Chancellor still has deep reservations about Britain 's membership in the Common Market . Reasonably enough , he fears that Franco-German dominance in Europe 's affairs will be challenged by Britain 's admission , is troubled also by the threat that this will pose to West Germany 's coal , textile and agricultural production . On the other hand , the majority of West Germans would welcome Britain to the community . Says Erich Mende , leader of the Free Democratic party , and an often critical colleague in Adenauer 's coalition government : " We believe that we can not exist without Great Britain . The parties are agreed on that . Only Adenauer and De Gaulle seem to have reservations . "                     