@@488228

CALIFORNIA has more than routine significance in Presidential elections . First of all , it has thirty-two electoral vote . Beyond ' that , California is a swing-state par excellence , having voted for the winning Presidential candidate in every , election since 1916 . In fact , California clinched the election for Wilson in 1916 and was the big hinge of the Truman victory in 1948 . In many respects , also , this big , populous , prosperous state is a kind of micro-America . It is a major agricultural as well as industrial center ; it has huge , ' choking cities and hundreds of sprawling suburbs ; it has a restless , mobile , highly skilled population as well as significant pockets of stagnation and backwardness ; its urban Negro population is large and an even more bitterly estranged Spanish-speaking minority is scattered throughout the state . It has'its own special insnlarity , as well as its own brand of cosmopolitanism ; it is agonizingly sensitive to the fluctuations of the business cycle . For these reasons and - many more , the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nation . It takes no special nerve to predict that the candidate who carries California will win the election , ALL OF THIS ought to be cheering news for Kennedy . Nearly 60 per cent of the state 's registered ' voters are Democrats ; the Republicans ' can muster only 39 2 per cent . Naturally all of the seven and one-half million registered voters ' Will not go to the ' polls and the majority of the stay-athomes will be Democrats . But Kennedy can sustain the absence of several hundred thousand registered Democrats and come out with a plurality larger . than Truman 's in 1948 . Two years ago the Democrats won a stunning party victory in the FRANCIS M. CARNEY , author of The Rise of the Democratic Clubs in California and co-author of Politics 1960 , teaches political science at the University of California . 320 state , sweeping Edmund G. Brown into the governorship by an unprecedented margin , gaining comfortable control of both houses of the state legislature , and electing a majority of the state 's delegation to the , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance of cohesion and vitality . The Republicans , by contrast , were ' divided and dispirited and , above all , defeated . They seemed-ready to sink into a semi-permanent minority status . Since 1958 no new leader of stature has appeared to rally this routed army . No new compelling issue has arisen as an instrument of recovery and revanche . Indeed , one able and promising younger Republican professional told me sad- , ly less than six months ago ; " It will take the party , ten to fifteen years to recover from the 1958 debacle . " , California has a big , aggressive and ably led labor movement . In years past labor , especially the A F. of L , showed a reluctance to ally with The Democratic Party , and maintained ties with such Republican leaders , Ps Earl Warren and Goodwin J : Knight . In the middle fifties , however , some leaders ' began edging closer to the kind of relationship labor has with the Democrats in , say , Michigan . In 1958 ; labor fought hard for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the victory . The state suffers from a nagging , spotty unemployment problem , especially . in the Los Angeles area . When employment softens or production slackens in the great aircraft , missile and other defense industries , , on which so much of California prosperity is based , the effect , ripples out into the whole supporting structure . In 1959 , unemployment hung at about 7 per cent of the labor force and there has been only slight improvement since in Los Angeles . In the shops and the union halls there is anxious talk about job security The Democratic Party usually profits from such anxieties . For all of these reasons , then , California , the swing-state , ought to swing for John F. Kennedy , But California - is apparently still hanging in the middle . Published polls show the two candidates alternating in the lead or Kennedy with a hairbreadth margin that could be wiped out by just a slight bias toward Nixon on the part of the large bloc of undecided voters . WHY IS Kennedy in this trouble when so many auguries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests that the , big edge in registered Democrats can be over- , come . The Democrats enjoyed similar , though slightly lower , pluralities in 1952 and 1956 when Eisenhower carried the state by huge margins . Similarly , Earl Warren won all of his elections by handsome pluralities in the face of , big Democratic-registered voter majorities . Of course , Eisenhower and Warren were special cases ? popular Republicans with personal appeal that transcended party loyalty . But one can not dismiss on the same grounds the fact that in 1950 , with a Democratic plurality of registered voters even , higher than in 1960 , Richard Nixon was elected to the Senate with a margin of more than 600,000 votes .. Such anomalies are too often explained by reference to the " peculiar breed " of the California voter . He has , it is often playfully or painfully alleged , a penchant for irrational and unpredictable ? politics . Party labels , it is held , mean nothing to him because he is too stupid to - understand them or too diverted by the delights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought to anything so serious as politics . Alternatively , it is held that here the parties themselves , together with the entire political process , are somehow " wacky , " as befits a state where people live in pastel houses and wear pastel clothes . But ticket-splitting and the crossing of party Imes must be widely . practiced in many parts of the nation , ' or there never would have been an Eisenhower Era . Beyond that , line-crossing in California has not The NATION been random or inchoate . Democrats cross over to vote for Republicans ; Republicans do not make the return trip This , too , is explicable The California Democratic Party of th. 1940s and 1950s was in pitiable condition ? weak , divided , badly led , unloved , uncertain and unvictorious . The cross-filing system in primaries interacted with and was reinforced by Democratic Party weakness , popular Republican candidates , an overwhelmingly pro-Republican press , the Korean War and consequent unpopularity for the national Democratic Party , and an incoming population unable to orient itself to the politics of their new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCarthy Era , and Nixon was one of the early outriders of the movement . All of these things , rather than " zaniness " among the voters , probably account ' for the astonishing willingness of registered Democrats to vote Republican . But 1960 is not 1950 or even 1956 . In 1958 it became apparent that when conditions were right the Democrats could cash , in their potential . Brown won by nearly one million votes . But 1960 is not 1958 either As we have seen , the polls and ' reasonably informed opinion hold that Kennedy ' has no real lead in California and may be " in trouble . " Why ? In the first place , Brown has suffered an enormous leakage of popularity . The Chessman case , a tax increase in Brown 's first session coupled with the appearance of a budget surplus in the second year , the north-south split over his massive water conservation plan , a sharp labor-farmer fight over organization and benefits for farm workers have all meant loss of support for the Governor . Some of this hostility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last summer for the Presidential nomination also ' opened wounds in the Democratic Party . Symptomatic of this was Brown 's successful effort to replace the liberal and popular Paul Ziffren as National Committee man , presumably because Ziffren had supported Kennedy at a time when Brown was still flirting with the notion of becoming a serious candidate himself . Dozens of Democratic Central Committee men and women have told me that they resented the more and have suggested that Brown won the fight only hy cashing in almost all the good-will capital he had left . These resentments show up in the organization of the Kennedy ' campaign in the state . Brown 's whip in the State Assembly , burly Jesse Unruh ? the " hatchet-man " as he is called by his multitude of non-admirers  --  is heading the campaign organization in the south One Southern California county chairman told me , " I want to work for Kennedy but I 'm damned if I 'll work for Jesse . He plays too rough " , Another - difference from 1958 is the labor role . Organized labor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The powerful Teamsters of course are backing Nixon Harry Bridges and the ILWU have rejected both candidates . Still , most of the leaders are Democrats and Kennedy men , but it is hard to see any labor effort comparable to the 1958 push . The reason is that this year no rightto-work proposal is up for consideration . Labor will deliver something for Kennedy but so far it has n't thrown its back into the work . THEN , California- was , and in some special way Still is , Stevenson territory . Thousands of Democratic club members , who would ordinarily be staffing the state-wide campaign for Kennedy , can not quite forgive him for having won the nomination . Those few improbable hours in July , when it seemed as though , by some miracle the nomination might go to Stevenson , produced a bitter reaction When the hope for a Stevenson nomination was shown to be wispy and insubstantial , the thousands of his supporters then gathered in Los Angeles sat despairingly in the bars at the Knickerbocker and the Biltmore and tormented one another with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ostentation , his father 's alleged Nazi sympathies , the Senator 's alleged proMcCarthyism , his appearance , his sister 's marital link to the Sinatra " crowd , " the prosiness of Kennedy 's speaking style , his lack of commitment to liberal principles , his alleged connection to sinister forces in control of the party and the convention , and most of all the fact that he is not and never will be Adlai Stevenson . In vain could it be pleaded that on domestic issues and civil rights his record was undoubtedly more liberal than Stevenson 's . In vain could it be pointed out that Stevenson in his way is as much a " cold-war Democrat " as Kennedy . Probably Kennedy can never break through the Stevensonians ' reserve toward him . The style is not there , the poetic , imagery is not there , the humor and self-depreciation are not there , that love of paradox and toleration of ambiguity are not there . There was a special Stevenson style in politics and , Ill California at least , thousands of liberal Democrats drank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need time to recover . In the meantime Kennedy must pay . THERE ARE other curious aspects of this election , aside from the fact that Kennedy is having difficulty in a state he should expect to carry with ease . Politically speaking , California is not a primitive or exotic state . In fact , it can be argued that the state is politically mature . California regularly turns out one of the highest proportions of eligible voters in the nation . This year , the regiStration drives put on by both parties have been enormously ' successful . The evening radio and television logs- are heavily salted with political discussion programs . Young people on the several university campuses are showing this year an interest more widespread and intelligent than ever before , in the opinion of those of us who teach them . The editor of a Los Angeles daily told me that this year the paper was getting the heaviestvolume of telephone and mail response to political news since the end ofWorld War II . A Central Valley police chief said that the curiosity and excitement generated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very much of the memorable Harry-Truman crowds in 1948 . I stood beside a prominent and , loyally ? Republican San Francisco businessman in ' Union Square while Lodge earnestly tried to explain the Administration 's hopelessly muddled Red China policy . Surveying the large and attentive audience , my friend delightedly exclaimed , " If this stuffed shirt can hold a crowd this big , wait ' till Dick Nixon hits town ! " BOTH of the political parties have the power and energy to exploit this interest , to turn it into an exciting and fruitful democratic debate . The Democrats with their mass organization of Democratic clubs and the Republicans ' much smaller but finely articulated and very effective fundraising and campaign-management committees provide the state with the bones and muscle of meaningful two-party politics . But so far in this campaign the nervous systems of these mechanisms have not been activated . Not only is there a curious lack of passion , despite the tremendous generalized interest in politics ; there is also a curious and most unsatisfying lack of defini7 tion to the campaign itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and radio analysts , the newsmen writing about the campaign , the crowds milling around the heroes and captains , are waiting and questioning , searching almost palpably for a meaning and direction in the furor . It is remarkable that Kennedy , the candidate who attacks the suffocating complacency of the ' fifties , who heads the party from which forward surges ought to be expected , who gathers about him some of the most gated and imaginative of the nation 's academic intellectuals , and who should be the beneficiary of this search , somehow is not coming through , not drawing out the distinctions that do exist between himself and Nixon , and between the two parties . In California , the Kennedy campaign has been waged for an uncertain champion by reluctant troops . Kennedy is plagued by the legend that he and Nixon are about as different from each other as IBM is from Burroughs Kennedy is an appealing figure for many sections of the electorate ; but , as Arthur Schlesinger , Jr. , has been saying to large gatherings in university communities throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dynamism it would have if la-bor , the liberal Democratic activists , and the intellectuals in the student bodies and faculties were more unreservedly and enthusiastically working for him . There is irony in the fact that the very people who have lamented the institutionalized mindlessness ' of the fifties are unable to rally for Kennedy precisely because they feel that be is all mind and lacking in a certain warmth , humanity , humor and colorsthat has been associated with the Democratic Party since the days of Roosevelt . NIXON does not have the same difficulty with those elements of his support that are required for the thrust and dynamism of the campaign . If he is vague , slippery and unsatisfactory on the specifics of issues , if it is difficult to identify him either ideologically or programmatically , his supporters understand that this is the price that must be paid by the candidate of a minority party . They know that he must seem liberal enough to win significant Democratic support . They understand that he must stress his personal qualities and not those of his ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not sounding like Barry Goldwater because they know that Barry Goldwater could never win . This Republican style has been especially widespread and effective in California in the past . It represents no departure for Nixon . At the same time , Nixon 's , emo-tional supporters , far from being alien ated by his personal style , have always had an attachment to the man . This is perhaps especially true of the Los Angeles area Republicans . But certainly in many a lanai and patio in Pasadena and Santa Barbara , to lesser extent in the more stately parlors of Burlingame and Mill Valley , Dick Nixon , as he is invariably called , has a convinced and dedicated following . Those who feel that Nixon 's style is parvenu must be reminded that to the salaried , professional , technical and semi-professional classes of California , that style is natural When Nixon turns on his earnest , affable , youngish , brisk and crisp , alert , executive style , he is to thousands of middle-class women every husband , every son , everybrother ? the , beam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the glowering scourge of " appeasers " and " socializers , " he effectively touches a deep , responsive chord of anxiety in a population that has come very far very fast , but that can not escape the sense that the status footing may be slippery . Why is it that the heckler at a Nixon tally courts violence ? One of the most vivid , recollections I have of this " respectable " attachment to Nixon comes from the night of the famous " Checkers " telecast . I was sitting in a Pasadena living room with a group of friends , some of whom had been moved to tears by the performance . I was attempting to pick out some of the Weak spots in his rebuttal when an intelligent , young and moderately liberal housewife turned to me , eyes blazing , and snapped , " What you people forget is that Dick Nixon represents to me and thousands like me the very finest type of American manhood . " I submit that , thus far at least , Kennedy has not developed that kind of response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats , who should be brimming with confidence , deem apprehensive . The Republicans , though far from cocky , are talking hopefully of a victory here as the big hinge for Nixon . My own guess is based largely on , the model of voting behavior that has been developed by American political science . In that model there are few genuinely independent voters . Most voters respond , though sometimes vaguely and even unconsciously , to the pull of party affiliation , even though the affiliation is but dimly remembered . They break that pattern only when drawn to do so by an overriding issue or by some Compelling personality . Certainly that overriding issue has not emerged in California . Nor is Kennedy 's personality so unattractive or Nixon 's so winning that the candidates themselves become stronger than the party pattern . In such a case , that margin in California of 1,360,000 surplus registered Democratic voters should stand up against all of the difficulties and shortcomings mentioned here . Copyright of Nation is the property of Nation Company , L. P. and its content may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use . 