@@493617

De Gaulle 's Victory Paris From the British or American viewpoint it may seem surprising that there are groups in France which actually fear the power of an absolute majority . In Great Britain and the United States , the prime minister or the president must have such a majority in order to direct the course of the nation . The great difference is that President Kennedy and Mr. Macmillan are both answerable to their respective legislatures , whereas for the past four years General de Gaulle has led his country without being subject to any controls whatsoever . The only power of the French Parliament is the authority to censure the Prime Minister ? but not the President of the Republic . And indeed , Mr. Pompidou 's cabinet fell precisely as a result of such a censure motion . From now on , however , this can not happen again . Since the recent elections , even the Prime Minister is assured of complete stability . As for General de Gaulle , he holds an absolute party majority which is without precedent in the Republic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constitution and , according to him , he may even organize a referendum to change the Constitution . He has , in fact , just done this by holding a referendum on the election of the president by popular suffrage . What accounts for de Gaulle 's smashing victory at the polls in the face of the known antipathy of the French to personal absolutism ? The General 's personal prestige is not the entire explanation . On the contrary , the French people have repeatedly taken advantage of what Leon Blum used to call " the right to ingratitude " : France is a nation which wearies easily of its popular idols and is inclined to change them often . The current economic prosperity is undoubtedly part of the reason For this new conservatism which makes France anxious to avoid any disruption . However , the true basis for the de Gaullism of France today lies in the country 's persistent , profound , and unequivocal distaste for the various regimes which preceded de Gaulle . The rule of the parties which made up the Fourth Republic was permanently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize until too late . Compared with this revulsion , the hazards of personal power seem small . And besides , no one in France believes in these hazards . After May 13 , 1958 , when de Gaulle used the insurrection of the Algerian generals to return to power , the French people were told that they were going to live under a regime of fascism , dictatorship , militaristic oppression , and deprivation of their personal freedom . Instead , it is generally conceded that these fears were unfounded . De Gaulle has devoted himself to outwitting , crushing , and reducing to silence those elements which had counted on him to keep Algeria and install an authoritarian regime . None of the democratic freedoms has been infringed upon . Rarely , in fact , has a chief of state been so freely criticized as was de Gaulle just before the referendum of last October 28 . This is what Andre Malraux was referring to when he said , " If we are living under a dictatorship , how does it happen that we can go on accusing our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that de Gaulle won a sweeping victory over all the various political coalitions , over all the constitutional bodies of the government , and most remarkable of all , over the entire Parisian and Provincial press , without exception . What was the attitude of management and big capital ? It can not be said that these elements were resoundingly in favor of de Gaulle . It would therefore appear that the victory was a sort of revolution , propelled by the action of a single man . A particular triumph was scored by de Gaulle over the Rightist and Far Rightist parties , a victory no doubt made easier because , according to the Socialist leader Guy Mollett , the French Right was " the most stupid in all theworld . " Bogged down in a sclerotic and anachronistic form of capitalism , it was opposed to social progress of all kinds , it clung to a nostalgia for imperialism and colonialism ? in short , it had failed to adapt either to the modern world or even to the demands of its own best interests . The real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Right into a rational conservative party or whether by sheer force of personal prestige he has simply united his troops in unswerving devotion to him . If the de Gaullist revolution is really going to mark a step forward , the new party ( the UNR ) must develop a doctrine which can survive de Gaulle , the president of the Republic must be answerable to Parliament , and lastly , there must be a coherently organized Opposition , prepared to take over the reins of power at a future date . We shall have some definite knowledge about the first two of these points within a few weeks . With respect to the organizing of an opposition party , on the other hand , certain new and paradoxical factors have already arisen . We know that the Communists increased their deputies from lo to 44 . The number of electors who voted Communist has not changed , but whereas for the past 15 years the Communist candidates have been defeated by coalitions resulting from the jockeying of electoral alliances and combinations , this time the Leftists were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored . For the first time in years the Socialists entered into an electoral alliance with the Communist Party , thereby profiting extensively and increasing the number of their seats by a third . Alliances of this " popular front " type could have supplied very weighty opposition to the Gaullist regime if the French Communist Party had been as skillful and as flexible as the Italian Communist Party , for there is no denying that the French Communist Party is a power to be reckoned with . One out of every five electors votes Communist , although this does not mean ( in fact , far from it ) that he is a member of the Party . But in France the Communist Party has remained rigid , sectarian and Stalinist : its close dependence on Moscow was both blatant and clumsy , at least as long as Moscow was Stalinist . Today , according to a Yugoslavian diplomat in Paris , the Communist Party in France would be better off if it were still dependent , for it is less intelligent than Moscow . The writer Jean-Paul Sartre , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is impossible for revolutionaries to work with the French Communists ; but alas ! it is also impossible to work without them . " Without the Communists , at least for the time being , the Opposition is very weak indeed . The only hope lies in the constituting of a powerful labor party effective enough to attract to its ranks that vast group of malcontents which regularly sends Communist deputies to the Chamber but which would be extremely unhappy if Communism were ever to take over in Paris . Since it would be up to the Socialists to assume leadership of such a party , they would also have to change their methods and their organization . Thus , the two real sources of strength in the new France are de Gaullism and Communism , at least as long as General de Gaulle lives . The de Gaullist are appraising this situation and are beginning to treat all democrats who oppose them as pro-Communists . Thepresent situation is not without some danger of McCarthyism in the future . However , de Gaulle will have a free hand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his heart . These are : French nuclear striking power ; France 's autonomy within NATO ; a Franco-German union ; a United Nations of Europe with or without Great Britain , but preferably without ; and an active role for France in all international problems . 