@@493854

When You Mobilize the Poor by Murray Kernpton New York City How short a time ago it was when every aspiring slum envied Manhattan 's lower East Side the riches of Mobilization For Youth . The federal government had granted Mobilization $8 million , New York City $3 million and Ford Foundation $2 million for a three-year effort to discover how much of the blight of urban poverty might be erased by the efforts of the poor themselves . Three-fifths of this $13 million went into job training and work projects for the unemployed young and into special efforts to improve an education system which leaves some 6o percent of the lower East Side 's Puerto Rican school children three years behind the normal reading level by the time they reach the eighth grade . But these were orthodox remedies , to be noticed and envied only for the size of the dosage in a 67-block area . Mobilization has devoted the rest of its budget to a variety of other services , among them a staff of lawyers for welfare clients ; a housing unit which keeps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfort of their tenants ; and a group of organizers whose duty it is to advise and assist lower East Siders in joining to change their lives by using the power the poor have rarely known they had . Mobilization quite badly describes the object of this last , its community action program , as " to teach the means of social protest . " The unhappy experience of Principal Irving Rosenblum of New York 's Public School 140 was one of its consequences . In the summer of 1963 , io of the lower East Side 's Puerto Rican women formed Mobilization of Mothers ( MOMS ) . MOMS began with the complaint that the neighborhood schools were failing their children . Mobilization gave them the assistance of one of its neighborhood workers . Together they induced Principal Rosenblum to meet with them on October Principal Rosenblum may have been disturbed at the presence of a group of persons who had appeared outside the conventional structure of the Parents ' Association . " Look at how hard it is for me to talk to you , " one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you do n't understand what I am saying . Imagine how difficult it is , then , for a teacher to handle a class full of children who ca n't speak English . " Their meeting is said to have ended with the ladies shouting at Rosenblum and him shouting back . After-ward , the MOMS drew up a petition to the Board of Education , demanding that Rosenblum be removed because " his handling of minority groups indicates his inability and incompetence as an educator . " It was , of course , hard for Principal Rosenblum not to blame the Mobilization For Youth worker . " You ca n't give a child a bomb and walk off and disclaim the results of the explosion , " Rosenblum said . He took his grievance to his nearest brother principals and together they issued in January a demand for an investigation of Mobilization For Youth , because its workers had become " full-time paid agitators and organizers for extremist groups . " Teaching social protest is most of what is new about Mobilization For Youth . It also , among more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he applies for a job . That is useful knowledge , and so is the training in gas station service at the model garage donated by the Shell Oil Company , and the sewing classes with equipment donated by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union . But these are old-fashioned ways of improving the poor and Dr. Richard Cloward , Mobilization 's research director , sins most against tradition when he so frankly argues that they will fail . Mobilization can be proud , of course , that 119 of its 157 on-the-job trainees had found places in private industry last July . But everything that is tangible is on this small a scale and in continual conflict with reality . Mobilization had thought , for example , of using the unemployed to repair dilapidated buildings ; but if they do , their landlords could , under the law , raise the rent $20 a month ? " a hardship for some tenants . " Mobilization can also work through ordinary channels of civic redress : its housing-service unit processes complaints to the building department , one city agency with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the results of adherence to ordinary city procedures do not encourage much : " the average ? wait for cases examined by the building department was almost five months ? almost 90 percent of the leaky and unplastered ceilings and walls and floors remained unrepaired . " The $1,260,000 Mobilization allots the Board of Education for special services for schools can not really be measured for results . Devoted as they are , the lower East Side 's teachers suffer from an environmental gap between themselves and their Spanish pupils . One Mobilization project pays a teacher $11.50 for a two-hour visit to any pupil 's home . The offer has drawn disappointingly few acceptances . " A number of the teachers said they were afraid to go into these houses , " one Mobilization professional reported . " That seemed to us sad , because welfare workers go there all the time and never worry . " The conventional devices of social adjustment have had results scanty enough , then , to reinforce the original interest of Mobilization 's staff members in social protest . The main hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's words , to " organize the unaffiliated ? to overturn the status quo and replace it with a higher level of stability , without delinquents , alcoholism or drug addiction . " The community action program which is their main instrument for teaching protest has changed the lower East Side hardly at all , yet the little it has done has affronted almost every city agency , from the police to the Department of Public Welfare . Mobilization is almost a public agency itself : Mayor Robert Wagner is its honorary chairman and Police Commissioner Murphy sits with 22 other city officials on its 62-member board . But in the past year Mobilization For Youth has given advice and financial assistance to the Council of Puerto Rican Organizations , which has a committee on police brutality ; it has organized a Negro action group , of whose status as " the focal point of the Negro revolution " it is proud ; it has helped develop the lower East Side rent strike . It is , then , at war with what is established , which means that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its program helps the citizen by harassing his local government . Cops and the News Mobilization 's first troubles came in August , 1963 , when a group of its workers mustered a lower East Side delegation to the March on Washington . Because Mobilization is supported by federal funds , the FBI conducted an investigation of their part in a ceremony to which President Kennedy had been invited . The Bureau checked the roster of Mobilization 's 300 staff members and seems to have determined that 32 percent of them had once had connections with organizations on its subversive list . Thereafter , nothing of substance intruded on public attention until the January outburst from the ? school principals , who were strong in rhetoric but weak in muscle . Last summer , however , Mobilization seems to have affronted the police , an enemy with no pretensions to rhetoric , but enormous muscle . An off-duty policeman named Thomas Gilligan last July shot a Negro student during a disturbance outside a summer school and produced a weekend of rioting in Harlem . One source of inflammation was a poster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ label " Wanted for Murder , " which the police , incorrectly as it turned out , thought had been printed in Mobilization For Youth 's print shop . And a source of continual annoyance to the Department was the increased public demand for an independent civilian board to review complaints of excessive force by policemen , which Mobilization 's directors supported with a resolution . A few weeks later , the New York Daily News published the first of a series of exposures of Mobilization For Youth as a focus of subversion . Their , inspiration seemed rather clearly the Police Department 's Bureau of Special Services , which has custody of the files on such matters . Mayor Wagner ordered an investigation . A few weeks ago , having waited the interval necessary to prevent the issue 's becoming useful to Barry Gold-water 's campaign , City Council President Paul Screvane , as chairman of the Mayor 's Anti-Poverty Operations Board , handed down his findings , coldly unfriendly in tone but scanty as evidence of serious scandal . The city 's report had little to find about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about Mobilization For Youth Director James McCarthy 's abuse of his expense account . It may very well be that America needs withdrawal clinics for Diners ' Club members more than it does for narcotics addicts . But poor , unfortunate McCarthy had in any case already quit Mobilization . Screvane 's charges were an indication of how much official New York enjoys catching out men who so insistently contrast their zeal with official sloth . Screvane suggested the city put its grant on a month-to-month basis and await Mobilization 's reform . Mobilization itself struggles to investigate the charges against its staff workers and to make a dignified peace with official New York . The only employee eligible for trial turned out to be an open member of the Trotskyist Socialist Workers Party ; his hearing proceeds slowly and seems likely to end with his clearance . The Republicans in the state legislature began their own investigation before the election turned them out of control . Senator John Marchi , their chairman , seems determined to use the two months left him calling witnesses and reading the worst into Mobilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , George Brager , Mobilization 's new director , estimates that he spends 90 percent of his time dealing with the charges against his agency . Every level of Mobilization seems equally distracted ; the attack has diverted all its passions to the defense . There are false signs of ultimate improvement . The other day Secretary of Labor Wirtz and Acting Attorney General Katzenbach both extended high praise to Mobilization For Youth . These are valuable friends , but they are far away . Mobilization 's front is New York ; the government it disturbs is city and not federal . The power to police the poor is a local police power . It is hard to see how Mobilization , groggy as it is , can ever recapture its original hope of challenging and upsetting the appointed local order . Factors in Their Own Destiny The important quarrels are between good men . This one is best defined by the confrontation between Welfare Commissioner James Dumpson and Edward V. Sparer , Director of Mobilization 's legal service unit . Sparer 's prime function is as a lawyer for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that an object of charity does not argue with the society which dispenses it . The New York welfare system is by now so refined that it allots 48 bobby pins a year to every unemployed woman , and nine haircuts to every unemployed man . There is no such precision in the definition of the rights of its clients ; they are ruled by the discretion of welfare workers who , in the best of cases , are under continual reminders to keep costs down . Dumpson has estimated that a million persons in New York are poverty stricken ; yet in 1961 , his Department rejected more than 4o percent of the applications for public assistance . New York has long been afflicted with public complaints of vast immigrations of the indigent for no purpose except to get on relief . In 1961 , its legislature finally passed a " Welfare Abuses " Act which would deny benefits to any person who came to New York with the primary purpose of getting on public assistance . Commissioner Dumpson had vigorously opposed the law , but once it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Act 's first 10 months , 2,730 migrants were denied relief on the findings that they had come here looking for it . The burden of proof was on them . Last year , Sparer took the case of a Puerto Rican family which had been refused assistance under the Welfare Abuse Law and won it before the State Board of Social Welfare . He says that he believes that as many as 2,700 of the first 2,730 ineligibles would also have won their cases if there had been lawyers to help them . Dumpson is an enlightened Welfare Commissioner . Yet his caseworkers , Sparer reports , occasionally descend on a dependent mother in the early morning hours on the chance of catching a man on the premises . Until now there has been almost no litigation to raise public welfare to the level Katzenbach describes as justice rather than charity . There is , for example , a seriousquestion whether welfare residence laws are constitutional , but no lawyer has ever brought a case . We are a society where rights are defined by adversary proceedings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many lawyers , has not until now had rights . His appearance with counsel is not a prospect to make the best Welfare Commissioner happy ; and Mr. Dumpson is plainly unhappy with the legal services unit of Mobilization For Youth . A further inconvenience attendant upon Mobilization 's attitude toward the poor is demonstrated by its policy of seeking residents of the neighborhood and employing them as community workers . It has so far ' hired 40 of this class it calls " the low-paid nonprofessional worker . " An extreme but nonetheless actual instance of the sort of volunteer Mobilization encourages to assume community leadership is Mr. N , described in its last annual report : " He has recruited over 50 other Puerto Rican families and involved them in different groups . He started as a somewhat shy and retiring man and now is able to work with great effectiveness to interest Puerto Rican people in community action . He has gotten people to go on the March on Washington , to canvass during the voter registration campaign , and to help organize buildings for the rent strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has raised four children by himself . The 13-year-old boy has been suspended from one school , is now going to be suspended from another . The 16-year-old boy had not attended school for over a year when we came to the block ; he was constantly high on dope and liquor ? I have gone with him through every process of getting his working papers . The older boy , 20 , has been in trouble and was on probation when we got to the block ? we helped him get into the Mobilization For Youth work program . " The lady chairman of the delegation which so distressed Principal Rosenblum is " a mother of seven who lived on the sixth floor of a tenement with neither elevator nor telephone . " It must be difficult for normal public officials to entertain community leaders of this description . Mobilization For Youth has taken the risk of treating the poor as factors in their own destiny . How high a risk that was we can see from Mobilization 's present troubles . The federal and city governments and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they wanted an experiment in engaging and changing the social pattern of poverty . The lesson , we must assume , would be learned not from old ways Mobilization used , whose results were worthy but modest , but from the new ones whose results were disturbance and are now hostility from every instrument of organized local society . 