@@493593

My sole link with the First World War is a childish memory of a street hawker selling German million-mark bills for pennies . This must have been about 1923 , when occupation soldiers were returning from Germany with souvenirs including fabulous funny money . Much later , a professor of economics told me the following wry German fable dating from the great 1920-23 inflation : there were two German brothers , a miser and a spendthrift ; when the inflation ended the saver had only worthless money but the spender still lived well , by exchanging his rich possessions for necessities . After the Second World War the Germans unwisely forgot this fable . Again they were hit by inflation , and this time the ruin of the currency was assisted by the Western Allies obligingly giving the Russians a set of Reichsmark printing plates on request . A streetcar conductor 's entire month 's wages would not buy even a pound of butter . Yet the Germans persisted in acquiring money rather than goods . In the decade of the fifties , Germany presented the ironical spectacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad , in exchange for gold that the Germans dared not use ( for if the gold were used as a basis for credit , instead of being " sterilized " as soon as it was acquired , this might very well have led to inflation ) . This it seems is the real story behind the well-publicized German economic " miracle . " Under the guidance of Dr. Ludwig Erhard , who was then Minister of Economics and is now Chancellor , an obedient nation worked hard , saved mightily , managed to absorb more than io million refugees from the East while reducing the West German unemployment rate from 10.3 percent of the labor force in 195o to a mere 0.7 percent in 1962 , and at the same time expanded production at a rate two or three times greater than the US has achieved at the best of times . But the other side of the miraculous coin was that the Germans slaved to enrich Germany 's Western neighbors rather than themselves . Though German real wages did rise , productivity and profits rose more . The economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night clubs and limousines for the few and hard work for the many . Overtime earnings were tax-exempt ( to persuade workers to put their backs into it ) but the tax system as a whole bore down hard on workers and lightly on profits . In 1950 , 95 percent of German earners were getting less than $1,715 a year ; six years later 86.8 percent were thus underprivileged though in the meantime the net national income had almost doubled . The labor unions were afraid to ask more wages for their members , for fear of causing inflation . Simultaneously , high profits induced a high rate of investment . The German government added to it by using the forced savings implicit in large budget surpluses to provide over 43 percent of total net investment directly , while providing more indirectly by taxing profits so lightly . The low self-imposed ceiling on most German incomes had two main consequences . German imports have traditionally been consumer-oriented : low incomes of consumers meant that imports were held down to a comparatively modest level despite the fantastic rises in German productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of high , lightly-taxed profits went mainly into producing goods for export ; since there was not a large German market , the only way to dispose of the goods being manufactured in rapidly increasing quantities was to sell them abroad . Thus the Germans helped to raise living standards abroad while keeping their own well below what they could have achieved . Germany , for instance , provided the rest of the world with the most up-to-date Diesel and electric locomotives , trolley cars , streetcars and motorcars , all of which she badly lacked herself . She regularly exported half her annual auto output , though having only half as many cars in ratio to population as the United Kingdom . In place of a higher living standard for the majority of Germans , West Germany acquired gold from abroad , in exchange for her steady export surpluses of goods . She managed to collect and store in her bank vaults more gold than any other country in the world except the US . In the decade of the fifties , German exports increased 546 percent ( in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . The rest of the world proved singularly ungrateful . Although Germany reduced her tariffs by more than half , and paid off some of her debts even before they fell due , she was twice reproached by her neighbors for not behaving as a good creditor should . The other countries resented Germany 's favorable trade balance and her accumulation of gold ; resented also , no doubt , her holier-than-thou attitude toward their own unbalanced trade and budgets , and welfare spending . Germany 's surplus exports to them enabled them to devote some resources , without real sacrifice on their part , to aiding underdeveloped countries , but they upbraided a " rich " Germany for not participating sufficiently in the distribution of foreign aid . That the economic " miracle " was to some degree phony , and Germany 's " wealth " in part a monetary myth , will appear tolerably clear to readers of Mr. Boarman 's always excellent if occasionally too-cockily written book . Oddly enough , in the face of his own neatly marshalled evidence , he seems to think that somehow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they did . An economic Puritan , he too has forgotten the fable of the two brothers , though he clearly perceives the absurdity of preferring money to goods . Since he made his study , Germany has in any case fallen from virtue . Her workers finally joined the rest of us sinners . They demanded , and got , more pay . 