@@442037

WTH the exciting development of Project Mercury , not much attention has been paid to the fact that this is only one of two major American programs for putting a man into space . The other , the Air Force 's Dyna-Soar project , is worth a good look . Although it resembles NASA 's Mercury to the extent that both involve the rocket launching of a manned vehicle into space , Dyna-Soar represents the next great step forward ? putting a man into space not just as a passenger-observer but as a true aerospace pilot , able to control his craft and bring it back for a normal landing at an airfield on the ground . Such a vehicle will have the greatest military importance , not only for reconnaissance but as a bomber and as an attack plane against hostile satellites . Dyna-Soar will be equally valuable in space exploration as a ferry vehicle , vitally necessary for building , manning , and repairing space stations placed in permanent orbit around the earth . What may prove to be most important of all , Dyna-Soar leads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is simultaneously an airplane and a space plane , able to take off from the ground like conventional aircraft , fly up to the edge of the atmosphere , and keep right on into space . That is for the future . The skip-glider Right now , Dyna-Soar is conceived of as a glider stuck on the end of an ICBM rocket . Once the booster has kicked the vehicle into space and dropped off , the pilot will take over . By manipulating jet impulse units ? tiny rockets mounted at various points on the vehicle ? the pilot will be able to change the vehicle 's altitude in space , while a rocket booster will enable him to change velocity . Thus he will be able to skip-glide hisvehicle along the upper edge of the atmosphere , much as a flat stone skips along the surface of a pond , and proceed for long distances around the earth without going into orbit . When he is ready to return to earth , the pilot will be able to slow his plane by taking deeper and deeper dips into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to glide back to earth without burning up from the heat generated by air friction . Obviously , Dyna-Soar 's ability to land normally , instead of its having to be parachuted - into the ocean , will be a great asset , since this will permit a vehicle to be used repeatedly , like a conventional airplane . Dyna-Soar is still two or three years from becoming operational , and although Boeing , the prime constructor , has let some $40 million worth of subcontracts , it has not yet revealed the final specifications . Preliminary sketches show a small , bat-wing aircraft , much like the darts of folded paper that small boys sail across the classroom . It will apparently be about seventeen feet long and will be built of molybdenum . The landing gear will include novel wire-brush skids , now being developed by Goodyear . The brushes , scrubbing along the ground , will slow and stop the plane on the landing strip , while the large surface area of the wire bristles will help dissipate the heat generated in such a frictional landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's booster , but it will probably be a Martin Titan II , an ICBM that uses storable liquid fuel . This will be modified by the addition of fins to compensate for the aerodynamic forces set up by the winged glider mounted on its nose . Dyna-Soar 's own rocket engine will use solid fuel and will serve not only to change speed but as an escape rocket , pulling the glider away from the booster should anything go wrong on the launching pad . High-speed control The designers of Dyna-Soar face two major problems . One is providing aerodynamic controls that will enable the pilot to fly the craft in all four speed ranges ? subsonic , transonic , supersonic , and hypersonic . ( " Hypersonic " is used to describe speeds more than five times the velocity of sound . ) At Dyna-Soar 's full 18,000 mph speed , the pressures against the plane would be so great that no ordinary controls could operate . High speed is also the cause of the other major problem . As Dyna-Soar re-enters the atmosphere at many thousands of miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air friction . Unlike the Mercury capsule , Dyna-Soar , as an aerodynamic vehicle , will have no blunt end to slow its entry and absorb heat . It will be covered with a special coating that will be burned away but leave unharmed the insulated layer beneath . Under consideration is a technique borrowed from auto cooling systems : circulating a cooling liquid through the hottest areas ? in this case , those with temperatures above 2400 degrees F. Also proposed is the release of helium in the air stream , which has been found to reduce sharply the friction of air moving over the plane 's surfaces . The range of Dyna-Soar problems to be solved is reflected in the size of the test program . Some thirty wind tunnels and shock tubes are working on Dyna-Soar . This is the largest such program ever set up for a single project and involves three times the tunnel testing used in developing the experimental X-15 plane now being flown to new speed records . The X-15 , incidentally , is being used to test Dyna-Soar controls . Since no winged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Dyna-Soar will fly , the wind tunnel data will have to be backed up with other tests , including some in a test cell big enough to hold a full-scale space glider in a simulated space environment . Starting in the summer , large-scale models of Dyna-Soar shapes were to be dropped from high-flying aircraft . Later , more models , aswell as full-size structure sections , will be mounted on Scout rockets and flown at near-orbital speeds . Unmanned test flights will continue after the first full-scale Dyna-Soar is built , using both air drops and booster rockets . Training the spacemen While the Dyna-Soar itself is still under test , the Air Force will be training the men to fly it . Next year , air-space crews will start training in a modified F-104 , carried aloft and dropped by a B-58 bomber . In powerless flight the F-104 has been found to have the same trajectory and handling characteristics predicted for Dyna-Soar , so it will be a realistic trainer . The Air Force is also planning to expand its Test Pilot School , with a special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from space test methods to the theory of relativity . Manned flight will begin with a series of air drops , followed by suborbital booster flights ? short ones at first , but gradually becoming longer until the plane is making extended skip-glider flights . According to one report , Dyna-Soar will eventually be skipped from Cape Canaveral around South America to Edwards Air Base in California . Suborbital flights will begin in two or three years ; the timetable for the next phase , orbital flight , is more uncertain . Because of air resistance to Dyna-Soar 's shape , there is at present no liquid-fuel rocket powerful enough to put it into orbit . Solid-fuel rockets could do it , but at this stage they can not be used , because it is impossible to control their rate of acceleration ; a solid-fuel rocket powerful enough to put a Dyna-Soar into orbit would reach full speed so quickly that a human being could not endure the gravity forces . Dyna-Soar 's orbital flight will have to await the development of the Saturn family of superpowerful liquid-fuel rockets , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Air Force point of view , the pay-off will come when Dyna-Soar , successfully flight-tested , is equipped with various weapon systems . The plane was originally conceived as a bomber , but it will be equally useful for photographic reconnaissance , or for destroying hostile satellites and supporting and maintaining our own . Eventually a larger Dyna-Soar will be built called DynaMows ( for " Manned Orbital Weapons System " ) , designed especially for military missions . Military spacecraft The range of possible military applications for manned , maneuverable spacecraft can be judged from the somewhat bewildering array of research projects now in the works . Boss . Wedge ( " Bomb Orbital Strategic System ? Weapon Development Glide Entry " ) is a three-year research project to find the best way to develop Dyna-Mows further . Two separate research teams of subcontractors are now working on competitive designs under the overall direction of Boeing . SLOMAR , a manned vehicle for " Space Logistics Supply , Maintenance and Rescue , " is being developed by seven companies : Northrop , Martin , Douglas , North American Aviation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing its own designs for spacecraft to carry out these various missions . Designs revealed so far include aerospace planes with long projecting metallic fingers that can be manipulated by remote control for repairing and maintaining space satellites in orbit . Manned , Maneuverable Surveillance Satellite . The Air Force wants studies on a vehicle to carry up to three men on three-day voyages orbiting around the earth . The vehicle would orbit at the 300-mile level , swooping down at command to 100 miles for detailed reconnaissance . Manned anti-satellite spacecraft , under study for some time by Lockheed and Hughes , have the opposite tactical function of the SLOMAR vehicles . The design , based on expected 1965 technology , shows a 78-foot Plane that would be boosted into space but would have a more complicated design than Dyna-Soar . Arrowhead wings extending aft of the fuselage would be folded inward during the launching , both bracing the structure and reducing its wind resistance . Once in orbit , a maneuvering engine would enable the pilot to bring the craft to within 500 feet of a satellite , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the return , the wings would be unfolded in the atmosphere and a flight control system would automatically adjust the re-entry path , while an automatic navigation system would guide the plane to base . Planes without boosters All these various proposed types of vehicles would , like Dyna-Soar , be boosted into space by a big rocket . But the Air Force views Dyna-Soar as the first step toward a true aerospace plane that would need no booster but would be capable of taking off from an airfield under its own power . This would require technological advances not yet achieved . An ingenious propulsion system has been proposed , however , to overcome one major obstacle ? the grei t weight of fuel required to propel a vehicle out of orbit and into space . The space engine would be fueled by a combination of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen . For this mixture , which is one of the most powerful rocket propellents known , about eight times as much oxygen is needed as hydrogen . The plane would take off weighing some 500,000 pounds but carrying only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would climb through the atmosphere on standard engines plus rocket boosters which can be jettisoned . Once at the outer edge of the atmosphere , the plane would go into orbit around the earth , and a scoop in its nose would start collecting the molecules of cixygen and nitrogen that compose the thin air of that region . These molecules would be compressed and liquified in a heat exchanger , using liquid hydrogen as a coolant . The nitrogen , which vaporizes at a lower temperature than oxygen , would then be allowed to escape , leaving only liquid oxygen , ready for the fuel tanks . Thus , the second fuel component , 500,000 pounds of liquid oxygen , could be added after the plane had completed the difficult climb through the atmosphere . This suggested procedure is still highly speculative . Not only are there major problems to be solved in liquifying the gases aboard a plane in flight , but Dr. Theodore Von Karmen , the noted rocket expert , has expressed doubts as to whether any chemically fueled engine will provide enough kick to permit a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Karmen suggests that a true aerospace plane will have to be powered by nuclear or nuclear-electric engines . If he turns out to be right , there may still be many years before we are able to board a plane at an airport and fly upward to the ! noon . TIE wooden Russian gunboat which nosed warily into Wonsan Harbor on Korea 's northeastern coast almost a century ago , in 1866 , had made the long voyage from Vladivostok on special orders from Moscow . The vessel 's captain went ashore and requested that trade be allowed between the two countries . For several weeks the gunboat remained in the calm bay and awaited a reply from Seoul . When the courier returned , the Russian gunboat headed back to Vladivostok with the answer : the matter would have to be referred to Peiping . Korea was at that time a kingdom linked by vassalage to China . When the " Hermit Kingdom " was finally opened to the world of international politics in 1883 through ratification of a treaty with the United States , which chose to ignore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its long-desired larger window on the Pacific . China , the United States , Britain , France , Germany , and Japan began a struggle for power that was to characterize the history of the Korean peninsula thereafter . Worried over increased American and Japanese activity in Korea , China later that year appointed an official of the German consular service in China to head the Korean customs office at Chemulpo , now Inchon . The appointee , Von Mollendorf , immediately took charge of the foreign policy of his newly found country and effected an alliance with Russia . From that time onward , Russian influence gradually began to replace that of the Chinese , until the Japanese took control of Korea following the Russo-Japanese War in 1905 . In the last days of World War II , Russia opportunistically declared war on Japan for the purpose of protecting and augmenting its Asian territorial holdings . Troops were rushed into Korea , and the division line which remains in effect today , roughly at the 38th parallel , was established . " All the elements for a quick , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1950 when the Korean War was launched , " aformer professor and North Korean army officer said recently . " The thing which the Russian masterminds did not take into account was the resolve of the Americans in refusing to be pushed out . " Communist influence in Korea As the war swept the entire length of the peninsula , Koreans , unlike other Asians , had the chance to live under Communism and then under another system and to make a choice . When news of the Communist attack first swept Korea , few packed up and left the cities and farms . But after the Reds had advanced to Pusan , were repelled following the Inchon landing , and then advanced again with the help of the Communist Chinese , Koreans by the hundreds of thousands , with a brief taste of life under Communism , headed for the agrictdtural , anti-Communist south . The extent of early Communist influence in Korea is seldom recognized by Americans . Beginning in 1925 , half of all the Far East Party development funds were allotted to the Korean Communist Party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seoul . Persecuted by the occupying Japanese , the Korean Communists proposed " not a class front , not even a people 's front , but a national front " to rally all Koreans for a fight against Japan . The leftists thus became known as espousers of independence . By driving out the Japanese in the Pacific war , the Americans succeeded in accomplishing the goal of both the Communist-led Korean emigres in China and Russia and the Syngman Rhee ? Kim Koo group in Shanghai . The Russian-oriented Koreans clearly had an organizational advantage over the purely nationalist groups represented by Rhee and Kim . Nearly 200,000 Koreans had been living in the Russian Far East , and as early as 1927 the Presidium of the Executive Committee in Moscow decreed a program of training Korean teachers and physicians , encouraging Korean literature , and constructing Korean hospitals . The ties binding Korea 's Communist groups to the Soviet Far East were manifold and close , and most of the thousand Communist leaders in Korea had visited Russia or had been educated in Soviet schools . Sovietized Koreans A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " North Korea : A Case Study in the Techniques of a Takeover , " based on information gained from former North Korean officials and from perusal of Communist documents , contains considerable evidence that the formation of a satellite regime in North Korea was merely an evolutionary phase in Soviet plans for the area . North Koreans are being acclimated to dual citizenship in the U.S.S.R. and North Korea . North Korea has proved to be an ideal satellite in political terms and has developed in a strictly Party way much more rapidly than some of the eastern European Communist states . This is so because at the end of the Korean War most of the anti-Communists in the north had fled to the south . The rest were either executed or converted . Another contributing factor was the lack of any local government experience under Japanese colonial rule . In a series of purges the Soviet faction solidified its position by eliminating the Korean Communists whose ties were closer to Peiping than to Moscow . Russia entrusted key positions in the North Korean regime to Soviet Koreans , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designated as head of the North Korean regime a relatively unknown Korean who had operated as a bandit leader in Manchuria , migrated to the U.S.S.R. , and then returned to Korea in 1945 as an officer in the Soviet Army . He was given the alias of Kim II-sung , a Korean national hero , and introduced as such to the North Korean public by the most respected non-Communist leader in North Korea , who subsequently disappeared . Other key positions of power were entrusted to Soviet Koreans , who retained their Soviet citizenship and membership in the Soviet Communist Party and generally remained in the background in the North Korean political arena . The report cited the case of Ho Kai , first secretary of the North Korean Labor Party . Ho formerly had been a member of the central committee of a Soviet central Asian republic , and in the North Korean political lineup he was perhaps the most powerful official . Today , the North Korean Labor Party firmly controls the North Korean government . The fa ? ade of democracy The legal basis for the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitution , presents a facade of democracy . Opposition is eliminated by restricting the selection of candidates in elections through a party-controlled system of sponsorship and registration . A candidate must be sanctioned by the North Korean Labor Party , and the result is a single slate composed entirely of Communist candidates . The real power in North Korea is vested in the Cabinet , composed of the Prime Minister , seven deputy prime ministers , sixteen ministers , and the two chairmen of the state planning and state construction commissions . The Cabinet controls provincial and local administration through appropriate committees and directs the judiciary through prosecutors and a system of courts . This all-powerful body coordinates subordinate agencies and organizations at all levels , appoints such officials as vice ministers and plant managers , 1 establishes organizational and ad-ministrative procedures for all gov-ernmenta l agencies , and delegates and assigns authority as it sees fit . Since its inception , the Cabinet has consisted of the very top North Korean Communist leadership . Latest intelligence estimates report North Korea has 540,000 men in its armed forces , a 17,000-ton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between 850 and 1000 planes , of which 360 are MIG 17s and 350 are MIG 15s . Russia 's aid to industry Pyongyang Radio admitted recently that " the backbone of our industry is Russian advised , engineered , and financed . " Russia 's greatest industrial contribution , according to Communist publications , was rehabilitation of the huge Suiho hydroelectric station on the Yalu River , which was almost completely destroyed by American bombings during the Korean War . Last December , Russia and North Korea signed a new technical assistance agreement , under which Russia will provide aid in building a series of industrial establishments and power stations between now and 1965 . Other U.S.S.R. ? North Korea agreements included a trade expansion pact , under which Russia will supply finished machinery in return for nonferrous metals , cement , and steel . Most of the coal and practically all of the iron ore of Korea lie in the north , and on the basis of these resources the Japanese built up a substantial metallurgical industry . There are five major ironworks in North Korea , the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Korean peninsula was the world 's fifth largest gold producer , but little mention is made of the gold mining industry in Communist publications . Communist figures on production are generally sketchy and are given in terms of percentages rather than actual output . Industrial statistics are significant , not for their sometimes conflicting figures but for the assertion that the program for absolute communization of industry and agriculture has now been completed . But despite the Russian aid and a $105 million loan last October from Communist China , the largest Peiping has ever granted , Koreans in the north live an austere and grim life , according to recent defectors . Communist gains With Russian backing , Pyongyang succeeded in repatriating a number of Korean residents in Japan . By the end of June , more than 65,000 Koreans among the 600,000 living in Japan departed on Russian ships to begin residence in North Korea , where jobs and better living conditions were promised . The United States , favoring free choice of domicile , found itself uncomfortably running head on against the policies of the Seoul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was the legal government of all Koreans and pointed to United Nations statements to that effect in supporting its stand . By putting the matter in a humanitarian frame of reference , however , the Communists managed to pull off the program . North Korea made its biggest gains in its attempted subversion of South Korea . Historically , near-anarchy and licentiousness often follow periods of totalitarian rule , and this was the case in South Korea following the overthrow of the Syngman Rhee government in April , 1960 . Pseudo newspapers and news agencies sprang up by the score and dealt in extortion rather than information . The hooliganism of the Rhee era increased rather than decreased . Corruption flourished as it always has , but there were new hands on the purse strings . The students , who were the heroes of the April Revolution of 1960 , became nearly a fifth branch of government . They demanded face-to-face talks with their Communist counterparts at Panmunjom in the truce zone and even threatened to march there en masse for the purpose . This type of program was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it has been charged , by the influx of funds from the Korean Communist group in Japan . The coup d'etat in the south In the eyes of the American Embassy in Seoul , the numerous advances made by the John M. Chang government were believed strong enough to offset the defects of the period , and given time , it was believed , would overcome them , A small group of South Korean Army officers thought differently , and on May 16 took over the Republic of Korea in a coup d'etat that was swift and efficient , employing the best tactics they had learned after more than ten years of training under U.S. military advisers . The United States was not the only country nonplused by the development . Radio broadcasts from North Korea reflected that regime 's surprise and confusion . At first the North Koreans applauded and encouraged the uprising , thinking it to be a nationalist uprising against the United States . Then the North Koreans began to demand that Prime Minister John M. Chang be reinstated ? one of the rare cases in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on what should be done in South Korea . Finally the Communists adopted the line that Lieutenant General Chang Do Young , the chairman of the Supreme Councii of National Reconstruction , was another puppet of the United States . IRAN 'S attempt at preventive revolution from the top has been spurred by both external and internal crises . The Iraqi revolt of 1958 served as a poignant warning of the ease with which monarchies can be abolished . The 1960 coup in Turkey , which eliminated a regime too far out of step with the social and political pattern set by Ataturk , provided another warning for Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi . Within Iran severe inflation , along with exorbitant increases in living costs , has created a genuine economic crisis . Insistent demands for pay raises by long-suffering teachers and civil servants have come at a time when the treasury is empty . Finally , a shift in American policy toward creditor countries , with the Kennedy Administration 's decision that aid will go to those helping themselves , has had a particular impact in Iran . The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stabilize Iran 's economy and to ease political tensions . The gradualist approach , under which the Shah and a few technicians have been steering Iran toward economic development without disturbing the existing hierarchical pattern of power , is being altered . Non-Communist government opposition , principally represented by a coalition of leftists and intellectuals in the National Front , is being consulted . All of this reflects a recognition by the Shah , and evidently by army leadership , that the rising middle class in Iran can not be ignored . Such progress as has taken place in the country since World War II has given more people a taste of amenities , of education , and of the possibilities for decent living in their potentially rich country . The event which forced the Shah to act last spring was the revolt of teachers throughout the country . The Shah 's reaction was not to employ the customary repressive measures , but to recognize the gathering power behind this revolt . In turning to Dr. Ali Amini , a former ambassador to Washington , a political independent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Shah made clear his intention to coin-promise with the left at the expense of the right . Dr. Amini is a man who has been opposed to the old guard in Iranian affairs , who is known to favor reforms at its expense , and who demonstrated particular acumen in the negotiations which ended the Iranian oil dispute and set up Iranian control over the industry eight years ago . His appointment as Premier signaled a crucial decision by the Shah to speed up and try to control the recasting of the Iranian economic and social system before more violent attacks on it occur . In a country as divided as Iran , such a decision involves great risks . Watching the race between planning and drift , between education and catastrophe , has been something of a spectator sport for Iran 's extraordinarily rich and powerful elite . But for the 85 per cent who form the tribal and peal-ant population , the race has scarcely existed . The upper class comprises less than 5 per cent of the population , owns 95 per cent of the arable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mossadegh regime , controlled the Majlis . Merely eking out a living and trying to survive in disease-ridden villages have totally preoccupied the peasant majority . Of the several million nomadic tribesmen , most speak only local dialects , and few are concerned with a remote and ungenerous capital in Teheran . The authority of the central government has yet to be established firmly , therefore , even though new roads , water pipes and electricity , being extended to some provinces under the development plan , have begun to make the government 's good intentions felt . Teaching : profession or hobby ? Additional landmarks of progress toward modernizing and unifying Iran are new schoolhouses and universities scattered about the country . In the last seven years , five new universities have been established , at Tabriz , Shiraz , Meshed , Ahwaz , and Isfahan . At the same time , nearly half of Iran 's three million children are in primary schools ; a quarter of a million are in secondary schools ; and some 7000 are in vocational schools . Yet , of 40,000 elementary-school teachers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the summers ; some are subsidized during training . But none can make a living as teachers . Their minimum wage is $40 a month . The average wage for a faculty member at Teheran University is $123 , and the highest salary is $232 , from which are deducted income , health , and education taxes . The result is that teachers must take outside jobs in order to live . One particularly enterprising pedagogue , the former chancellor of Shiraz University , was discovered to have twelve outside jobs . His services were terminated by Iran 's tough new Minister of Education , Mr. Derakshish , whose leadership of the teachers ' march on the Majlis last spring resulted in his appointment to the reform cabinet . Derakshish has decreed that in exchange for promised pay raises , teachers shall make teaching their first concern . The Western education craze Another difficulty in Iranian higher education is the traditional reverence for foreign degrees and for seniority , which causes promotions to be made arbitrarily rather than on a basis of ability . The craze for Western education has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some 15,000 students abroad . In the general austerity effort now under way , this program is being sharply cut . A chronic problem has arisen as a result of so much Western education of young Iranians . On their return home , they are usually disoriented for life in Iran , and the problem is compounded by the lack of jobs open to them . Many returned graduates , therefore , respond to the subversive suggestion of the Tudeh Communist Party that they can win appropriate recognition only in a Communist Iran . One of the present government 's more urgent tasks will be to try to win back many of these youths . In scattering new universities about the country , the idea has been to remove them from the political atmosphere of Teheran and to relate them to the professional needs of the provinces . At Ahwaz , for example , in the oil province of Khuzestan , an agricultural college is being established , to be administered by the Near East Foundation , an American private agency with long experience in Iran . At Shiraz , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members and Iran foundation support , an agricultural and a scientific school have been added . The new regime will have to speed up this educational program , recruit more teachers , revitalize local education offices , and clear out many corrupt officials who have managed to make personal fortunes out of school buildings and equipment . Land reform Much has been written about the Shah 's land distribution program , which has been under way for the last ten years . About 300 villages and adjacent lands have been distributed to 35,000 families during this period . The peasants pay for the land in twenty-five yearly installments , which go into a land bank to furnish them with credit for weds , tools , and marketing assistance . Without such a device to provide the services traditionally performed by the landlords , no land-transfer program can work . Iran 's new Minister of Agriculture , Hassan Arsanjani , is determined that such facilities shall be provided and that land reform shall be speeded up . A 1959 land law limits irrigated farms to a thousand acres and unwaterecl ones to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Iranian life , such a law means nothing unless private landowners accept it . Early in the days of the new government there were reports that ten leading owners were willing to follow the Shah 's example and start distribution of their lands . The actual transfers remain to be made . If they are made , it will mark a significant turning point in Iranian affairs . For , in Iran , as in Egypt , land ownership has denoted power and prestige . A reduction in such power and its effective transfer have yet to be accomplished painlessly . Agriculture , rather than oil , is the key to progress in Iran . For this reason , most of the development plan program is directed toward building roads in rural areas , educating farmers , developing irrigated lands , and setting up industries related to farming , such as sugar mills . Of Iran 's $300-million-a-year oil income , at present nearly half goes into long-range planning . One of the most important works is in Khuzestan , under the management of Resources and Development Corporation , headed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ management in Khuzestan comprises a series of dams , water diversions , roads , irrigation projects , and power plants designed to open up this potentially rich province and to locate in it diversified industries , such as petrochemical plants , related to oil production . Important employment possibilities will follow this construction and help to take the pressure for jobs off the oil centers . The present government realizes that there must be more visible signs of progress , such as roads , schools , and hospitals . Yet it faces a critical shortage of funds . In this situation it looks to two sources for help . One is the oil consortium , which runs a major share of Iran 's oil industry for the National Iranian Oil Company . The other is the U.S. government . ? Sharing the oil profits New pressures have been put on the consortium this past year to increase production and to rewrite the contract under which Iran receives half of consortium profits . The Shah wants Iran to be the largest oil producer in the Middle East ; he wants a larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the consortium . Presumably , this means shares in it along with the group of Western companies which control it . Two newer agreements , with the Italians and with an independent American syndicate , are based on a theoretical 75-25 per cent sharing of profits . But these stipulate , as the consortium agreement does not , that Iranian capital shall go into the partnership ventures . Nevertheless , the partnership idea seems more politically palatable than the present consortium arrangement . In periods of increasing oil discoveries and consequent glut , prices for oil have gone down . At one stage , in 1959 , they went down eighteen cents a barrel without warning . To Iran , this meant that revenue from oil that year suddenly shrank by $27 million , at a time when the national budget for the year had just been passed . No amount of explanation of the laws of supply and demand appeases the sense of injury such episodes cause . What has resulted is the organization of oil-producing states in the area , along with Venezuela , into a consultative body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group . U.S. aid The U.S. government 's aid to Iran has mounted to nearly a billion and a half dollars since World War II . Of this amount , half a billion has been for military assistance , and the rest has consisted of loans , technical assistance , and emergency grants . Yet all of this has not stabilized the country , as it was intended to do . Iran 's continued membership in the Central Treaty Organization with Turkey and Pakistan is again under political attack . There is widespread resentment at the $180 million a year of Iranian funds devoted to defense and security , and demands for a return to Iran 's classic policy of neutrality between East and West are insistent . Meanwhile , in Washington there is dissatisfaction over the failure of the combined efforts of U.S. assistance missions and Iranian ministries to accomplish stated objectives with the large funds spent . For this reason , new requests from Teheran are receiving sharp scrutiny . In Teheran an effort is being made to qualify for further loans by enforcing new austerity measures . Foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luxury goods are banned . Government expenses are being reduced , and tax collection is once more being reorganized . At the same time , an effort is being made to reduce the cost of necessities as a way of relieving pressures on the middle class . The difficulty for Iran is that such heroic measures conflict with ingrained predatory habits and with the customs and attitudes of the aristocracy , which , so far , is the only element capable of bringing off a peaceful revolution in Iran . The question is whether the upper class in Iran is sufficiently frightened , or convinced of the lateness of the hour , to make preventive revolution pos-sible.                     