@@210136

The U.S. Congress is in a mood to pass an auto-safety law far stricter than anyone thought possible just a few months ago . This mood hardened last week , even while the industry was pleading its case before the Senate Commerce Committee . <P> What the industry fears most is that Congress , in the name of safety , will pass legislation enabling bureaucrats to tell Detroit stylists how to design their cars . Speaking for management at the hearings , Ford Vice President John Bugas proposed an alternative : let the carmakers police their own safety through a board made up of four auto-company presidents and an outside chairman . " Whatever has happened in the past , " said Bugas , " this industry is alive and awake-we truly are . " He also suggested that the industry would have pooled its safety information , but it feared antitrust prosecution . He contended that the Justice Department has been investigating the companies for their role in developing antipollution devices for auto exhausts . <P> Next day , Committee Chairman Warren Magnuson fired back at Bugas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antitrust Chief Donald F. Turner . The Justice Department , said Turner , has indeed been investigating the auto companies-because of their " cooperative efforts to suppress , not to promote , the utilization of auto emission devices . " Moreover , said Turner , the antitrust law has not barred agreements among companies " to develop safety devices or to exchange information concerning standards where joint efforts seem necessary and constructive and are not accompanied by unduly restrictive collateral agreements . " <P> Toward the Mandatory . To the Senators , mostly skeptical and highly critical of the automakers , Bugas ' proposal for industry self-policing was unsatisfactory . The real question was whether Congress would accept President Johnson 's original proposal that a soon-to-be-created Secretary of Transportation be granted " discretionary " powers to establish and enforce safety standards beginning with the 1970 models-or press for a tougher bill making it mandatory for the Secretary to lay down such standards beginning with the ' 68 models . In support of the harsher version , the committee called up a succession of educators , lawyers , Canadian legislators-and even Teamster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unusual position of being a sympathetic witness in a congressional hearing . Calling for strict Government safety regulations for trucks as well as cars , Hoffa said : " If you leave it to somebody 's discretion to pass minimum safety standards , there would n't be any standards . " He also showed a film plugging a fifth-wheel device for trucks , which he said would prevent many jackknifing accidents . <P> The White House passed word that President Johnson would now be more than happy to support a tougher , " mandatory " bill . In all likelihood , the Government will be empowered to order that all cars have more padding , fewer knobs , fire-resistant upholstery , safer glass and door locks-and to fine the domestic manufacturers $1,000 per violation ( or countless millions on a year 's production of a major model ) , and to seize foreign autos that fail to meet the standards .                     