@@488227

The Choice Confirmed In the October 15 issue , The ' Nation declared its preference for Senator John F. Kennedy in the Presidential contest . Our correspondence columns sample a sharply adverse reactron on the part of some readers . A particularly ' vehement correspondent , Jigs Gardner , expresses his " disgu'st " with our decision . " Like all ' liberals ' these days , " writes Professor Gardner , " you would probably . support a Democrat under any circumstances ( contrary to pOpular platitude , a ' liberal ' is not an independent voter ) , but since Kennedy is so demonstrably awful ' and Nixon seems a demon , you , like Many other ' liberals ' at this point , have to fake up reasons to vote Democratic . The fact that Nixon ' tries to stifle discussion is certainly true and unpleasant , but if Kennedy were in Nixon 's position and had the same opportunities I am quite sure he would behave in the same-way . . . . " The Nation 's evaluation and extrapolation are different . Nixon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his record in office and his performance in the present campaign . About Kennedy 's performance ? if he is elected ? one can not be sure , but there are strong indications that he is inclined to appeal to reason , that he does not take naturally to demagoguery as does Nixon . Neither Kennedy nor Nixon should be held completely accountable foi ' the American electoral system which , in its current flowering , puts a premiu ; on nonsensical appeals to sentimentality , chauvinism and claptrap . Even so , Nixon insults the intelligence of the voters at every appearance , , Kennedy does so only when he speaks before veterans ' organizations , where there is something approaching an absolute compulsion for a candidate to prove he is not lacking in manly bellicosity . The ' Nation feels that Walter Lippmann exaggerates when he writes , " It has been truly impressive to see the precision of Mr. Kennedy 's mind , his immense command of the facts , his instinct for the crucial point , his singular , lack of demagoguery and sloganeering , his intense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and steadfastness of his nerves and his coolness and his courage . " But that the campaign has revealed a contrast between the two can , hardly be doubted by any- one who has a TV set and uses it . As- The Nation said editorially , peace is the paramount issue and the crucial test of the candidates ' eligibility . Nixon rose to eminence as a fomenter of the cold war in both its domestic and international aspects. - Between the Soviets and the chauvinists at home , the mass of American voters has been thoroughly bedeviled . Nixon 's technique is calculated to keep them permanently in a state of brainless nationalism . Kennedy , op the contrary , has injected some elements of sense into this phase of the debate , as in his initial stand on Quemoy-Matsu . Nixon 's tactics in this episode ' were typical : he seized on Kennedy 's appeal to diplomatic and military reason to brand him as an appeaser of the Communists . He pictured himself , in effect , as the great leader who would not yield an inch of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Nationalists to blockade Foochow and Amoy even if the end were the beginning of World War III . This probably swung some votes ; then , with his usual agility , Nixon tried to harvest the opposite side by retreating to the Administration position , although not mentioning the fact that Eisenhower persuaded Chiang Kai-shek to withdraw from the Tachens and has been trying to get him to reduce his forces on Quemoy and Matsu . Kennedy also retreated , passing up a chance to add himself to his profiles in courage , but his first position was both more principled and more prudent than anything Nixon has exhibited in his whole political life . A similar contrast is shown in the statements of the two men on the U-2 incident . The Democratic platform deplores the mishandling of that disastrous flight ; Nixon ' as much as says that there will be no more in- cursions with that particular aircraft because it has lost its usefulness , but that he will find other means . This is the same Nixon who favored dropping nuclear bombs to relieve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a policy which will help to elect Richard Nixon . Kennedy may vie with him in campaign intransigence ? on Cuba there is little to choose between the two ? but his cast of mind makes it possible that , if elected , he will negotiate with the Soviets on equal terms , which is the only way any American President has any chance of reaching a modus viveiich in the next four years . The Efficacy of Protest Many thoughtful Americans bemoan - their country 's moral and cultural decay . If the United States is actually a sick giant -- and indications are not lacking  --  one cause is that those who have the advantages of insight and knowledge too often hold their tongues . Cerebration as such has no political effect : it must he expressed in word and action before it can influence the trend of events . When it is expressed , the results often repay the effort . ' On the occasion of Dr. Linus Pauling 's visit to Washington University , in May , 1957 , as Eliot Honors Day speaker , a petition was drafted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The petition was circulated by Dr. Pauling and a number of other scientists . More than 11,000 scientists all over the world , including many Nobel Prize-winners and 104 members of the United States Academy of Sciences , signed the petition , , which was duly submitted to the United Nations . There , after a Jew perfunctory newspaper notices , the matter might have rested , had not Senator Thomas J. Dodd ( D. , Conn. ) taken off after Dr. Pauling and the Reds who , Senator Dodd suspected , had helped the eminent chemist to circulate the petition . As Acting Chairman , Senator Dodd summoned Dr. Pauling before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee in June , 1960 . He appeared , identified the names of the 11,021 signers of the U.N . petition , and answered all questions except that he declined to reveal the names of those who had helped in the collection of signatures . His refusal was on grounds of conscience ; he said he was not willing to be " a party to this harassment and infliction of reprisals upon conscientious Americans who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their duty as citizens . " In view of the record , there can be little doubt that Dr. Pauling 's ' continuing obduracy would have resulted in his automatic indictment and conviction for contempt of Congress  --  but then came the petitions of protest . At Washington University almost 200 faculty members declared that Dr. Pauling and his associates had " performed a service of the highest patriotism " and that 313 if the Senate subcommittee had its way " our cOnstitutionally guaranteed freedoms to exercise civic responsibility will be ' subverted . " The Emergency Civil , ' Liberties Committee . published another petition with 107 signatures , including a large proportion ' of academic names At Rutgers University forty-one faculty mem-bers , : including representatives signing for the . entire faculty of the law school , protested in a letter to The New York Times . There-were other backfires . The up- ( shot was that Senator Dodd satisfied himself , at least for the time being , with " lashing out " at Dr. Pauling and his counsel , but refrained from taking the final steps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be that if the citizens want to keep their liberties , they must , at the very least , sign a petition now and then . The Saga of a Stapler Under this title , Dr. Howard A. Rusk published in his New York Times column a report on an instrument that uses tantalum wire finer than a human hair for suturing nerves , muscles and blood vessels under conditions , where normal surgical stitching would be out of the question . The instrument , first seen by Dr. Rusk in MOscow in 1956 , signals a new surgical era and for three years surgeons , scientists and instrument makers in the United States , and all over the world , tried to get a copy . The Soviets were apparently reluctant to furnish one , or the applications were snarled in red tape , until David Rose , an American builder , industrialist and philanthropist was able , through " certain business connections " to obtain one of the instruments for about ' $3,000 . Mr. Rose sent an emissary to Moscow to bring the precision device to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a former vice president of Bell Telephone Laboratories , and another Bell engineer , Dr. Rudi Mallina . Operationally it came up to every expectation , but it was , so complex that an expert required two hours to clean and reload it . However , after redevelopment and redesign , a relatively simple instrument was evolved that could be maintained by ordinary operating-room personnel and that cost only a fraction of the original model . At the same time , another simplified version was developed by Dr. Kiyo Sho Inokuchi of the University of Fukuoka in Japan . Two lessons emerge . " First , " Dr. Rusk writes , " a person-to-person relationship can often achieve what red-tape-ensnarled official contacts , can not do . Second , it points up the need , frequently expressed by surgeons and'other clinicians , for coordinating the science of medicine and the science and technology of engineering . " As a first-step in this direction , a Committee for the Establishment of an Institute of Medical Engineering has The 1rATioxl been formed , with Mr Rose as chairman . It is encouraging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may lack the glamour of guided missiles and weapon systems but which , there is little doubt , will save the lives of many , patients who , for that matter , may be engineers themselves . Taxation Can Be Fun Taxes , although coupled with death in a well-known proverb , can under certain circumstances afford pleasure to the taxpayer . Mr. Louis Schweitzer of Westport , Conn. , discovered this a few days ago and promptly took steps to broadcast the good news . Mr. Schweitzer learned that a ' group of people in Princeton , N. J. , had banded together to tax theMselves 1 per cent of their 1959 income , for the purpose of donating this money to the United Nations . " This , as far as I knew , " writes Mr. Schweitzer , " was the first time in history that ordinary citizens had voluntarily taxed themselves in support ? of the principle of world law . " ? Investigating further , Mr. Schweitzer found similar self-tax groups located in such places as Urbana-Champaign , Ill. ; Palo , Alto , Calif. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The money is turned over to the Secretary General of the United Nations for use in three areas : the Technical Assistance Program which sends trained personnel to help underdeveloped countries ; the Special Fund which concentrates on relatively large projects to help low-income countries discover and develop their natural and human resources ; and the Children 's Fund , which assists governments in health , nutrition and welfare projects to benefit children and mothers . " Perhaps , " suggests Mr. Schweitzer , " you and your friends and neighbors may wish to form similar groups to tax yourselves as these people have done . " Or , as an individual , everyone is free to send his own self-tax to the Office of the Controller United Nations , ? New York City . , Mr. Schweitzer taxed himself , and not lightly . He spread his message through a full-page advertisement in The New York Times .                     