@@478467

Chances we have missed , and openings that may yet be found for a way through the political thickets of Saigon and the competing centers of Communist power . ne of Clausewitz ' principle is that in the face of a single enemy you go for his capital , while against two or more enemies you go for the line of communications . Though framed for the making of war , that maxim has a distinct relevance to the making of peace in Vietnam . For the purpose of the American war there , as the President has iterated and reiterated , has been to prepare the way for negotiations . To paraphrase one of Churchill 's great lines , We bomb to parley . And far from being a single adversary , there are at least four parties ? Russia , mainland China , North Vietnam , and the South Vietnamese rebels or Vietcong ? on the other side of the hill . It is possible , of course , that at no time in the past was there any chance of coming to decent terms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to he negotiations , and in that perspective it is useful to review the record . For there are mistakes to be learned from ? mistakes made on a dizzying scale . Far from exploiting division on the other side , this country has solidified the opponents . It has frequently applied the wrong pressures at the wrong places in the wrong times . To borrow a metaphor from the brilliant French writer on Indochina , Jean Lacouture , the United States has tried to put out a conflagration by pouring water in the places the fire was n't . To measure the negotiating opportunities , it is first necessary to get a feel for the different positions on the other side . This is not so easy as it sounds . As is almost always the case with political creatures , these positions are not simple and fixed , but many-sided and subject to interaction and evolution . Moreover , the American press ? though it has hung medalson itself for its coverage of the war , and though it has protested the slightest official interference as though it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sheer neglect , paid almost no attention to the politics of the war , either in Saigon or on the other side . For example , though the Vietcong has had a representative ( Huyn Van Tam ) in Algiers since 1962 , I seem to have been the first American journalist to interview him . And finally , out of either ignorance or the usual shortsighted reasons that carry weight in a climate of war , American officials have filled the air with pictures of the other side that are simply not true . Secretary of State Rusk regularly gives the impression that the Vietcong are invaders from North Vietnam . In one of his recent Baron Munchausen sessions with the press , President Johnson , after first likening negotiations with the Vietcong to negotiations with the state of Mississippi , flatly declared , The Vietcong . . . are controlled , directed , and masterminded from North Vietnam . " In fact , the Vietcong , far from being a mere projection of the North , is an unstable amalgam of many things . It includes thousands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guerrilla army and a rudimentary administrative system . But it also has a political side ? the National Liberation Front , built around a Central Committee with a President , six Vice Presidents , and a Secretary General . The North Vietnamese government in Hanoi undoubtedly has i. - 11 important voice in the Front , probably through the military delegate to the Central Committee , Vice President Tran Nam Trung . Peking also seems to have its men in the Front ; another one of the Vice Presidents is Vo Chi Gong , a well-known Communist , and head of the Peoples ' Revolutionary party which was set up two years after the Front itself , possibly in Peking . Still , the distinctive feature of the Front is not its connections with either IIanoi or Peking , but Itr narrow , nationalistic , almost parochial concentration on South Vietnam . The Front was set in motion in early 1960 at a time when neither Hanoi nor Peking was pushing for rebellion in the South . The President of its Central Committee , Nguyen Hun Thu , and four of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary General . Diversity of membership has been explicitly acknowledged by President Tho in terms very unlikely for hardened Communists to mouth . " Inevitably , " he told an official interviewer in 1962 , " there exist in our ranks differences , even contradictions , which are so numerous that they set some of us against others . " What the Vietcong Fears Far more than the Saigon government , which has consistently placed refugees from North Vietnam in the highest posts , the leadership of the Front comes from the South . " We have always hoped for help from the North , " one Front official told the French journalist Georges Chaffard , " but we prefer to settle our affairs among Southerners . " Speaking of the Buddhists at a time when many Americans thought they were controlled by the Vietcong , a Front leader told me , " One way you can tell that we do n't run the Buddhists is that their leaders are from North and Central Vietnam . If we controlled them they would be Southerners . " From first to last , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in December 1960 , attacked with special vehemence Law 10-59 , which the Diem regime had promulgated to allow summary imprisonment and execution . A major Front statement of March 22 , 1965 , picked over the same old bone . Most of all , the Front literature insists on the South as an entity apart from the North . In its very first statement , the Front said that unification with the North might be achieved in slow stages over a long period of time and by mutual agreement between North and South without " propaganda " or " use of military force against each other in the transitional period . " " Those are not exactly , " a Front official told me , " the terms one uses when contemplating a marriage . " And on his own behalf , he added , " Even if we wanted to , which we do n't , we could n't consider unification with the North for more than fifteen years . They have a Socialist system . We are a middle-class movement . The two can not fit together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American help for years to come . " In part , no doubt , stress on Southern interests is pure propaganda . . t would be nice for the Vietcong . if Americans and others thought of them as mere local reformers , unaf-filiated filiated with any world power and without any ideological coloring , The local concentration also represents , in keeping with the process by which ich most propaganda comes to be believed most by those who put it out ? h w at the Vietcong has to say in order to marshal and hold widespread local support . Finally , the local stress reflects the primordial fear that has from the beginning of time infected all guerrilla movements . It is the fear that gave such importance to the the fear of concentrates being sold out . on local And affairs the Vietcong Benedict Arnold story in the Arneri can revolution , and such potency to that great film , The Informer . It is so much , if it would prefer to " settle matters among Southerners , " it is precisely because the fear of being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vietnamese regime in Hanoi . With good reason . By Communist standards , the Hanoi regime is dominated by some notorious softies . President Ho Chi Minh , Premier Pham Van Dong , and the famed war min ? ister and Vice Premier , Vo Nguyen Giap. all come from middle-class backgrounds . They have all been exposed , heavily exposed , to Western education and living standards . They all participated in the Geneva peace set . tlement of 1954 , and , though victori ? ous at the great battle of Dienbien ? phu , they were the ones , not the French , who initiated the proposal for partition of their country . For six years thereafter they did not support the Southern rebels in resistance to the Diem regime . They voiced only the most pro forma protests when the Diem regime unilaterally abro ' gated the truce provision for unification by free elections . Most important of all , despite the geographic realities and their dependence on China for food . the Hanoi leaders for Year ' steered a neutral course between fire ' breathing Red @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure , there remained in the Hanoi government a clique ofhaff : i liners , keen to push the war in the South to the bitter end . But the lead ers of this faction ( Deputy Premier Nguyen Duy Trinh and the Chairman Truong of the National Assembly , 42 Chinh ) seemed to be charged mainly with domestic responsibilities . Moreover , as the name Truong Chinh- a pseudonym that means " The Long March " ? suggests , the tough faction in Hanoi seemed to reflect much less the mood in North Vietnam than the mood in China . Peking , of course , opposed any compromise peace in the South on several grounds . For one thing , the Maoist old guard seems to be asserting a hard line on all issues to resist the claims and test the mettle of a younger and less revolutionary generation . Additionally , the ultrarevolutionary posture is the ideal stance in the struggle against the Soviet Union for primacy in the Communist world ; it . makes available to the Chinese cause all the frustrated revolutionaries that fill the schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America . Lastly , continuing the war in the South is a means of demonstrating that China 's other great foe , the United States , is a " paper tiger . " As may be imagined , Moscow originally tended toward quite another view . From the Berlin Blockade forward , the Russians seem at all times to have recognized the extreme danger of a direct confrontation with the United States . Though Khrushchev did endorse " liberation wars " in a speech of January 6 , 1961 ? a speech that American officials never tire of citing ? the truly significant fact is that he had successfully fought against any such endorsement in the November 1960 Moscow meeting of Communist parties . In the Cuba Missiles Crisis he pulled the plug on Fidel Castro with the whole world watching . Later he gave signs of indicating that Russia would no longer consider herself as co-chairman ( with BritWASHINGTON INSIGHT ain ) of the Geneva conference powers ? a symbol of complete loss of interest in the Far East . And his successors , at the outset at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more cautious policy . Given this lineup , there were two apparent obstacles to negotiation . Vietcong soldiers could sabotage any arrangement that included them out . Mainland China would work against any kind of settlement . Around these obvious obstacles , there were two obvious paths . Negotiations , as I suggested in these columns last December , might be begun with the Vietcong ; Hanoi and Moscow would go along willingly , leaving China the option of being isolated or joining in the peacemaking . Alternately , negotiations might be undertaken with Moscow and IIanoi , negotiations so deft and subtle that the Vietcong would be obliged to go along , thus again leaving China the same option . As it happened both these kinds of opportunities presented themselves . And both were missed by the United States . When it came to talking directly to the Vietcong , no doubt , the United States was in a poor position . To do so would at least seem to go back on the pledge of loyalty made by Washington to the Saigon government . The Saigon government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contrary the ups and downs and coups and semi-coups that characterize politics in Saigon are really all centered around the question of negotiating with the other side . On two chief occasions when South Vietnamese officials began seriously to think about approaching the Vietcong , they were cut down by ? of all things ? elements of the American mission in Saigon . The first occasion came with the government that replaced the Diem regime . That government ? of General Duong Van Minh , or Big Minh ? was ready to take soundings with the Vietcong . It was ousted in January 1964 in a military coup staged by General Nguyen Khanh , the special protege of the American military commander in Saigon , General Paul Harkins , who had brought him to Saigon without the American Ambassador 's even seeming to know about it . The second occasion came with the government that replaced the Khanh regime , the government of Premier Phan Huy Quat . That regime included two prominent members who were ready to make contact with the other side . They had barely begun soundings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of protest demonstrations set in motion by another American prot ? g ? , Colonel Pham Quoc Thao , who has since been killed in mysterious circumstances . A Visit to Paris I f Washington only acted indirectly to cut off settlement talks with the Vietcong , its role in spoiling more subtle approaches from Hanoi and Moscow was blatant . These approaches were generated in the course of a visit to Paris during the fall of 1964 by Pham Ngoc Thach , Minister of Health of North Vietnam and personal physician and trusted confidant to Ho Chi Minh . Dr. Thach let it be known that Hanoi was interested in discussions without any preconditions , including withdrawal of American troops . He further indicated that for the purpose of these talks it would be useful to have Britain and the Soviet Union convene a meeting of the Geneva powers . These views were made known to the Government of General de Gaulle , which unsuccessfully tried to use them ( because its role in the Far East is now wedded to Peking ) to elicit Chinese sympathy for a settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary General U Thant of the United Nations , who acknowledged the approach in his press conference of February 24 , 1965 . Though it may have failed , an attempt was certainly made to have these possibilities brought to the attention of the White House . In line with the new approach in Paris were several other moves . A Moscow office of the Vietcong was opened . In Hanoi , on December 24 , an international conference gave special pride of place to markedly pro-Soviet organizations . Two days later Le Dunn , the Secretary General of the Communist party of North Vietnam , suddenly turned up in Moscow . A week later it was announced that Soviet Premier Kosygin was going to visit Hanoi beginning February 5 . Something was obviously up . The Russians , the chief peacemongers in the Communist world , were being in-44 vited back into the Asian preserve by the North Vietnamese . If peace itself was not being brewed , the right conditions were . And then on the night of February 5 , just as Premier Kosygin was flying toward Hanoi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The attack may have been part of a combined North Vietnamese-Vietcong plot to drag the Russians into the war effort . it may have been a field decision taken on the purely operational grounds that the base was a tempting and important target . It may even have been a Vietcong effort to sabotage the coming negotiations in Hanoi . In any event , it brought as a reaction the American bombing of North Vietnam . That response was in line with the view of the military , and notably Genera ! Maxwell Taylor , that the threatened destruction of North Vietnam would cause the Vietcong to abate their efforts and come to terms . It was a response way out of line with the losses inflicted upon the U.S. ? nine killed and 140 wounded ? in an ordinary guerrilla operation . Far worse , it was a response that took no account of the most recent political developments on the other side . Indeed , we now know that it could not have taken account of such developments . For the decision to bomb was a contingency decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks before it was put into effect . And what were the results of this contingency decision ? Well , disaster may be too strong a word , but boner is surely not . For the effect was to solidify the whole range of Communist opinion in defiance to the Americans in Vietnam . In every quarter of the Communist camp , the hand of the bitter-enders was strengthened . The Vietcong was able to demand and to get more military aid on the theory that the way to protect the North was by victories won in the South . Inside the Hanoi regime , the moderates were in trouble , and the Chinese faction came to new power , In the first week of April , the chief of the Chinese faction , Nguyen Duy Trinh , took over as foreign minister . The Chinese were handed a new example of " imperialist brutality " as a stick to beat the moderates all through the Communist world , and especially the Russians . For the bombing presented the Soviet Union with the spectacle of a " sister WASHINGTON INSIGHT Socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack to proceed without any response would be to make good the Chinese charges that the Russians were feeble revisionists in league with the imperialists . Within the context of Communist polities , in other words , the Russians had to respond . And they did . They have sent bombers and fighters and missiles to the Hanoi regime . Their propaganda , once so discreet on Vietnam , has hardened perceptibly . By May Premier Kosygin was speaking of the " inevitable victory " of the Vietcong . By July , Soviet missiles were actually hitting U. S. planes in Vietnam . As the stiffening on the other side became apparent , this country made efforts to arrest it . But these were isolated attempts , made under the stimulus of political pressures by the domestic side of the White House staff , and therefore poorly couched , badly timed , and ill-connected with one another . There was the President 's famous Baltimore address of April 7 , offering unconditional discussions and a billion-dollar development plan for the Mekong River valley . Because it came in the midst of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were specifically excluded from the negotiations , it was easy for China to make the offer look like a crude bribe aimed at putting in the fix ? and by that token impossible for Hanoi to accept . Even so , the Hanoi regime responded with a four-point program , approved on April 10 by its General Assembly , which contained several elements in keeping with American objectives ? for example , a return to the principles of the Geneva agreement , and no demand for early withdrawal of American troops . Although the President was urged at the time to make public and favorable reference to the four points , he delayed until the end of July , when he finally sent word by Ambassador Arthur Goldberg to UN Secretary U Thant . Pause or Ruse ? Similarly with the famous pause in the bombing that the President initiated in early May . Such a step had been urged on Washington a month earlier by Prime Minister Pearson of Canada and Senator Fulbright in public , and by Senator Robert Kennedy and others inside the Administration in private . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been represented as the exact counterpart to a letup in Vietcong ground activity that accompanied a major regroupment . It thus might have been possible to set in motion a tacit ceasefire . If linked with an explicit recognition of Hanoi 's April 10 proposals plus an approach to the Vietcong , such a program might have borne fruit . But a month later , when it was actually applied , the pause was bound to look like a mere ruse . It came on the eve of the giant Washington teach-in that assembled Administration and academic spokesmen in a widely publicized debate on Vietnam ; because of this timing the halt in the bombing was interpreted by the other side , and probably rightly , as a maneuver by the President designed to draw the sting of his domestic critics . More important , the pause came after the Vietcong had completed its regroupment , after additional American ground troops had been landed and taken the offensive against the Vietcong , and just before the monsoon rains were going to put a term to the bombings anyway . The olive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exactly the moment the other side had the most to gain , and the United States the most to lose , from further fighting . It is hardly surprising that a Canadian official , after taking soundings in Hanoi , reported that " they are not now interested in any negotiation of any kind . " But the season for negotiation will come round again . There really is a stalemate in Vietnam , as I indicated in this magazine last year , and the fear of Washington that it will lose the cities is as ill-founded as the hope that it can win back the countryside . Fighting , in this context , is irrelevant . The continuation of the war , as Jean Lacouture has written , is only a " prolonged accident . " Still , the war could go on for years unless the lesson of the immediate past is learned . This is the lesson that a settlement does not depend entirely upon our military relationship to the other side on the ground ; but that it has a great deal to do with the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the lesson , in other words , of going not for the capital , but for the line of communications . 