@@478397

Fresh out of Oxford , he was shocked by what he learned teaching in Los Angeles , but he found the university more intellectually vigorous ? and more fun ? than he had expected . When I heard that eight hundred students had been arrested at the Berkeley campus of the University of California in December , I felt a strong twinge of sympathy right across the six thousand miles that separated me from California . The arrests were the dramatic climax of a confrontation between students and the administration that had been brewing for many months . Indeed I had witnessed the early stages of the dispute from the languorous atmosphere of Berkeley 's sister-campus , UCLA , where I was a teaching assistant for a year . In Los Angeles most of the students looked with disdain at their more politically conscious colleagues in Northern California . " Politics , " as one of my students once remarked to me " is strictly for the birds . " Demonstrations and arrests are alien activities at UCLA , where the students regard Berkeley with the same suspicion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there it rains ; down here we just have precipitation , " I was told soon after my arrival . Between the lush greenery of Sunset Boulevard , where a few film stars and many businessmen live , and the spacious homes and shops of a residential paradise called Westwood Village , the UCLA campus lies concealed behind thick foliage . When I first arrived on the campus to take up my job 1 thought the foliage was camouilage . As soon as the sprinklers were turned on , I changed my mind . In a flash the campus was transformed into a Californian Versailles . This was only the first of many shocks I experienced during my year in Los Angeles . My adrenalin worked overtime as I absorbed the differences between British and American higher education , trying to discover what the British could learn ? if anything ? from the " multiversity , " as Clark Kerr , the university 's president , has dubbed his creation . At the time , I concluded there was much we could usefully apply in Britain . I still believe so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berkeley . UCLA has no public image and I was frequently asked why the Los Angeles campus has remained free of the tempests that have shaken Berkeley . Of the many reasons for this , one must surely be the difference in intellectual climate . Berkeley is ? next to Harvard ? the toughest American college to get into and to stay in . The IQ level of the students is high , their intellectual aspirations fierce , their involvement in the political issues of our time intense . The earnestness of the campus is fortified by the large proportion of graduates who are taking second and third academic degrees there . At UCLA , on the other hand , the official catalogue contains the following words : " The campus is ideally located for varied recreation and entertainment . The beaches and mountain resorts are within easy distance . Hollywood is close by and the community is served by a number of fine restaurants . " Some might see this as an indictment of the campus . I , however , found such pleasure-loving honesty thoroughly attractive after the morbid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oxford . At the same time . this characteristic underlined the difference between UCLA and Berkeley , where the tradition of political activity and free speech is long and honorable . The dispute over loyalty oaths , the fights against the House Committee on UnAmerican Activities , against compulsory ROTC , and against racial discrimination have involved many Berkeley students and teachers in a long series of conflicts . At UCLA the students have never been so deeply involved in such issues . One of the reasons is that only a minority of them live in the university area while most Berkeley students live close to the campus . As a consequence the Berkeley students have a much greater sense of cohesion and community . Similar differences between residential and non-residential campuses can be detected in British universities . But the dominant issue among British students over the last few years has been the Bomb ; the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament has derived much of its vitality from its student supporters . One issue for which both British and Californian students have agitated is racial equality . In Britain students until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now , as in the United States , the British student is painfully discovering that race problems begin at home . Mating and Parking Urges Ifound my move from tradition-bound Oxford liberating . The Los Angeles campus , which has had a full undergraduate program only since 1924 , has had little time to develop burdensome traditions . It has grown and sprawled apace with the city . It is hard to say whether the university has flourished because of or despite Los Angeles . The city which everybody loves to hate engenders an animal hedonism which some would claim is directly at odds with academic pursuits . But the combination of this holiday camp atmosphere with a determined effort to remain what UCLA 's Chancellor Franklin Murphy has called ' ' a vital necessity for a society which wishes to survive free and strong " is stimulating and oddly conducive to bouts of hard work . The focal point of the UCLA campus is a cluster of buildings that surrounds the old library . There , Gothic , Baroque , and Romanesque styles nudge each other . At noon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ library steps , the most popular meeting place on the campus . The library boasts a set ofmelodious bells which perform at noon every day of the term . The first time I heard them they were playing a selection from Oklahoma . At the foot of the steps were herds of colorful nymphets , looking like film extras milling around a stage Californian campus . Brought up on a balanced diet of Hollywood spectaculars I waited for these exotic creatures to throw themselves into a soft-shoe routine and chant to the chimes behind them . Unfortunately they merely dipped into brown paper bags containing sandwiches and fruit . The contrast between these creatures and the drab , black-stockinged undergraduettes of Oxford was powerful . Even when the coeds wore casual clothes they looked so elegant that I sometimes found it hard to realize that UCLA was primarily a place of learning . In class many of these coeds , wearing ribbons in their hair , relaxed in their seats , sucked Life Savers , chewed gum , or chain-smoked mentholated , denicotinized cigarettes . They were very honest about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they said , they wanted a degree but more than that they wanted to get a husband . Many of California 's luscious girls suffer some form of breakdown during their college career , which may be due to the clash between their scholastic work and the compulsive need to be seen as a sexy , potential wife . Some just concentrate on the wife part : a few concentrate on nothing but the work . The majority try to combine both roles . The neuro-psychiatric unit on campus was stocked with victims of this conflict . But at least no stigma is attached to mental illness . On the contrary , it is almost a sign of maturity . I knew girls who announced that they could not come to class because they had to pay their weekly visit to their psychiatrist ; they said this as if they were going to visit their hairdresser . I found such openness admirable after the narrow attitudes to be found in Britain where , too often , a neurotic is given the status of a criminal . The great fetish of UCLA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students arrive from their distant homes by car early in the morning and leave the campus early in the afternoon . For them , life 's main preoccupation is the Richard Gilbert , a Londoner , went to UCLA as a teaching assistant in history , after leaving Oxford in 1961 . His hook about his American experiences , " City of the Angels , " was published in England by Seeker and Warburg . He is now working for the Overseas Service of the BBC , and he revisited the U. S. at election time . search for a parking place . Huge parking ramps encircle the campus but these are inadequate to satisfy the extraordinary demand . This obsession seemed to me at first inexplicable . But an informal poll revealed that parking was by far the most controversial issue on the campus , ranking a long way ahead of fallout shelters , the Vietnam crisis , and state and national elections . I knew students whose whole academic career was determined by the lack of parking space . Since the chances of finding a spot were brighter in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference only to the hours the lectures began . For example , a course that involved attendance at lectures three times a week at 8 : 00 A.M. would be very popular with car drivers . The student could then cram the rest of his lectures into his timetable before twelve and could leave after lunch for his job . To supervise the mammoth task of parking , the campus employs special armed policemen who spend their waking hours giving students parking tickets and patrolling the many roads that dissect the campus . For Lack of a Good Bar M y first sight of UCLA in action was the hysterical period of registration for the fall semester . Before any student enrolls he has to pass the most rigorous medical examination he is ever likely to face ? unless he hopes to be an astronaut . Then undergraduates and graduates have to sign on for the courses which they hope to take . Some are compulsory ; most are left to the discretion of the student . But the mere expression of a wish to take a course in , say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each course can take only a fixed number of students . As a result , violence and even riots have accompanied the three days of registration . My first task was to accept applications for the course I was going to help to teach ? Introduction to the History of ' Western Civilization . I was told to reject the entreaties of anyone ? bejeaned Lolitas or barefoot beats ? who tried to get in after the quotas had been filled . Rejected students walked away dazed , mumbling , " This means I wo n't be able to graduate next semester . " Others poured out to me incantations about units , credits , and grades ? the liturgy of American higher education . Worse scenes were occurring at this time on the Berkeley campus . Students queued for over twenty-four hours for certain supremely popular courses . Outside the Physics Department ambulances had to be called to remove the victims of a riot during the registration for Dr. Edward Teller 's introductory course . Such zeal I found overwhelming ? a delightful contrast to the cultivated apathy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attractive . While nominally I was studying for a second degree . I was not dedicated to the pursuit of the elusive Ph.D . and teaching and scholastic loads were light enough to provide some leisure . On Fridays I headed with my colleagues for a scruffy bar called Rosey 's Red Banjo ? now defunct . This was the nearest bar to the university precincts , although it was over a mile from the campus . Beer was sold in large pitchers containing two or three pints . The floor was strewn with peanut husks , the walls decorated in imitation Toulouse-Lautrec style , flaunting the excesses of the Prohibition era . Dim lighting picked out long . bare wooden tables . From time to time a banjo band played hit songs of the ' twenties and ' thirties . There were rarely more than a dozen people there . On a Friday afternoon the clientele was drawn almost solely from the graduate population of UCLA . Teaching assistants took the opportunity of releasing their pent-up energy , and over pints of bad beer and bowls of stale pretzels they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to gather whether the participants enjoyed themselves or not , but there was something delightfully illicit in leaving a Los Angeles bar at six in the evening , beery and blissful , with the sun still blazing . The lack of any bars on campus contributed to the centrifugal attitude of the students who were forced to look beyond for meeting places . I always maintained that a huge bar within the grounds would have brought important changes to the whole community of UCLA . It would provide a focal point where students could daily in the evenings , where graduates could congregate far from the jingling jukebox in the Students ' Union cafeteria and where everyone ( of statutory age ) could enjoy refreshment a little stronger than a chocolate malt . I hope the next great philanthropist to the campus leaves provision for a bar in his will . UCLA provides an extraordinary variety of courses in sixty different faculties , yet it has resisted the temptation to become merely a convenient conveyor belt for the technologists and scientists who are in such urgent demand in Southern California . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lively Theater Arts department produces writers and actors who spurn the clutches of nearby Hollywood , The School of Music calls on the services of the many distinguished composers and musicians who have taken up residence in California . The science faculties are sprinkled with Nobel Prize winners . The School of Business Administration pours out trim executives versed in everything from sartorial elegance to expense-account dodges . The department of English contains a handful of the most brilliant teachers and lecturers I have come across anywhere . In my own department , History , undergraduate standards were frequently very high . At the graduate level , more and much better work was done than at most postgraduate centers in Britain . Lectures were informal and delivered with a sense of humor completely absent at Oxford . This was all the more surprising in view of the obstacles in the way of every teacher . The worst of them are summed up in the phrase , " Publish or perish . " A teacher can be a brilliant lecturer but if he does not churn out articles for The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then he is liable to be dismissed summarily . No teacher is given permanent tenure until he has completed the requirements for a Ph.D . This must be followed by a breaking-in period as an instructor at a less well known campus . Then comes an application to a leading university like California . A period of probation , a niche to be carved out , a reputation to be secured , writings to be published , involvement in departmental politics ? the inventory of duties is long and onerous . At the same time teachers have to comply with an array of maddening restrictions on their personal activities . At UCLA , citizens are still expected to sign an oath of loyalty to the government of California before they can be given permanent jobs . If the teacher survives these obstacles to success he can then indulge in his real function ? teaching . In a course like Introduction to Western Civilization the professor delivers an hour 's lecture twice a week . The six hundred students in the course are then divided into groups of thirty which meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss assigned books and any problems arising out of the lectures . My job was to conduct two of these sessions ? known , inaccurately , as quiz sections . When I opened the door of my classroom for the first time , instead of thirty docile students waiting to discuss " Western Civ. , " there were fifty , all demanding fawn-colored , punched IBMcards . These were the physical means of ensuring enrollment and when collected together marked the academic progress of every student . In my eagerness to please , I had put on that morning what can only be described as an imitation gamekeeper outfit . The combination of my accent and my appearance was sufficiently grotesque to allow me to impose some sort of equity from above . The twenty students I had to reject filed out of the room . Sweety-Pie Aristotle At exam time I learned the sad truth that Americans are at no stage in their career taught how to write . I mean this not only in the literary sense but also physically . The student who can type beautifully on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to paper for an hour or two in an examination . The lack of style , the misspelling , and the idiotic punctuation drove me to despair from which I was only rescued by the occasional discovery of first-rate answers and the odd remarks that were unintentionally funny . One student , for example , called Homer 's epic " The Achilliad . " Another wrote that " St. Augustine was illuminated by divine power . " ( I had to put the comment , " A.C. or D.C. ? " ) In an essay on the Song of Roland a girl wrote : " He charged in against the dragon relying on God to help him , and if he did n't , well that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " Another girl throughout her answers referred to " sweety-pie Aristotle . " " Identification " with the past is a major business for the American college student . One girl told me she was getting desperate in her reading of the Greek philosophers : " / ca n't identify with Plato . " Some phrases distinguished potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone who talked about the " crossfertilization " of cultures or the " charismatic authority " wielded by leaders or who casually introduced the word " symbiosis . " For these students ancient peoples were either adjusted or maladjusted to their environment ; their economies were always about to take off or to suffer recession . The textbooks were chiefly a series of paperhacks with titles like The Age of Adventure and The Age of Anxiety . These were read in that curious way Americans have of reading hooks . On every page about twelve lines are neatly underlined in ink . When this has been done throughout the book , it is considered read . In his first lecture on ' Western Civilization , Dr. William Hitchcock , the skillful and superbly fluent professor who conducted the course , gave out battle orders . Eating lunch during the lectures was forbidden ; smoking was not ; necking was discouraged . The seven teaching assistants sat at the back of the auditorium ? able to see the reactions of their six hundred charges . After each lecture the professor would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mysteries . " What is the difference between culture and civilization ? " " What is the existentialist crisis of modern man ? " " Why were the Romans different from the Greeks ? " The students ' ignorance of European history was encyclopedic ? almost as great as Europeans ' ignorance of American history . Discussions that began in the lecture room usually ended in one of the restaurants in the Students ' Union . This multimillion-dollar building looked like a cross between the Beverly Hilton and Macy 's . Patios , split-levels ? they were all there with vast auditoriums , smart restaurants , and self-service cafeterias . In game rooms , night and day , sweat-shirted teen-agers bowled or played pool , poker , or table tennis . The lower floors were occupied by an excellent bookstore , and departments to provide every necessity from rust-colored suits to class rings . In the Union cafeteria every Friday afternoon , there were twist sessions , In one corner of the large room , couples would be gyrating through this apocalyptic dance to music provided by the jukebox , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pizza and pie a-la-mode , read out portions of The Communist Manifesto to each other in preparation for a test on the following day . From a very tender age UCLA students are encouraged to think in terms of research . In addition to regular exams , undergraduates are expected to write " papers " each term . These are beautifully typed out and bound in folders with gilt clasps . The contents hardly deserved such lavish treatment . Of the sixty I received , most dealt with safe topics ? the Renaissance , Plato , or Napoleon . A few were shamelessly copied out of textbooks . A handful were original and exciting . Many students based their style on that of Time , Inc . . . . " Elizabeth ( Call me the Virgin ) Regina tapped her quill on the side of the oaken table and decided that much-married Mary Stuart must go . The problem ? How and when . " All the papers were heavily footnoted and a vast bibliography was provided to prove academic respectability . Yet despite the pretentiousness , this writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unfamiliarity , and if the students had to write papers more frequently and take fewer exams , the results would be greatly improved . Certainly the single most serious educational deficiency at UCLA is the obsession with grades ? an obsession that destroys originality , discourages unorthodoxy , and makes students approach their work with a gigantic fear of failure . When a British student fails an exam he feels he has let himself down ; when an American fails he feels he has let himself , his family , his fraternity , and his country down . The federal and state authorities do not improve matters by treating education as a national emergency . The nervous slogan , " Catch up with the Russians , " is a symptom of this attitude . The missile gap has been replaced by the graduate gap . Both are equally mythical . The exam system which goes with this grading tends to assume that there is a right and wrong answer to most questions . The best answer , accordingly , will be that incorporating the highest number of predetermined " points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to think of themselves as educated in spite of , and not because of , this system . Why Students Bug Out Wth its twenty thousand students , UCLA can offer a wide diversity of subjects and teachers . It can afford to buy the best equipment and provide all the necessary facilities . But its large size involves much administration , and the power of these administrators has serious dangers . Committees expand and the interests of the students become subordinated to bureaucracy . The main justification , for example , of the whole system of grading is that it makes life easier for the administrators . Again , the administration has assumed the responsibility of controlling policy about student government , discipline , and recreation . Like all bureaucrats they look with disfavor on the unorthodox and the eccentric . The conflict at Berkeley was basically about the overpowerful role of the administration which had interposed itself successfully between the students and the faculties . The inaccessibility of the administrators and their remoteness from the students fortified the arguments of the student leaders who attacked the concept of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose end-product is the manufactured graduate is in danger of taking grade-point averages more seriously than freedom of expressicin . The student strike which shocked so many people outside Berkeley was surely the appropriate action for those students and teachers who rejected the university as a factory . Withdrawal of labor is the last resort for factory workers with a grievance . One result of the events in the critical fall semester at Berkeley is a determination by many students and faculty members that the administration shall administer and do no more . As one professor said , " We on the faculty have allowed the administration , over the years , to take the university away from us . It is n't easy but we 're going to have to try to take it back . " Although the administration at UCLA is complex and large , it is still less cumbersome than at Berkeley . The administrators are more accessible to student leaders and less protected by anonymous committees , Here lies one explanation why UCLA has never experienced the type of crisis which almost brought Berkeley to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small percentage of high-school graduates who go to university , the different shape of courses and examinations , and the vestigial connections between universities and the government have all ensured that British university administrators are subordinated to faculty members . American university administrators have invented their own language to express what are basically simple ideas . At UCLA a glossary of these terms was circulated among the students . When the administration talks about " maximizing the use of intellectual tools , " this , according to the glossary , means " working hard . " " A self-governing society should accept restraints in the context of responsibility and the reading of the social climate " means : " We do n't want any Communist speakers on campus . " " We are enhancing the viability of the dialogue with students to reorient their attitudes to the concept of the university as a community " ? in other words , " Let 's discuss the location of the new swimming pool with a student committee . " " It is the responsibility of a great university to maintain , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire university community . " The translation of this would be : " Basketball theory will be included among the courses next semester . " Although most students grow to tolerate the heavy hand of the administration , some are so depressed that they give up . The drop-out rate from UCLA is no higher than anywhere else , but in some departments this can be as high as 25per cent . Many of these have failed their course work . But others are the brightest students who can stand no more of the system and , in their own phrase , bug out . Absent from Drill None of the political groups at UCLA are strong , and the professional student politician is much rarer than at Berkeley. * However , the nuclear facts of life are thrust before the students as if to remind them that doomsday is always around the corner . Dotted all over the six hundred acres of the campus are notices giving directions to the nearest evacuation areas and blast shelters . Sirens wail every month at a set time to check on their working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little notice explains how many minutes ' alert one is likely to receive in the event of an enemy attack . The campus authorities take their " disaster preparedness plan " very seriously . The civil-defense chief of the campus claimed that if " the Bomb fell on Royce Hall I-a central campus building no one at UCLA would be saved ; if it fell downtown all of us here could be saved . " Every campus building has an area where in theory the effects of a thermonuclear explosion can best be tolerated . In order to check on the university 's " preparedness , " the civil-defense teams hold . " take-cover " drills from time to time . The purpose of these is to move about 22,000 people to shelter areas in three or four minutes . During the one full " Lake-cover " drill I witnessed , few of the students moved , while two hundred of them ignored the sirens to picket the Administration Building in protest instead . No action was taken against them and the Dean of Students admitted generously that " no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being put on for their benefit . " In British universities there is no preparedness for nuclear disaster and the best advice that civil-defense workers can offer householders is to suggest that they whitewash their windows and put out fires caused by a nuclear explosion with a stirrup pump . Yet civil defense is a very peripheral concern for the Los Angeles student . It is as nothing corn- After the Berkeley uprising there were stirrings of protest at UCLA . Chancellor Murphy convened a **29;2169;TOOLONG group to discuss student " restlessness . " The chief cause , according to Peter Bart of the New York Times , was anger at " assembly-line education . " pared with what he really worries about . Will our Bruins beat the University of Southern California ? Will I get my paper on the Sociology of Rumors finished in time ? Will I get at least a B in the mid-term exam ? Will I be able to pin that chick at the fraternity party on Friday ? Will the bookstore have my books in yet ? Will I be able to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? If he is a graduate student , he is worrying about deeper problems . Does my seminar paper have enough footnotes ? What can 1 possibly choose as my Ph.D . subject which has n't already been investigated ? When are they going to build houses for married students ? Can I afford to keep us both on this teaching assistant 's salary much longer ? When are they going to take the Muzak out of the Students ' Bookstore ? Where the hell am I going to park ? More But Not Worse When I first arrived and digested some of my earliest shocks I wondered if UCLA could be a serious academic community . I soon discovered that the answer to this question was Yes . At first I laughed at the Lolitas in sprayed-on jeans and the blond surf-riders . Certainly I was disappointed at the apathy of UCLA students toward political issues and the painful contrast with the seething activity at Berkeley . Often I was bewildered by the search for Instant Education and its recipe for success : mix forty different courses in a receptive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Existentialism , brew intermittently for four years , skim off surplus nonconformism , and the result is an unpolluted B.A. degree . But at the end of my time in California I was convinced that , for all its defects , the system of higher education there had more advantages than the British system . University education in California has different goals from its counterpart in Britain , where the expansion of universities is always met with stiff resistance from the " more means worse " school of thought . The California system , on the other hand , is appropriately superior to that of every other state in the Union ? appropriate , that is , for the Number One State . There are a quarter of a million full-time students in California . Fifty per cent of all California 's high-school students go on to college-20 per cent above the average elsewhere in the country . The state supports not only the nine campuses of the IJniverby sity of California but also sixteen other state colleges and seventy two-year or junior colleges which offer both the curriculum of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students who do not want to go any further academically . As the population and wealth of California have increased , so has the state expenditure on education . But requirements for admission to the state 's university are rigorous ; only the top 12 per cent of high-school graduates are admitted . The remainder who want to have a university education either go to the other state and junior colleges or to private colleges . The elaborate structure of higher education in California is based on a report that became law in 1960 . This was the Master Plan for Higher Education . The most interesting result of the plan is that it attempts to cope with the problem of quantity as well as quality in higher education . British critics of American universities always smile as you tick off the facts and figures of the American system . " Ah , yes , " they drawl , " the Americans have solved the problem of quantity ? but only at the cost of quality . " This dichotomy set up between quantity and quality assumes that a society can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people much less well but that it can not do both . California is attempting to do both , and surely no modern society has any choice but to aim to achieve the same ends , if by different means . Yet expansion for expansion 's sake is of no value if these ends are sacrificed to the means . This is the nub of the University of California 's problems . Educating a thousand students is difficult enough ; educating twenty thousand on a single campus is a Herculean task . In these conditions the provision of higher education is seriously impeded if power and authority inside the university slide into the wrong hands , away from what has been called " the community of scholars . " President Kerr himself has admitted that " the multiversity is a confusing place for the student . He has problems of establishing his identity . . . The walking wounded are many . " In Britain higher education is on the verge of important expansion along lines laid down by the Robbins Report on universities . The University of California will serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see simultaneously the impressive advantages and the distressing deficiencies of a giant-size university . In this way they might learn to incorporate the former and steer clear of the latter when planning new universities in Britain .                     