@@274425

Homosexuals-perhaps as many as 12 million American men and women - are one of the nation 's most despised and harassed minority groups . A poll taken for CBS-TV not long ago revealed that two out of three Americans look on homosexuals with disgust , discomfort or fear , and one out of ten regards them with outright hatred . A majority considers homosexuality more dangerous to society than abortion , adultery or prostitution . Society 's hostility toward the homosexual-particularly the male - leaves him wide open to blackmail and job discrimination . Police , concentrating more on attempting to control homosexuals than those who prey on them , often resort to such quasi-legal and demeaning tactics as entrapment . The stresses of living hidden lives create in homosexuals a high incidence of anxiety and other psychological problems . <P> Injustice and Suffering . A far-reaching report on homosexuality for the Federal Government 's National Institute of Mental Health , released this week , maintains that such hostility is unjustified by any dangers that homosexuality may pose for society . The 14-member task force that prepared the report was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compassionate psychologist who is one of the nation 's most distinguished researchers in the field . A majority of the panel , which included psychiatrists , sociologists , anthropologists , lawyers and a theologian , urges states to abolish the laws that make homosexual intercourse a crime for consenting adults in private . More controversially , their report recommends that government and private employers " reassess " their current standards and implies that they should hire homosexuals who can pass normal screening procedures . ( A three-man minority of the task force dissents , saying that research is still insufficient for making policy judgments . ) The report is the first by any group under U.S. Government auspices to take this stance . <P> Says the report : " The extreme opprobrium that our society has attached to homosexual behavior has done more social harm than good , and goes beyond what is necessary for the maintenance of public order and human decency . Homosexuality presents a major problem for our society largely because of the amount of injustice and suffering entailed in it , not only for the homosexual but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report comes at a time when homosexuals are more visible and assertive than ever-in films and plays that explicitly depict their private lives and in public organizations that militate for their civil rights . Still , the report notes , parents who find out that their child is a homosexual or a lesbian almost inevitably suffer , fearing that they are somehow guilty of a tragic failure . <P> The task force notes that " misinformation abounds . " The " homosexual orientation " is not a ground for despair . Endorsing the findings of pioneering research that have accumulated in the past two decades , the group says that " many homosexuals are good citizens , holding regular jobs and leading productive lives . " Psychiatric treatment permits about 30% of adults who seek help to enjoy a normal sex life . An even larger percentage of children who are incipient homosexuals can be reached in time to avoid the condition entirely .                     