@@245308

South America 's two biggest democracies , Argentina and Brazil , last week were courting South America 's last dictator-General Alfredo Stroessner of cattle-raising Paraguay ( pop . 1,700,000 ) . In Stroessner 's capital of Asuncion , Argentine delegations promised to expedite Paraguay shipping to Argentine ports on the lower Parana River , and planned joint harnessing of a waterfall . Brazil had a military , economic and cultural cooperation drive going . Its Foreign Minister , Horacio Lafer , calls Stroessner 's regime " one of peace and progress . " <P> The cordiality was not for love of Stroessner . It came , rather , from 1 ) the historic tug of influence by Argentina and Brazil over the landlocked neighbor between them , arid 2 ) a hardheaded decision by both against helping Fidel Castro-style rebels seize power in Paraguay . <P> German-descended Artillery Officer Stroessner , 47 , grabbed power in Paraguay six years ago and has ruled since by blackjack and gun butt . With his powerful neighbors , his policy has been the historic Paraguayan strategy of playing one against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Argentine Dictator Juan Pern in 1953 offered an " economic integration " treaty , Stroessner ( then all-powerful army chief ) gave preference to Argentina . Pern was toppled in 1955 ( he took exile in Paraguay at first ) , and Argentina 's succeeding revolutionary regime turned on a cold war . Stroessner promptly let himself be lured into Brazil 's sphere . <P> Fast-moving Brazil has since built a bridge across the upper Parana , the border river , at the great Iguagu Falls , thus giving Paraguay its first direct highway route to the Atlantic . It has financed highways inside Paraguay and has given Stroessner free port facilities on the ocean . ' Brazil 's army has trained some of Stroessner 's army officers , supplied him with castoff arms and 14 trainers converted to fighter planes that are permitted to fly from Brazilian bases if there is revolution in Paraguay . In turn , Brazilians got from Paraguay a bank branch , a 10-million-acre oil concession , a 780,000-acre coffee plantation that grows a full one-third of Paraguay 's crop , plus other valuable concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exiles live , opposed Paraguay . Violently anti-Pern Argentine army officers armed exiles who in the last two years have repeatedly crossed the river in bloody attempts to topple Stroessner . But two months ago Argentine officers were shown intelligence reports that Cubans and Russians were financing some factions of the 20,000-man Argentine-based exile army . Army Commander General Carlos Toranzo Montero ordered a halt in aid and comfort to them . In an about-face , the Argentine army snatched back guns and planes from guerrillas , and last week Argentina signed a document pledging " harmonious relations in border areas . "                     