@@246202

In four scattered locations across the U.S. last week , terror struck suddenly . Floating half submerged in a tiny Fairfax County , Va. , stream , the nude body of Marta Santa Cruz , 22 , was discovered by two teenagers . Marta had apparently been raped , then strangled . Her hands and feet were bound , and flesh scrapings found under her fingernails indicated a desperate struggle with her attacker . Daughter of a retired Bolivian army colonel . Marta worked as a clerk-typist at the Washington , D.C. Hospital Center , was a frequent guest at parties given by Bolivia 's Ambassador Victor Andrade . In North Buffalo . N.Y .. frightened parents confiscated their children 's bikes , Bible-class attendance dwindled , and one cautious housewife locked all three doors to her house , kept the key on a chain around her neck . The town had been terrified by the brutal drowning of blond Andrew Ashley , 3 , who was found floating in the nearby Delaware Park lake , hands and feet tied with nylon stockings . Recalling two similar but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months , a local psychiatrist concluded . " This is the reaction of a person who has become extremely jealous , perhaps as a result of the loss of her own child . " But when police finally picked up a likely suspect , the jealous woman turned out to be a disturbed teenager . Chyrel Jolls. 15 , was twice questioned and released , then arrested a third time last week when a rambling diary found in her home contained allusions to the Ashley kidnaping . But at week 's end , although Chyrel confessed to abducting the Ashley child , police had not yet charged her with murder , and North Buffalo parents were still not sure the streets were safe . Summoned to the neat red brick bungalow of Mrs. Delette Nycum , Charlotte , N.C. , police were met at the door by 14-year-old Richard Nycum , who silently led them to his mother 's bedroom . There they found the 39-year-old divorcee dead , her body blotched with 251 bruises . While they questioned Richard , Charlotte Millionaire George King Cutter , 48 , drove up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Cutter , a real estate developer , admitted that he had spent the previous evening with plump , attractive Mrs. Nycum aboard a converted Post Office bus ( complete with bar , bath and bedroom ) that he kept parked in an abandoned Army warehouse on the grounds of Charlotte Municipal Airport . Cutter said he had slapped Mrs. Nycum , but insisted that he had not killed her . An autopsy left the cause of death in doubt and failed to establish whether Mrs. Nycum had died before or after her beatingk but police charged Cutter with murder .                     