@@488193

The war in Vietnam drags on . Vietnamese and Americans are killed as usual , American fighting men , money and supplies keep pouring into the country . But this war of small engagements , in which the dead are just as dead as if they had died at the Marne ; of ambushes , of urban riots , of futile efforts to " pacify " the countryside  --  there are signs that this war is coming to an end . It may be followed by something worse , , but , better or worse , it can not go on in the present form much longer . One signal is what Winston Churchill called " the neuroses of defeat , " by which he meant internecine ' warfare among the losers . For a year or more South Vietnam has not had a cohesive government , one that could pretend to hold the allegiance of a substantial majority of the people . The country has staggered through a succession of coups , reverse coups , demonstrations and counter-demonstrations , plots and counterplots . The only effective farce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid , but the army itself is increasingly riven , and now there are reports in the news weeklies that the planning and intelligence sections of the army have been penetrated by the Vietcong . Before ' Chiang Kai-shek 's flight to Formosa , that is what happened in China . Another symptom is that a government begins to grasp at straws . " U.S To Bid SEATO To Help Saigon More " is the caption of a dispatch to The New York Times ( October 14 ) SEATO is a synthetic , militarily impotent coalition put together by John Foster Dulles . It has never been much more than a consultative body . Washington lists some of the things SEATO has done for South Vietnam : Britain sent some steam rollers and graders ; Australia ' supplied sixty military advisers , twenty economists and some transport aircraft and crews ; the Philippines contributed a medical and technical team of about thirty persons . Thailand 's offering has been materials ; in particular , tin roofing and cement . The United States has some 20,000 fighting men in Routh Vietnam . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspect that either our people have lost their minds , or that they have given up hope of victory and are merely going through the motions of getting token help . If a government is functioning , it can at least ' hold its capital : the Nazis held Berlin almost to the end . The ' government of South Vietnam has only tenuous control of ' Saigon . Skirmishes take place almost daily on the ' outskirts . If it were not for the American presence , the Vietcong would be openly in the streets . A pertinent question in such a situation is : What are the insiders doing ? The rich are usually better informed than the poor , and they have the wherewithal to do what seems prudent . The rich are leaving Vietnam . Flights to Europe are booked for weeks in ' advanceand one airline is reported to be adding to its fleet . There was a similar exodus in 1954 , before the French ' capitulated to the Viet Minh . Not only are the rich getting out while the getting is good , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice life savings for a plane ticket to Europe and subsequent living allowances . An official at the Saigon airport ' remarked on the bad psychological effect , adding , " I 'd go myself if I could , but I 'm too old to pull up stakes now " Such are the signs and portents . If the curtain is coming down , the next President of the United States will have some crucial decisions to make . The Silent Vote It exists . No one knows how big it is , but one thing is sure  --  it is for Goldwater . The people who are going to vote ' or Johnson make no bones about it They tell you , and they tell the poll takers . The Goldwater enthusiasts are vocal likewise . The group to be concerned about , at this stage of the election , is composed of Goldwater voters who are not talking , or who have not yet decided , but who will decide in favor of Goldwater . There are numerous reasons for the Democrats to begin running somewhat scared ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the way to be sure he wo n't is to assume that he can . He has an efficient organization behind him , which is more than , cari be said ? for the Democrats . How efficient Goldwater 's organization is the Republican convention showed Partly because Johnson looks like the winner , his supporters lack the dedication of the pre-convention Goldwaterites . Or call it fanaticism  --  but fanaticism is not to be despised in an American election which is , and always has been , an emotional affair . Americans love a winner ; but there is also some sentiment for the probable loser . Beware the underdog is a safe motto The comparisons with Dewey-Truman are probably not apposite , but it would be wise to treat them as if they were . In 1948 there was still a sizable amount of vaguely left-wing sentiment in the country . Henry Wallace would probably have got several million votes , instead of only one million , if his supporters had not grown alarmed in the last few days of the campaign and decided to play it safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarmed about the future of the two-party system . They do not want the ' Republican Party to be ' disastrously weakened . It may be argued that the way to rehabilitate the Republican Party is to send Goldwater down to a disastrous defeat , but these voters may think otherwise . For many simple-minded voters  --  the term is not intended invidiously ? Goldwater has strong ' appeal . Most people , women perhaps more than men , do not take a technical view of politics . It is probable that Americans who understand the fine points of baseball or horse racing Tar outnumber those with a professional or sophisticated interest in politics . The background , motivation and reasoning of the person who pulls the lever does not register . One vote has the same value as another . It would not be wise to lay too ' much stress on Goldwater 's howlers ; they may get him as many votes as they cost him . He has still another appeal . In the midst of prosperity , millions of Americans are plagued by anxiety and frustration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their rise to middle-class status . These whites felt much more comfortable when the Negro knew his place . The Negro vote will go to Johnson , but are n't there more than 5 million whites who will vote against someone or something , in the traditional way ? Goldwater can count on the racist element among them . Mr. Johnson , Mr. Humphrey and every progressive down to the precinct level should take these factors into account and redouble their efforts from now to November 3. - Aerospace Politics When General Eisenhower complained recently that he was unable to discern the issues in this Presidential campaign , he was not in a position to pinpoint the reason  --  which , is that Senator Goldwater has pitched his appeal on nostalgia , fear and distortion , flavored with wisecracks . A particularly blatant instance of distortion was Goldwater 's attempt to wipe out the distinedon between nuclear and conventional explesives . When that boomeranged , he fell back on the tactic of portraying himself as a man of peace ( but strong ) while accusing Mr. Johnson of being soft on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy . When the Russians orbited their three-man Voskhod , Goldwater , termed it " shocking news . " It was all Johnson 's fault , and John F Kennedy 's before him Gold-water 's memory is conveniently short . The United States fell behind in the moon race before 1957 , when the Soviets launched their first Sputnik and the retired steelmaster Clarence B. Randall , who was a sort of science adviser to President Eisenhower before the scientists got into the picture , referred to it as " that basketball in the sky . " What really agitates Goldwater , however , is not the Soviet lunar lead but the **26;1950;TOOLONG disinclination to turn " near space " over to the Air Force . All the manned orbital flights so far , both U S. and Soviet , have been at altitudes between 100 and 250 miles , and that is where Goldwater wants to fight . Not only to carry on reconnaissance , but to bomb and intercept . " The nation that commands near space , " he assures us , " could , after developing proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That nation , and its adversary , would be more likely to depopulate the earth than to dominate it if Gold-water 's fantasies ever came true ( see " Barry in Space , " The Nation , September 14 ) . If a balance of terror is the best we can hope for , the sensible course is the one the last three administrations have followed  --  a multi-262 plicity of hidden or hardened weapons of about one megaton caliber . Only a wealthy nation can afford such a system . The Russians have little choice but to put part of their investment into very large bombs-50 megatons and up  --  which can ' be delivered with the large boosters they have developed for both-bambing and space travel and which , as far as is known , we are developing for space travel alone . In both countries , the people in charge of these matters are committed to surface-to-surface missiles for delivery . Only Goldwater dissents . An unfortunate feature of aerospace politicking is that , by a kind of technological Gresham 's law , bad arguments tend to drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's charlatanry , President Johnson and Secretary McNamara have resorted to some injudicious claims of their own . The A-11 aircraft was first unveiled by ' LBJ in March . It looked fine for reconnaissance . Recently , rechristened the YF-12A and painted U-2 black , it was exhibited to the press as a super-performance interceptor . In his . speech before the American Legion , Mr. McNamara also extolled , it as a bomber His purpose was to counter Goldwater 's insistence that a fleet of follow-on bombers is the sine qua non of aerial defense ( and Soviet emasculation , which Goldwater regards as feasible ) . The YF-12A is the creation of Clarence L. ( Kelly ) Johnson of Lockheed , one of America 's leading designers and , not accidentally , a founder and national committee member of Scientists , Engineers and Physicians for Johnson-Humphrey Not even Kelly Johnson can design one aircraft that will do everything . It would be best to leave bombast and exaggeration to Senator Goldwater . Throwing the Bone The constant temptation for police and prosecuting attorneys to take over the rale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this month when Miami authorities admitted that they had made a deal with a college boy named Joe Gebhardt not to try ' him for murder if he would tell all about how he and a chum named Richard Worthington had killed Worthington 's parents . Gebhardt agreed . He now has full immunity . Officials said that they made the deal with Gebhardt instead of Worthington because they did n't want to set Worthington free to inherit his parents ' estate . It is bad enough when police surrender the investigative , job they are paid to perform for the much easier solution that assures one conviction at the cost of turning an equally guilty party free , it is worse when they admit that they encouraged one of the suspects to talk , rather than the other , because they favored one over the other . Assuming , as it is safe to assume , that either of these boys would have gladly told all rather than face the chair , the Miami officials have clearly made a life or death selection  --  without trial . The excuse for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes criminals leery of alliances . It is supposed to raise in a criminal 's mind the restraining thought , " If I gang up with him , he may rat on me The NATION later to save his- own neck . " The Florida Supreme Court in 1939 supported this reasoning with the opinion : " While such a course offers a premium to treachery and sometimes permits the more guilty to escape , it tends'to prevent and break up combinations by making criminals suspicious of each other . " The thundering illogic of this argument is that a criminal , teaming up with another , could just as easily entertain the comforting thought , " It 's all right to pull this crime with him because if we get caught I 'll squeal first and get off . " The tattlers-go-free kind of justice that occurred in Miami is repeated in every major city and at every level of crime . Police and prosecutors all over the country do this sort of thing every day . Officers of the court call it , with droll exactness , " throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , by people who do not look upon defendants as dogs . The Proper Study of Mankind Richard Bellinan , a nationally known scientist-mathematician employed by the RAND Corporation , has little patience with superstition and shibboleth , leak of all when these are propagated by his own profession . In April , discussing the reputed shortage of engineers ( which always seems to be retreatinginto the future while appreciable numbers of today 's engineers are looking for work ) , Bellman referred to " foolish men making predictions on the basis of irrelevant statistics " In June , expressing equally personal views on " Magic , Mathematics and ' Mystery " before the Joint Automatic Control Committee , he asked what are the goals of our society , what should these goals be ? More space travel and linear accelerators , consuming more billions of a limited national product ? Excessive concentration on such sanctified objectives is , in Bellman'sopinion , a. deplorable asceticism , and he pleads for a revaluation in terms of the health , wealth , welfare and happiness of human beings Vannevar Bush remarked a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would choose biology ; Bellman likewise notes that the new frontiers of science are in biology and medicine . The major control problems of medicine , in particular , are several orders of magnitude more difficult than ' those encountered in engineering and applied mathematics . This makes things tough in the study and cure of cancer , nervous disorders , mental illness and the like , yet there is no excuse for not making a greater effort to obtain partial control now on the basis of the understanding we have , or that would come within reach if we gave it a higher priority . The utmost challenge is not in sending men to the moon , but in such puzzles as the reproductive capacity of the single cell , the memory storage of the brain , the operation of the nervous system , the bases of intelligence and creativity , etc . " Observe , " Belhnan enjoins us , " that these are all problems within the domain of control theory . Furthermore , any hint towards their solution would have tremendous impact not only upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon all of the remaining part of the scientific world , and indeed upon all the world , " Criticism of science and technology by outsiders is often out of place . Many of these critics , however well intentioned , literally do n't know what they are talking about . Bellman knows . In all good conscience , scientists and those who finance science ( mostly with other people 's money ) must give saber consideration to his strictures . Heeding them would raise ether problems , such as different goals in education , but these are not insuperable It is because our national objectives are largely misdirected that our society shows increasing instability . The remedy may be difficult , but troubles are not cured by ignoring their causes . .                     