@@490654

REFLECTIONS TRUTH AND POLITICS THE subject of these reflections , the antithesis of truth and politics , is a commonplace . No one has ever doubted that truth and politics arc on rather bad terms with each other , and no one , as far as I know , has ever counted truthfulness among the political virtues . Lies have always been regarded as necessary and justifiable tools not only of the politician 's or the demagogue 's but also of the statesman 's trade . Why is that so ? And what does it mean for the nature and the dignity of the political realm , on the one side , and for the nature and the dignity of truth and truthfulness , on the other ? Is it of the very essence of truth to he impotent and of power to be deceitful ? And what kind of reality does truth possess if it is powerless in the public realm , which more than any other sphere of human life guarantees reality of existence to natal and mortal men  --  that is , to beings who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a short while , again disappear into it ? Finally , is not impotent truth just as despicable as power that gives no heed to truth ? Those arc uncomfortable questions , but they arise necessarily out of our current convictions in this matter . What lends this commonplace its high plausibility can still be summed up in the old . Latin adage " Fiat iiistifia , et pereat muntiiis " ( " Let justice be done and lot the world perish " ) . Apart from its probable author in the sixteenth century ( Ferdinand I , successor to Charles V ) , no one has used it except as a rhetorical question : Should justice be done if the world 's survival is at stake ? The only great thinker who dared to go against the grain of the question was Immanuel Kant , who boldly explained that the " proverbial saying ... means in simple language : Justice shall prevail , even though all the rascals in the world should perish as a result . ' " Since men would not find it worthwhile to live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right must be hold sacred , regardless of how much sacrifice is required of the powers that be ... regardless of what might he the physical consequences thereof . " But is n't this answer absurd ? Does n't the care for existence clearly precede everything else  --  every virtue and every principle ? Is it not obvious that they become mere chimeras if the world , where alone they can be manifested , is in jeopardy ? Was n't the seventeenth century right when it almost unanimously declared that every commonwealth was duty bound to recognize , in Spinoza 's words , " no higher law than the safety of its own realm ? " For surely every principle that transcends sheer existence can be put in the place of justice , and if we put truth in its place ? " Fiat veritas , et pereat munrit45 " ? the old saying sounds even more plausible . If we understand political action in terms of the means-end category , we may even come to the only seemingly paradoxical conclusion that lying can very well serve to establish or safeguard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose relentless logic never fails to carry arguments to those extremes where their absurdity becomes obvious , pointed out long ago . And lies , since they are often used as substitutes for more violent means , are apt to he considered relatively harmless tools in the arsenal of political action . To anyone reconsidering the old Latin saying , it will therefore come as something of a surprise that the sacrifice of truth for the survival of the world would he more futile than the sacrifice of any other principle or virtue . For while we may refuse even to ask ourselves whether life would still he worth living in a world deprived of such notions as justice and freedom , the same , curiously , is not possible with respect to the seemingly so much less political idea of truth . What is at stake is survival , the perseverance in existence ( in sue esse prrseverare ) , and no human world , destined to outlast the short life span of mortals within it , will ever be able to survive without men willing to do what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , legrin to eonta , to say what is . No permanence , no perseverance in existence , can even he conceived of without men willing to testify to what is and appears to them because it is . The story of the conflict between truth and politics is an old and complicated one , and nothing would he gained by simplification or moral denunciation . Throughout history , the truth-seekers and truthtellers have been aware of the risks of their business ; as long as they did not interfere with the course of the world , they were covered with ridicule , but he who forced his fellow-citizens to take him seriously by trying to set them free from falsehood and illusion was in danger of his life : " If they could lay hands on such a man ... they would kill him , " Plato says in the last sentence of the cave allegory . The Platonic conflict between truthteller and citizens can not he explained by the Latin adage , or any of the later theories that , implicitly or explicitly , justify lying , among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stake . No enemy is mentioned in Plato 's story ; the many live peacefully in their cave among themselves , mere spectators of images , involved in no action and hence threatened by nobody . The members of this community have no reason whatever to regard truth and truthtellers as their worst enemies , and Plato offers no explanation of their perverse love of deception and falsehood . If we could confront him with one of his later colleagues in political philosophy  --  namely , with Hobbes , who held that only " such truth , as opposeth no man 's profit , nor pleasure , is to all men welcome " ( an obvious statement , which , however , he thought important enough to end his " Leviathan " with ) ? he might agree about profit and pleasure but not with the assertion that there existed any kind of truth welcome to alI men . Hobbes , but not Plato , consoled himself with the existence of indifferent truth , with " subjects " about which " men care not " ? e.g. , with mathematical truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " crosses no man 's ambition , profit or lust . " For , Hobbes wrote , " I doubt not , but if it had been a thing contrary to any man 's right of dominion , or to the interest of men that have dominion , that the three angles of a triangle should he equal to two angles of a square ; that doctrine should have been , if not disputed , yet by the burning of all books of geometry , suppressed , as far as he whom it concerned was able . " No doubt , there is a decisive difference between Hobbes ' mathematical axiom and the true standard for human conduct that Plato 's philosopher is supposed to bring hack from his journey unto the sky of ideas , although Plato , who believed that mathematical truth opened the eyes of the mind to all truths , was not aware of it . Viol- ) es ' example strikes us as relatively harmless ; we are inclined to assume that the human mind will always he able to reproduce such axiomatic statements as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two angles of a square , " and we conclude that " the burning of all books of geometry " would not he radically effective . The danger would be considerably greater with respect to scientific statements ; had history taken a different turn , the whole modern scientific development from Galileo to Einstein might not have come to pass . And certainly the most vulnerable truth of this kind would be those highly differentiated and always unique thought trains  --  of which Plato 's doctrine of ideas is an eminent example  --  whereby men , since time immemorial , have tried to think rationally beyond the limits of human knowledge . In the modern age , which helieves that truth is neither given to nor disclosed to but produced by the human mind , Lcibniz assigned mathematical , scientific , and philosophical truths to the common species of rational truth as distinguished from factual truth . I shall use this distinction for convenience 's sake without discussing its intrinsic legitimacy . Wanting to find out what injury political power is capable of inflicting upon truth , we look into these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can afford to disregard the question of what truth is , and he content to take the word in the sense in which men commonly understand it . And if we now think of factual truths  --  of such modest verities as the role during the Russian Revolution of a man by the name of Trotsky , who appears in none of the Soviet Russian history books  --  we at once become aware of how much more vulnerable they are than all the kinds of rational truth taken together . Moreover , since facts and events  --  the invariable outcome of men living and acting together  --  constitute the very texture of the political realm , it is , of course , factual truth that we are most concerned with here . Dominion ( to speak Hobbes ' language ) when it attacks rational truth oversteps , as it were , its domain , while it gives battle on its own ground when it falsifies or lies away facts . The chances of factual truth 's surviving the onslaught of power are very slim indeed ; it is always in danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time hut , potentially , forever . Facts and events are infinitely more fragile things than axioms , discoveries , theories  --  even the most wildly speculative ones  --  produced by the human mind ; they occur in the field of the ever-changing affairs of men , in whose flux there is nothing more permanent than the admittedly relative permanence of the human mind 's structure . Once they are lust , no rational effort will ever bring them back . Perhaps the chances that Euclidean mathematics or Einstein 's theory of relativity  --  let alone Plato 's philosophy  --  would have been reproduced in time if their authors had been prevented from handing them down to posterity arc not very good either , yet they are infinitely better than the chances that a fact of importance , forgotten or , more likely , lied away , will one day be rediscovered . ALTHOUGH the politically most relevant truths are factual , the conflict between truth and politics was first discovered and articulated with respect to rational truth . The opposite of a rationally true statement is either error and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion , as in philosophy . Deliberate falsehood , the plain lie , plays its role only in the domain of factual statements , and it seems significant , and rather odd , that in the long debate about this antagonism of truth and politics , from Plato to Hobbes , no one , apparently , ever believed that organized lying , as we know it today , could he an adequate weapon against truth . In Plato , the truthteller is in danger of his life , and in Hobbes , where he has become an author , he is threatened with the burning of his hooks ; mere mendacity is not an issue . It is the sophist and the ignoramus rather than the liar who occupy Plato 's thought , and where he distinguishes between error and lie that is , between " involuntary and voluntary pseudos " ? he is , characteristically , much harsher on people " wallowing in swinish ignorance " than on liars . Is this because organized lying , dominating the public realm , as distinguished from the private liar who tries his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or has this something to do with the striking fact that , except for Zoroastrianism , none of the major religions included lying as such in their catalogues of grave sins ? Only with the rise of Puritan morality , coinciding with the rise of organized science , whose progress had to be assured on the firm ground of the absolute veracity and reliability of every scientist , were lies considered serious offenses . However that may be , historically the conflict between truth and politics arose out of two diametrically opposed ways of life  --  the life of the philosopher , as interpreted first by Parmenides and then by Plato , and the way of life of the citizen . To the citizens ' ever-changing opinions about human affairs , which themselves were in a state of constant Aux , the philosopher opposed the truth about those things which in their very nature were everlasting and from which , therefore , principles could he derived to stabilize human affairs . Hence the opposite to truth was mere opinion , which was equated with Muslim , and it was this degrading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for opinion , and not truth , belongs among the indispensable prerequisites of all power . " All governments rest on opinion , " James Madison said , and not even the most autocratic ruler or tyrant could ever rise to power , let alone keep it , without the support of those who are like-minded . By the same token , every claim in the sphere of human affairs to an absolute truth , whose validity needs no support from the side of opinion , strikes at the very roots of all politics and all governments . This antagonism between truth and opinion was further elaborated by Plato ( especially in the " Gnrgias " ) as the antagonism between communicating in the form of " dialogue , " which is the adequate speech for philosophical truth , and in the form of " rhetoric , " by which the demagogue , as we would say today , persuades the multitude . Traces of this original conflict can still be found in the earlier stages of the modern age , though hardly in the world we live in . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition of two " contrary faculties " : " solid reasoning " and " powerful eloquence , " the former being " grounded upon principles of truth , the other upon opinions ... and the passions and interests of men , which are different and mutable . " More than a century later , in the Age of Enlightenment , these traces have almost but not quite disappeared , and where the ancient antagonism still survives , the emphasis has shifted . In terms of pre-modern philosophy , Lessing 's magnificent " Lylet- sage was ihni IVahncuit diinkt , and die TVahrheit cabs , sti Gott eeripfohlcn " ( " Let each man say what seems to him true , and let 's leave truth itself safely in God 's hands " ) would have plainly signified , Man is not capable of truth , all his troths , alas , being doxai , mere opinions , whereas for Lessing it meant , on the contrary , Let us thank God that we do n't know the truth . Even where the note of jubilation  --  the insight that for men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discourse is infinitely more signifi cant and meaningful than any One Truth could ever be  --  is absent , the awareness of the frailty of human reason has prevailed since the eighteenth century without giving rise to complaint or lamentation . We can find it in Kant 's grandiose " Critique of Pure Reason , " in which reason is led to recognize its own limitations , as we hear it in the words of Madison , who more than once stressed that " the reason of man , like man himself , is timid and cautious when left alone , and acquires firmness and confidence in proportion to the number with which it is associated . " Considerations of this kind , much more than notions about the individual 's right to self-expression , played a decisive part in the finally more or less successful struggle to obtain freedom of thought for the spoken and the printed word . Thus Spinoza , who still believed in the infallibility of human reason and is often wrongly praised as a champion of free thought and speech , held that " every man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughts , " that " every man 's understanding is his own , and that brains are as diverse as palates , " from which he concluded that " it is best to grant what can not he abolished " and that laws prohibiting free thought can only result in " men thinking one thing and saying another , " hence in " the corruption of good faith " and " the fostering of perfidy . " However , Spinoza nowhere demands freedom of speech , and the argument that human reason needs communication with others and therefore publicity for its own sake is conspicuous by its absence . He even counts man 's need for communication , his inability to hide his thoughts and keep silent , among the " common failings " that the philosopher does not share . Kant , on the contrary , stated that " the external power that deprivesman of the freedom to communicate his thoughts publicly , deprives him at the same time of his freedom to think " ( italics added ) , and that the only guarantee for " the correctness " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it were , in community with others to whom we communicate our thoughts as they communicate theirs to us . " Man 's reason , being fallible , can function only if he can make " public use " of it , and this is equally true for those who , still in a state of " tutelage , " are unable to use their mind " without the guidance of somebody else " and for the " scholar , " who needs " the entire reading public " to examine and control his results . In this context , the question of numbers , mentioned by Madison , is of special importance . The shift from rational truth to opinion implies a shift from man in the singular to men in the plural , and this means a shift from a domain where , Madison says , nothing counts except the " solid reasoning " of one mind to a realm where " strength of opinion " is determined by the individual 's reliance upon " the number which he supposes to have entertained the same opinions " ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one 's contemporaries . Madison still distinguishes this life in the plural , which is the life of the citizen , from the life of the philosopher , by whom such considerations " ought to be disregarded , " but this distinction has no practical consequence , for " a nation of philosophers is as little to be expected as the philosophical race of kings wished for by Plato . " We may note in passing that the very notion of " a nation of philosophers " would have been a contradiction in terms for Plato , whose whole political philosophy , including its outspoken tyrannical traits , rests on the conviction that truth can he neither gained nor communicated among the many . In the world we live in , the last traces of this ancient antagonism between the philosopher 's truth and the opinions in the marketplace have disappeared . Neither the truth of revealed religion , which the political thinkers of the seventeenth century still treated as a major nuisance , nor the truth of the philosopher , disclosed to man in solitude , interferes any longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the former , the separation of Church and State has given us peace , and as to the latter , it ceased long ago to daitn dominion  --  unless one takes the modern ideologies seriously as philosophies , which is difficult indeed , since their adherents openly proclaim them to be political weapons and consider the whole question of truth and truthfulness irrelevant . Thinking in terms of the tradition , one may feel entitled to conclude from this state of affairs that the old conflict has finally been settled , and especially that its original cause , the clash of rational truth and opinion , has disappeared . Strangely , however , this is not the case , for the clash of factual truth and politics , which we witness today on such a large scale , has -- in some respects , at least  --  very similar traits . While probably no former time tolerated so many diverse opinions on religious or philosophical matters , factual truth , if it happens to oppose a given group 's profit or pleasure , is greeted today with greater hostility than ever before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every government must classify certain information  --  withhold it from public notice and he who reveals authentic secrets has always been treated as a traitor . With this I am not concerned here . The facts I have in mind are publicly known , and yet the same public that knows them can successfully , and often spontaneously , taboo their public discussion and treat them as though they were what they are not namely , secrets . That their assertion then should prove as dangerous as , for instance , preaching atheism or some other heresy proved in former times seems a curious phenomenon , and its significance is enhanced when we find it also in countries that are ruled tyrannically by an ideological government . ( Even in Hitler 's Germany and Stalin 's Russia it was more dangerous to talk about concentration and extermination camps , whose existence was no secret , than to hold and to utter " heretical " views on anti-Semitism , racism , and Communism . ) What seems even more disturbing is that to the extent to which unwelcome factual truths are tolerated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , transformed into opinions  --  as though the fact of Germany 's support of Hitler or of France 's collapse before the German armies in 1940 or of Vatican policies during the Second World War were not a matter of historical record but a matter of opinion . Since such factual truths concern issues of immediate political relevance , there is more at stake here than the perhaps inevitable tension between two ways of life within the framework of a common and commonly recognized reality . What is at stake here is this common and factual reality itself , and this is indeed a political problem of the first order . And since factual truth , though it is so much less open to argument than philosophical truth , and so obviously within the grasp of everybody , seems often to suffer a similar fate when it is exposed in the marketplace  --  namely , to he countered not by lies and deliberate falsehoods but by opinion  --  it may be worthwhile to reopen the old and apparently obsolete question of truth versus opinion . For , seen from the viewpoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion , to blur the dividing line between them , is no less perplexing than the trutliteller 's older predicament , so vividly expressed in the cave allegory , in which the philosopher , upon his return from his solitary journey to the sky of everlasting ideas , tries to communicate his truth to the multitude , with the result that it disappears in the diversity of views , which to him are illusions , and is brought down to the uncertain level of opinion , so that now , back in the cave , truth itself appears in the guise of the dokei mo ; ( " it seems to me " ) ? the very doxai he had hoped to leave behind once and for all . However , the reporter of factual truth is even worse off . He does not return from any journey into regions beyond the realm of human affairs , and he can not console himself with the thought that he has become a stranger in this world . Similarly , we have no right to console ourselves with the notion that his truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this world . If his simple factual statements are not accepted  --  truths seen and witnessed with the eyes of the body , and not the eyes of the mind  --  the suspicion arises that it may be in the nature of the political realm to deny or pervert truth of every kind , as though men were unable to come to terms with its unyielding , blatant , unpersuasive stubbornness . If this should be the case , things would look even more desperate than Plato assumed , for Plato 's truth , found and actualized in solitude , transcends , by definition , the realm of the many , the world of human affairs . ( One can understand that the philosopher , in his isolation , yields to the temptation to use his truth as a standard to be imposed upon human affairs ; that is , to equate the transcendence inherent in philosophical truth with the altogether different kind of " transcendence " by which yardsticks and other standards of measurement are separated from the multitude of objects they are to measure , and one can equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since it is actually derived from a sphere that is foreign to the realm of human affairs and whose connection with it can be justified only by a confusion . ) Philosophical truth , when it enters the marketplace , changes its nature and becomes opinion , because a veritable nu tabasis eis allo genus , a shifting not merely from one kind of reasoning to another but from one way of human existence to another , has taken place . Factual truth , on the contrary , is always related to other people : it concerns events and circumstances in which many are involved ; it is established by witnesses and depends upon testimony ; it exists only to the extent that it is spoken about , even if it occurs in the domain of privacy . It is political by nature . Facts and opinions , though they must be kept apart , are not antagonistic to each other ; they belong to the same realm . Facts inform opinions , and opinions , inspired by different interests and passions , can differ widely and still be legitimate as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a farce unless factual information is guaranteed and the facts themselves are not in dispute . In other words , factual truth informs political thought just as rational truth informs philosophical speculation . But do facts , independent of opinion and interpretation , exist at all Have not generations of historians and philosophers of history demonstrated the impossibility of ascertaining facts without interpretation , since they must first be picked out of a chaos of sheer happenings ( and the principles of choice are surely not factual data ) and then be fitted into a story that can be told only in a certain perspective , which has nothing to do with the original occurrence ? No doubt these and a great many more perplexities inherent in the historical sciences are real , but they are no argument against the existence of factual matter , nor can they serve as a justification for blurring the dividing lines between fact , opinion , and interpretation , or as an excuse for the historian to manipulate facts as he pleases . Even if we admit that every generation has the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it has the right to rearrange the facts in accordance with its own perspective ; we do n't admit the right to touch the factual matter itself . To illustrate this point , and as an excuse for not pursuing this issue any further : During the twenties , so a story goes , Clemenceau , shortly before his death , found himself engaged in a debate with a representative of the Weimar Republic on the question of guilt for the outbreak of the First World War . " What , in your opinion , " Clemcnceau was asked , " will future historians think of this troublesome and controversial issue ? " He replied , " This I do n't know . But I know for certain that they will not say Belgium invaded Germany . " We are concerned here with brutally elementary data of this kind , whose indestructibility has been taken for granted even by the most extreme and most sophisticated believers in historicism . It is true , considerably more than the whims of historians would be needed to eliminate from the record the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German troops crossed the frontier of Belgium ; it would require no less than a power monopoly over the entire civilized world . But such a power monopoly is far from being inconceivable , and it is not difficult to imagine what the fate of factual truth would be if power interests , national or social , had the last say in these matters . Which brings us hack to our suspicion that it may be in the nature of the political realm to he at war with truth in all its forms , and hence to the question of why a commitment even to factual truth is felt to be an anti-political attitude . WHEN I said that factual , as op- posed to rational , truth is not antagonistic to opinion , I stated a half-truth . All truths  --  not only the various kinds of rational truth but also factual truth  --  are opposed to opinion in their mode of asserting validity Truth carries within itself an element of coercion , and the frequently tyrannical tendencies so deplorably obvious among professional truthtellers may be caused less by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under a kind of compulsion . Statements such as " The three angles of a triangle are equal to two angles of a square , " " The earth moves around the sun , " " It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong , ' ' " In August , 1914 , Germany invaded Belgium " are very different in the way they are arrived at , but , once perceived as true and pronounced to be so , they have in common that they are beyond agreement , dispute , opinion , or consent . For those who accept them , they are not changed by the numbers or lack of numbers who entertain the same proposition ; persuasion or dissuasion is useless , for the content of the statement is not of a persuasive nature but of a coercive one . ( Thus Plato , in the " Timacus , " draws a line between men capable of perceiving the truth and those who happen to hold right opinions . In the former , the organ for the perception of truth ( nuns ) is awakened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said to he a mild form of coercion , whereas the latter had merely been persuaded . The views of the former , says Plato , are unmovable , while the latter can always he persuaded to change their minds . ) What Le Mercier de la Rivire once remarked about mathematical truth applies to all kinds of truth : " Enclitic est un viritable despot , ' , et les vt'rites qu'il nous a trIltIS771.53 sons des lair vsiri tablement despotiques . " In much the same vein , Grotius , about a hundred years earlier , had insisted  --  when he wished to limit the power of the absolute prince  --  that " even God can not cause two times two not to make four . " He was invoking the compelling force of truth against political power ; he was not interested in the implied limitation of divine omnipotence . These two remarks illustrate how truth looks in the purely political perspective , from the viewpoint of power , and the question is whether power could and should be checked not only by a constitution , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in the system of checks and balances , in which , in Muntesquieu 's words , " le pouvoir art- , W lc pouvoir " ? that is , by factors that arise out of and belong to the political realm proper  --  but by something that arises from without , has its source outside the political realm , and is as independent of the wishes and desires of the citizens as is the will of the worst tyrant . Seen from the viewpoint of politics , truth has a despotic character . It is therefore hated by tyrants , who rightly fear the competition of a coercive force they can not monopolize , and it enjoys a rather precarious status in the eyes of governments that rest on consent and abhor coercion . Facts are beyond agreement and consent , and all talk about them -- all exchanges of opinion based on correct information  --  will contribute nothing to their establishment . Unwelcome opinion can be argued with , rejected , or compromised upon , but unwelcome facts possess an infuriating stubbornness that nothing can move except plain lies . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , peremptorily claims to he acknowledged and precludes debate , and debate constitutes the very essence of political life . The modes of thought and communication that deal with truth , if seen from the political perspective , are necessarily domineering ; they do n't take into account other people 's opinions , and taking these into account is the hallmark of all strictly political thinking . Political thought is representative . I form an opinion by considering a given issue from different viewpoints , by making present to my mind the standpoints of those who are absent ; that is , I represent them . This process of representation does not blindly adopt the actual views of those who stand somewhere else , and hence look upon the world from a different perspective ; this is a question neither of empathy , as though I tried to be or to feel like somebody else , nor of counting noses and joining a majority , but of being and thinking in my own identity where actually I am not . The more people 's standpoints I have present in my mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better I can imagine how I would feel and think if I were in their place , the stronger will he my capacity for representative thinking and the more valid my final conclusions , my opinion . ( It is this capacity for an " enlarged mentality " that enables men to judge ; as such , it was discovered by Kant , in the first part of his " Critique of Judgment , " though he did not recognize the political and moral implications of his discovery . ) The very process of opinion formation is determined by those in whose places somebody thinks and uses his own mind , and the only condition for this exertion of the imagination is disinterestedness , the liberation from one 's own private interests . Hence , even if I shun all company or am completely isolated while forming an opinion , I am not simply together only with myself in the solitude of philosophical thought ; I remain in this world of universal interdependence , where I can make myself the representative of everybody else . Of course , I can refuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my own interests , or the interests of the group to which I belong , into account ; nothing , indeed , is more common , even among highly sophisticated people , than the blind obstinacy that becomes manifest in lack of imagination and failure to judge . But the very quality of an opinion , as of a judgment , depends upon the degree of its impartiality . No opinion is self-evident . In matters of opinion , but not in matters of truth , our thinking is truly discursive , running , as it were , from place to place , from one part of the world to another , through all kinds of conflicting views , until it finally ascends from these particularities to some impartial generality . Compared to this process , in which a particular issue is forced into the open that it may show itself from all sides , in every possible perspective , until it is flooded and made transparent by the full light of human comprehension , a statement of truth possesses a peculiar opaqueness . Rational truth enlightens human understanding , anti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though they are never obscure , are nut transparent , either , and it is in their very nature to withstand further elucidation , as it is in the nature of light to withstand enlightenment . Nowhere , moreover , is this opacity more patent and more irritating than where we are confronted with facts and factual truth , for facts have no conclusive reason whatever for being what they are ; they could always have been otherwise , and this annoying contingency is literally unlimited . It is because of the haphazardness of facts that pre-modern philosophy refused to take seriously the realm of human affairs , which is permeated by factuality , or to believe that any meaningful truth could ever be discovered in the " melancholy haphazardness " of a sequence of events ( as Kant called it ) which constitutes the course of this world . Nor has any modern philosophy of history been able to make its peace with the intractable , unreasonable stubbornness of sheer factuality ; modern philosophers have conjured up all kinds of necessity , from the dialectical necessity of a world spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unchangeable and known human nature , in order to cleanse the last vestiges of that apparently arbitrary " it might have been otherwise " ( which is the price of freedom ) from the only realm where men are truly free . It is true that in retrospect  --  that is , in historical perspective  --  every sequence of events looks as though it could not have happened otherwise , but this is an optical , or , rather , an existential , illusion : nothing could ever happen if reality did not kill , by definition , all the other potentialities originally inherent in any given situation . In other words , factual truth is no more self-evident than opinion , and this may be among the reasons that opinion-holders find it relatively easy to discredit factual truth as just another opinion . Factual evidence , moreover , is established through testimony by eyewitnesses  --  notoriously unreliable  --  and by records , documents , and monuments , all of which can be suspected as forgeries . In the event of a dispute , only other witnesses but no third and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived at by way of a majority ; that is , in the same way as the setClement of opinion disputes  --  a wholly unsatisfactory procedure , since there is nothing to prevent a majority of witnesses from being false witnesses . On the contrary , under certain circumstances the feeling of belonging to a majority may even encourage false testimony . In other words , to the extent that factual truth is exposed to the hostility of opinion-holders , it is at least as vulnerable as rational philosophical truth . I observed before that in some respects the teller of factual truth is worse off than Plato 's philosopher  --  that his truth has no transcendent origin and possesses not even the relatively transcendent qualities of such political principles as freedom , justice , honor , and courage , all of which may inspire , and then become manifest in , human ac-don . We shall now see that this disadvantage has more serious consequences than we had thought ; namely , consequences that concern not only the person of the truthteller hut  --  more important  --  the chalices for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human action may not he able to compete with the compelling evidence of truth , but they can compete , as we shall see , with the persuasiveness inherent in opinion . I took the Socratic proposition " It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong " as an example of a philosophical statement that concerns human conduct , and hence has political implications . My reason was partly that this sentence has become the beginning of Western ethical thought , and partly that , as far as I know , it has remained the only ethical proposition that can be derived directly from the specifically philosophical experience . ( Kant 's categorical imperative , the only competitor in the field , could he stripped of its Judaea-Christian ingredients , which account for its formulation as an imperative instead of a simple proposition . Its underlying principle is the axiom of non-contradiction  --  the thief contradicts himself because he wants to keep the stolen goods as his property and this axiom owes its validity to the conditions of thought that Socrates was the first to discover . ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socratic statement ( a proposition , and not an imperative ) sounded , how easily it stood refuted in the marketplace where opinion stands against opinion , and how incapable Socrates was of proving and demonstrating it to the satisfaction not of his adversaries alone but also of his friends and disciples . ( The most dramatic of these passages can be found in the beginning of the " Republic . " Socrates , having tried in vain to convince his adversary Thrasvmachus that justice is better than injustice , is told by his disciples , Glaucon and Adeimantus , that his proof was far from convincing . Socrates admires their speeches : " There must indeed be some divine quality in your nature , if you can plead the cause of injustice so eloquently and still not be convinced yourselves that it is better than justice . " In other words , they were convinced before the argument started , and all that was said to uphold the truth of the proposition not only failed to persuade the non-convinced but had not even the force to confirm their convictions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find in the various Platonic dialogues . The chief argument states that for man , being one , it is better to he at odds with the whole world than to he at odds with and contradicted by himself  --  an argument that is compelling indeed for the philosopher , whose thinking is characterized by Plato as a silent dialogue with himself , and whose existence therefore depends upon a constantly articulated intercourse with h imself , a splitting-in t o-two of the one lie nevertheless is , for a basic contradiction between the two partners who carry on the thinking dialogue would destroy the very conditions of philosophizing . In other words , ' since man contains within himself a partner from whom he can never win release , he will be better off not to live in company with a murderer or a liar . Or , since thought is the silent dialogue carried on between me and myself , I must be careful to keep the integrity of this partner intact , for otherwise I shall surely lose the capacity for thought altogether . To the philosopher  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thinking being  --  this ethical proposition about doing and suffering wrong is no less compelling than mathematical truth . But to man insofar as he is a citizen , an acting being concerned with the world and the public welfare rather than with his own well-being  --  including , for instance , his " immortal soul " whose " health " should have precedence over the needs of a perishable body  --  the Socratic statement is not true at all . The disastrous consequences for any community that began in all earnest to follow ethical precepts derived front man in the singular  --  be they Socratic or Platonic or Christian  --  have been frequently pointed out . Long before Machiavelli recommended protecting the political realm against the undiluted principles of the Christian faith ( those who refuse to resist evil permit the wicked " to do as much evil as they please " ) , Aristotle warned against giving philosophers any say in political matters . ( Men who for professional reasons must be so unconcerned with " what is good for themselves " can not very well he trusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all with the " common good , " the down-to-earth interests of the community . ) Since philosophical truth concerns man in his singularity , it is unpolitical by nature . If the philosopher nevertheless wishes his truth to prevail over the opinions of the multitude , he will suffer defeat , and he is likely to conclude from this defeat that truth is impotent  --  a truism that is just as meaningful as if the mathematician , unable to square the circle , should deplore the fact that a circle is not a square . He may then he tempted , like Plato , to win the ear of some philosophically inclined tyrant , and in the fortunately highly unlikely case of success he might erect one of those tyrannies of " truth " which we know chiefly from the various political utopias , and which , of course , politically speaking , are as tyrannical as other forms of despotism . In the slightly less unlikely event that his truth should prevail without the help of violence , simply because men happen to concur in it , he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owe its prevalence not to its own compelling quality but to the agreement of the many , who might change their minds tomorrow and agree on something else ; what had been philosophical truth would have become mere opinion . Since , however , philosophical truth carries within itself an element of coercion , it may tempt the statesman under certain conditions , no less than the power of opinion may tempt the philosopher . Thus , in the Declaration of Independence , Jefferson declared certain " truths to he self-evident , " because he wished to put the basic consent among the men of the Revolution beyond dispute and argument ; like mathematical axioms , they should express " beliefs of men " that " depend not on their own will , but follow involuntarily the evidence proposed to their minds . " Yet by saying " We hold these truths to be self-evident " he conceded , albeit without becoming aware of it , that the statement " All men are created equal " is not self-evident but stands in need of agreement and consent  --  that equality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of opinion , and not of " the truth . " There ex ist , on the other hand , philosophical or religious statements that correspond to this opinion  --  such as that all men are equal before God , or before death , or insofar as they all belong to the same species of animal rationale  --  hut none of them was ever of any political or practical consequence , because the equalizer , whether God , or death , or nature , transcended and remained outside the realm in which human intercourse takes place . Such " truths " are nut between men but above them , and nothing of the sort lies behind the modern or the ancient  --  especially the Greek  --  consent to equality . That all men are created equal is not self-evident nor can it be proved . We hold this opinion because freedom is possible only among equals , and we believe that the joys and gratifications of free company are to be preferred to the doubtful pleasures of holding dominion . Such preferences are politically of the greatest importance , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguished from each other as by these . Their human quality , one is tempted to say , and certainly the quality of every kind of intercourse with them , depends upon such choices . Still , these are matters of opinion and not of truth  --  as Jefferson , much against his will , admitted . Their validity depends upon free agreement and consent , they are arrived at by discursive , representative thinking , and they are communicated by means of persuasion and dissuasion . The Socratic proposition " It is bet-ter to suffer wrong than to do wrong " is not an opinion but claims to he truth , and though one may doubt whether it ever had a direct political consequence , its impact upon practical conduct as an ethical precept is unde-niable ; only religious com-mandments , which are absolutely bind-ing for the community of believers , can claim greater recognition . Does this fact not stand in clear contradiction to the generally accepted impotence of philosophical trutH And since we know from the Platonic dialogues how unpersuasive Socrates ' statement re-mained for friend and foe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask ourselves how it could ever have ob-tained its high degree of validation . Obviously , this has been due to a rath-er unusual kind of persuasion ; Soc-rates decided to stake his life on this truth  --  to set an example , not when he appeared before the Athenian tribunal but when he refused to escape the death sentence . And this teaching by example is , indeed , the only form of " persuasion " that philosophical truth is capable of without perversion or distortion ; by the same token , philosophical truth can become " practical " and inspire action without violating the rules of the political realm only when it manages to become manifest in the guise of an example . This is the only chance for an ethical principle to he verified . Thus , to verify , for instance , the notion of courage we may recall the example of Achilles , and to verify the notion of goodness we are inclined to think of Jesus of Nazareth or of St. Francis ; these examples teach or persuade by inspiration , so that whenever INC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is as though we imitated someone else  --  the inzitertio Christi , or whatever the case may he . It has often been remarked that , as Jefferson said , " a lively and lasting sense of filial duty is more effectually impressed on the mind of a son or daughter by reading King Lear ' than by all the dry volumes of ethics and divinity that ever were written , " and that , as Kant said , " general precepts learned at the feet either of priests or philosophers , or even drawn from one 's own resources , are never so efficacious as an example of virtue or holiness . " The reason , as Kant explains , is that we always need " intuitions ... to verify the reality of our concepts . " " If they are pure concepts of the understanding , " such as the concept of the triangle , " the intuitions go by the name of schemata , " such as the ideal triangle , perceived only by the eves of the mind and yet indispensable to the recognition of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical , relating to conduct , " the intuitions are called examples . " And , unlike the schemata , which our mind produces out of its own accord by means of the imagination , these examples derive from history and poetry , through which , as Jefferson pointed out , an altogether different " field of imagination is laid open to our use . " This transformation of a theoretical or speculative statement into exemplary truth  --  a transformation of which only moral philosophy is capable  --  is a borderline experience for the philosopher : by setting an example and " persuading " the multitude in the only way open to him , he has begun to act . Today , when hardly any philosophical statement , no matter how daring , will he taken seriously enough to endanger the philosopher 's life , even this rare chance of having a philosophical truth politically validated has disappeared . In our context , however , it is important to notice that such a possibility does exist for the teller of rational truth , for it does not exist under any circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect , as in other respects , is worse off . Not only do factual statements contain no principles upon which men might act and which thus could become manifest in the world ; their very content defies this kind of verification . A teller of factual truth , in the unlikely event that he wished to stake Iiis life on a particular fact , would achieve a kind of miscarriage . What would become manifest in his act would be his courage or , perhaps , his stub-Nuttiness but neither the truth of what he had to say nor even his own truthfulness . For why should n't a liar stick to his lies with great courage , especially in politics , where he might he motivated by patriotism or some other kind of legitimate group partiality ? THE hallmark of factual truth is that its opposite is neither error nor illusion nor opinion , no one of which reflects upon personal truthfulness , but the deliberate falsehood , or lie . Error , of course , is possible , and even common , with respect to factual truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way different from scientific or rational truth . But the point is that with respect to facts there exists another alternative , and this alternative , the deliberate falsehood , does not belong to the same species as propositions that , whether right or mistaken , intend no more than to say what is , or how something that is appears to me . A factual , totem ant  --  Ge rmam invaded Belgium in August , 1914 --  -- ae1oires political implications only by being put in an interpretative context . But the opposite proposition , which acme/wean , still unacquainted with the art of rewriting history , thought absurd , needs no context to be of political significance . It is clearly an attempt to change the record , and , as such , it is a form of action . The same is true when the liar , lacking the power to make his falsehood stick , does not insist on the gospel truth of his statement but pretends that this is his " opinion , " to which he claims his constitutional right . This is frequently done by subversive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confusion can he considerable . The blurring of the dividing line between factual truth and opinion belongs among the many forms that lying can assume , all of which are forms of action . While the liar is a man of action , the truthteller , whether he tells rational or factual truth , most emphatically is not . If the teller of factual truth wants to play a political role , and therefore to be persuasive , he will , more often than not , go to considerable lengths to explain why his particular truth serves the best interests of some group . And , just as the philosopher wins a Pyrrhic victory when his truth becomes a dominant opinion among opinion-holders , the teller of factual truth , when he enters the political realm and identifies himself with some partial interest and power formation , compromises on the only quality that could have made his truth appear plausible ; namely , his personal truthfulness , guaranteed by impartiality , integrity , independence . There is hardly a political figure more likely to arouse justified suspicion than the professional truthteller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The liar , on the contrary , needs no such doubtful accommodation to appear on the political scene ; he has the great advantage that he always is , so to speak , already in the midst of it . He is an actor by nature ; he says what is not so because he wants things to be different from what they are  --  that is , he wants to change the world . He takes advantage of the undeniahle affinity of our capacity for action , for changing reality , with this mysterious faculty of ours that enables us to say " The sun is shining , " when it is raining cats and dogs . If we were as thoroughly conditioned in our behavior as some philosophies have wished us to he , we would never be able to accomplish this little miracle . In other words , our ahilitr to lie  --  but not necessarily our ability to tell the truth - belongs among the few obvious , demonstrable data that confirm human freedom . That we can change the circumstances . under which we live at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it is this freedom that is abused and perverted through mendacity . If it is the almost irresistible temptation of the professional historian to fall into die trap of necessity and implicitly deny freedom of action , it is the almost equally irresistible temptation of the professional politician to overestimate the possibilities of the freedom and implicitly condone the lying denial , or distortion , of facts . To he sure , as far as action is concerned , organized lying is a marg , - ; nal phenomenon , but the trouble is that its opposite , the mere telling of acts , leads to no action whatever ; it even tends , under normal circumstances , toward the acceptance of things as they are . ( This , of course , is not to deny that the disclosure of facts may he legitimately used by political organizations or that , under certain circumstances , factual matters brought to public attention will considerably- encourage and strengthen the claims of ethnic and social groups . ) Truthfulness has never been counted among the political virtues , because it has little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of circumstances which is among the most legitimate political activities . Only where a community has embarked upon organized lying on principle , and not only with respect to particulars , can truthfulness as such , unsupported by the distoning forces of power and interest , become a political factor of the first order . Where everybody lies about everything of importance , the truthteller , whether he knows it or not , has begun to act ; he , too , has engaged himself in business , for , in the unlikely event that he survives , he has made a start toward changing the world . In this situation , however , he will again soon find himself at an annoying disadvantage . I mentioned earlier the contingent character of facts , which could always have been otherwise , and which therefore possess by themselves no trace of self-evidence or plausibility for the human mind . Since the liar is free to fashion his " facts " to fit the profit and pleasure , or even the mere expectations , of his audience , the chances are that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will usually have plausibility on his side ; his exposition will sound more logical , as it were , since the element of unexpectedness  --  one of the outstanding characteristics of all events  --  has mercifully disappeared . It is not only rational truth that , in the Hegelian phrase , stands common sense on its head ; reality quite frequently offends the soundness of common-sense reasiining no less than it offends profit and pleasure . We must now turn our attention to the relatively recent phenomenon of mass manipulation of fact and opinion as it has become evident in the rewriting of history , in image-making , and in actual government policy . The traditional political lit , so prominent in the histiiry of diplomacy and statecraft , used to concern either true secrets  --  data that had never been made public  --  or intentions , which aniliow do not possess the same degree of reliability as accomplished facts , like everything that goes on merely inside ourselves , intentions a1 e only potentialities , and what was intended to he a lie can als turn out to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political lies deal efficiently with things that are not secrets at all but are known to practically everybody . This is obvious in the case of rewriting contemporary history under the eves of those who witnessed it , but it is equally true in image-making of all sorts , in which , again , every known and established fact can be denied or neglected if it is likely to hurt the image ; for an image , unlike an old-fashioned portrait , is supposed not to flatter reality but to offer a Poll-fledged substitute for it . And this substitute , because of modern techniques and the mass media , is , of course , much more in the public eye than the original ever was . We are finally confronted with highly respected statesmen who , like de Gaulle and Adenauer , have been able to build their basic policies on such evident nnnfacts as that France belongs among the victors of the last war and hence is one of the great powers , and " that the barbarism of National Socialism had affected only a relatively small percentage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authors know it or not , harbor an element of violence ; organized lying always tends to destroy whatever it has decided to negate , although only totalitarian governments have consciously adopted lying as the first step to murder . When Trotsky learned that he had never played a role in the Russian Revolution , he must have known that his death warrant had been signed . Clearly , it is easier to eliminate a public figure from the record of history if at the same time he can be eliminated from the world of the living . In other words , the difference between the traditional lie and the modern lie will more often than not amount to the difference between hiding and destroying . Moreover , the traditional lie concerned only particulars and was never meant to deceive literally everybody ; it was directed at the enemy and was meant to deceive only him . These two limitations restricted the injury inflicted upon truth to such an extent that to us , in retrospect , it may appear almost harmless . Since facts alwals occur in a context , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no attempt to change the whole context  --  tears , as it were , a hole in the fabric of factuality . As every historian knows , one can spot a lie by noticing incongruities , holes , or the junctures of patched-up places . As long as the texture as a whole is kept intact , the lie will eventually show up as if of its own accord . The second limitation concerns those who are engaged in the business of deception . They used to belong to the restricted circle of statesmen and diplomats , who among themselves still knew and could preserve the truth . They were not likely to fall victims to their own falsehoods ; they could deceive others without deceiving themselves . Both of these mitigating circumstances of the old art of lying are noticeably absent from the manipulation of facts that confronts us today . What , then , is the significance of these limitations , and why are we justified in calling them mitigating circumstances ? Why has self-deception become an indispensable tool in the trade of image-making , and why should it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the liar himself , if he is deceived by his own lies than if he merely deceives others ? What better moral excuse could a liar offer than that his aversion to lying was so great that he had to convince himself before he could lie to others  --  that , like Antonio in " The Tempest , " he had to make " a sinner of his memory , To credit his own lie " ? And , finally , and perhaps most disturbingly , if the modern political lies are so big that they require a complete rearrangement of the whole factual texture  --  the making of another reality , as it were , into which they will fit without seam , crack , or fissure , exactly as the facts fitted into their own original context  --  what prevents these new stories , images , and non-facts from becoming an adequate substitute for reality and factuality ? A medieval anecdote illustrates how difficult it can be to lie to others without lying to oneself . It is a story about what happened one night in a town on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to warn the people of the approach of the enemy . The sentry was a man given to practical jokes , and that night he sounded the alarm just in order to give the townsfolk a little scare . His success was overwhelming : everybody rushed to the walls ? including , at the last , the sentry himself . The tale suggests to what extent our apprehension of reality is dependent upon our sharing the world with our fellow-men , and what strength of character is required to stick to anything , truth or lie , that is unshared . In other words , the more successful a liar is , the more likely it is that he will fall prey to his own fabrications . Furthermore , the self-deceived joker who proves to he in the same boat as his victims will appear vastly superior in trustworthiness to the cold-blooded liar who permitshimself to enjoy his prank from without . Only self-deception is likely to create a semblance of truthfulness , and in a debate about facts the only persuasive factor that sometimes has a chance to prevail against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Current moral prejudice tends to be rather harsh in respect to cold-blooded lying , whereas the often highly developed art of self-deception is usually regarded with great tolerance and permissiveness . Among the . few examples in literature that can he quoted against this current evaluation is the famous scene in the monastery at the beginning of " The Brothers Karamazov . " The father , an inveterate liar , asks the staretz , " And what must I do to gain salvation ? , " and the staretz replies , " Above all , never lie to yourself ! " Dostoevski adds no explanation or elaboration . Arguments in support of the statement " It is better to lie to others than to deceive yourself " would have to point out that the cold-blooded liar remains aware of the distinction between truth and falsehood , so the truth he is hiding from others has not yet been maneuvered out of the world altogether ; it has found its last refuge in him . The injury done to reality is neither complete nor final , and , by the same token @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete or final , either . He lied , but he is not yet a liar . Both he and the world he deceived are not beyond " salvation " ? to put it in the Language of the staretz . Such completeness and potential finality , which were unknown to former times , are the dangers that arise out of the modern manipulation of facts . Even in the free world , where the government has not monopolized the power to decide and tell what factually is or is not , gigantic interest organizations have generalized a kind of raison d'itat frame of mind such as was formerly restricted to the handling of foreign affairs and , in its worst excesses , to situations of clear and present danger . And national propaganda on the government level has learned more than a few tricks from business practices and Madison Avenue methods . Images made for domestic consumption , as distinguished from lies directed at a foreign adversary , can become a reality for everybody and first of all for the image-makers themselves , who while still in the act of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought of their victims ' potential numbers . No doubt , the originators of the lying image who " inspire " the hidden persuaders still know that they want to deceive an enemy on the social or the national level , but the result is that a whole group of people , and even whole nations , may take their bearings from a web of deceptions to which their leaders wished to subject their opponents . What then happens follows almost automatically . The main effort of both the deceived group and the deceivers themselves is likely to he directed toward keeping the propaganda image intact , and this image is threatened less by the enemy and by real hostile interests than by those inside the group itself who have managed to escape its spell and insist on talking about facts or events that do not fit the image . Contemporary history is full of instances in which tellers of factual truth were felt to he more dangerous , and even more hostile , than the real opponents . These arguments against self-deception must not be confused with the protests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as being had in principle and against the age-old art of deceiving the enemy . Politically , the point is that the modern art of self-deception is likely to transform an outside matter into an inside issue , so that an international or intergroup conflict boomerangs onto the scene of domestic politics . The self-deceptions practiced on both sides in the period of the Cold War are too many to enumerate , but obviously they are a case in point . Conservative critics of mass democracy have frequently outlined the dangers that this form of government brings to international affairs -- without , however , mentioning the dangers peculiar to monarchies or oligarchies . The strength of their arguments lies in the undeniable fact that under fully democratic conditions deception without self-deception is well-nigh impossible . Under our present system of worldwide communication , covering a large number of independent nations , no existing power is anywhere near great enough to make its " image " foolproof . Therefore , images have a relatively short life expectancy ; they are likely to explode not only when the chips are down and reality makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fragments of facts constantly disturb and throw out of gear the propaganda war between conflicting images . However , this is not the only way , or even the most significant way , in which reality takes its revenge on those who dare defy it . The life expectancy of images could hardly be significantly increased even under a world government or some other modern version of the Pax Romana , TISIS is best illustrated by the relatively closed systems of totalitarian governments and one-party dictatorships , which are , of course , by far the most effective agencies in shielding ideologies and images from the impact of reality and truth . ( And such correction of the record is never smooth sailing . We read in a memorandum of 1935 found in the Smolensk Archive  --  published by Merle Fainsod in " Smolensk Under Soviet Rule " ? ahout the countless difficulties besetting this kind of enterprise . What , for instance , " should be done with speeches by Zinoviev , Kamenev , Rykov , 13ukharin , et a. at Party Congresses , plenums of the Central Committee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? What of anthologies on Marxism . ? . written or edited jointly by Lenin , Zinoviev , and others ? What of Lenin 's writings edited by ICamenev ? ... What should be done in cases where Trotsky ... had written an article in an issue of the C oananitnist I nmrnational ? Should the whole number be confiscated ? " Puzzling questions indeed , to which the Archive contains no replies . ) Their trouble is that they must constantly change the falsehoods they offer as a substitute for the real story ; changing circumstances require the substitution of one history book for another , the replacement of pages in the encyclopedias and reference hooks , the disappearance of certain names in favor of others , unknown or little known before . And though this continuing instability gives no indication of what the truth might he , it is itself an indication , and an all-important one , of the lying character of all public utterances concerning the factual world . It has frequently been noticed that the surest long-term result of brainwashing is a peculiar kind of cynicism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything , no matter how well this truth may be established . In other words , the result of a consistent and total substitution of lies for factual truth is not that the lies will now be accepted as truth , and the truth he defamed as lies , but that the sense by which we take our bearings in the real world  --  and the category of truth vs. falsehood is among the mental means to this end  --  is being destroyed . And for this trouble there is no remedy . It is but the other side of the disturbing contingency of all factual reality . Since everything that has actu ally happened in the realm of human affairs could just as well have been otherwise , the possibilities for lying are boundless , and this boundlessness makes for self-defeat . Only the occasional liar will find it possible to stick to a particular falsehood with unwavering consistency ; those who adjust images and stories to ever-changing circumstances will find themselves floating on the wide-open horizon of potentiality , drifting from one possibility to the next , unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Far from achieving an adequate substitute for reality and factuality , they have transformed facts and events back into the potentiality out of which they originally appeared . And the surest sign of the factuality of facts and events is precisely this stubborn thereness , whose inherent contingency ultimately defies all attempts at conclusive explanation . The images , on the contrary , can always be explained and made plausible  --  this gives them their momentary advantage over factual truth but they can never compete in stability with that which simply is because it happens to he thus and not otherwise . This is the reason that consistent lying , metaphorically speaking , pulls the ground from under our feet and provides no other ground on which to stand . The experience of a trembling , wobbling motion of everything we rely on for our sense of direction and reality is among the most common and most vivid experiences of men under totalitarian rule . Hence , the undeniable affinity of lying with action , with changing the world  --  in short , with politics  --  is limited by the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty for action . The convinced image-maker is in error when he believes that he can anticipate changes by lying about factual matters that everybody wishes to eliminate anyhow . The erection of Potemkin 's villages , so dear to the politicians and propagandists of underdeveloped countries , never leads to the establishment of the real thing but only to a proliferation and perfection of make-believe . Not the past  --  and all factual truth , of course , concerns the past  --  or the present , insofar as it is the outcotne of the past , but the future is open to action . If the past and present are treated as parts of the future  --  that is , changed back into their former state of potentiality  --  the political realm is deprived not only of its main stabilizing force but of the starting point from which to change , to begin something new . What then begins is the constant shifting and shuffling in utter sterility which are characteristic of many new nations that had the bad luck to be born in an age of propaganda . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious , but the point here is that power , by its very nature , can never produce a substitute for the security , or stability , of factual reality , which , because it is past , has grown into a dimension beyond our reach . Facts assert themselves by being stubborn , and their fragility is oddly combined with great resiliency  --  the same irreversibility that is the hallmark of all human action . In their stubbornness , facts are superior to power ; they are less transitory than power formations , which arise when men get together for a purpose but disappear as soon as the purpose is either achieved or lost . This transitory character makes power a highly unreliable instrument for achieving permanence of any kind , and therefore not only truth and facts arc insecure in its hands but untruth and non-facts as well . The political attitude toward facts must , indeed , tread the very narrow path between the danger of taking them as the results of some necessary development , which men could not prevent and about which they can therefore do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to manipulate them out of the world . IN conclusion , I return to the questions I raised at the beginning of these reflections . Truth , though powerless and always defeated in a head-on clash with the powers that be , possesses a strength of its own : whatever those in power may contrive , they are unable to discover or invent a viable substitute for it . Persuasion and violence can destroy truth , but they can not replace it . And this applies to rational or religious truth just as it applies , more obviously , to factual truth . To look upon politics from the perspective of truth , as I have done here , means to take one 's stand outside the political realm . This standpoint is the standpoint of the truth-teller , who forfeits his position  --  and , with it , the validity of what he has to say  --  if he tries to interfere directly in human affairs and to speak the language of persuasion or of violence . It is to this position and its significance for the political realm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the political realm  --  outside the community to which we belong and the company of our peers  --  is clearly characterized as one of the various modes of being alone . Outstanding among the existential modes of truthteIling are the solitude of the philosopher , the isolation of the scientist and the artist , the impartiality of the historian and the judge , and the independence of the fact-finder , the witness , and the reporter . ( This impartiality differs from that of the qualified , representative opinion , mentioned earlier , in that it is not acquired inside the political realm but is inherent in the position of the outsider required for such occupations . ) These modes of being alone differ in many respects , but they have in common that as long as any one of them lasts , no political commitment , no adherence to a cause , is possible . These modes of being alone are , of course , common to all men ; they are modes of human , existence as such . Only when one of these modes is adopted as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never lived in complete solitude or isolation or independence  --  is it likely to conflict with the demands of the political . It is quite natural that we become aware of the non-political and , potentially , even anti-political nature of truth  --  Fiat veritas , et tercet anundusonly in the event of conflict , and I have stressed up to now this side of the matter . But this can not tell the whole story . It leaves out of account certain public institutions , established and supported by the powers that be , in which , contrary to all political rules , truth and truthfulness have always been the highest criterion of speech and endeavor . Among these we find notably the judiciary , which , either as a branch of government or in the direct administration of justice , is carefully protected against social and political power , as well as all institutions of higher learning to which the state entrusts the education of its future citizens . To the extent that the Academe remembers its ancient origins , it must know that it was founded by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To he sure , Plato 's dream did not come true : the Academe never became a counter-society , and nowhere do we hear of any attempt by the universities to seize power . But what Plato never dreamed of did come true : The political realm recognized that it needed an institution outside the power struggle , in addition to the impartiality required in the administration of justice , for whether these places of higher learning are in private or in public hands is of no great impor-tance ; not only their integrity but their very existence depends upon the good will of the government anyway . Very unwelcome truths have emerged from the universities , and very unwelcome judgments have been handed down from the bench , time and again , and these institutions , like other refuges of truth , have remained exposed to all the dangers arising from social and political power . Yet the chances for truth to pre-vail in public are , of course , greatly im-proved by the mere existence of such places and by the organization of the independent , supposedly disinterested scholars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , at least in constitutionally ruled countries , the po-litical realm has recognized , even in the event of conflict , that it has a stake in the existence of men and institu-tions over which it has no power . The authentically political sig-nificance of the Academe is today easily overlooked , because of the prominence of its professional schools and the evolution of its natural-science divisions , where , unexpectedly , pure research has yielded so many decisive results that have proved vital to the country at large . No one can possibly gainsay the social and technical usefulness of the universities , but this importance is not political . The historical sciences and the humanities , which are supposed to find out , stand guard over , and interpret factual truth and human documents , are politically of greater relevance . The telling of factual truth compre-hends much more than the daily infor-mation supplied by journalists , though without them We should never find our bearings in an ever-changing world and , in the most literal sense , would never know where we are . This is of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should ever really become the " fourth branch of govern-ment " it would have to be protected against government power and social pressure even more carefully than the judiciary is . For this very important po-litical function of supplying information is exercised from outside the political realm , strictly speaking ; no action and no decision are , or should he , involved . Reality is different from , and more than , the totality of facts and events , which , anyhow , is unascertainable . Who says what is ? " legei ta came " ? always tells a story , and in this story the particular facts lose their contin-gency and acquire some humanly com-prehensible meaning . It is perfectly with a better , truer , more musical treble right up to the top ... It is clear true that " all sorrows can be borne if you put them into a story or tell a story about them , " in the words of Isak Dinesen , who not only was one of the great storytellers of our time but also  --  and she was almost unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have added that joy and bliss , too , become bearable and meaningful for men only when men can talk about them and tell them as a story . To the extent that the-teller of factual truth is also a storyteller , he brings about that " reconciliation with reality " which Hegel , the philosopher of history par excellence , understood as the ultimate goal of all philosophical thought , and which , indeed , has been the secret motor of all historiography that transcends mere learnedness . The transformation of the given raw material of sheer happenings which the historian , like the fiction writer ( a good novel is by no means a simple concoction or a figment of pure fantasy ) , must effect is closely akin to the poetic transfiguration of moods or movements of the heart  --  the transfiguration of grief into lamentation or of jubilation into praise . We may see , with Aristotle , in the poet 's political function the operation of a koharsis , a cleansing or purging of all emotions that could prevent men from acting . The political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to teach acceptance of things as they are . Out of this acceptance , which can also he called truthfulness , arises the faculty of judgment  --  that , again in Isak Dinesen 's words , " at the end we shall he privileged to view , and review , it  --  and that is what is named the day of judgment . " There is no doubt that all these politically relevant functions are performed from outside the political realm . They require non-commitment and impartiality , freedom from self-interest in thought and judgment . The disinterested pursuit of truth has a long history ; its origin , characteristically , precedes all our theoretical and scientific traditions , including our tradition of philosophical and political thought . I think it can be traced to the moment when Homer chose to sing the deeds of the Trojans no less than those of the Achaeans , and to praise the glory of Hector , the foe and the defeated man , no less than the glory of Achilles , the hero of his kinsfolk . This had happened nowhere before ; no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look with " equal eyes " upon friend and foe , upon success and defeat  --  which since Homer have not been recognized as ultimate standards of men 's judgment , even though they are ultimates for the destinies of men 's lives . Homeric impartiality echoes throughout Greek history , and it inspired the first great teller of factual truth , who became the father of history : Herodotus tells us in the very first sentences of his stories that he set out to prevent " the great and wondrous deeds of the Greeks and the barbarians from losing their due meed of glory . " This is the root of all so-called objectivity  --  this curious passion , unknown outside Western civilization , for intellectual integrity at any price . Without it no science would ever have come into being . Since I have dealt here with politics from the perspective of truth , and hence from a viewpoint outside the political realm , I have failed to mention even in passing the greatness and the dignity of what goes on inside it . I have spoken as though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partial , conflicting interests , where nothing counted but pleasure and profit , partisanship , and the lust for dominion . In short , I have dealt with politics as though I , too , believed that all public affairs were ruled by interest and power , that there would he no political realm at all if we were not hound to take care of life 's necessities . The reason for this deformation is that factual truth clashes with the political only on this lowest level of human affairs , just as Plato 's philosophical truth clashed with the political on the considerably higher level of opinion and agreement . From this perspective , we remain unaware of the actual content of political life  --  of the joy and the gratification that arise out of being in company with our peers , out of acting together and appearing in public , and out of inserting ourselves into the world by word and deed , and thus acquiring and sustaining our personal identity and beginning something entirely new . However , what I meant to show here is that this whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it does not encompass the whole of man 's and the world 's existence . It is limited by those things which men can not change at will . And it is only by respecting its own borders that this realm , where we are free to act and to change , can remain intact , preserving its integrity and keeping its promises . Conceptually , we may call truth what we can not change ; metaphorically , it is the ground on which we stand and the sky that stretches above us. 