@@488209

The Technological Society is one of the most important books of the second half of the 20th century . In it , Jacques Ellul , Professor of History and Contemporary Sociology at Bordeaux University , convincingly demonstrates that technology , which we continue to conceptualize as the servant of man will overthrow everything that prevents the internal logic of its development , including humanity itself  --  unless we take the necessary steps to move human society out of the environment that " technique " is creating to meet its own needs . ? Ellul devotes his whale volume to an examination of this " technique " which he defines in the following way : " . .6. technique is the totality of methods rationally arrived at and having absolute efficiency ( fora given stage of human development ) in every field of human activity . " Ellul 's argument can best be set out using his own words : " . . . in our civilization technique is in no way limited . It has been extended to all spheres and encompasses every activity , including human activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit . It has perfected indefinitely the instruments available to man , and put at hiS disposal an almost limitless variety of intermediaries and auxiliaries Technique has been extended geographically so that it covers the whole earth . " And later : " Within the technical circle nothing else can subsist because technique 's proper mo . tion , as Ringer has shown , tends irresistibly toward completeness . To the degree that this completeness is not yet attained , technique is advancing , eliminating every lesser force . " Ellul believes that " . . . there is no common denominator between the technique of today and that of yesterday . Today we are dealing with an utterly different phenomenon . Those who claim to deduce from man 's tech-meal situation in past centuries his situation in this one show they have grasped nothing of the technological phenomenon . " October 19 , 1964 For Ellul , the most important consequence of the technical drive is the destruction of all that is human . Examining the progress of technique in production , Ellul states . " In a great corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a position to act in a distinctiyely human way . Even the consumer is frequently imposed upon The integration of the individual into the technical complex is more complete than ever before . " Ellul also makes the same point at a higher level of analysis : It is not in the power of the individual or of the group to decide to follow some method other than the technical . The individual is in a dilemma . either he decides to safeguard his freedom of choice , chooses to use traditional , personal , moral or empirical means , thereby entering into competition with a power against which there is no efficacious defense and before which he must suffer defeat ; or he decides to accept technical necessity , in which case he will himself be the victor , but only by submitting irreparably to technical slavery . In effect he has no freedom of choice . Ellul 's thesis is not actually as strong or as complete as he would probably make it today : the original French version , entitled Le Technique , was written in 1952 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anticipate the speed of development of the computer . Thus , although Ellul deals with the danger of a police state in the technical world , he was not able to examine the effects of a computerizedpolice information network whose present tentative beginnings are now being planned in New York State ( The New York Times , Sept 17 , 1964 ) and which could easily be expanded onto a nation-wide basis within the next decade . Nor did he consider the ' possibilities of tying the computer into techniques of increasing sales ; today , however , a computer program has already been developed which makes it possible to insure that every phoileequipped family within a certain area receives an intermittently repeated tape-recorded message . At present levels of sophistication , the effects of the ongoing computer technology clearly strengthen Ellul 's thesis . Robert Tlzeobald 's main concern in recent years has been the effect of science and technology on the economy and society . His most recent book is Free Men and Free Markets , large portions of which were printed in The Nation before publication . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a guaranteed , annual income . 249 nological Society is of course alien to existing technologically oriented modes of thought Those committed to the implementation of maximum-efficiency systems will be looking for weaknesses in the argument Unfortunately , these are not too difficult to find . There are occasional exaggerations which are clearly unjustified : In the past , - when an individual entered into conflict with'soczety , he led a harsh and miserable life that required a vigor which either hardened or broke him . Today the concentration camp and death await him , technique can not tolerate aberrant activities In addition , many readers will feel that Ellul commits the most modern of sins - he nourishes an unrealizable longing for a mythical past . At the beginning of volume Ellul argues . Men now live in conditions that are less than human . Consider the concentration of our great cities , the slums , the lack of space , of air , of time , the gloomy streets , and the sallow lights which confuse night and day Think of our dehumanized factories , our unsatisfied senses , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an environment has no meaning . These are minor flaws within the sweep of Ellul 's thesis and do not , in my opinion , invalidate his general point that technique has become the dominant force in the world today , and that it does dehumanize Ellul essentially argues that mankind can not abandon technique ( " the totality of , methods rationally arrived at and having absolute efficiency in every field of human activity " ) because this would mean the deliberate acceptance of irrationality . " If we disown technique , " he says , " we abandon the domain of science and enter into that of hypothesis and theory . " Ellul thus effectively forecloses any argument about the primacy of technique , for it is clear that man can not abandon rationality . But Ellul leaves suspended the questions he raises : Can rationality and technique justifiably be equated ? Will technique , once defined as rationality , necessarily lead to the dire results which he forecasts ? The underlying ambiguity of Ellul 's position is inherent in the following quotation . . ? . man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in some way , human ' motives . He can decide only in favor of the technique that gives the maximum efficiency But this is not choice A machine could effect the same operation . Such a statement , however , is effectively meaningless What does Ellul mean by efficiency ? For the very concept of maximizing efficiency is only meaningful in human affairs if we have some end in view other than the maximization of efficiency itself Ellul ignores this fact , claiming that . " . . it is possible to speak of the ' reality ' of technique  --  with its own substance , its own particular mode of being , and a life independent of our power of decision " Such a statement can not possibly be justified ; - technique advances ' because individuals make decisions which advance technique What Ellul is really describing , therefore , is the crux of our modern dilemma : that our present society is organized in such a way that those making decisions find themselves forced to advance technique . Why does this occur ? In order to answer this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which they give rise in the context of advancing tech-nology , In today 's world : ( 1 ) Every country must try to be in a position to defend itself against all potential aggressors . As a result , each country must accept and indeed encourage any technical improvement in weaponry The cybernation revolution , by increasing the efficiency of production , makes It possible to manufacture more weapons without cutting into the production of consumer goods  --  thus minimizing one of the prime constraints on weaponry production in the past . ( 2 ) Every country Must remain competitive so that it is able to export enough to pay for its imports . This requires each nation to accept and indeed encourage any technological development in production . The combination of the cybernation revolution , which has led to unused productive capacity for many goods , plus the research and development revolution , which has led to large-scale innovation , insures that the speed of technological advance required to remain competitive increases constantly . ( 3 ) Means must be found to insure that demand grows as fast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will result in increased demand must be accepted and indeed encouraged . These are the three constraints which together are imposing the technological order Upon us . They insure that technique - continues to drive forward . But , in my opinion , Ellul totally fails to prove that technique will in evitably destroy human society . Societal constraints can always be changed ' by societies acting on the principle of cooperation , both internally and externally . Indeed , - these present contraints not only can be changed but must be changed , if we are to be able to live in the new era which the continuing development of technique has brought into existence . The nature of this new era is as different from the industrial age as the industrial age was different from the agricultural . First , there is no longer any real limit to our productive abilities U Thant , Secretary-General of the United Nations , has expressed this reality in the following terms ? " The truth , the central stupendous truth about developed countries today is that they can have , in anything but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide to have . .. It is no longer resources that limit decisions . It is the decision that makes the resources . This is the fundamental revolutionary change , perhaps the most revolutionary mankind has ever known . " We can provide every individual with the amount of resources required for a decent life by the end of the 20th century . Second , man need no longer be tied to degrading toil . man 's mind is no longer necessary for repetitive physical or mental tasks . Gerard Piel , publisher of Scientific American , has put it this way : " The new development of our technology is the replacement of human beings by automatic controls and by the computer that ultimately integrates the functions of the automatic control units at each point in the productive process ( italics mine ) . The human muscle began to- be disengaged from the productive process at least a hundred years ago , Now the human mind is being disengaged , " By the end of the 20th century , we - should be able to develop each individual 's capacity rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve the productive system Third , modern weaponry provides unlimited destructive power capable of destroying not only civilization but all life . , This is now so well known as to need no further discussion . The constraints which at present insure the future dominance of technique must be eliminated if humanity is to survive . The present requirement that every country must try to be in a position to defend itself against all potential aggressors must be changed and disputes must he - settled on - the basis of world law . The present requiremeht that all nations must export enough to pay for their imports must be changed so that those who need additional goods , particularly the poor countries , receive them as a right . The requirement that demand grow as fast as available production must be changed through granting an absolute right to a guaranteed income , with the result that production becomes subordinated to the needs and desires of the individual and society . Research has already begun to indicate mankind 's possible escape route from the philosophical trap which technique , in its more negative aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the socio-economic system as a , whole is at present favorably organizeCfor the implementation of technique and that , as individuals , we are in a continuing state of anticipation of new technological phenomena : that we are preconditioned to them . It is clear to each of us , as individuals , that we are becoming accustomed to responding to the forces of technique in our daily lives ; it is less immediately obvious that these same forces are reorganizing us as a collectivity , that the technical drive acts ' Ilion the entire socio-economic system . Individually , we can do little to resist the reforming drive of technique ; pollectively , we can both resist this drive and create ' a counter-drive toward a socio-economic ' systelai based on human not mechanical principles . But there is the danger , which Ellul discusses at some length , that in order to confront and overcome an impersonal organizing drive we will find ourselves automatically developing a form of organization which is itself impersonal ; Where individuals act merely as units which respond mechanically , or feed back information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are aided in an adjustment process in order to be ' able to-make the technically appropriate response . We must find a means of en0.131ing epress tthemselves as hinrian beIngs ; - We ' niustld &; cover a way of establishing a corn , munication ' system which , will tate more than the mere relating of - unit to unit in a total system ending toward ever-greater perfection of unit adjustment . It is precisely here that technique can itself be used to combat its own negative aspects , for it is mow becoming evident that , through technique , new forms and means of human communication could emerge . - It is perhaps useful to remember that when the potential for new systerns of communication first became apparent in the early fifties , it was au-tomatically assumed that such communication would join human beings more closely together At that time there was little realization of the possibility that the new communication systems which had been developed during the wartime and quasi-wartime periods to enable machine to commu , nicate with machine , would continue to be primarily used to facilitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was not recognized that human beings could be separated from one another by intrusive , impersonal communication systems . Curiously , as this unfortunate development proceeded , theoretical discussion of the problems and possibilities of the never communication systems has been increasingly muted . Ellul 's book is unquestionably the most pessimistic description and discussion of machine-to-machine communication systems in print . Recently , Marshal McLuhan , director of the Center for Culture and Technology at the University of Toronto , outlined his appraisal of the possibilities and potential of technique ( the Media ) in his most recent book Understanding Media ( see The Nation , Oct. 5 , 1964 ) . While sharing with Ellul the realistic and fundamental understanding that technique can not merely be considered as neutral " means , " McLuhan argues convincingly that technique calls forth new modes of perception , new ways of thinking , and new reactions in the human mind which can When actor is be more valuable for the development of human capabilities than the limited , lineal thinking still current in the industrial age - In many ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Ellul as a statement of technique in its positive aspect , and it could , indeed , be held to approximate the position outlined in the second ( unpublished ) part of Le Technique A reading of both books together is strongly recommended tO any interested in the future of ' mankind . ful day in the life of a Leopold Bloom . Still , there are ways to write stories which can ruin the most interesting subject Set a definitive biographer to work piling up facts , and even Gandhi 's life would disappear shapeless . under the cairn . Herzog , like most characters , is neither a Gandhi , so interesting that it would take a perverted anti-writer to make him dull , nor a Bloom , so uninteresting that only a perverted super-writer would think of telling his non-story The book has no plot , but at least Herzog is in an intense situation , full of hate for the treacherous wife and friend ; at least he does something , nowhere near enough to keep you reading for the story 's sake , but something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , alienated , baffled , but he has an intellect almost exactly as extraordinary as Saul Bellow 's , one which raises him to a realm altogether brighter than the smog in which Chicago characters usually seem to live , Sister Carrie , Studs Lonigan , Bigger Thomas , Frankie Machine But intellectual vigor is not in itself enough tomake a character worth knowing . As a subject , Herzog is down toward the Bloom end of the scale : meager of story , somewhat colorless of person , his life is sustained in the reader 's mind by his creator 's prose The play of Bellow 's prose causes in the reader 's mind a play analogous to the play of Herzog 's mind Of no live ' character , real or fictional , is it truer to say . " The style is the man . " Take those letters he is writing , seldom ' finishing , never ing : Dear Ma-ma , as to why I have n't visited your grave an so long .. Dear Wanda , Dear Zinha , Dear Libbie , Dear Ramona , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I am afraid of falling apart Dear Edvig , the fact zs that madness also has been denied me . I do n't know why I should write to you at all . Dear Mr. President , Internal Revenue regulations will turn us into a nation of bookkeepers The life of every citizen is becoming a business . This , it seems to me , is one of the worst interpretations of the meaning of human life history has ever seen . Man 's life is not a business . Quirky , leaping , sometimes silly , sometimes piercing  --  such is Herzog 's mind , such the prose of the letters and of the entire novel . It is ' far from the self-effacing prose of most fiction , of realistic novels It is much closer to the style of the " anatomy , " Rabelais , Robert Burton . Among novelists , it has a good deal in common , functionally , with the prose of Tristram Shandy and Ulysses . That is , it is erudite , allusive , and full of tricks , and in itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Because of the prose , Herzog is the first intellectual in American fiction whose mind is fully a part of him , who is all there in the reader 's imagination . This is not the least of the reasons why the first round of literary-intellectual reviewers liked the ' book so much . To be sure , a style sets its own limits . How Herzog works on a willing reader who is nonliterary , nonintellectual and non-American ; I can not guess . Meanwhile let us revel in the book who can Besides , as soon as Herzog gets to Chicago , everything picks up and the style expands to include all who will . Of course Herzog is n't identical with the style The book is not a confession , an arrangement of words projecting a self directly and immediately The man personally is not as funny as the style . He is humorous , he sometimes does ludicrous things , he laughs at himself But we readers laugh a lot more than he does Our laughter may often be ' painful , since we do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Still , we do laugh Try telling someone what Herzog is about , all the time insisting that it 's funny Loneliness , betrayal , disillusionment , near murder , humiliation , half-madness , sorrow , severance , confusion , waste  --  comic , all comic ! ' A strange combination Why does Bellow insist on making the novel comic ? In this book , the style is the man plus his author 's looking at him . For example , Herzog goes to Chicago to The NATION                     