@@271718

As the South 's dual school system yields to integration pressures , Negro teachers rejoice in the new benefits for their race-and worry about their own professional futures . Some are finding that when Negro students go off to the white schools , the Negro teacher does not go along . He loses his job . <P> Faculty integration may well become one of the stickiest issues as pupil integration accelerates under federal insistence that federal money can not go to segregated schools . Ironically , the states and districts that are setting the pace for integration are the ones already under fire from civil rights groups for dismissing too many Negro teachers . <P> " Retaliation . " Though authorities dispute him , N.A.A.C.P. Counsel Jack Greenberg contends that 500 of North Carolina 's 11,792 Negro teachers will lose their jobs this year . Eight Negro teachers in Asheboro , for example , have been dropped with the closing of all-Negro Asheboro Central High School , and no Negro has been hired to teach next fall at the city 's other , and now only , high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds a master 's degree from New York University and has pursued graduate studies at the University of North Carolina , says bitterly : " I think my qualifications are superior to anybody they have over there . " The whites , argues Negro Teacher Gaines Price , " are being forced to integrate , and they are retaliating by not absorbing teachers of the Negro race . " <P> No Corner on Incompetence . In Florida , Dr. Gilbert Porter , executive secretary of the all-Negro Florida State Teachers Association , contends that " several hundred " Negro teachers are being dismissed , and says : " Among all of the Negro teachers being let go , one or more must have qualifications equal or superior to those of the white teachers in that county . " Elsewhere , 22 Negro teachers in four Arkansas school systems being integrated have been told that they will not be rehired , and ten Negro teachers in Texas claim to have been dismissed because of integration shifts . Since integration is barely getting out of token status , thousands of fur ther firings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many Negro teachers do not measure up to their white counterparts . " The dual system has guaranteed that , " says a Texas expert . Donald Agnew , specialist in Negro education for the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools , says that , although " I hate to talk about it , since our organization has worked for years to raise standards , " he que tions " the quality of instruction that Negro teachers have received and can impart . " At the same time , John Griffin of the Southern Education Foundation points out that " Negroes have no corner on the incompetence market . " In fact , well-educated Southern Negroes have long gone into teaching for lack of other opportunities . Florida has based some of its dismissals on National Teacher Examination scores , and Griffin predicts that the test will " weed out some substandard white teachers too . "                     