@@491913

QUACK MARRIAGE COUNSELORS I n the Los Angeles classified phone book under the heading MARRIAGE AND FAMILY COUNSELORS there is a large ad which reads , " PROBLEM CLINIC , National Association for Family Service , Continued Counseling , Individual and Group Therapy , Problems , large and small treated under the guidance of Dr. A. Donahji , Ph.D. , D.D.N.S. , Founder  --  Palace of Brmhayati . " Last November 9 , Donahji was visited by a young couple who introduced themselves as Mr. and Mrs. Robert Mason and said they were seeking help from a practitioner of the burgeoning new field of marriage counseling . The Masons entered Donahji 's establishment in a house sandwiched among storefronts on Los Angeles 's Western Avenue , and they found themselves in a shabby waiting room decorated with worn oriental rugs , battered couches , a giant brass gong and huge portraits of Jesus Christ and Donahji , with the latter getting top billing . While Mason stayed in the waiting room in the company of moist-eyed , middle-aged women patients , Mrs. Mason was summoned in to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his telephone ) and a Ben Casey-type surgical smock . The doctor , quite handsome and about 28 , held Mrs. Mason 's hand during the interview . In response to a brief medical history and her admission that she and her husband had an unsatisfactory sexual relationship , he gave his diagnosis : Both she and her husband had " psychic auras " that were " too light and thin " ; they had married each other , though they were more " like brother and sister , " because " you see each other in one another . " He advised Mrs. Mason to stop taking thyroid pills ( which her physicians had administered to her for years as a vital necessity ) because " they 're doing more harm than good and will make you blind by forming crystals at the tops of your eyeballs . " He also warned her that the pills would cause hair to grow on her chest . He concluded by assuring her that he could cure her marital ills in six more visits at $10 a visit . Three days later Donahji @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the California State Assembly . He then learned to his astonishment that Mason was a reporter working for me in the preparation of this Saturday Evening Post report and that " Mrs. Mason " is , in reality , a former Los Angeles policewoman named Louise Sheffield who was employed by the committee as an undercover investigator . At committee hearings on November 19 Donahji testified that his real name is Don Wilson , that he was born in Girard , Kansas . and that he had awarded himself his Ph.D . and doctor-of-divinity degrees . He admitted that he had absolutely no educational background that would qualify him to handle complicated emotional problems as a marriage counselor , let alone to give medical advice ( as in the matter of Miss Sheffield 's thyroid pills ) . Investigators for the state medical board referred his case to the City Attorney for possible action . The Donahji case was a striking example of the evidence turned up in a coast-to-coast 10-city survey by a Post team of five reporters whoposed as clients for marriage counselors . The survey indicates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disastrous effects than the mere separation of people from their money . I found that they have wrecked lives , have pushed emotionally disturbed clients over the borderline into severe mental illness and might even have caused suicides by their inexpert handling of cases beyond their comprehension . In sending our operatives to check on Donahji and his ilk , neither the California Legislature nor The Post was primarily interested in the jailing of charlatans . The Assembly 's Committee on Governmental Efficiency and Economy held its November hearings with the objective of recommending laws to license and regulate marriage counselors , something no state now does . The committee 's consultant , a sociologist named Maxwell Miller ( formerly on the faculty of Tufts University in Boston ) , had learned , as I did through a nationwide study , that the marriage counselor field is infested with quacks , phonies and incompetents . In the professional journal , The American Psychologist , it was estimated in 1953 that there were approximately 25,000 quack marriage counselors in the United States , earning themselves more than $375,000,000 a year . Quacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mace , executive director of the ethical American Association of Marriage Counselors , " those figures probably have increased considerably . Why ? Because in the last few years 22 states have passed strict new regulations to license and control psychologists in an attempt to weed out the quacks in that profession . The quacks simply took down the PSYCHOLOGIST signs outside their offices and substituted MARRIAGE COUNSELOR signs instead . With practically no regulation at all  --  except for the psychiatrists , psychologists , social workers , etc. , who meet the rigid standards of our association and those of the Community Chest family-service agencies  --  anyone can hang out a shingle and advertise himself as a marriage counselor . So a horde of quacks has flocked into our field , and they 're making more money than ever before . " The Post survey discovered that the incompetents and quacks outnumber the dedicated , competent professionals in the field . We came across self-labeled marriage counselors who had been taxi drivers , plumbers or bartenders , with barely a high-school education . Among the quacks there are phony clergymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , spiritualists , " psychoanalysts " with " degrees " from nonexistent or unrecognized universities . We found inventors of Rube Goldberg contraptions for treating medical and mental ills , and even junk dealers ( one Wisconsin scrap-yard offers marriage counseling along with old stoves , secondhand pipe and cannibalized automobile parts ) . They all have one thing in common : They are profiteering fishermen in the waters of human misery . The spectrum of dangerously unqualified people in the field runs from the pure black to the lightest grays . One of my reporters ( posing as a young husband at the breaking point  --  holding two jobs , living with his wife 's family , etc. ) visited Madam Ann , a Los Angeles gypsy who advertises as a marriage counselor and spiritual adviser . Her advice was that he should see her twice a week for several weeks , her qualifications being that " I was born with the power to solve problems . The answer comes to me when I burn candles and pray at church . " Madam Ann 's fee is $5 a visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents a visit for reading palms . At the other end of the spectrum is a middle-aged woman physician in a large suburb who gave up the practice of medicine in 1952 for the easier and more lucrative field of marriage counseling . She was visited by one of my reporters , an attractive young lady who told the doctor she was at the point of desperation because her marriage had broken down into a complete lack of communication between her husband and herself . For 115 , payable at the end of the visit , the doctor offered counsel of the caliber of the advice-to-the-lovelorn columns : " Do more things together ; be there when he gets home from work , etc . " Although this may sound harmless , it is n't . Last year this same doctor who has had no training in psychiatry attempted to handle a ease on which I patterned my reporter 's problem . The real patient now is institutionalized with a severe mental breakdown . The details were revealed to me by an executive of one of the top-rated family-service agencies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her " counseling . " Says the executive , a distinguished clinical psychologist , " I had known this woman doctor previously , and one day she called me in a panic . She said that something had gone wrong in a marriage-counseling case and that she desperately needed my advice . This couple she was treating had a total inability to talk to each other , she said , and they were joined in a sort of mutual destruction  --  using everything to tear each other apart . I asked the doctor what treatment she had attempted and she said , ' I tried to bring the anger out . ' This did not surprise me because it 's her favorite expression . In her amateur dabbling she believes she can solve every problem with a cathartic approach to things  --  like wringing the worms out of the soil after a rain . The only trouble was that while she was engaged in ' bringing out the anger ' the wife went to pieces . " What happened was this : The wife was what we call an ambulatory schizophrenic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can be managed just so long as it is not forced to the surface . The woman was expressionless and emotionless . She talked about marital explosions in a completely fiat tone , as if reciting something that had happened to someone else ; she had no goals in life and said she just wanted to live and get by ; she kept describing a hollow inside of herself which she had tried to fill with food , art and education ; she had compulsive feelings , Inventors o like not answering phone calls from her husband except at a certain hour . There was a rigidity with which she was holding herself together  --  like living in a corset so as not to fly apart . " All this would have been immediately apparent to anyone with professional training in this field . But not to my marriage-counselor friend . Unlike other physicians who take specialized training in handling emotional disturbances , she thought that treating mumps and measles in babies was all the training she needed . In ' bringing out the anger ' she broke through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the underlying psychosis to erupt . The woman went into a depression and refused to eat . She was obviously in a severe suicidal state . " It was then that the doctor came to us for help , but by that time we could only turn the patient over to a psychiatrist . It now will take months of treatment and thousands of dollars to bring her back even to the state in which she started . So that 's the kind of damage untrained marriage counselors  --  even those with M.D. degrees  --  can do . I dread to think of what happens with the plumbers and out-and-out con men who are plying the trade . " In Chicago last year a young steelworker came to see Wilda J. Dailey , head of the Midway Center office of the Family Service Bureau , United Charities . He announced that he had set himself up in practice as a marriage counselor in the evenings after his work at the steel mill and asked her agency to refer clients to him . Miss Dailey inquired about his qualifications , which consisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the fact that he had read Freud . Miss Dailey , of course , told him referrals were out of the question and sternly warned him against his plan . " Nonetheless , " says Miss Dailey , " he told me he had a knack of helping people , and nothing 1 could say would stop him . He set himself up in a nice office on South 63rd Street , hired a secretary , decked himself out in a white coat . The clients came in off the street . He did fine until two months later when he got hold of a couple of psychotics . They drove him crazy . He closed , and we have n't heard anything of him since . " In Detroit a real-estate man set himself up in business as a marriage counselor , beat up one of his clients who was not responding to treatment , got in trouble with the law on a fraud charge and finally committed suicide . In a Midwestern city , reports Dr. Aaron L. Rutledge. president of the American Association of Marriage Counselors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having sexual intercourse with a variety of his patients . He nonchalantly declared himself a marriage counselor and continued his practice and practices . " In Van Nuys , California , a woman having conflicts with her husband picked the name of a marriage counselor out of the phone book . For a few sessions the counselor talked to her across his desk : then he asked her to lie on his couch ; a few sessions later he asked her to remove her blouse during treatment , and finally he asked her to take off her skirt . Says Yvonne Giroux , director of Family Service of Los Angeles , " When the woman became frightened and wanted to leave , he kissed and fondled her . She fled and came to us . We checked her carefully to make sure she was not suffering from delusions . A few days later , when we began to investigate the counselor , we found that he had pulled up stakes and left town . " When Miss Beverley Brewitt visited a Los Angeles marriage counselor for premarital advice , she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical examination . The counselor then offered his " services " to relieve any " sexual frustrations " she might have . In New Jersey I found a 50-year-old woman , the wife of an extremely wealthy man , who decided to become a marriage counselor after she had raised her family and had little else to do . She did n't want to take full training  --  which would have meant going back to college for a graduate degree in psychology or social work , plus several years of clinical work with an agency  --  because this would have interfered with her social life . Instead she took courses over a six-month period and received a certificate which stated that she was now qualified to practice marriage counseling . She is what is known in the profession as a " ninety-day wonder , " and she has a profitable practice among the marital misfits in her wealthy , suburban community . The Sick Ca n't Trent the Sick You might say , " At least she has some training , so what harm can she do ? " A reputable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This woman is mentally ill , " he told me , " and in these cases the sick ca n't treat the sick . Her specialty is figuratively crawling into bed with her clients . She ferrets out all their sexual practices and gets full detail on every caress , and so on . She gives them the most outlandish mechanical sexual advice . Her rationale is that if you somehow get people to derive pleasure from each other 's bodies there will be an eddy from it which will ameliorate other areas . In the hands of an incompetent , which she is , this is a dangerous theory . Even more dangerous is her underlying motive . The woman has an abnormal sexual curiosity rising from a sexual inadequacy in her own marriage . Her quest for detail about the intimacies of her clients is , for her , a substitute . How different is this from the peeping Tom who looks into bedroom windows ? " In our investigation my reporters and I ran the gamut from the peeping Toms to the out-and-out charlatans to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phoned A. Henry Silver , who advertises in the phone book : " Psychoanalyst ... Release of whole burden can be accomplished from first consultation ... Marriage and sex problems . Resulting in lasting peace of mind and efficiency .... " On the phone Silver promised what not even Freud , Jung and Adler , acting in concert , could do . He said , " I 'll solve your problem in one session for a hundred dollars " ? and this was before he knew the problem or even the name of the potential client . Another marriage counselor named Volney O. Mathison calls himself an " electropsychometrist . " He offered to eliminate the young man 's marital woes with an interview ( S45 ) ; a " selfhypno " tape recording to be played over and over by this client in order to hypnotize himself ( S50 ) , and a tape recorder on which to play the tapes ( S79.95 ) . Mathison also suggested that he could cure other bad habits , such as bed-wetting , excessive smoking and homosexuality . In a reputable-appearing marriage clinic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological tests and sold him a course of treatment that cost $90 . Then the reporter was informed by a staff marriage counselor that his handwriting on the psychological tests would be a key factor in solving his marital problems . " In thousands of hours of treatment , " said the counselor , " I 've learned the importance of handwriting analysis . " Perhaps the most startling experience undergone by the reporter in Los Angeles was at the hands of V.I . Negri and Associates , advertised in the phone book as " Ph.D . Psychologists Specializing in Personal , Marital and Sexual Problems . " The reporter called for an appointment and was told to come to Vitale I. Negri 's home , a 550,000 English-manor-style house just off Wilshire Boulevard . Mrs. Negri collected a S15 fee from the " patient " in the doorway and then ushered him through a pantry into the presence of the master in an office hung with diplomas  --  a " doctor of philosophy " degree from Western Institute of Psychoanalysis in Los Angeles and several degrees from Commonwealth University in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of these institutions . Negri , an elderly snapping turtle of a man who conducted the interview in stocking feet , first reviewed the reporter 's sexual habits in his marriage and then delivered himself of a medical lecture on the dangers to the prostate gland which would jar the credibilities of any first-year physiology student . There was a further discussion about the " patient 's " nervous state , and then came the grand play . As the reporter describes it , " Negri had me sit down in a chair with my back to a large electrical machine . It had a label something like THERMOMECHANISM on it , but it was too dark for me to read it clearly . From the machine he pulled forward an arm on which were mounted two hinged metal plates . These he clamped around my head . Then he threw some switches behind me somewhere , and the machine started some generalized whirring back at the power source , while right at my ears there started a soft , metronome-like ticking . " Then all at once the plates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt anything . When I answered that the thing was getting hot , he wanted to know if the heat was equal on both sides of my head . IL answered that I thought it was a bit cooler on the right side . He released me from the device and said , ' I want you to take B-1 vitamins . That will help your nervousness and clear up that weakness on the right side . Anyone can tell from just looking at you that you 're neurotic . I can supply you with a bottle of 100-milligram B-1 vitamins for S2.87 . I also want you to have a long talk with your wife . You must be firm with her . Your trouble is that you love your wife not wisely but too well . ' " Less amusing were the experiences of two of my reporters , both young women , in New York . One of them went to a so-called marriage clinic in a shabby office in a midtown Manhattan office building . On her first visit she was informed by the marriage counselor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b ) she was entirely responsible for the sex problems she had complained about in her marriage because she had probably undergone a frightening experience in childhood , " like being raped by your father , " and ( c ) it would be better to break up the marriage " rather than go through five more years of misery . " Another marriage counselor in the office of a chiropractor advised her , after about 15 minutes of interviewing , " to find someone you love and want to rush to bed with . " He asked , " How do you know your husband is n't a homosexual ? " Bad Advice Could Incite Murder My other New York reporter went to a man who calls himself " The Listening Rabbi " and told him the story of a troubled interfaith marriage . She complained that her husband 's parents refused to accept her and that he continually sided with them . The marriage counselor said , " Did it ever occur to you that the only reason your husband might have married you was to revenge himself on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ? " The danger in these three cases is inherent . As a psychiatrist explained to me , " If any 01 these women were borderline psychotics , or mentally disturbed in any severe way , such advice could drive them to murdering their husbands , or to suicide , or both . " In the face of wholesale incompetence and quackery in this field , does a person with a serious problem dare to go to a marriage counselor ? The answer : Yes . First of all , when practiced ethically and with proper education and training , it is an honorable and valuable calling . For example , in divorce cases where he thinks a marriage can be saved , attorney Louis Nizer prefers to send his clients to a professional marriage counselor rather than to a psychiatrist or a psychoanalyst , except in instances of extreme emotional disturbance . He says , " Psychoanalysis takes too long . A good marriage counselor can clear up the ordinary maladjustments and misunderstandings in from six to fifteen visits . While the percentage of success is not high , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secondly , it is possible to avoid the quacks and incompetents if you exercise the same amount of care as you do in choosing a physician or surgeon . The principal fact to realize is that , as Sanford Sherman of New York 's Jewish Family Service told me , " There is no profession of marriage counseling . Anyone who claims to be in such a profession should be investigated further . It is a field involving many people who are qualified in their own professions , such as psychiatry , psychology and social work . Most of the phonies do n't have a profession of their own , and they latch onto ' marriage counselor ' as a title . " Thus the American Association of Marriage Counselors requires for membership a minimum of a master 's degree in social work , an M.D. degree , a Ph.D . in psychology , sociology or a closely related . field , or a three-year graduate degree From a theological seminary . In addition , a full-fledged member must have had at least five years ' experience in clinical marriage counseling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or with public or private family-service agencies . This gives a distinct advantage to the client because , as the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry points out , " Marriage is many things . It is a legal , medical , economic , religious and social relationship , as well as an emotional one . . . . Ideally , the marriage counselor should be a doctor , lawyer , minister , psychologist and sociologist . The next best thing is to form a team of counselors . Fortifying this theory , a study by the Marriage Council of Philadelphia indicates  --  contrary to widespread belief  --  that in only one of seven cases is the main marriage problem a sexual or emotional one . A typical recent case in Washington , D.C. was illustrative . It involved a multiplicity of problems : money ; the husband 's troubles with his job ; the children 's failures in school ; the wife 's difficulties in adjusting to the religious extremes of her mother-in-law , who had come to live with the family . Four experts combined to work on this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget and arranged for special counseling of the children in school ; an attorney helped obtain a bank loan for the husband , thus getting the other creditors off his back ; a minister mediated the religious differences between wife and mother-in-law ; and a psychologist , after tests and consultations , switched the man from a bookkeeper 's job to an outside salesman 's route , for which he was much more suited . Today , less than a year after a near divorce , the marriage seems to have been saved . It is because of teamwork like this that the most effective marriage counseling being done today is in the family-service agencies  --  which have experts in all categories on their staffs or serving as consultants . Three hundred such agencies in major cities of the U.S. and Canada ( all supported by the Community Chest and United Fund and charging fees ranging from nothing to $25 a week , according to ability to pay ) belong to a remarkable organization called the Family Service Association of America . The F.S.A.A. sets rigid standards for mernber agencies ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counseling on a high level . If an agency falls below the required high standards , it loses its accreditation . The F.S.A.A. agencies do more marriage counseling than any other group in the United States . In 1962 they handled more than 300,000 cases . Nearly half the cases they see involve marital problems . A social worker with at least a master 's degree and several years of clinical experience is assigned to each case . The caseworker is backed up by psychologists , psychiatrists , lawyers , clergymen , etc. , who act as consultants . Cases of severe mental illness , for example , are immediately referred to a psychiatrist or clinical psychologist , according to the severity of the disturbance . Public at the Exploiters ' Mercy With such excellent service readily available , why is it that hundreds of thousands of people fall into the hands of the quacks and the incompetents every year ? There are many reasons . Frequently the agencies , plagued by a shortage of qualified personnel , have waiting lists  --  and desperate people will turn to anyone who promises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and naivete . As Dr. Aaron L. Rutledge , president of the American Association of Marriage Counselors , recently wrote , " The public is at the mercy of the exploiters . It is against professional ethics to advertise but the borderline operator and the quack do not hesitate to use the tactics of the sideshow hawker .... The most intelligent person can make serious mistakes when suffering from acute emotional stress . He assumes that the yellow pages or newspapers would not announce the services of disreputable people , and he dials the first or largest number he sees . " A third reason for the current epidemic of quacks and incompetents is that the average person frequently finds it difficult to tell if he is dealing with a legitimate practitioner or a phor y . The diploma on the wall may be a fake . Even if genuine , the Ph.D . may be in physical education or geology or some other subject wholly unrelated to the behavioral sciences . The membership certificate in a high-sounding professional organization may be a fraud . Not long ago , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to join , for S 12.50 , an organization known as the American Marriage Counselor Association ( a name confusingly similar to that of the reputable American Association of Marriage Counselors ) . The address was P.O. Box 476 in Evansville , Indiana . The letter adjured the recipient to join in order to " quickly and effectively clean out our profession , ridding ourselves of the shysters , interlopers , impostors , incompetents and charlatans who have too long taken away the dignity and good name of what should be one of our most honored professions . " Since no qualifications were asked for , I filled out an application blank and mailed my $12.50 . I wanted to see if , with no educational background in the field , I could get myself " a handsome certificate of membership " plus a " duplicate certificate in miniature size " for my wallet . The only thing that prevented me from thus becoming a " certified " marriage counselor was that the Better Business Division of the Evansville Chamber of Commerce got to P.O. Box 476 before l did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a destitute ex-lawyer who had become impressed with the get-rich-quick possibilities in the marriage-counselor field , of which he had no professional knowledge . Because he is a partial invalid he was not prosecuted after he 'd promised to cease and desist his " accrediting " activities and return all money sent to him . I have yet , however , to get my $12.50 back . With such chicanery rampant , the public currently has virtually no protection against falling into the hands of a quack or an incompetent  --  except to follow the rules laid down in the " do 's and don'ts " of seeking help from a marriage counselor. printed with this article . It is incredible , but only one place in the country imposes legal control over the marriage-counselor racket . This place is San Diego , California . In 1948 , long before the term " marriage counselor " came into general use , San Diego was plagued with a host of phony practitioners who customarily used the label " psychologist " or " psychoanalyst . " On June 7 of that year Nevin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diego , a top-rated F.S.A.A. agency , complained about the infestation to George Chaplin , the editor of a now-defunct crusading newspaper , the San Diego Journal . Shocked , Chaplin on June 9 dispatched a reporter named Richard Looman to investigate . Looman 's disclosures made front-page news in the Journal for more than a month . First , Looman obtained for himself a business license from the city . It cost him 84 cents . He wanted to dramatize how this license was all that was necessary for him  --  or anyone else  --  to go into practice as a " professional consulting psychologist . " Next Looman reported on cases of outrageous quackery that he had found and which were confirmed by Samuel Futterman , M.D. , a psychiatrist and consultant to the Family Service Association of San Diego . In one case a quack failed to recognize mental illness in a husband and gave credence to the man 's wild delusions that his wife was being unfaithful with all of his friends . The counselor actually persuaded the wife to undergo sterilization " to save the marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his women patients , " designating such acts as a proper part of treatment . " Another quack to whom Looman went , posing as a patient , told him that his wife was probably trying to poison his food and tried to sign him up for treatments at $120 a month to correct supposed glandular damage . On August 10 , 1948 , a month after the newspaper began its disclosures , the San Diego City Council  --  following two days of hearings  --  set up a five-member commission of professionals to license " every person conducting or carrying on the business , occupation or profession of psychologist , or who counsels people with mental , emotional or marital problems . . . " In 1953 the Council set up a similar five-member commission to licerise and regulate social workers engaged in counseling . The standards are tough . For both categories , a minimum of a master 's degree from a reputable school is required , plus accreditation in either the American Psychological Association or the National Association of Social Workers , plus five years of supervised practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Social Work Commission may practice marriage counseling in San Diego . As a result San Diego  --  unlike any other city in America  --  has been almost completely free of marriage-counselor quacks and incompetents for 14 years . Only licensed practitioners are listed as marriage counselors in the phone book . There is no backwash of shattered victims . Irving R. Stone , chairman of the San Diego Psychology Commission ( he 's also the chief clinical psychologist at the state of California 's mental-hygiene clinic in San Diego ) , told me , " The only problems we have had go back to a provision in the original law which exempted certain professions , like doctors and ministers , from licensing . Occasionally we get some nut who ordains himself a minister in a church he creates himself and then opens up a pastoral counseling service . We go after them , usually on fraud charges , through the district attorney 's office . " Legislative Action in California If it can happen in one city why ca n't it happen in others  --  or even in whole states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee on Governmental Efficiency and Economy of the California State Assembly , asked himself that very question after receiving numerous complaints about quack marriage counselors . So did Assemblyman Lester A. McMillan , chairman of the committee . They decided to investigate and hold committee hearings to determine whether legislation should be recommended . It was just about that time that I was in California working with my team of investigators , and I outlined to Miller my views of the problem as I had observed it nationally . Miller suggested that my investigators join forces with his . The committee 's former policewoman , Louise Sheffield , thus became the feminine half of a " husband-and-wife " team with my skilled reporter , Robert Mason . Copies of all of my reports of visits made to suspected quacks went to the committee . At a subsequent public hearing of the committee on November 19 several of the quacks uncovered by Miss Sheffield and Mason were ordered to testify under subpoena . The committee also heard testimony from victims and from expert witnesses . One of the victims , a consulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid $4,100 over 10 years to a San Francisco marriage counselor . He testified that he had gone to the " doctor " in 1950 because of tension on his job but that " he told me sex was at the root of my trouble , and he cleverly told me he must consult with my wife and talk with her . " After that , reported Rogers , the man " began clandestine operations with my wife and directed that both she and I have extramarital experiences : - Said Rogers , " This man held sway over my family for ten years . He conducted himself improperly with my wife , permanently crippled the psyche of two of our three children and contributed heavily to the breakup of our marriage in 1960 . " This testimony was substantiated by Assemblyman Donald Mulford of Oakland , California , where Rogers lives . The committee also heard from the Rev. William V. King , pastor of the Church of Modern Philosophy in El Monte , California , who testified that he had issued himself his degree as doctor of divinity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he practices marriage counseling " because I have a psychic to diagnose what is wrong with people . " The " reverend " said he 'd gone only to the eleventh grade and founded his church and marriage-counseling service " by a divine revelation . " Another clergyman , Dr. Ray Charles Jarman , testified he 'd been a minister for 50 years and done marriage counseling since he was 17 . He admitted to the committee that he takes the dangerous hallucinatory drug LSD ( lysergic acid diethylamide ) , which should be administered only under the strict control of a physician . " It 's a very remarkable drug , " he told the committee . " I saw reality for the first time , and I felt I should share this feeling with my congregation . " ( It was brought out at the hearing that Jarman is a defendant in a $500,000 civil damage suit in Superior Court in California ; he 's accused of inducing a client named Donald W. McCollum to take LSD with the result that McCollum attempted suicide and was committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation to curb the quacks and incompetents . San Diego 's Psychology Commission chairman , Irving R. Stone , recommended an extension of San Diego 's strict licensing system to the entire state ; Superior Judge Roger A. Pfaff , who heads Los Angeles 's highly successful court conciliation program ( there are 11 qualified marriage counselors on the staff ) , asked for strict standards ? " a minimum of a master 's degree in one of the behavioral sciences with five years of professional experience , at least two years of which should be in marriage counseling . " Possibilities of a Crackdown Will California become the first state to crack down on marriage counselors ? Probably . What form will the committee 's proposed legislation take ? It 's still too early to tell . However , in my discussions with Maxwell Miller , several possibilities emerged : 1 . The state will limit marriage counseling to specific professions , such as psychiatry and psychology , in which the applicant is previously qualified , licensed or certified . In addition each applicant will have to take an examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which advertise as counselors will have to have a state-licensed marriage counselor on the staff . 2 . The state will set up disciplinary measures against practicing without a license . 3 . The committee will recommend liability provisions for any harm licensed marriage counselors cause to patients similar to malpractice provisions applying to licensed physicians . 4 . The committee will recommend that marriage counseling be limited to clinics and agencies which offer panels of experts . Even if California passes only the minimum proposed legislation , other states must follow suit . They are confronted by a real and present menace  --  incompetents and quacks who prey on , and often harm , troubled , vulnerable people . The state governments have been derelict in failing to take action before this , for there is no question they have power to put the phony counselors out of business . Now The Post and California investigations have shown how big the problem is , how it can be exposed , and what sort of legislation can be enacted to solve it . As other states follow California 's lead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would answer the prayerful pleas of the dedicated , honest practitioners in the field who inherit the pitiful mess caused by the incompetents and quacks , often when it is too late . Before I left on my study around the country , I spoke with Else Siegle , a top executive of the Community Service Society of NeW York , one of the most respected agencies in the country . Mrs. Siegle studied at the University of Vienna and at the New York School of Social Work . She is typical of the hardworking , eminently qualified humanitarians who are trying to stem the tide of charlatanism . Mrs. Siegle said to me , " Help us , please help us to get some licensing to weed out the incompetents . Human beings are the most precious commodity we can deal with . "                     