@@491990

The future of POST the Republican Party No man , however far-seeing he may be , can predict with any great degree of accuracy how history will judge the current soul-trying phase in the long and honorable life of the Republican Party . That Party has suffered a massive defeat at the polls . Its future and , equally important , the future of the two-party system in the United States have been thrown in doubt . Some self-appointed prophets of doom proclaim this to be the end of Republicanism as a vital force in our national life . There are others who , stunned by the widespread rejection of the 1964 Republican national ticket , believe that now the Party should radically change its traditional policies and even its name  --  becoming , in effect . something far different from the political philosophy to which many generations of Republicans have given their loyalty . Not for a moment do I share such extreme views or the pessimism they reflect . Of course , as an American and as a dedicated Republican , I am deeply concerned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , it is my deepest conviction that this can be a time of great opportunity for Republicanism  --  if we make it so , if all of us who believe in the Lincolnian principles of our Party join in renewing the spirit and rebuilding the strength of the Republican Party on those principles . From the beginning the basic purpose of Republicans has been to lead our nation always to greater excellence in its moral , intellectual and material structure . Consequently , we have believed the individual to be of supreme importance in our political system ; that his spirit is the strength of our nation ; that human liberty , equality before the law , and self-government are the mainsprings of that spirit . We have believed that to be secure and stay free we must be strong morally , economically and militarily ; that government must have a heart as well as a head and an ID 1965 By DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER EISENHOWER especial care for those people who are not able to solve human problems by themselves ; that a sound and stable currency is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the cause of fxlom and liberty for all peoples is our constant concern . None of these is new , but I have the conviction that much of our divided effort during the recent campaign can be traced to the fact that too many of us forgot our common dedication to these principles . In 1964 we lost a battle , but we have not lost these traditional put poses , nor has the country lost the need for a strong and healthy Republican Party . Even those thoughtful Democrats who are more concerned with the welfare of the nation than with mere partisan advantage recognize the need for a sound , well-balanced opposition . We Republicans can do much to make this painful chapter of our Party 's history a prelude to brighter years ahead . But to do so , I believe it is essential that we proceed without recrimination and prejudice , but with tolerance and calm judgment . We must understand clearly : 41 ) what has happened ; ( 2 ) the role a political party such as ours must play in American life ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and must be , to look forward and make certain that the nation moves forward . Now I do n't propose here to replay the campaign , attempt to assets blame , or to suggest that this element or that element should be read out of the Party . Just 100 years ago , when a group serenaded Abraham Lincoln at the White House on the news of his reelection , he wisely said , " The strife of the election is but human nature . . . . Let us , therefore , study the incidents of this as philosophy to learn wisdom from , and none of them as wrongs to be avenged . " Today we can do no better than follow his advice . This is a time for dedicated Republicans to search out and remind ourselves of those great areas of policy on which we agree , and to go forward from there  --  not to quarrel over past or present differences of opinion . However , we do have to face the hard fact that even before this defeat . Republicanism had suffered from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has confused voters and has led them to think of our political doctrine as one designed primarily for the rich and privileged . It is all too obvious that the Republican image suffered further distortion in the 1964 campaign , partly because of the powerful publicity campaign mounted by the entrenched Democrats , and partly because of the bitterness generated in the preceding primary struggles . A multitude of Republicans themselves gained the mistaken impression that their Party 's national ticket had abandoned many traditional Republican principles and leaned toward reactionary , extremist and racist fringes . One of our highest priority missions is that of reminding the nation that ours is still the Party of Lincoln , deeply dedicated to his concepts of human liberty , dignity and equality . While I am commenting briefly on things past . I should like to refer to a continuous effort I made since leaving the White House that resulted in abysmal failure . During the period I was in constant receipt of communications giving advice and counsel as to what I personally should do in preparation for the 1964 campaign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " General , why do n't you pick a candidate satisfactory to yourself , and then we will all get together to support him . " This was flattering but also dismaying . As a matter of deep principle I do not believe that any man , no matter what his position , has the right to dictate the choice of candidates of a national party . At the same time , it seemed to me quite appropriate and desirable to encourage a number of prominent Republican leaders , particularly promising and vital individuals , to make their availability known so that as Party spokesmen they would help generate a consensus of thinking on policies and candidates . This I set out to do . However , my attempt to broaden the campaign had meager  --  indeed , no  --  results . In certain aspects my effort seemed to have the effect of dividing rather than unifying opinion within the Party . During all this period I did keep saying and repeating , " There is room for many shades of opinion within the Republican Party so long as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that we have nothing in common with fanatics and their warped doctrines . I have no patience with extreme Rightists who call everyone who disagrees with them a Communist , nor with the Leftists who shout that the rest of us are heartless money grubbers . " I do n't know whether or not I would follow much the same course again , if the Almighty should see fit to let me take part in another national campaign . Certainly , in no case would I ever attempt to " name the man . " I have too much respect for democracy for that . As for other kinds of political activity , I would simply have to do what I thought proper at the time . The present difficulties of the Republican Party should make us reflect on what really is at stake  --  on the vital part that major political parties play in our individual lives and our national life . Looking at them in the abstract , political parties are simply mechanisms for mobilizing citizens for political action . Yet , in reality , political parties are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beliefs , which make our cherished self-government workable and responsive to public opinion . Through their long histories each of our major political parties has evolved its own traditions and principles ; each has accumulated generations of human political experience ; and each has developed in its followers a sense of loyalty which gives the party continuity and spirit . And in our competitive society the existence of two major political parties has meant continual , strenuous competition between political ideas and programs for public support . If the majority party becomes arrogant , cor rupt , reactionary , or fails to reflect the will of the people , the opposition party stands ready to point out these faults , persuade the voters to discipline the majority at the ballot box , and , if possible , to take over majority power . What I know of the American people convinces me that they like it this way  --  two parties , roughly balanced in strength , with the scales tipping this way and that as public opinion shifts or the performance of a party falls short of public acceptance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abhorrent to patriotic Americans . We fear , and rightly , the tyranny of the majority , one of the very things our Constitution was designed to avoid . That tyranny would not come about by deliberate scheming , but by a process of accretion in which the longer a given group holds power , the more power they feel they must accumulate and the less voice and consideration they give the minority . We have only to look around the world to see that whenever a single party gains undisputed control of a government for any length of time , bureaucracy multiplies and self-government withers away . Furthermore , I believe that the American people basically want their political parties to cover a broad spectrum of political philosophy , not a narrow economic , social or religious ideology . Life in this great country is not divided into small compartments . Our political parties  --  while competing vigorously  --  should be as broad as our national life . After all , many of the differences and conflicts between groups in our society  --  differences which might cause dissension and instability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmonized within the party itself . Broad-based political parties are the anvils on which patriotic citizens strive to hammer out a workable national consensus , despite the widely varying interests and viewpoints of individuals , groups and regions . That is why I get annoyed when unthinking partisans accuse the Republican Party of " me-tooism " simply because the Party proposes solutions to some pressing human problems with which the Democrats also are concerned . This smacks of fanaticism . It is only common sense to recognize that the great bulk of Americans , whether Republican or Democrat , face many common problems and agree on a number of basic objectives : All Americans , whatever their political coloration , want peace and national security ; they want our foreign relations to be conducted wisely , they want our Presidents to stand up for our country 's rights , yet never to be arrogant or foolhardy . Most of us want a decent , healthy , well-educated population , with plentiful opportunity for ourselves and our children , regardless of where we live . the color of our skins , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathe and pure water in our streams . We all want our citizens to he protected against disasters  --  economic or physical  --  which are beyond the individual 's ability to surmount . What the Republican Party stands for should be well known . but I fear that it is not . Under long Democratic rule the false " image " which has plagued Republicanism often has obscured the truth . However , that does not make this truth any less important  --  particularly at this time when many are concerned with a possible drift toward the disaster of one-party rule . The difference between parties is , in most instances , a matter of approach to problems and programs . We Republicans want our government at appropriate levels to be responsive to our needs , but not to invade our individual rights , liberties , and responsibilities . Though we have many of the same ultimate goals as the Democrats , we disagree with them on methods and in their application , believing that ours are safer and more effective in preserving individual rights . responsibilities , and initiatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To this end , we Republicans are constantly on guard against granting too much power and responsibility to a central government , lest the people 's freedoms be eroded away . This does not mean that Republicans want the Federal Government to ignore human problems ; on the contrary , our Party was conceived to mobilize patriotic citizens for the solution of human problems ; it was born of the struggle against slavery . It has never ceased to be concerned with humanity 's basic needs and desires . In its beginnings . the Republican Party did much to shape future progress of our people with such far-seeing human programs as The Homestead Act and the Land Grant College Act . The first paved the way for settlement of the West by independent family farmers , the second was a magnificent innovation which grew into our system of state colleges and universities . It was in this same spirit the Republican Administration of the 1950 's extended Social Security to millions of people who had not been covered . In 1957 we Republicans led a Democratic Congress to a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind in 80 years  --  setting up the Civil Rights Commission and making it a federal obligation to assure that no qualified citizen is deprived of his right to vote . It should be common knowledge , but I am afraid it is n't , that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 could not have been passed over the opposition of Southern Democrats without the inspired , skill f Li I aid of Republican leaders in Congress . Some , attempting to emphasize the important differences between the two parties , have advocated making one of the parties , presumably the Republican , into a Conservative Party , with the other , the Democratic , becoming the Liberal Party . With this , I flatly disagree . In the first place , this proposal erroneously presupposes that many Americans would prefer to give their loyalty to what is mainly an economic theory instead of an encompassing human-based political philosophy . Also , it overlooks the very human fact that few men are entirely " liberal " or entirely " conservative " in their outlook . For example , the late Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatism , but in the years before his death , when we had become great friends , I found him far more " liberal " than I was in such fields as public housing . federal aid to education , and universal pensions . He did not seek the label of " Conservative ' ' ? he was proud of being a Republican . There is a very real danger , not just to the major parties , but to our whole political system itself in attempts to cram voters into narrow ideological compartments . To do so would simply emphasize and exaggerate the tensions and conflicts between groups . rather than promote all-important accommodation and conciliation . The ultimate result would be fragmentation of the political system , splitting our parties into splinter groups . It is highly unlikely , for example , that the extreme rightists would long feel at home with more conventional conservatives , and soon might break away as Ultra-Conservatives . The same result undoubtedly would occur among the so-called " liberals . " And those who think of themselves as conservative on fiscal matters but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their views they must form some new grouping . Such splinter parties would soon become disruptive and destructive of political responsibility . Each , unable to win by itself , could become a wrecker by throwing its strength to other dissidents whenever it might seem advantageous . We can not afford a goveminent of splinter parties in this country . They would spell stagnation . The vital point is that if we are going to have an effective two-party system , each party must have a program of action that appeals to the great cross section of our citizenry . Any group that establishes a position that is incompatible with the beliefs of the bulk of the people , or that violates the limits of common sense , simply can not long exist as a political party of any consequence . EISENHOWER The restoration of a wide-spectrum Republican Party , from the local communities on up . is an urgent task , but I am confident that it can be accomplished by men of goociwill . It is n't as though we were starting empty-handed . for the Party has great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of loyalty among the millions who are registered as Republicans . And the Party is fortunate in having a large number of splendid young leaders in many segments of American life  --  in state governments . in Congress , in professional life , and in business . We have a number of vigorous Republican governors who are making fine records and look like coming political stars . We have everything we need  --  except numbers  --  to achieve success . Our immediate assignment is to mobilize these resources  --  all of them  --  to make the Republican Party an expanding political force in all parts of the country . There is. of course , no infallible master plan , no golden panacea for assuring victory . We can only start at a logical beginning and proceed step by step from there to build the Party into an organization which once again can win the respect , loyalty and votes of a majority of citizens in local . state , and national elections . I strongly believe that as a logical starting point all Republicans should work together to achieve a consensus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our problems . We should carefully define guidelines for approaching political issues of our day . Such a start would serve a dual pulp use : ( A ) It would give us a simple , straightforward program that the great majority could support , and ( B ) It would let the people know what Republicans really believe . We are concerned , for example , with such problems as distressed areas and slums ; medical care for the elderly ; unemployment and other welfare problems ; increased centralization of government and unnecessary intervention of the Federal Government in local affairs ; the persistent cost-price squeeze in agriculture ; increasing governmental debt  --  Federal . state and city ; tax reform ; and , always , civil rights . The Republican approach to each of these is guided by the principles to which I have already adverted . After a major defeat it is only human nature that some in any political party would feel resentment toward those who directed its national campaign and believe that the most urgent need is " reorganization . " Some reorganization likely is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cart before the horse . The first order of business is to take a fresh . realistic look at the entire Republican Party , including its aims and its organization . In other words , let us use the traditional Republican method of studying the problem thoroughly at all levels and agreeing on a course of action which unifies and strengthens on all levels , rather than divides . On the other hand , we must not be dilatory in attacking the tough problems before us . And , in taking a new look at our Party , let us call to our aid all of the brains and talent Republicanism can command . This is not just a matter for the National Committee which , after all , is only one element in the Party machinery -- and which , of course , has no monopoly on brains in the Party . The Party needs to utilize the wisdom and counsel of the many different kinds of leaders who have a stake in the future of Republicanism  --  the Republican governors , the Republican members in Congress , well-known Republican businessmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and people from our universities who have devoted their academic lives to the study of political science . The achievement of a broad , workable Party consensus on the application of our principles is not going to be easy . There will be much temptation to take hard-and-fast positions on specifics , to quarrel among ourselves on details . But if I am sure of anything , it is that practical unity is essential to the Party 's future . If we are to correct . once and for all , the false image which has become associated with Republicanism in the minds of many citizens , we must get to work . It is the only process by which the Republican Party can regroup and go forward , speaking with one . powerful , persuasive voice on the problems that face the nation . The main purpose of any reorganization should be to update and streamline the Party machinery , making it more responsive to the will of the majority of Republicans from the grassroots , the suburbs , and the city streets to the legislative halls . We all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the past generation . Populations have shifted , the suburbs have proliferated , people have become highly mobile and many of them , unfortunately , tend to take less part in local political affairs . How is our political Party going to keep in contact with these people , how are we going to make it possible for them to learn our aims and play an active role in Party politics ? For example , it may be that the Party should put more emphasis on local Republican Clubs , geared to the life of the community , with open doors for all citizens , to engage the interest and understanding of many people , particularly young people , who now are politically rootless . I am not sure that in this respect our Party has kept up with the times , We know , too , that at the top , the Party is n't as well coordinated as it might be . We have not only a National Committee , but also a Congressional Committee , Senatorial Committee , and a National Finance Committee  --  and these various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is the Republican Governors Council which has a legitimate and important part to play in Party affairs . The Republican governors are on the firing line , year in and year out ; they are a key link between the Party and state and local problems . Yet there is some evidence that the national Party has not always given Republican governors and Republican gubernatorial candidates the organizational support they need if they are to win elections . This is a serious matter because one of the ways to avoid more Federal Government is to develop stronger and better state governments . We know that this top-level Party apparatus has , like Topsy , just grown over the years . Undoubtedly each unit serves a purpose , but should n't we now look at the whole and see whether or not all parts fit together as they should ? For example , where should the leadership reside when our Party does not control the Presidency ? Obviously , the leaders of our Party in both houses of Congress will develop alternatives to Democratic plans and programs and will be responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the role of the Republican National Committee ? Should it be the body for coordinating overall Party policy  --  or should it be more of a civil-service organization staffed by career specialists in various fields of political science , while a separate , high-level body . broadly representative of the entire Party , formulates policies and acts as spokesman on the national level ? On these points , almost every individual who has had experience in government will have his own ideas , some of which may seem radical . For example . I , personally , long have held the view that in the leadership echelon of the Republican National Committee there should be two individuals , each responsible for distinctly separate functions . To one I would assign responsibility for all of the work of organization and administration of every kind ; his duty would be to perfect the machinery of the Party and keep it working . The other would have the task of acquainting himself with the consensus of Republican thinking and would be sort of an evangelist , traveling the land up and down and across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Party 's policies and programs and seeking recruits to carry them forward . He would , of course , be assisted by a strong and broadly based Advisory Committee . Each of these men would , in my view , have a full and highly important job . Together they could do much to strengthen and inspire us , In any event , the country needs a healthy Republican Party  --  and never more than in the years immediately ahead . Apparently the current Administration intends to plunge ahead with its many experimental domestic plans and programs . And here is something which I hope will be well understood : As Americans first , Republicans do not quarrel with the aims of some of these programs ; with others , we do . Believing that government must have a heart as well as a head , Republicans have pioneered solutions to many of the country 's problems . For example , a Republican administration initiated a medical plan for the care of the aged  --  admittedly not yet perfected , but one which does not introduce compulsion . We led in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressing national needs without overpowering local responsibility and authority . Republicans proposed methods for bettering the situation of farmers  --  without diminishing their freedom  --  and launched what now is known as the Food for Peace program to utilize portions of our farm surpluses to feed hungry peoples abroad . Republicans developed forward-looking plans for conserving our natural resources and for protecting the beauty of our land for enjoyment of present and future generations . We Republicans have striven to promote better cooperation among labor , capital and management to increase the nation 's productivity and well-being . In 1954 we secured what was then the greatest tax reduction in history , and we consistently have fought to keep our fiscal affairs and our currency sound for the benefit of all . Ours is a proud record : In countless ways over the past century . Republicans have proved their dedication to human welfare . In contrast . I see a real danger in some Administration welfare plans because they are programs Imposed trem the lop down , usually well lubricated with subsidy from the Federal treasury . They tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulation . This is just the opposite of the Republican approach . We be-live in programs that start with the individual , the community , and the state and build toward the top , with responsibilities and costs shared all the way . For example , we are convinced that it would be dangerous to our free system should educational systems , the fountainhead of our democracy . ever come under Federal control . Certainly Federal aid should be given , when and where necessary to maintain adequate educational opportunity , but never in a form Wat remotely implies Federal control of teachers or the teaching process . This peril is not as remote as we might think . Currently . most of our great universities obtain much of their money for research from government contracts . There were cases some two years ago . I have been bold , when misguided Federal bureaucrats threatened universities with withdra.val of this or that contract unless certain professors , opposing governmental plans . were " shut up . " The present Administration evidences a considerable salesmanship in grouping its programs under appealing labels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Society , " and implying that anyone who finds fault with the proposed methods is a reactionary who would ignore the poor and oppose all progress . I am among the first to admit that our society , for all of its accomplishments , has serious shortcomings . Some , such as persistent unemployment and pockets of poverty side by side with economic expansion and rising standards of living , may seem baffling . However , I have no doubt that as we meet the urgent needs of the present , these troubles eventually will yield to education , training and a climate of opportunity . Some of our problems are shameful , such as the violence , terror , delinquency. and murder which have plagued our cities in recent years . Here again , we Republicans emphasize that the primary responsibility for maintaining order remains with communities and states as their duty under the Constitution . And , as those units of self-government are closest to these situations , we can hope for fair . lasting solutions only if they approach their responsibilities in a true American spirit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too much disrespect for the law . But we are making progress and will make more as we enforce the law and build a moral climate in which a majority of people in all areas of our society simply will not permit inequalities and racist fanaticism to exist . In seeking answers to any of our problems , let us not , above all , discard the common-sense ideals and methods which have proved themselves throughout our national history and embark , as recent Democratic administrations seemingly have been determined to do , on risky , untried theories . A number of those theoretical programs , whether they succeed or fail , are bound to hay at least one result  --  the concentration of more power in Federal hands . Also , just as sure as the sun rises in the East and sets in the West , current fiscal policies are piling up deep trouble for the nation in the future . Deficit spending has not been stopped . The fire of inflation is thus being fueled , threatening the value of our currency . The adverse balance of payments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately could bring great difficulty for the dollar on a global scale . It is a Republican duty constantly to remind the country that it is time we discipline ourselves , hold expenditures below income except in emergencies , and adopt policies which eliminate adverse balance of payments . However , my purpose here is not to lay out an indictment against Democratic policies . Rather , I want to emphasize the need  --  in the interest of our country  --  for the Republican Party quickly to build its strength as an effective " loyal opposition , " and , so doing , become the majority party at an early date , We must understand that failure to do so creates a danger that is quite real , and no mere partisan alarm . The danger is not that we will lose our liberties by any one accretion of Federal power , or any one deficit , or any one threat to a business firm by Federal bureaucrats . Rather the hazard is that our incentives and mechanisms to practice self-government gradually will slip through our fingers by a lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too late . This can never occur as long as we maintain a vigorous , healthy , two-party system . Thoughtful Americans of either political persuasion will rest easier , 1 believe , if they know that a strong and alert opposition constantly is watching the majority . seeing that voters hear both sides of every issue , eager to bring to light any evidences of misgovernment or corruption . Do you suppose , for example . that under a one-party system the Bobby Baker case would have seen the light of day ? Perhaps so  --  perhaps not . There always exists a strong human temptation for the party in power , if not to condone , at least to sweep such embarrassing incidents under the rug . As it is. the public certainly has the feeling that up to the time of the election the Baker case had not been thoroughly investigated . Here is the challenge . perhaps the greatest the Republican Party has faced since the Civil War : Can we Republicans put aside our differences and agree on a plan for increasing the strength and influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive response . We have a clear opportunity . by building upon a responsible , forward-looking program , to develop plans and leadership behind which the Party can , by action and example , enlist not only confirmed Republicans but thoughtful independents and discerning Democrats as well . That , 1 am convinced , is the way we can best serve America .                     