@@488211

Jackson , Miss . " You are the actors , " said John O'Neal , one of the founders of the Free Southern Theatre , to the largely Negro , largely youthful audience sitting on folding chairs , benches , cots and the ground , behind a small frame house iii Ruleville , Miss . They were waiting to see what was , for probably all of them , their first live play . The " stage " was the back porch ; there was no curtain , and'lights had n't been necessary because it was mid-afternoon . Down the road , a few feet from the house , came a pickup truck with a policeman at the wheel , and a large ' German police dog standing stiff and ominous in the back It drove by once , then passed back again . An elderly Negro began to trim the grass around his house next door with a noisy power mower . " Why does he do that right now ? " I asked Roger Johnson , a young Negro from Boston Who does the lighting for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toms , " Johnson shrugged . Finally the play began ; it was Martin Duberman 's In White America , less a play than a dramatic reading of Negro history based on historical documents dating back to the slave trade . Sharp-eyed policemen and " Uncle . Toms " came as no surprise to O'Neal , a young Negro actor from Southern Illinois University , and 22-year-old Gil 254 . Moses from Cleveland , Ohio , who directed this production . Moses ' wife , Denise , plays the role  --  which includes the powerful Little Rock scene  --  made famous off-Broadway by Gloria Foster . Both men are staff members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee . They organized the theatre last spring , with Tougaloo College outside Jackson , Miss. , as a home base , they have since set up new headquarters in New Orleans ( ' Box 2374 ) , where Richard Schechner , editor of the Tulane Drama Review , joined them recently as third producing director . Most of the company previously had only college acting experience , although one member , Eric Weinberger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had done , a little off-Broadway work . Their version of In White America was highly professional and compared very favorably to the original . This first production , given in thirteen towns during a three-week tour of Mississippi last August , was not intended as a sample of what the Free Southern Theatre intends to do but as an experiment : to find out how Mississippi Negroes , most of whom had never seen a theatrical performance before , would react ; and to ascertain what sort of theatre should be developed . Author Duberman has pointed out that his work was origi nally addressed to white liberals  --  not to Mississippi Negroes . Much of its irony and humor eluded them and they occasionally laughed when they were not supposed to , or vice versa . They clapped equally for Booker T. Washington delivering his conservative " five fingers speech " and for Black Nationalist Marcus Garvey . Members of the audience who started to join in singing with the cast would sometimes be hushed by others more decorous . One performance , in the coastal town of Gulfport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a movie theatre and the audience , expecting at least one chase scene and three corpses , expressed its sense of betrayal with loud complaints and ? constant interruptions . ' Elsewhere , response was noisy in a different way . As the actors made their pleas for justice or denounced the white man 's cruelty , old women and young men would shout : " That 's right ! " " Amen ! " " You tell it ! " In Rule-vile , Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer watched intently in the audience as Denise Moses delivered a Negro woman 's account of being beaten by whites . Mrs. Hamer , who recently made a stirring appearance at the Democratic Convention as a delegate from the new Freedom Democratic Party , is a former , plantation worker and was beaten to insensibility last year for voter-registration work . There was no need to tell her " you are the actors . " " We got the best reaction in churches , " said O'Neal , and certainly the response to one performance I saw , at the First Union Baptist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleased most actors . Meridian has a good number of middle-class Negroes , and their reaction was quiet , respectful , sophisticated . The most interesting " theatre , " though , was the new and unfinished community center in the tiny town of IVIileston . The center has been a labor of love for a remarkable white man from California , who raised $10,000 for the project and built it himself with a young white helper and local Negro aid an occasion . That afternoon , the play was performed with one wall of the building still missing ; the stage stretched out into a real cotton field . As night fell the ac tors relaxed in nearby homes , while Negroes stood guard outside with shotguns and rifles . The reason was easy to find : in front of one of the homes stood the charred automobile of a Negro civil rights worker which had been fire bombed by The NATION whites only three weeks earlier . Farther down the dirt road , in a frame building just like thousands of others in Mississippi , several members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A group in the kitchen argued about Brecht 's poetry , in an adjoining bedroom , Roger Johnson was telling what happened when he was arrested in the no man 's land called Yazoo City . " I just shuffled and scratched my head , yassuh , yassuh , " he said , doing an Amos and Andy around the bed , " I shuffled and scratched all the way to jail . " He was released not long after ; a bit of acting knowledge comes in handy around Yazoo . Local whites came to see the play four times . On one occasion , they were local liberals , another time , members of a Mennonite sect . In Vicksburg , on idle ' Mississippi , two white students who had dared to go to Northern universities instead of Ole Miss were among the audience . " One of them even came to the party we had afterward , " said a summer volun Leer And then , toward the end of the tour , there was the performance at Indianola , a , rural town located in Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Citizens ' Council The Summer Project had established a beachhead at Indianola only recently and the play was to be given in the red brick building of the new Freedom School there Dark was just falling and I was standing alone on the porch while the lights were being set up inside . Suddenly a stream of white police cars came up the driveway , followed by a long line of lights from other cars ; it looked.hke a very orderly lynching party . Forty-two white-helmeted policemen poured out and a man in sports clothes and straw hat walked up to the porch : " There are twenty-five people here who want to see the play . Can they come in ? There wo n't be any trouble , " added the man , who turned out to ' be the sheriff . They came , of , course , the whites : lawyers and other professionals ; small businessmen , a few farmers . No wives or daughters to make it at least look like a friendly visit or social occasion . As for the police , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reassuring species . While the twenty-five guests sat down together . in several rows toward the back , the theatre became jammed to the rafters with local Negroes ; the temperature October 19 , 1964 must have been at least 110 degrees . Outside , where it was cooler , the police stood in clusters around the building . One group held a very calm , very hopeless discussion with a young white volunteer . " Do you believe God intended black and white to mix ? " he was asked . " You 're a student , have you had any courses in genetics ? " said another . " Northerners ca n't understand our problems , " came from a third officer . " I 'm from Georgia , " the student replied . As the evening progressed , you could see that the cast was playing to the white men with everything they had . Some of the whites were laughing , a few clapped . When the freedom songs which end the play were sung , and the Negro audience joined in , the familiar words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rows of white men inside , nor the forty-two badges outside , could diminish the stirring voices of all those black men , women , youths and children . " Which side are you on ? " goes one of the songs , and there was , unfortunately , not too much question about this . I returned to Indianola two days later , at the invitation of the sheriff , to talk with some of the whites who had seen the play about their reactions . There was , the sheriff said when we arrived , only one person available : the County Clerk . That gentleman sat alone in a smallish room which had two entrances , for white and Negro . Quietly , with total hostility , he explained that he had gone to the play to find out what the Summer Project was all about . He thought it was well acted , historically , accurate as far as he , could judge ? and inflammatory . The production confirmed his suspicion that the project was Communist-infiltrated When asked for specific examples of this in the play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point it was driving toward . " The project was supposed to teach citizenship and voter registration . There 's nothing in the play about those things . Anyway , there 's , no problem ' with voter registration in this county ? Negroes can come down any time they want to . " From his tone , there obviously was n't much point in asking how come less than 2 per cent of the eligible Negroes in his county had been registered , or why the federal government had decided to bring suit against the local registrar . There was n't much point in our talking , period . Our idea that the whites might have come to the play out of some desire for understand- 255 ing or communication was neatly punctured  --  or perhaps those who thought differently from the clerk were n't tanking Of , course he was right in one sense : anything which encourages the Negro to stand up for his rights is revolutionary in Mississippi . During the performance of In Whtte Amertca at Greenville , a man in the audience came up on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master and a slave was about to begin . He had obviously believed O'Neal 's opening words : " You are the actors . " But then he stood there , frozen , until Gil Moses finally whispered to him to leave . Afterward the man explained , " There was so much I wanted to say and I had it all figured out . But when I got up there in all that light , I just could n't . " Somehow , O'Neal feels , a way must be found to incorporate such people into the action . Mises also . believes strongly that in addition to becoming I wanted to like the past week 's two offelings ? Olz What a Lovely War ( Broadhurst ) and The Last Analysis ( Belasco ) ? more than I did , because in different ways both are worth our applause But neither of them struck me as altogether persuasive . I had seen the " musical entertaininem. " ? a group production by Joan Littlewood 's Theatre Workshop  --  when it was a phenomenal hit in London and wrote about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much enthusiasm as I could summon . My English friends treated my demurs as treason . There was a tie which bound the London public to the show that did not hold me . Many people here too will feel strongly about this production  --  and perhaps justifiably . The audience is a leading actor in every staged performance , but in the case of Oh What a Lovely War I feel that the American audience is , on the whole , miscast . Members of Britain 's older generation who still remember the songs and atmosphere of the First World War on which the prodUction is based wept in anguished nostalgia . For them 1914-18 was a time of youthful hope , patriotic sentiment , and ultimately of collapsed illusion , the confrontation a permanent professional repertory company ( they are now working on two new productions ) , the Free Southern Theatre should stay in each town a week or two , build a new play around its history and themes , hold workshops . They are less concerned about the type of plays produced and the ability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It 's a question of how the material is put across , " said O'Neal . " Any play can be used if it is given relevance . We can do ' Shakespeare  --  let Hamlet be Senator Stennis ' liberal son , to give a wild example . Anything , as long as the audience makes connections . " Let no theatre lover conclude , however , that this is a group of mere propagandists . All are concerned with aesthetics , all are aware of the message vs. art debate . " Our audiences were more grateful than critical , " said O'Neal . " We want to change that too . " of a country drained of blood and confidence . Britain 's younger generation rejoiced in Oh What a Lovely War as a colorful " circus " committed to kicking the body politic and military smartly in its collective seat . Sir Douglas Haig and Sir John French are the specific ' targets , but the tone of the show is that'oF a cockney guying not only the powers that were but the powers that ( still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nervously and muddle-headedly peace-loving people , Oh What a Lovely , War is more pastime than propaganda : not quite complete as one , not altogether appropriate as the other . Concretely , the best things in the show are the old tunes ? Keep the Home Fires Burning , Pack . Up Your Troubles , There 's a Long Long Trail , etc. ? though they are sometimes sung off-key and with the words not always intelligible . The period cartoons , posters and photographs also make a valid satirical point . Most of the sketches between the main numbers are overlong , besides being reminiscent of things we enjoyed during our own turbulent thirties The British love amateur theatricals and a certain amateurishness pervades the performance . That is not without value . One is reminded of the buskers in Leicester Square The atmosphere they create is coarsely cordial , roughly familiar , sadly humorous , almost tender . Something about these street performers breathes an engaging uncleanliness  --  the reek of a humanity cheerfully resigned to cold , wet and a , dreary diet , without loss of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Joan Littlewood 's work . There is also a humble pathos in the scene of fraternization between the Tommies and the Boche during the first ' Christmas of the war , and a bitter melancholy in the scene of the hapless pacifist lady on the hustings who can not overcome ' the listless hostility of the street stragglers . There is a sting in the sniffling religiosity and flatulent jingoism of the church scene which our audiences may still respond to  --  though I have myself begun to tire of such facile barbs . The use of electric signs to flash news of devastating battle losses , together with slogans like " All Quiet on the ' Western Front , " and the report of pitiful gains of territory in no-man 's land is clever but finally becomes monotonous . These constitute ? the " art " of this production ( thanks to such German predecessors as Piscator and Brecht ) which , though much admired in London , lack the punch they are intended to pack . In a word , I find much of the stagecraft and propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such mechanics and effects more deftly and as to anti war preachment , I doubt its real efficacy when the deeper causes , the more basic social and moral issues that antedated the war by years are not given as background . There is something depressingly sentimental about protesting the ravages of war ' when so little is ever done to fortify ourselves in the day-to-day conflict of living before war breaks out . It is with such conflict that Saul Bellow is concerned To do hirn justice as a writer we should have to view his first play , The Last Analysis , in the context of ' his other work . One can only suggest this here , both ' to give the play the credit which is its due and to help explain its intrinsic shortcomings It is called a farce . It is more ex-actly an extravaganza of the unconscions . It is " serious nonsense , " a crazy parable . 