@@477689

Repertory theatres are cropping up like pennies ? some shiny , some rather tarnished ; but among them a distinguished critic finds " the blush of a bright and clean beginning . " 0VER the past few years , the educated classes of America have developed a new sense of responsibility toward the arts which , in the theatre , has been reflected in growing enthusiasm for the repertory companies burgeoning in and around New York . Such companies , of course , arc hardly novelties in the city , but the amount of excitement generated by them today is practically unprecedented . In the past , hospitality to permanent drama groups with high ideals was offered chiefly outside New York at places like Virginia 's Barter Theatre , San Francisco 's Actor 's Workshop , the Cleveland Playhouse , Washington 's Arena Stage , and the Pasadena Playhouse . New York theatregoers , on the other hand , were content merely to support the isolated and ephemeral commercial entertainments on Broadway . And , with the exception of the Theatre Guild ? which has now turned commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a precarious existence throughout the ' thirties ? New York companies having more extended visions were usually permitted to expire after a season or two of poverty and neglect . For the past five years , however , quite a few companies have managed to survive the indifference of the majority audience . Operating in such outlandish places as Greenwich Village , Second Avenue , and Central Park , they have frequently brought real distinction both to dramatic classics and to experimental Ways , thereby substantially enlarging the possibilities of repertory as an artistic force . Partly as a result of their success , repertory enthusiasm has begun to spread like a fever rash . Tyrone Guthrie is forming an ambitious new company in Minneapolis ; other groups are preparing to open all over the country ; and even the traditionally philistine State Department is coughing up $150,000 as propaganda money to send some American stars overseas under the management of the Theatre Guild 's Lawrence Langner . But the most highly publicized . realization of the idea is still a few years off . The sizable Lincoln Square Center for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theatre Association , now scheduled to begin operation in 1963 , under the direction of Elia Kazan and Robert Whitehead . When it opens , American repertory will become a national institution . Provided with foundation support , private subsidies , a brand new theatre , abundant Broadway talent , a ready-made audience , boundless good will , and the blessings of John D. Rockefeller III , the projected Lincoln Square company is proof that the once unpopular repertory ideal has now become the basis for favor , fashion , and influence . The theoretical cause of this repertory fever is easy enough to determine . It has at last become clear ? at least to those who care about the theatre as an art form ? that if America is ever to develop a satisfactory dramatic tradition it must first have a unified company with plenty of rehearsal time and a vigorous , intelligent , and continuous artistic policy . Conscious of the examples of France and Britain , which supplement their Boulevard and West End productions with state and locally supported art theatres , increasing numbers of disgruntled spectators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pocket , with Broadway products , and have begun to seek a headier vintage of dramatic wine than the hit-Hop vendors of Times Square can provide . The Lincoln Square project comes in response to this demand , its purpose being to extract the professional advantages of the New York stage without suffering the economic disadvantages . But while external conditions seem ripe for the formation of such a company , something more than good intentions and financial generosity are needed to make it succeed . For , unlike France and Britain , which draw on an already fixed dramatic heritage , America has been without a responsible theatre for so long that the transition from the commercial to the repertory system will undoubtedly uncover unique problems which may prove difficult to solve . What are some of these problems ? If we examine them ? and the ways some of the existing New York companies have approached them ? we may be in a better position to assess the future of Lincoln Square . FATTENED SCENES AND " THE METHOD " T H E first great threat to the native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theatre artist . The repertory system demands the absolute submission of the individual to a high ideal ; yet . the majority of our theatrical eminences seem primarily interested in the advancement of their own careers . The urge to self-advancement can hardly be called the exclusive property of the American theatre , though it is exacerbated there by the public 's insatiable thirst for " personalities . " But while personal ambition may be an asset to a business organization , it can be fatal to a theatre unit based on co-operation , selflessness , and humility . For if a repertory company is ever to function properly , its members must subordinate their own aspirations to the demands of the company and the play . Our commercial theatre encourages quite a different form of behavior . On Broadway , a famous " name " can determine the form of a play , the chances of obtaining a theatre , and even whether a work is produced at all . Thus , established stars tend to choose their vehicles for the length and attractiveness of their roles ; they enforce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they influence the casting of supporting roles so that they will not be eclipsed by others ; they ingratiate themselves with the audience instead of adapting themselves to the play ; they are notoriously unco-operative about rehearsals ; and they are obsessively preoccupied with salary and billing . And this kind of careerism is hardly confined to our stars , for many directors , designers , and supporting players as well have developed ingenious methods for attracting attention to their own particular specialties . Since the majority ignore Stanislaysky 's admonition to love the art in one 's self rather than one 's self in art , the commercial theatre has come to resemble a glittering showcase window , inhabited by glamorous dressmaker 's dummies , which is hardly the proper atmosphere for ensemble playing or the creation of dramatic art . The second threat to repertory success lies in the fact that even some of our best and most dedicated professional actors lack histrionic range . In a company presumably dedicated to performing the plays of many countries and periods , versatility and virtuosity of technique are basic requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characters chiefly for their distinctive traits of personality rather than for the ability to transform themselves according to the needs of each role . In England . Olivier , Gielgud . and Guinness are accustomed to playing characters of every age , class , and quality . In America , where actors are forced to repeat themselves from role to role , Olivier would probably be persistently cast as a romantic leading man , Gielgud as a prep-school headmaster , and Guinness as a grocery clerk in the A Fe P. For many American actors survive by intensifying a single quirk of character which has managed to capture the fancy of the audience ; and , in coo-sequence , many American playwrights create characters with already established types in mind , and many theatrical agents turn away gifted performers unless they conform to these types . It is no wonder that our actors often look and sound so much alike . Of course , a good training program might teach the American actor more diversified techniques . ( An excellent program , in fact , has already been suggested by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Theatre : The Rediscovery of Style . ) But our existing programs are woefully inadequate . For example , it is probable that the Lincoln Square company will be drawn mainly from the well-known Actors Studio in New York , not only because Mr. Kazan is one of the Studio 's founders but because it has helped produce some extremely gifted performers . But while the Studio has made undeniable contributions to American theatre ? promoting dramatic truth , eliminating staginess , and developing a native acting style ? it is hardly the proper training ground for a repertory actor . I am not just thinking of the limitations of that famous Studio stereotype , the lower American primate , scratching his proletarian lice and mumbling erotic incoherencies into his ripped tee shirt . The Studio can boast of achievements greater than this . I am referring to the inadequacy of the Studio " Method . " Primarily a psychoanalytic version of the Stanishivsky technique , which encourages the actor to relate his own emotions and experiences to the role he is playing , the Method has no doubt added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has dune so at the cost of poetry , imagination , and style , and finally reduced acting to mere imitation . For the Studio actor , confined to his own psychic biography , has become unable to make the essential imaginative leap into another 's life , with the result that he tends to play himself over and over again . Thus , the Studio Method is most appropriate to the commercial theatre , where type casters seize on a single salable commodity for exploitation . Under these circumstances , the vast majority of American actors are competent only in narrow naturalistic roles , even though most masterpieces of the drama were written in other modes . One shudders to think what performers like Ben Gazzara , Pat Flingle , Kim Stanley , or Shelley Winters ? all adherents of the Actors Studio ? would do if confronted with Creek tragedy , Shakespeare , Italian commedia , or French Romantic drama , when even recent . contemporaties like Ibsen , O'Casey , Shaw , and Anouilh seem to baffle them . To be sure , there are many American actors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who arc better equipped to play classical roles . But many of them , discouraged by present conditions , have left New York , and the few who have achieved some recognition here have not been able to develop . The limitation of the professional actor is one of the most serious hurdles in the path of repertory success . If it is not quickly removed , the American repertory company ? failing to cope adequately with the great dramatic literature ? will be forced to settle for the mediocre works it is competent to perform . THE UNFILLED BALCONY T H E third threat to repertory is the most subtle one of all , for it lies in the nature of the American theatre audience . A repertory company can develop a great vision only if it is supported by an intelligent , imaginative , and enthusiastic audience , but the typical American theatre-goer of today is probably the most passive and pliant spectator in the world . When he goes to the theatre he must ? to judge from the thunderous applause which greets the most inane theatrical moments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The limitations of the Broadway audience may well be the result of economics . With ticket prices soaring into the stratosphere , the audience has become more and more dominated by prosperous business people- ( It is well known on Broadway that while orchestra seats are at a premium , the balconies are often three-quarters empty . ) Going to the theatre is now a form of conspicuous consumption , where many attend not because they want to but because of social or cultural pressures . In consequence , the New York theatre audiences I have observed over the years appear to be chiefly given over to two types of spectator . The first makes up the matinee , benefit , and convention audiences , and goes to a play for the sake of charity , business , or sight-seeing . ( For him Broadway serves up such gooey fudge sundaes as " The Sound of Music , " " The World of Suzie Wong , " " Auntie Mame , " " Take Me Along , " and " A Majority of One . " ) The second type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an embarrassing conversational blank , trails Kulchur down every neon alley in Times Square . ( For him , Broadway invokes the more pretentious glories of " J.B. , " " Dear Liar , " and " The Miracle Worker " ; the cumbrous opulence of over-weighted productions like " Rashomon " and " Becket " ; and the summer " festivities " of the American Shakespeare Festival . ) Going to the theatre for quick cultural " improvement , " charity purposes , or expense-account entertain-. ment does not signify a very vital relationship between the spectator and the stage ? which is one reason why the plays are so bad and the opinions of the reviewers so sacrosanct . Any repertory company which plans to appeal to the existing audience , instead of attracting an entirely new one from those multitudes who now stay home out of penury , apathy , or disgust , will be merely an extended arm of Broadway , doomed to mediocrity and pretense before it even opens . These , then , are the major problems which the Lincoln Square company must solve if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plaything for the opulent and the bored . A few of the local repertory companies now in operation ? the Phoenix , the Living Theatre , the American Stratford Shakespeare company , and Shakespeare in the Park ? have vastly different intentions and ideals , but they all offer abundant proof of how formidable these obstacles arc . THE PHOENIX FF OR several years , Norris Houghton and T. F. Hambleton have been presenting plays at the Phoenix , a theatre on Second Avenue formerly devoted to Yiddish drama . But at the Phoenix , every season seems to he the first . Supported by a dutiful but unenthusiastic subscription audience and some generous grants from a couple of foundations , the Phoenix behaves like a man possessing a modest inheritance but not the vaguest idea how to spend it . Pushed one way by off-Broadway ideals and another by Broadway success patterns , it has hitherto reserved decision by spending it on whatever happened to he at hand : here a spectacular directed by Tyrone Guthrie , there a musical , one month a foreign repertory company on tour , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last two years , a permanent company has been performing under the direction of Stuart Vaughan . Yet , somehow , the sense of uncertainty at the Phoenix is still just as pronounced as ever . The major difficulty . I think . is that the company has never developed a clearcut identity . Last season , the Phoenix repertory consisted of " The Great God Brown , - " Lysistrata , " " Peer Gynt , " and the two parts of " Henry IV , " but theonly thing unified about these productions was that they were all unsatisfactory . To he frank , the Phoenix has no artistic purpose . One could have forgiven the elephantine literalness of the staging , the monotony of the interpretations , and the unevenness of the acting , if only one had sensed that something important was being attempted . But the tendency of the Phoenix to use the same actors in all the leading roles , to stand pat with whatever pleases the reviewers , and to rearrange programs for the sake of the box office , indicates that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway measures it . I finished the season tired of Will Steven Armstrong 's perpetually tilted stage , tired of Stuart Vaughan 's dogged Methodi7ing of non-psychological plays , and , above all . tired of seeing some of my favorite dramatic works strewn about the Phoenix stage like so many violated corpses . For despite its lofty intentions , the Phoenix is doing more harm than good to the cause of great drama . An ambitious brochure promises a " new tradition in the theatre . " but the company has developed no new methods of staging , playing , or interpretation to justify such a promise ; and even its traditional techniques are labored and inadequate . To he fair , Vaughan has discovered a few accomplished comic talents . But like our star-centered theatre , the Phoenix is unwilling to abandon itself to anything higher than its own survival . And it now functions as a rather dusty showcase for its actors and its staff . THE LIVING THEATRE U S IN G a tiny stage on the second floor of a converted tenement off West 14th Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always prepared to battle Goliath but equipped only with a roundhouse punch . When it hits , it hits hard ; when it misses , it knocks itself out . Last season , I spent two wonderful ? and two miserable ? evenings in the Living Theatre . Yet , despite the unevenness of the fare , I always look forward eagerly to the productions of Judith Malina and Julian Beck . the couple who founded the theatre and determine its policies . These producers have a praiseworthy devotion to experimental plays as the only form of theatrical progress ; unfortunately , they are sometimes even more fanatically dedicated to experimental theory . Recently , this theory ? a disordered compound of Pirandcllo , Piscator , and Brecht ? was more prominent than the plays in a double bill consisting of Jackson MacLow 's " Marrying Maiden " and Sophocles ' " Women of Trachis . " The first was based on nonsense syllables selected at random by a throw of the dice ( drowned out anyway by cacophonous sounds on unidentifiable instruments ) , and the second ? translated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed in a manner more appropriate to " The World of Sholem Aleichem . " Since the talents of the company ( and especially of Miss Malina who can not refrain from playing leads ) are -- to say the least ? uncertain when not serving contemporary , mordant , and ironic plays , the grim trials of this evening are beyond nay power to describe . Yet , this is the company which performed so immaculately in Jack Gelber 's exciting play , " The Connection , " and which staged the first performance of Pirandello 's " Tonight We Improvise " to make that play relevant to American audiences . In both these productions , the Living Theatre transcended its own pretensions , for at best it functions like a sardonic spotlight of enormous power which can be turned on itself , the commercial theatre , or the dramatic event with equal effectiveness . " The Connection , " for example ? while creating an atmosphere of cool junkie reality so authentic it showed up the Actors Studio 's " Hatful of Rain " as conventional and contrived ? featured a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We Improvise " indiscriminately detonated avant-garde theories , quack directors , and temperamental actors with thundering explosiveness . The most penetrating gleams of the Living Theatre 's spotlight are reserved for the sleepy spectator . Encouraged to leave the theatre in the middle of a play , badgered into commenting on the action while the play is in progress , confronted in the lobby during intermission with a continuation of the argument , and loosened up with a series of outrageous practical jokes , the spectator is constantly being harried into thought . The Living Theatre is endowed with a spirit of joyous anarchy which holds nothing sacred ? least of all the audience . For Beck and Malina arc aware that the pallid quality of our commercial theatre is largely the result of the extreme pomposity implicit in the very act of theatre-going . Consequently , they are attempting to break down the sacred contract of silence between the audience and the stage , creating a new relationship in which the spectator will be an engaged participant rather than just a solemn and detached observer . The limitations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ playwrights ( including Jarry , Beckett , lonesco , Vauthier , Ghelderode , Genet , Brecht , Frisch , and Jack Gelber ) for whom the company 's methods could be admirably appropriate . The Living Theatre is erratic but , in its understanding that there can be no living theatre without a living audience , it is preparing the way for real advance . AMERICAN SHAKESPEARE T H E Stratford Festival company in Connecticut has grown fat financially but artistically it is still very lean in the chops . Stratford began operations six years ago under much the same favorable conditions as Lincoln Square , announcing high ideals and large ambitions . It was backed by the Theatre Guild , supported by private contributions , and provided with all the advantages Broadway could afford . Today . having totally failed to overcome any of the threats to repertory , it has degenerated into what Walter Kerr of the New York Herald Tribune has called a " cultural Howard Johnson 's . " For Stratford 's reverence for De Bard is always subordinate to its reverence for profit , its desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ festivity . In the plush lobby , portraits of Ben Jonson and Francis Beaumont hang side by side with busts of Maurice Evans and Katharine Hepburn , while plates and mugs bearing Shakespeare 's image are sold over the counter along with root beer and Pepsi-Cola . Inside the theatre , the same conditions prevail . To emphasize Stratford 's " festive " quality , the stage is surrounded by a multitude of what look like oversize potato chips ? accompanied in one production by a setting composed of a candy cupola , a filigree cake house , and a peppermint flagpole . In this appetizing environment , one 's impulse is to rush onto the stage and eat the set , not to mention any actors you can get your teeth into . But aside from its ability to convert Shakespeare into a Baked Alaska , Stratford 's contributions to the drama have been negligible , and its productions downright hopeless . Its audience , first of all , seems less interested in Shakespeare than in romping on the greensward . The theatre , advertising itself as a pleasant place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happier place to go " ) , now attracts vacationists , picknickers , schoolchildren , tourists , and suburbanites up from Westport . You will find the same spectators nodding in the barns of summer stock . Seeking casual " seasonal " entertainment , they do n't want anything " heavy " and no doubt would prefer at least one movie star to each play . To accommodate them , Stratford last summer provided two : Katharine Hepburn and Robert Ryan . This , I suppose , is an improvement over the first season which featured Jack Palance , but such progress is measured in millimeters . John Houseman ( who resigned two seasons ago ) attempted to form a non-stellar company and , though he was ultimately overruled , some of these actors are still the nucleus of the group . Yet , since these performers were recruited from ( among other places ) Broadway . Hollywood , the Actors Studio , the Civic Repertory . the Mercury Theatre , the Group Theatre , and the Canadian Festival , the Stratford stage resounds with the most polymorphous collection of accents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Conceivably , this troupe might eventually form a tightly knit ensemble . but the Stratford actors are now so miscast and mishandled , and pursue their own ways so obsessively , that each performance sounds like a dialogue between past , present , and future man . The Festival maintains an academy on the grounds which might help to develop a unified Shakespeare style , but since this school is run by members of the company , my guess is that it is only passing on bad habits . Anyway , the most influential models for the apprentices will probably be the performances of the stars , and about these it would be better to preserve a discreet silence . Even more depressing than Stratford 's affection for Hollywood stars and heterogeneous actors is its affinity for slick , streamlined productions . Aside from last summer 's version of " The Tempest " ? directed by an intelligent newcomer named William Ball ? I have never seen a show at Stratford which reflected the slightest notion of the author 's intention or even the slightest interest in it . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to make the plays as shiny , chrome-plated , and loaded with accessories as a modern car . In past seasons , for example , Mr. Landau effectively scuttled " Measure for Measure " and " Much Ado About Nothing " by placing them , respectively , in nineteenth-century Vienna and Spanish Texas . Last summer . he brought " Twelfth Night " " up to date " also , beaching it on the sands of Brighton . Next year , I am expecting a production of " Love 's Labour 's Lost " to be laid in a maternity hospital . SHAKESPEARE IN THE PARK W H I L E Stratford wraps Shakespeare in pastry dough , the New York Shakespeare Festival bundles him in burlap . Joseph Papp 's virile and vigorous ensemble has been presenting free performances for five years on the west side of Central Park . It is now the most brilliant company in America , and by far the closest to the repertory ideal . It is common knowledge in New York how courageously Mr. Papp has fought for free Shakespeare ? combating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucrats , and the indifference of the large foundations. * It is not so well known how completely this economic innovation has transformed the theatre audience . Drawn from all classes and income groups , the Central Park spectators have an almost Elizabethan buoyancy and verve which are a startling contrast to the spiritual vacuity of Broadway 's mink matrons and expense-account aristocrats . Since the theatre does not advertise , is unaffected by reviews , and lacks any prestigious *According to an article Papp wrote for the New York Times , both the Rockefeller and Ford Foundations rejected his appeal for funds ? the first , on the grounds that free Shakespeare destroyed incentive , and the second , because it smacked too much of Socialism . It is becoming a policy of the large foundations to support what is already prosperous and fashionable , while turning away from what is needy and intrinsically good . The Ford Foundation 's grants totaling $559,000 to four repertory companies . on condition that they match funds by raising local support , do not reverse this policy . Mr. Papp . however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city officials . A theatre is being constructed for his players in the Park . and they may perform in the city schools in the months ahead . tone , the spectators ? some of whom are seeing their very first play ? come not out of duty but out of desire . For those who contend that the theatre lost its life when it alienated the folk and the intelligentsia , here is ample proof that under the proper conditions it can be swiftly and effectively revived . And the proper conditions certainly prevail now in the Park . On a simple outdoor platform stage , handsomely appointed for each play by Eldon Elder . Papp has produced the most intelligent and imaginative shows in town , accomplishing the astounding feat of creating a uniquely American style for Shakespeare which is both fresh and faithful to the text . Last summer , after a gruff and muscular production of " Henry V , " directed by Papp himself , and a less coherent one of " Measure for Measure , " directed by Alan Schneider , the company rattled off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was unquestionably the finest interpretation of a Shakespeare comedy I have ever seen . The director , Gerald Freedman , fashioned an outrageous farce style which drew on the Marx Brothers , Mack Sennett , animated cartoons , and commedia dell ' at te , while exercising his considerable choreographic skill to turn the crowd scenes into uproarious comic dances . To add pandemonium to delirium , Freedman designed a series of pratfalls , rumblings , beatings , and brawls which have not been so superbly executed since the heyday of the silent film , always preserving the style proper to a play within a play . The paradox is that while the company as a whole can now he compared favorably with any in the world , it consisted last summer of actors who were relatively obscure or who had not shown any previous distinction . Barbara Ann Barrie , for example , too mannered and affected at Stratford , emerged as a controlled performer with an excellent sense of taste ; and Jack Cannon , a lazy , indifferent actor at the Phoenix , was a wild animal in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , swashbuckling Italianate cutthroat who , along with Jane White ( brilliant as Kate ) created what was surely one of the most vigorous wooing scenes ever staged . Moreover , the company featured a collection of zanies , many of them coming to notice for the first time , who were as demented a pack of mad-brain rudesbies as any in the Hemisphere . Joseph Papp , in short , has created a new company , a new style , and a new audience , and done so without a single artistic compromise . If the world were just , he would not only have a permanent home in the Park , but Broadway and Lincoln Square into the bargain , for no one else has done more to keep our decaying theatre pulsing and alive . LINCOLN SQUARE A B 0 U T Lincoln Square , it is possible only to speculate from the numerous statements of policy circulated in the press by Elia Kazan and Robert Whitehead , who will control the repertory company 's future . But their statements can perhaps give us a fairly clear idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We intend to make a theatre that is interesting , exciting , vital to us in contemporary terms , " said Kazan in a recent interview . " If we do a classic , it has to have a meaning for us today and it 's got to be exciting .... " In more precise terms , Kazan and Whitehead affirm that their repertory program will " avoid the smell of the library " by ruling out things like " pseudo-realistic productions of The Wild Duck , ' always that same damned Wild Duck ' . " Instead , the company will perform an annual program of two new plays by " leading American writers , " two revivals of " classical European plays , " and one revival of " an American classic . " ( " Everyone , " adds Kazan , " should see ' Death of a Salesman ' every five years . " ) Moreover , the repertory might include sweeping dramatizations of such novels as Werfel 's Forty Days of Mum Dagh , Dreiser 's Sister Carrie ( " We recreate the social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which came the America of today " ) , and Zola 's Germinal ( " What a play that would make . The coal mines of Belgium . A real Van Gogh feeling about it . A love story there , and a story of labor struggles " ) . The company itself would consist of thirty " leading " American actors , paid anywhere between off-Broadway minimum and the maximum of a Broadway star , and would spend eight months before out-of-town audiences experimenting with a number of plays in the hope of selecting the first two or three . Finally , the directors are sure that Lincoln Square , though subsidized , will prove no unfair competition to Broadway because its box-office scale will be " almost as high as Broadway 's . " And with this plan , Kazan hopes to attract " a lot of my intellectual friends Fwhol have stopped going to the theatre . " At the risk of sounding prematurely harsh , let me try to suggest why Mr. Kazan 's intellectual friends may well prefer to stay home . ( 1 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-sounding ideal ; in practice , always an excuse for a director to spread his personality over a play . We can learn from Stratford about the perils of bringing a classic " up to date . " Shakespeare in the Park , on the other hand , demonstrates that the only way to make a masterpiece meaningful " for us today " is to cut past both convention and contrivance to the heart of the author 's intention . To such a task , Mr. Kazan does not seem very much inclined . He has yet to direct anything but commercial American plays , and two years ago he announced that he would never produce Shakespeare because , " I am more interested in the life that is around me . " This curious statement , along with other evidence , suggests that for all his brilliant craftsmanship and psychological intuition , Mr. Kazan 's approach to the drama is peculiarly contemporary . I suspect if he does direct a classic , it will end up either with an American setting or an American social-psychological interpretation . I am not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can doctor second-rate works to suit your own prejudices , you do n't meddle with masterpieces . ( 2 ) Avoid the smell of the library . If the library smells , it is from lack of human habitation , for it is rarely aired by our theatrical elites . Yet , this odoriferous area contains most of the works worth doing by a subsidized repertory company . It would be interesting to tally how many times " pseudo-realistic productions of ' The Wild Duck ' " have been performed in this country as compared with pseudo-realistic productions of " All My Sons , " pseudo-poetic productions of " J. B. , " and pseudo-pseudo productions of " Sweet Bird of Youth . " Lincoln Square may succeed in filtering out the " smell of the library " by introducing the stink of the cash box . ( 3 ) The repertory . The two new plays by " leading American writers " would probably he more appropriate to Broadway than to a subsidized art theatre ; plays by new or controversial American writers would be more to the point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or three plays by O'Neill , and ( this is a generous estimate ) one each by Wilder , Williams , Odets , and Miller ? will he totally exhausted . The " two classical European plays " might have some merit , but what works could be chosen when most of the great European dramas " smell of the library " ? Kazan 's plan for dramatizing novels might prove a contribution to the theatre , but hardly to the drama ; adaptations like this are better left to the writers of musicals . ( 4 ) The company . " Leading American actors " ? With pay scales up to the astronomical portions of a star ? Look out ! So far , Christopher Plum mer and Geraldine Page , both versatile performers , have been announced for the company ; the rest will probably come from less resourceful ranks of the Actors Studio . My guess is that , in consequence , within a year or so the repertory will consist mainly of conventional American plays . ( 5 ) Experimenting out of town . This seems to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow public taste than to lead it . Out-of-town tryouts are a peculiar Broadway custom , invariably resulting in the revision of a play to suit the demands of the audience . Is it utopian to expect a subsidized company to revise its audience to suit the demands of the play ? ( 6 ) Box-office scale almost as high as Broadway 's . This increases the probability that Lincoln Square will attract much the same audience as Broadway ; it is already preparing the same kind of fare . In its projected ticket prices , as in almost every one of its announced plans , Lincoln Square , three years before its opening date , is effectively undermining the basic purpose of subsidized repertory . TOWARD RIGHT SOLUTIONS T H E prospect , therefore , despite all the love , sweat , and money poured into the project , is not very heartening . The motives of Mr. Kazan and Mr. Whitehead are undoubtedly above reproach , and it is certain that they are among the most gifted men working in the commercial theatre . But their standards for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway ? and you do not easily change the habits of a lifetime . One may wonder why ? when it is commercialism that is debasing our theatre ? the Lincoln Square project was handed over to two men who have hitherto shown no great interest in any other system . But it often seems our national custom to analyze a problem correctly and then come up with the wrong solution . Meanwhile , other companies ? without fanfare , funds , or fabulous theatre buildings ? are working their way through to the right solutions . For while Americans will blunder under the most favorable conditions , they can also come through with striking and imaginative achievements against the most overwhelming odds . Stratford and Lincoln Square may suggest that our current repertory fever is only the hectic of an old disease . But for the Living Theatre , and , especially , for Shakespeare in the Park , it is more the blush of a bright and clean beginning . 