@@431734

 | My family dentist is a model practitioner who actually practices what he preaches : He visits his own dentist for regular checkups . Recently , because his own dentist was ill , he went to a young practitioner who had just returned from a three-year hitch in the U.S. Navy Dental Corps . The young man politely piped him aboard , gave him a thorough examination , and remarked : " You have three carious lesions ( cavities ) , doctor . " My dentist opened his mouth for the anticipated drilling and filling . But the young man swiftly swabbed the offending teeth with a colorless liquid , waited a few moments , then cheerfully announced , " Well , doctor , that 's that . Next time you 're here we 'll swab them again . " " Swab them ? Are n't you going to fill them ? " demanded my dentist sharply . " Of course not . You must be joking , doctor . " " Joking ! Are you trying to tell me ... " For a moment the two stared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they were n't speaking the same language . He explained quickly : Research had shown it was not always necessary to fill cavities that had not penetrated the dentine . The dentist could paint them periodically with a liquid called stannous fluoride . Not only did the chemical halt further decay , but in many cases it combined with the enamel so that , in effect , the tooth was bolstered back to health . " An interesting theory , " retorted my dentist . " But there 's no real evidence to substantiate it . " " None , " said the young man quietly , " except the experience of about four million army and navy personnel and their dependents overseas . " This incident highlights a startling paradox . As recently as a decade ago dentists were lamenting that , compared to medicine , dental research was in the horse-and-buggy stage . But today research is proceeding at such a furious pace ? and on so many fronts that the average dentist can barely keep up with it . In fact , revolutionary techniques have been developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are put into practice . These techniques open up a whole new realm of dentistry . Many of them have already been perfected ; others are still in the experimental stage . They are as varied as they are unique , ranging from invisible " armor plating of teeth " to polishing them smooth as glass , so that even a microbe has trouble getting a toehold ; from letting teeth mend themselves like fractures to reinforcing them with food and drink ? and mouthwash . Researchers have even perfected an antibiotic gel that thwarts decay , as well as an effective do-it-yourself program of dental prophylaxis , or preventive care . " The day is in sight when the drill and the forceps will be no more than incidental symbols of the dental profession , " declares Major General Joseph L. Bernier , Assistant U.S. Surgeon General and chief of the Army Dental Corps . But the dawn of this day is clouded over by the problems of the present . Overworked dentists say they hardly have enough time for their patients , let alone time to read and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a universal malady from which few escape . Ninety-eight percent of our population is afflicted . According to Dr. Francis A. Arnold , Jr. , director of the National Institute of Dental Research , " There are probably a billion unfilled cavities in the United States . " It has been estimated that it would take 250,000 dentists , working ten years , simply to catch up with the backlog of tooth decay . Yet the number of dentists in America today totals only a little over 100,000 . As a result , most dentists feel the best they can do is fight a hold-the-line battle . Taking tooth decay as a matter of course , their principal pride is in their speed and skill . Some of them , several dental authorities claim , tend to look upon their patients as " a bridge , or a denture or an extraction , instead of a health problem . " It is only in the last few years that researchers have verified the underlying causes of tooth decay . The culprits , long suspected , are bacteria , food , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in the toothpaste ads ) ,  | which adheres tenaciously to the teeth . First the bacteria , which feed on food particles in the mouth , break down these food particles to form a corrosive acid . Imprisoned by the plaque , and literally encasing the tooth surface , the acid thereupon begins its destructive work ? the rate of destruction depending on the susceptibility of the tooth . The action might be likened to that of rust , which quickly corrodes uncoated iron , is slowed down by certain varieties of steel , and is almost completely thwarted by the variety called " stainless . " Chrome is the magical substance that makes stainless steel rustproof . No such magical substance has yet been found to make teeth decay-proof . But researchers have discovered startling ? and unexpected ? powers in various fluoride compounds , and these have led to a recent series of remarkable achievements . But most remarkable of all is that these discoveries can help ? and are helping ? adults , a hope long regarded as futile . Fluoride compounds can make teeth stronger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air force . With oral diseases their most crippling health problem , the armed forces are among the leading supporters of dental research . And because they represent such a sizable portion of the population , they serve as the most dynamic proving ground for the latest advances . The armed forces ' program is based principally on the work of Dr. Joseph C. Muhler of Indiana University , who recently expounded its background and theory at a symposium of applied preventive dentistry at Walter Reed Army Medical Center , Washington , D.C. First step in the technique is a thorough scaling and polishing of the patient 's teeth , including the areas under the gum line . Most civilian dentists also advocate an occasional polishing , for it removes the plaque which might turn to tartar and cause pyorrhea . Patients , however , generally look on polishing as a cosmetic , something to give them a nice smile . The armed forces ' technique does that , too . But it goes a step further and " armor plates " the teeth . This is achieved by using a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tin ) fluoride , instead of the ordinary pumice used by many dentists . As Dr. Muhler explained to the symposium , the tin component of the fluoride is burnished into the healthy enamel , so that the tooth becomes stronger and more resistant to decay . The navy method dispenses with the dentist entirely for this step . At the Naval Clinic in Norfolk , Virginia , and at numerous other preventive dentistry clinics , the sailors do their own polishing ? in groups of four to fifty under a technician 's guidance . Equally radical in concept is the next procedure ? painting the teeth with a stannous fluoride solution . It was originally believed the solution served only one purpose : to form a protective cover for the healthy enamel of growing teeth . And it is for this purpose that a minority of private dentists use the solution on children 's teeth . The armed forces , however , have discovered that its protective power extends just as effectively to adults . And the solution is routinely used in conjunction with polishing . But this use is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " decayed teeth . One of the major factors in tooth decay , according to Dr. Muhler , is the tooth 's loss of natural tin . But when painted with a stannous solution this loss is effectively blocked ; the tin portion of the stannous fluoride unites with the decayed enamel to fight further decay . The treatment , however , has some limitations . It is not effective against cavities that have eaten into the dentine ? that part of the tooth that lies directly beneath the enamel ? and has only a slight effect on cavities that cover more than half the tooth 's surface . These are filled in conventional fashion . The others are repainted about every six months . " With each reapplication , " says Col. Russell W. Sumnicht , chief of the army 's preventive dentistry program , " there seems to be a more profound protective effect , lessening the frequency with which follow-up applications are required . " This need for a booster shot can be further delayed , claims Dr. Muhler. by brushing after each meal with a stannous fluoride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tin in the fluoride migrates to the " filled " cavity , thus reinforcing it further . The air force goes beyond this by also prescribing a stannous fluoride mouthwash . Curiously , says Dr. Muhler , the sign of a healthy " filling " is the light brown stain around its edges , as opposed to the " cleaner " look of a tooth needing a booster shot . In 1931 Dr. Frederick McKay , a Colorado dentist , noted that @# patients with puzzling brown stains on their teeth had sixty-five percent fewer cavities than patients whose teeth were unstained . His curiosity piqued by this contradiction , Dr. McKay traced the discolorations to the natural fluoride in the drinking water of certain areas . Dr. McKay 's findings became the springboard for our national waterfluoridation program . While the program 's main accent has been on children , researchers have found that drinking fluoridated water is also of great benefit to adults ? not only by internal chemistry , but by mere contact of the fluoride with the teeth . It combines with the enamel , giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also evidence that it reacts with saliva to retard decay . Fluoridated water is an integral part of the armed forces ' preventive dentistry program . Together with regular checkups , lectures on oral hygiene and diet , this program has had dramatic results . Since 1960 , more than four million servicemen and their wives and children overseas have been treated . According to a navy pilot study , tooth decay has been reduced between seventy and eighty percent . In addition , there are now a number of stannous fluoride toothpastes on the market , and several of these have received the conditional endorsement of the American Dental Association . Used in conjunction with a regular program of oral hygiene , these can also reduce decay , and are forerunners of a number of effective new products that may be expected in the future . Zirconium promises even more But research never stands still . " Nor , " as an associate puts it , " does the perfectionist drive of Dr. Muhler . " With the total conquest of tooth decay as his goal , the intense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obsolete his own achievements with stannous fluoride . Now he believes he has found the key ? in a common mineral called zirconium . Women know zirconium in its larger and rarer forms as zircon ? a transparent brown or yellowish semiprecious stone , often used in jewelry . Its crystals lie buried in granite and other rock formations . Commercially , its chief use is as an abrasive . Dental researchers , however , have always regarded it as useless . But Dr. Muhler was intrigued by two seemingly unrelated factors : the magnificent scratch-resistant glaze which zirconium imparts to fine china ; and the disclosure that zirconium serves as the innermost coating of nuclear reactor chambers ? a coating so powerful practically nothing can destroy it . Probing further , Dr. Muhler uncovered some more fascinating facts . Unlike most chemicals , zirconium has a special affinity for smooth surfaces . It clings to them tenaciously . Moreover , it spreads so easily that it gets into fine crevices . Finally , and most exciting of all , when it is combined with other  | minerals ? especially fluoride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become part of its structure . To Dr. Muhler the implications were obvious : Formulate a zirconium paste to clean and polish teeth , and a zirconium fluoride solution to paint cavities ? and he might have the mightiest weapons to fight tooth decay so far perfected . And if he added a zirconium fluoride toothpaste , the arsenal would be complete . Today , after thousands of experiments , the arsenal is nearing completion . Moreover , the basic weapon ? the zirconium silicate polishing agent ? is already available to private dentists for use in prophylaxis . Known commercially as Zircate , it is being produced by the L. D. Caulk Company , of Milford , Delaware . In its effect , Zircate has exceeded even Dr. Muhler 's expectations . Originally , cleaning and polishing teeth was a two-step operation . With the introduction of various pumices , it became a single operation . But many pumices that clean well polish poorly . And many that polish well also wear away the enamel , leaving microscopic valleys that act as catch basins for the rapid formation of plaque @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abrasive . So is Zircate , for regular use . But by ingenious calculation Dr. Muhler and his researchers arrived at a tiny crystal size that solves both problems . Jagged in shape , the crystals safely clean the teeth , removing stains formerly believed impossible to remove . Then as the jagged points are ground off , the crystals polish the teeth to a brilliant luster reminiscent of the fine china glaze that first attracted Dr. Muhler . So perfect is the glaze that food particles slide off like water from a greased griddle . And in a series of experiments by the army , it was found that this glaze lasted at least a month , even when soldiers failed to use dental floss or brush their teeth with toothpaste . What astonished the army more was the reduction in tooth decay . It almost equaled that achieved by the use of stannous fluoride . " And Zircate , " as an army spokesman stressed , " contains no fluoride ; merely zirconium crystals . So you can imagine the great things we expect when Dr. Muhler 's zirconium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparations are now being subjected to large-scale tests at the Indiana University dental clinic , as well as clinics throughout the state . Volunteers range from prekindergarten children to elderly adults . Obviously referring to the not yet published results , Dr. Muhler recently told a group of dentists : " Our experiments have shown that ninety percent of all tooth decay can be controlled . This applied to patients up to the age of eighty-seven . " Then he added whimsically : " Beyond that we do n't know . We have n't had any patients past that age . " However , it will take at least two years before the Federal Food and Drug Administration approves zirconium fluoride for public use . Zircate , the polishing agent , required no such approval , since by FDA definition it is not a new chemical ? and has long been proved to be an inactive compound that is not absorbed by the body . Zirconium fluoride is active . If swallowed , some of the elements enter the bloodstream . Hence the FDA will have to be convinced these levels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Adding to the FDA 's caution is the fact that one member of the zirconium family ? zirconium oxide ? sometimes causes a serious skin rash . For this reason it was barred as a component of cosmetics some years ago . And although none of Dr. Muhler 's compounds contain this oxide , the FDA has intensified its guard against possible side effects . Consequently , after the present tests are completed , zirconium fluoride will have to undergo hundreds of additional tests , ranging from independent nationwide studies to individual office use by a cross section of skeptical dentists . Not until then will approval be forthcoming . And even then , any adverse reaction or complaint , no matter how minor , will have to be reported regularly to the FDA for an indefinite period . But as one of Dr. Muhler 's associates points out , " Stannous fluoride went through most of this same procedure . It 's the best way to check zirconium 's safety and effectiveness . " To which another dental authority adds , " Zirconium seems to be a natural . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent decay ? Meanwhile the National Institute of Dental Research at Bethesda , Maryland , is already at work on steps beyond this step ; and perhaps the greatest advance will involve the use of antibiotics to fight tooth decay . Sparking the research are several re- cent disclosures : that the bacteria causing tooth decay are streptococci ? and contagious ; that they may be present even when the teeth are spotlessly clean ; and that , despite the cleanliness , the germs can coat teeth with plaque . Formerly it was believed that food residue first had to be present before the germs could cause a destructive film to form . " This means , " explains Dr. Paul H. Keyes , " that we can not look upon tooth decay only as a degenerative process . It is also an infectious disease . " The tall , blue-eyed Dr. Keyes and Dr. Robert J. Fitzgerald proved this in a series of experiments with hamsters , which develop tooth decay as human beings do . They chose young , vigorous hamsters in perfect condition . Then in scenes reminiscent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hamsters ' teeth with electric toothbrushes , ensconced them in germ-free , air-conditioned cells , and fed them a diet low in carbohydrates . The hamsters and their teeth thrived . Dividing them into three groups , the researchers sent one group to live with hamsters suffering from tooth decay . This group 's teeth decayed , too . Then the teeth of another healthy group were swabbed with plaque from the infected hamsters . The second group 's teeth also developed infections . But the hamsters who remained in their germ-free environment continued to remain free of tooth decay . Subsequently Dr. Keyes and Dr. Harold V. Jordan , Institute microbiologist , isolated the decay-causing streptococcus . Dr. Keyes reasoned that if he could kill the bacteria , he might eliminate the decay . An antibiotic could do it , since antibiotics are remorseless killers of many types of streptococci . Dr. Keyes chose penicillin . Then to keep his Bugs Bunnyish patients comfortable , he fashioned a plastic mouthguard to fit over their teeth . Into the mouthguard he placed a fluoride gel compounded with the penicillin . Applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dynamic double action . It not only prevented new cavities , but also pyorrhea and other gum diseases . And it kept doing so for fifteen generations of hamsters . Researchers doubt that it could do the same for fifteen generations of people . They believe , though , that such a compound might thwart oral disease during a single person 's lifetime . But not until they find the right antibiotic . For , unhappily , the type of penicillin used by Dr. Keyes is just too good . It is effective against a whole spectrum of diseases , especially pneumonia . " If this penicillin were used in everyday dentistry , " says Dr. Keyes , " people would develop such a tolerance for it that it would be useless when they became ill What we need is an antibiotic that is a specific only against oral infection . " Actually there is such a specific . called spiramycin . Developed in France . it has been used with great success in Europe and Canada . But the FDA forbade spiramycin 's use in America ,  | even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white blood cells , which help the body fight disease . But the search for a safe counterpart is expected to be brief . Drug manufacturers have thousands of antibiotics that have never been tested , or that are not now being used in general medicine . " Any of a number of these might work , " says Dr. Keyes . Fortified foods , too Regardless of chemistry , however , no pill can change basic human biology . Man must eat . Yet eating is what conspires to destroy his teeth , since all food residue is a potential source of decay . Because of this , all preventive dentistry programs ? from those of the armed forces to those under study at the National Institute ? stress the need for brushing the teeth after every meal , using dental floss and massaging the gums . Despite the proven virtues of this procedure , most people ca n't ? or wo n't ? follow it . So the Institute 's energetic Dr. F. J. McClure is assaulting two problems : sugar and food additives . Alone or as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most serious cause of tooth decay . It forms acid in the mouth instantly , and attacks the teeth within half an hour unless removed by brushing . In Australia , the problem is regarded as so serious that glucose is being substituted for ordinary sugar in many food products . In Sweden , candy manufacturers are using a sweetener that is made from potato starch . But the American palate , as well as the American toothache , is historically rooted in sugar , not only by itself but as found in candy and in a variety of foods including breads , cakes and breakfast cereals . How to alter their tooth-decaying potential , without altering the sugar , has long been baffling dental researchers . That problem may soon be solved , thanks to Dr. McClure 's dietary experiments with laboratory animals . Using three groups , he fed the first what millions of Americans commonly eat for breakfast : shredded cereals or heattreated oats , spiked with sugar and vitamin supplements . The second group received the same menu ? except that Dr. McClure fed them by stomach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extra ingredient . The third group also received this extra ingredient with their food , but were allowed to chomp away in normal fashion . This went on for weeks . Then the results were checked . As expected , Group No. 1 developed a classic case of tooth decay . The decay among Group No. 2 was less . But Group No. 3 was practically devoid of cavities . The seemingly magic ingredient added to the food by Dr. McClure was an ordinary phosphate ? a member of that large family of chemicals used in such different things as fertilizer and baking powder . The phosphate used by Dr. McClure is easily dissolved , so that it reacts with the saliva . It is also cheap , safe and completely acceptable to the FDA . Enthusiastic over the results of the experiments , several food manufacturers are already considering the addition of soluble phosphates to their products . Exactly when such fortified foods will be available is uncertain . Researchers must still bridge the gap between laboratory and supermarket shelves . But they foresee no large problems . Eventually ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and this is the largest and most pressing ? is the vast gulf between the achievements of preventive dentistry and their everyday application . The scientists regard it as ironic that despite obvious proof that most tooth decay can be prevented , these new techniques are barely being practiced , especially as they apply to adults . The average patient still looks upon tooth decay as a way of life . The average dentist still looks upon his drill as a way of coping with it . The reasons are complex . But essentially they are these : The comparative lack of communication between researcher and dentist ; the fact that many dentists still think of themselves as craftsmen rather than as scientists ; and the public 's apathy and suspicion toward dental work that is not " restorative . " Compounding the problem are the majority of the nation 's dental colleges , which perpetuate the philosophy of drill and fill by stressing dental mechanics . If they teach preventive dentistry at all , they teach it only peripherally . Declared General Bernier in a recent speech to dental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few years to have graduates entering on active duty in the Army Dental Corps state that they were taught nothing about preventive dentistry and , therefore , felt totally inadequate as key preventive dentistry officers . " Despite this discouraging picture , there are hopeful highlights . Taking their cue from medical research , where the time lapse between laboratory and doctor is only about two years , dental researchers have embarked on a concerted campaign to have their discoveries put into everyday use . They have coordinated publication of their findings , widened the exchange of information and invited a greater number of hospitals , clinics and private dentists to participate in clinical trials . Sparked by the army , the navy and the National Institute of Dental Research , symposiums and seminars are being held to acquaint colleges and teachers with the latest advances in research . All these efforts are making headway . But most significant of all , a number of dental colleges ? including those at the universities of Missouri and North Carolina and at Indiana and Western Reserve universities ? have already added preventive dentistry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other colleges are planning to do likewise . As General Bernier sums up : " Recent developments promise to change the entire complexion of dental practice . The farsighted predict the day when oral disease will be largely eliminated or controlled through preventive means . If American dentistry is to continue its leadership , it can not fail to note ? and adjust to meet ? the potential of these developments . "                     