@@477837

Among the cognoscenti , there are even those who rank Swarthmore College above Harvard . It is a small school in a time of academic empires , but its claims to superiority are persuasive . In a study of the collegiate origins of scholars who attained the Ph.D . or other distinctions , Swarthmore ranked first for men in its productivity index . On the Medical College Admissions Test , Swarthmore students recently attained a 99th percentile , the highest possible ranking . The school 's division of engineering ? the country 's smallest accredited engineering school ? ranked seventh in the percentage of alumni in Who 's . Who in Engineering . Swarthmore graduates contemplate a feast of abundance tendered by universities and foundations . The Class of 1960 picked up $85,000 in grants and fellowships , a goodly sum shared by the 123 out of 200 departing students who were headed for graduate school . Fourteen won Woodrow Wilson Fellowships ( apprenticeships for college teaching ) , making Swarthmore number one among small colleges . Even among the giants , this figure was equaled or exceeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds a solid consensus about Swarthmore : that it is one of our very best schools , that it has a remarkable capacity for inspiring academic passion in its students . By virtue of its imposing credentials , the college is able to attract a freshman class of almost terrifying virtuosity . The Class of 1964 ( 144 boys and 115 girls ) were culled from 2,263 applicants . Their median score on the College Entrance Boards was in the upper 600s . Among the freshmen there was a strong show of academic and extracurricular talent : fifteen National Merit DAVID BOROFF The students at Swarthmore like to whip up storms of verbal and animal energy , but underneath it all David Boron ? an Assistant Professor of English at New York University ? finds one of the best college programs available in America . His report will appear in his new book , " Campus USA , " to be published by Harper &; Brothers . Scholarship winners , eight class presidents , seven student-council presidents , twenty-five editors-inchief of school publications , and , somewhat astonishingly . 101 varsity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bookish student . Many of her students ? male and female ? are athletes , hardy and tireless . ) The college was established in 1864 by one branch of the Society of Friends , the Hicksites , who were bent on providing an education " equal to that of the best institutions of learning in the country . " The founding fathers ' philosophy has a contemporary ring : " What we Americans have most to fear is a dead level of mediocrity in the education of our people . Many persons seem to suppose that a moderate education , if joined with good common sense , is sufficient for all the purposes of Life . It may be all that is needed for ordinary occasions , but not for the higher objects of our existence . " The college was originally housed in Parrish Hall , a huge , ungainly Victorian pile , which is still the administrative center , with offices , dining-rooms , and a women 's dormitory . But there are now some forty-four buildings in all , including a new science building and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacy Gothic to the unrelievedly plain lines of a Friends Meeting House , The campus , a rural refuge of three hundred acres surrounded by well-to-do suburbia ( eleven miles southwest of Philadelphia ) has a lovely sweep of meadow and a stretch of honest-to-goodness woods . Swarthmore has 960 students ( 500 men and 400 women ) and 110 faculty members , which gives it a luxurious teacher-student ratio . The tone of the place is intimate , and faculty discussions are likely to turn on what " works " with a particular student . The college is assiduously introspective . While Harvard has an impervious self-assurance , Swarthmore is in a constant fever of self-appraisal , for few schools have united such disparate elements . What is Swarthmore 's personality ? It is at once bookish yet high-spirited ; Quaker yet mundane with that heavy overlay of sophistication only the young can muster ; inward yet careerist ; bold yet conservative ; individualistic yet fiercely social-minded . " What I like about this place , " a girl said , " is that you can be listening to radicals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors give the college an effervescence and excitement that all visitors on campus quickly notice . ( " I 've never been so drained as I was at Swarthmore , " a lecturer who gets around campuses remarked . ) One is simply the sheer concentration of brainy kids . Harvard conveys the same sense of intellectual plenty ? an untamed precocity which is almost comic when it is not intimidating . But Harvard boys take fewer chances intellectually . Swarthmore students have far more warmth and color and recklessness . The second factor is the Quaker tolerance of diversity . There is no unifying ethos at Swarthmore ? except that the life of the mind is good ? and one can find warring camps in a state of highly vocal co-existence . THEIR CHERISHED SPLITS he most celebrated split is that which sep- arates fraternity men ( and their feminine satellites ) and the bohemians whose Holy City is the Mary Lyon dormitory for men . Swarthmoreans make dramatic capital out of this schism . Freshmen like to think that they have to make an ideological choice ? between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines are rigidly drawn ? at least in theory . Fraternity men are likely to be athletic , conservative politically , solid if tame citizens of Philistia , ( " Flow many regular guys are there at Swarthmore ? " a townie asked a football player . " About thirty , " he answered forlornly . ) The intransigently bohemian males ? disheveled , bearded , and sandaled , given to intellectual and artistic pursuits , addicted to folk music and green bookbags ? are even fewer . But there are complex modulations to this neat scheme . At exam time , fraternity men are prone to let their beards grow . And a fondness for folk music is very much a part of Swarthmore . Fraternity men , with the local receptivity to ideas , will on occasion invite a bohemian to talk to them about " Individuality and the Dangers of Fraternity Life . " On the other side of the barricades , the bohemian-artistic group shows an unexpected athletic flair . And one of the deans remarked , " The kids in blue jeans and beards who call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run square-dancing programs at Norristown Mental Hospital . " A graduate whom II talked to looked back nostalgically on what he thought were the school 's great days ( only three or four years distant ) : " There were fraternity men on one side , and the others on the other side , and you knew what you stood for . These days there are a lot of vociferous neutrals who botch up the ideological lines . " " At some of the large universities , " Swarthmore 's President Courtney Smith told me , " you Find your interest group ? it could be Arabic or chess ? and you stay with it . You 're sealed off from other groups . At Swarthmore , precisely because it is small and intimate , you have to defend your interest against many others . " There is a beguiling touch of the zany about Swarthmore . An engineering student bought a hearse for use by the Engineers Club ? and for the very best reasons , he argued cogently . Not only is its carrying capacity superior to that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in dolorous journeys between funeral parlor and cemetery . In a philosophy class I saw a boy pass his pipe to a pretty girl , a combed-hair type , who puffed reflectively a few times , then passed it back . Up front , the professor lectured on the mind-body problem . The Quaker spirit is subtly present , but its influence is difficult to appraise . The college is nonsectarian in control but Quaker in tradition . About 15 per cent of the students come from Quaker families . The tendency to hold authority to a minimum ( even if students say the minimum is too high ) , an inclination to think well of people , an admiration for old-fashioned inner-directed character ? all of these may be Quaker in origin . The honor accorded kitchen and custodial employees upon their retirement ? announced in the same fashion as the retirement of professors ? seems to attest to a die-hard Quaker simplicity . And though the thee 's and thou 's of an earlier era have vanished , there are 141 still traces of Quaker idiom in First Day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attended a Quaker Meeting , which is not , by the way , an official College activity . Though the usual opportunities were provided for the expression of the " inner light , " those in attendance seemed reluctant to speak out spontaneously . After a long silence , one woman got up and talked about a visit to a home for unwed mothers with a curious mixture of Quaker piety and sociological jargon . There is a strong centripetal pull on campus , and the college is curiously isolated ? students rarely go to Philadelphia , only a half-hour away . Residents of suburban Swarthmore ? it is called The Ville ? and the college community view each other with remote and polite distrust . The Phoenix , the student newspaper , describes the town as " the real world " where " police can he friendly , " reflecting the view of former President Frank Avdelotte , who characterized Swarthmore as " a town of contented dogs and happy children . " The students are affronted by the subtirh 's homogeneity ( few Jews and Negroes ) and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local children with the name " Turkey " ( bookworm ) , or are asked by adults , " Is it true you have absolutely no stan-dards of dress ? " To many villeniks ( I take the term from The Phoenix ) the college reeks vaguely of socialism and unbridled sex , although there is also a grudging admiration for the school 's intellectualism . It is possible , too , that the students , contemplating this trim upper-class town , bristle at the image of suburban Gleichsrhaltung which awaits them . The college administration watches the town-gown relationship morosely . ( " One of the primary aims of the college , " The Phoenix quipped , " is to keep the village happy . " ) And it has other headaches . The official philosophy is that " it values values . " Given hundreds of intense young people , their values , sometimes flamboyantly proclaimed and practiced , can be an administrative nuisance . The same is true of the school 's philosophy of " individualism , " which , in practice , can prove nettlesome , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as radical in ideas and conservative in social behavior ? the latter , assertedly , is the price the students are expected to pay for the former . ) The upshot of all this is an unremitting contest between students and administration , with the students complaining of being policed too much and college officials reluctant to bring intoplay the apparatus of authority so vulgarly applied elsewhere . To the outsider the tone of the college seems briskly libertarian . Swarthmore was one of the first schools to repudiate the disclaimer affidavit in the National Defense Education Act and to disengage from the benefits of that program . When an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force appeared on campus to discuss modern weaponry , a letter to the school newspaper protested his appearance in the light of the Quaker tradition . He talked ? but so have Linus Pauling , Harry Bridges , and other representatives of dissenting groups . The college jealously protects freedom of inquiry , though an official report modestly suggests : " This freedom can best be defended if the invitations to speakers are thoughtfully issued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already scheduled to be heard . " PACE-SETTING HONORS girls go on to graduate study ? a far higher percentage than at most of the good women 's colleges . Unlike women at many other schools , the girls are not prone to play down their intellectual talents for fear of pricing themselves out of the marriage market . At Swarthmore , the men and women are intellectual peers . During the first two years , the girls actually get higher grades , but their performance declines somewhat as compared to the men 's during their last two years when the marriage pressure may become grim . Academic arrangements are a blend of the advanced and conservative . Swarthmore 's Honors Program was one of the pace-setters of American educational reform almost four decades ago . On the other hand , it is ironic that a school which is so robustly social-minded and international ? no crisis is too remote for the students ' sympathy or indignation ? should lack sociology and anthropology departments . Moreover , not a single painting or short story is done as part of course work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is entirely extracurricular . ) Then there are odd interstices in the curriculum . Swarthmore never became involved in the enthusiasm for the Great Books or a comprehensive humanities department , and more than one student has been dismayed to discover that in no course on campus is it possible to study Dante . Swarthmore students and faculty take pleasure , not unmixed with pain , in their strenuous academicism . A classics professor who taught at Columbia related how if he failed to give an assignment at Columbia his students , quietlyexultant , would fail to remind him . At Swarthmore , they would be sure to prod him . " It 's highly competitive , " a student said . " Nobody asks what you got on an exam , but it 's there just the same . The academic atmosphere is what I like , but I do n't like being pushed or dragged . Even on vacation , students will work six or eight hours a day . " Campus heroes are not merely the A-makers , but those handy with ideas . A fatal dispersion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girl who said , " I 've been trying to study for a physics exam all week , but I 've been preoccupied with a philosophic problem . " A Radcliffe girl who visited Swarthmore summed up the difference : " At Swarthmore I get the feeling that a student is encouraged to believe that his ideas have significance . At Radcliffe you feel that everything has been said and that you 're hopelessly na ? ve . " All the intellectual hustle begets a mocking reaction . A sign on a Parrish Hall bulletin board magisterially announced the formation of the Peripheral Information Society for the Advancement of Nonspecialized Knowledge ? the first speaker , Hubris Johnson , an authority on such things as the average height of mango trees . The first two years of study at Swarthmore center around a general-education program requiring all students to take courses in such areas as the humanities , the social sciences , and the natural sciences before they go on to specialize . ' This is a fairly recent innovation , designed to guard against intellectual chaos and assure a core @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better students comes when they are admitted to the college 's celebrated Honors Program during their junior and senior years . Back in the ' twenties Frank Aydelotte pioneered in developing this system of independent study in order to break what he called " the academic lockstep . " After more than three decades , it remains a model that very few colleges can match . About 40 per cent of Swarthmore 's upperclassmen take Honors . Instead of the usual four courses , carried by other juniors and seniors , an Honors student carries two seminars each semester . The eight seminars he will complete ? in no more than three fields ? are expected to fall into a coherent academic pattern , in effect comprising a major field and two minor fields , e.g. , literature , philosophy , history . The rationale of the program is that instead of the usual one-way transmission of knowledge from teacher to student , the young scholar should work on his own in areas that have intellectual urgency for him , should achieve some depth and sophistication in those areas , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . LEVELS OF MEANING E refs seminar meets once a week , often in the professor 's home , for a session of . at least three hours . The groups are small ? usually six or seven students ? and though some seminars do assign readings , the core of the process is discussion of the students ' papers . These arc subjected to merciless appraisal , which goes on and on long past the allotted three hours . The only break is provided by the faculty wife who interrupts the gladiators with coffee and cake . The seminars seemed to me to approach an authentic community of scholars , since not even examinations ? that ugly trauma that separates professor from student ? disturb its unity . At the end of his senior year the Honors student takes eight three-hour written exams prepared by outside examiners . ( " Discuss Convention in Renaissance poetry . Whenever we put two emotions in juxtaposition , we have what we can properly call an idea . Illustrate from several poems by Donne . . . . " ) The examiners appear later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so impressed by Swarthmore 's intellectual muscle that they send their own children there . ) The student and his professor , therefore , are intellectual partners who make common cause . Dr. Daniel Hoffman , a gifted poet and scholar , acknowledged that many of his ideas come out of seminar discussions . The Honors Program has its critics . A former Swarthmore student , now a professor elsewhere , asked testily : " Js it better to have a group of students talk about something they know very little about than to have a structured lecture by a professor who knows a lot ? " There are those who object to the cult of Aydelotte ( " Aydelotte was God , and we are his prophets " ) . Others complain that the seminars are either too well-organized and thus differ little from course work , or , on the contrary , too flexible and discursive . The students groan about the exams at the end of senior year : " Two years work in ten days ... terror and breakdown ! " Certainly , the Honors Program is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the experience of a girl , while doing graduate work in journalism , was revealing . Asked to do a practice piece on a UN committee , she researched seventeenth-century precursors of international co-operation so exhaustively that her professor was provoked to say : " Fine , but are you writing for the man in the subway or for the faculty of Swarthmore College ? " No remark could have pleased her more . I attended a seminar in modern European literature . Sitting on a couch were two girls with unkempt hair , bobby socks ? and flawless manners . A male student , resplendently bearded , was wearing a tie and jacket ( almost-mandatory dress for seminars ) and army combat boots . The professor opened the discussion with the question : " Hy what means does Dostoevski implement his nonconceptual communication in The Brothers Karamozovr The discussion flowed ? some of it mere verbiage , some of it impressively formulated . One boy described Smerdyakov as " a kind of diseased limb . " " Yes , " his professor answered , " he is the degeneration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , T , S. Eliot was esoterically analyzed . ( " What I meant by the third level of meaning . . . " a student began . ) The seminar papers ranged from inept imitations of Sewanee Review to highly perceptive textual analyses . Along with solid scholarly work , there were the usual sins of precocityoveringenious formulations , shrill pedantry , and turgidity of style . In the poetry seminar , Professor Hoffman , with a poet 's eye for precision , criticized a line that included " an offshoot that is geared . . . " The student bristled . " That is my diction , " he muttered politely . " That 's all very well , " Hoffman countered , affable and firm , " but it 's untenable . " A SPORTING CHANCE FOR LOVE I f Swarthmore students are ardent about things many college students are indifferent to ? the world of ideas ? they also seem to make a point of their indifference to social life , the vital center in the lives of most college students . A Saturday night date , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will casually get together at Somerville , the snack bar , and pick up companions for a movie . Nor are there restrictions with respect to class and age . A senior girl loses no status by going out with a suitable freshman boy . There are the usual dances , but as a student summed up , " Some people think they 're fun , others go ironically , and then there are those who wo n't even get out of their sneakers . " Nevertheless , spring comes as explosively to Swarthmore as anywhere else . " In the springtime , " a girl said , " there 's the great domestic idyll ? couples everywhere . " But they must run an obstacle course . Cars are outlawed on campus except for use by organizations . Visiting in the dorms is limited to Saturday and Sunday afternoons ? " It 's less immoral during the day , " a boy said ? with the door open six inches . Then there are the Lodges , social rooms in what used to be sorority houses before sororities voted themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserve these rooms for a few hours to study over a cup of coffee or to prepare a meal . Marriage on campus is virtually proscribed . One of the marrying parties must leave school ? unless they arc both over twenty-one , have their parents ' consent , and are exceedingly good students . For amorous dalliance , therefore , this leaves only a few possibilities : climbing into dorms ? a perilous business in defiance of college regulations ? or , weather permitting , Crum Woods , a popular source of local folklore . One of the issues separating fraternity men and bohemians concerns the opportunities for privacy in fraternity houses ? often called " little dens of immunity . " This is hotly denied by both fraternity men and the administration . However , when I visited a fraternity house one afternoon , under a photograph in full color of Miss Playmate of the Month , a couple hastily disengaged themselves from an embrace as we entered . Fraternities seem to have a distinctive cast at Swarthmore . Discrimination is far less flagrant than in fraternities elsewhere ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and the hazing is free from sadism . " It 's stylish to criticize fraternities , " a boy remarked . And some young men even join with reformist intent : they hope to make the fraternities go local or even liquidate themselves . In any case , fraternity men and bohemians ? and those who rally around no ideological banner ? meet amiably on the playing fields of Swarthmore . For a school so enchanted with intellect , it is astonishingly athletic . Fifty-five per cent of its male students participate in eleven intercollegiate sports including football , and the teams are able if aseptically amateur . Football is not king at Swarthmore . Soccer , lacrosse , and cross-country seem to arouse a special ardor . And the girls , too , show the same affinityfor locker room and sweat shirt , with 35 per cent of them on teams . For no obvious reason , they are invincible swimmers and have won countless meets . DOVECOTE FOR THE FACULTY ? B y all accounts , the faculty at Swarthmore is superb . At a time when faculty-raiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laboratories and gifted graduate students under the twitching nostrils of professors , how does Swarthmore keep its best people ? One answer is that Swarthmore has jacked up its salaries ? about 67 per cent since 1954 . Salaries now range from $5,400 to $17,000 , with the average for assistant professors , $7,500 ; associate professors , $9,600 ; and full professors , $12,700 . Fringe benefits are enticing : leave as often as every four years , either a half year at full pay , or a full year at half pay . The teaching load is nine hours a week in the humanities and social sciences , and twelve hours in the sciences which have laboratory sessions ? no cinch for a conscientious teacher but not crushing either . Although academic excellence is a condition of employment , the yardstick of publication is not applied coarsely at Swarthmore . " Large universities because of their size and impersonality ca n't evaluate their faculty except by counting bibliographical items , " a college spokesman explained . " It makes professors run out to get quick results . We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publish , however , in reputable scholarly journals , and the research that goes on , moreover , takes place virtually in the students ' laps . But the principal attraction is an intellectually bracing atmosphere . " It 's a happy cycle , " President Smith said ; " strong students draw strong faculty , who , in turn , draw strong students . " Faculty conferences are a lively blend of Roberts Rule of Order and Quaker Meeting . If a vote is close , the discussion continues until greater harmony is attained . At Swarthmore one just falls in the academic line anywhere . " If there are young Turks on the faculty , " a young professor said , " it 's merely on procedural matters . " A gifted young professor , who was not given tenure and has since moved on , expressed a harsh minority view . " There is an Establishment here , " he said truculently . " What counts is family , manners , chic ? knowing which books are discussed in the Literary Supplement of the London Times . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be infuriating . Swarthmore is n't the only college that really means A when it bestows one . " The college did not keep one of its most scintillating professors , described by The Phoenix as " a charismatic culture hero . " Nimble in disputation and shatteringly handsome , this philosophy professor was , implausibly , a kind of modern Renaissance man interested in the philosophy of science , car design , psychoanalysis , and psychic phenomena . An articulate spokesman for dissenting views , he was described by one student as " the new God in the Pantheon since he dethroned the old Gods . " This may be a case of life imitating legend too faithfully , He was so richly in the Swarthmore grain ? so venturesome , buoyant , and intellectually uncompromising ? that it was difficult for him to avoid becoming a kind of campus gadfly . Some of the faculty argue that the admissions policy , though it is under constant review , is unsound . The children of alumni ( 10 per cent of the student body ) allegedly drag down the academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average . ) These critics assert that talk about " a balanced community " is merely a device for circumventing a purely intellectual measure ofadmission . One professor derogated the " sentimental extravagance " of the personal interview . " We 've had remarks like , ' He 's a fine American boy , ' " he said . " Hell , we do n't care about that . We want to know if he can work ? not if he has a crew-cut . " Swarthmore likes to see its deans as " amateur administrators , " with one foot firmly planted in the classroom , and in fact it has managed to avoid much of the ponderous administrative apparatus which plagues so many colleges . ( It has no department of personnel service : counseling is rather informal ; and the cleans are people who read books . ) Moreover , there is no clean of faculty ? on the grounds that professors need no buffer between the president and themselves . Dr. Courtney Smith , Swarthmore 's able president since 1953 , has had a productive tenure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Princeton , Smith has raised salaries , built up endowment , and energetically maintained the college 's tradition of excellence . He is good-looking , shockingly youthful , crewcut , and has a cool , unblinking composure . ( Intensity is more in the Swarthmore style . ) One professor suggested that Smith has been , on balance , " a force for conservatism , " another argued that the new faculty prosperity had elements in it of " a demeaning paternalism . " But most felt that he has been vigorous and successful with a sound instinct for giving his professors lots of autonomy . TALK , BUT NOT ALL TALK W hen they deplore their apathy , Swarth- more students do so with great verve . They write polemics on a variety of issues and stick them on the bulletin boards , or they tack up manifestoes in firm expectation that someone will rise to the challenge . ( And someone always does . These exchanges can go on for weeks ? with marginal notations by intellectual kibitzers . ) The Phoenix has little of the cool disdain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stormy , and sometimes can be howlingly funny . And nowhere in the country do students write such long , erudite , and doggedly argumentative letters to the editor . What is it they care about ? There are first the public issues ? nuclear policy , sit-in demonstrations , and civil rights ? that have recently shaken up college youth all over the country . Swarthmore students have been in the vanguard of all these movements . A busload of students participated in the Youth March for Integration , another group attended Congressional committee hearings on the Vienna Youth Festival , and students picketed Woolworth 's during the sit-in demonstrations in the South . Locally , a student committee sat with Negro families during the troubled rime when they moved into an all-white suburban community . And one mettlesome girl on a visit to Cuba , marched right into the headquarters of the secret police , who proudly showed her how clean the cells were . But political action these days seems to involve more than bare-knuckled idealism ; it has , in fact , a sophisticated flavor . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shove of student demonstrations . Schooled in the techniques of power , operators as well as visionaries , they advise themselves to be more expedient and politic . Picketing Woolworth 's was followed by a meeting to discuss its efficacy . A student leader dismissed the March for Integration as " merely inflammatory " and explained his strategy for applying pressure at sensitive points . Swarthmore is the headquarters of Albatross , an intercollegiate magazine which publishes copies of political letters written by students and professors to men inpublic life . These letters may become , it is hoped , effective social instruments , which public officials will not easily ignore . Local affairs provoke rough-and-tumble discussion . The fraternity men and the antis belabor each other periodically . There is grumbling about mandatory attendance at Collection , and there are self-styled conscientious objectors . A perfervid discussion was unleashed when President Smith , in a Collection talk , urged the students to dress more attractively . " Smith wants to create a kind of Quaker Princeton , " a boy said . In any event , the columns of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was struck by a spate of editorials in The Phoenix expressing horror at a number of thefts at the school . An alumna recalled an episode at a bar in a nearby town when her companion , a Swarthmore student , deliberately picked up the hat of an innocent man standing nearby . Another drinking corn-panion then emptied out his pockets and proudly displayed six ashtrays which had been deftly appropriated . " There 's a kind of innocent amorality about some of the students , " she explained . " They 're so bright , they feel they can achieve anything . do anything . When they get out into the world , they have to get used to restraints again . " Such unfortunate occurrences ? which get less notice in a larger community ? have to be measured against what seems to be a genuine desire by many of the students to he socially useful . the stern morality of the college 's conscientious objectors , or the young couple seriously determined to create a utopian colony in British Columbia . The casual visitor to Swarthmore is struck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , for all the college 's special mannerisms , one can , I think , best sum it up by pointing out what it is not : it is not a dependency of a great university , dominated by powerful departments for whom the teaching of undergraduates is a neglected chore ; it is not a place where students come to study " business administration " 01 " education , " their eyes firmly on the immediate future ; it is not a convenient step on the ladder of social prestige , the center of four pleasant years interrupted by anxious regurgitation of packaged lectures in perfunctory examinations . It is a place where college students are expected to take ideas seriously , and study them rigorously , and a good many do , eagerly . And this makes Swarthmore all too rare .                     