@@494789

Save the Electoral College by Sus Tyler The Electoral College ? the anachronistic device by which we elect the President of the United States ? has been under heavy fire the past couple of weeks . Voters are shocked to discover that six Alabama electors running on the Democratic line need not vote for Kennedy ; that eight Mississippi electors may use their votes to back Kennedy , Nixon or a third candidate perhaps unknown to the state 's ' electorate ; and that a man can become President with a minority of the popular vote . Sen. Mike Mansfield , likely Senate Majority Leader , has recommended reform , as have Sen. George Smathers , head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee , Norman Thomas , Socialist , and Strom Thurmond , Dixiecrat . Sen. Karl Mundt has come up with a new model of an old plan for changing the apparently " undemocratic " character of the Electoral College , and as the popular vote margin between Nixon and Kennedy narrows , the cry for reform will grow louder . All the new proposals claim to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most democratic way to do the job is the least likely to get any sizable backing ; namely , the direct election of the President by popular vote . Heaviest opposition to the popular election of the President will not come from the large industrial and urban states but from the small rural states and from the South . The advantage enjoyed by the big states in the Electoral College ( the unit rule that throws the entire slate of electors in a state to the party winning the slightest plurality ) is more than offset by compensating advantages given the small and Southern states , for they have two extra electoral votes ( for the two Senators ) , regardless of population . Thus Nevada with a population of 285,000 will be entitled in the next election to three electors ( one for Nevada 's Representative , plus two for its Senators ) . This is one electoral vote for every 90,000 inhabitants . On the other hand , California , with a population of 15 million will be entitled to 4o electors ( 38 for the Representatives plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for every 375,000 inhabitants . One inhabitant in Nevada is therefore worth more than four in California in Presidential elections . Southern states have a similar advantage arising from the fact that while the electoral vote is Gus TYLER is director of politics , education and training of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union . based on the total population , the decision as to how that vote will go is made by a relatively smaller number of voters . To illustrate , this year Virginia cast 12 electoral votes , based on its population . But only 759,000 people voted in the state for President . In Minnesota , on the other hand , with 11 electoral votes , more than 1.5 million voters went to the polls . Again , one vote in Virginia is about twice as powerful as a vote in Minnesota under our electoral system . Imagine what would happen if the nation converted from the outmoded Electoral College to direct and popular election of a President . The small states would immediately lose their two extra electoral votes per state . The Southern states would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Both the unpopulated and the disfranchising states would be cut down to size in the national balloting , which is why both of them will resist abolition of the electoral system to the bitter end . Why , then , does the strongest push for reform of the system come from precisely these states ? Not because they seek to end present inequities , but because they wish to rearrange the system to stack the results in favor of the one-party Republican states of the North or the one-party Democratic states of the South . Let 's review briefly the various plans for Electoral College reform . They fall into three categories : 1 . Direct popular election ? the most straight-forward and democratic method , and the least likely to succeed . 2 . The proportional ( or ratio ) plan ? the allocation of the electoral vote of each state in proportion to the popular vote . ( In New York , this year , Kennedy with 52.8 percent of the popular vote would have received 23.75 electoral votes and Nixon 41.24 ) . 3 . The district plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus two at large in each state . All of these plans may , in some form or other , be submitted to the next Congress for approval and thereafter to the states for ratification . Almost everyone will grant that direct election is the most " democratic , " but it will be argued that it is politically unrealistic , and attention will center on plans " two " and " three " as being " more democratic " than the Electoral College . But on close examination , are they ? The proportional plan ? giving each candidate his share of the state 's electoral vote ? has enjoyed great popularity in recent years because it appears to break up the " unit rule . " Originally sponsored by Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts and Rep. Ed Gossett of Texas , the plan was revived in 1955 and attracted support from a number of liberal-minded Senators ? until they took a second look . A recalculation of past election results , if we assume the proportional plan had been in effect , shows that more minority Presidents would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once , in 1888 , has a candidate winning a majority of the popular vote , Grover Cleveland , been officially defeated in the electoral count . Under the ratio or- proportional plan , a candidate with a majority of the votes would have been defeated in two elections : 188o and 1896 . There are two reasons why the ratio plan can produce electoral defeats for candidates getting a majority of the popular votes . It provides that states with a small population will continue to get their electoral bonus for two Senators . And the South with its low voting participation , would get its full electoral vote ? based on total population , not on those voting . These two discrepancies between the popular vote and the electoral vote are preserved in the ratio plan . Why then is the plan so popular ? especially in the one-party states of the South ? The answer is that it would deprive the urban , industrial states of the oneadvantage they have now , the ability to vote a state as a unit , and would thus shift power away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Missouri , to California . Consider how this " reform " would have affected the 1960 election . By carrying New York , California , Illinois , Pennsylvania and New Jersey , Kennedy would have picked up an edge of about four electoral votes over Nixon . This is because the Presidential vote was close in these great states , as they typically are in almost any election as a result of their pluralistic , metropolitan character . But in Alabama and Georgia alone , Kennedy would have picked up an edge of more than five electoral votes , because these are one-party states . And in Nebraska , Kansas , South and North Dakota alone , Nixon would have picked up an edge of more than four electoral votes . The arithmetic of the " proportional " plan is simple : the populous states , since the results there are inevitably close , are cancelled out of the electoral equation , while the one-party states have a more pronounced influence on the outcome . There are three inequities in the Electoral College ? one favoring the small state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the big state . Historically , this system has been 98 percent accurate ? actually more accurate in reflecting the popular vote than the proportional scheme . Thus far , three wrongs have made one right ! The proportional plan would upset the balance of countervailing evils by depriving the big states of their advantage while preserving to the small rural states and to the South their advantages . While conservative Democrats out of the South tend to favor the " proportional plan , " conservative Republicans , especially out of the Plains States tend to favor plan number " three " ? the district plan . Senator Mundt of South Dakota has been its most persistent advocate . It would provide for one elector to be elected from each Congressional district . Two more would be elected on a statewide-at-large basis . Each state would have its traditional electoral strength , but within the state all the electors but two would be elected from separate districts , as are Congressmen . Despite respectable backers ( i.e. Arthur Krock ) who are devoted to it , this " district " proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reason : the inequitable way in which Congressional districts are drawn up . Within the same state , one Congressional District is three times as large as another . Indeed in Mundt 's own South Dakota , one Congressional district has a population of 159,099 and another has a population of 493,641 . Both districts would cast but one electoral vote . Within one borough , Brooklyn , there are compact , neat , logical districts right beside a district that snakes its way across the county gobbling up every stray Republican within reach . In state after state , election after election , one of the two political parties wins a majority of the popular vote and the other party winds up with a majority of the Congressional delegation . This happened in Ohio , Minnesota , Michigan and New York in 1958 . In the election of 1954 in New York , California , Pennsylvania , Illinois , Michigan and New Jersey the Democrats polled a total of 9,861,114 votes for their Congressional candidates while the Republicans polled only 9,759,205 . But it was the Republicans who won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 67 . The Republicans in the North hold dozens of seats not because they won the election but because of gerrymandering , and the power to gerrymander these " electoral districts " rests with the state legislatures , themselves more outrageously gerrymandered than the federal legislature . To use these Congressional districts as the basis for choosing electors to the Electoral College would be to gerrymander the Presidency . But Senator Mundt has now modified his plan . Here it is in his words : " Set up a system of election districts apart from the Congressional districts in order to eliminate the so-called gerrymandering in favor of one party or another . Electoral districts would be of the same size and contiguous . Choose two of each state 's electors at large . The state 's remaining electors would be elected by people in single-member districts composed of contiguous and compact territory , containing as nearly as practicable the number of persons which entitled the state to one representative in Congress . " The core of the modification is the attempt to slay the gerrymander . The question is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the districts are equal , contiguous and compact ? At one time this was federal law . But it went unenforced , because the enforcement agency was Congress itself . And experience proved that a policeman assigned to police himself is often more blind than justice . Shall the state legislatures be entrusted with the job ? They have that responsibility now , and they handle it in shamelessly partisan fashion . In some states , the Legislature is really in contempt of court , refusing to redistrict despite court orders . A traditional recourse where states have failed to redistrict properly has been to elect at large . But this would hardly be a punishment in a one-party state where all electors would be chosen en bloc . Indeed , this would give such states an advantage over all others . This , then , is the first weakness of Mundt 's proposal . But even if we could devise some sure-fire method of creating and maintaining fair districts , the system would still be unfair . And the inequity in this case , as in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the big states , where elections arenormally close , the advantage to either party would be narrow . But in the one-party states , the advantage to any Presidential candidate would be great . ( This year , New York elected 22 Democrats and 21 Republicans to the House of Representatives ? an edge of one seat , or ? if there were electoral districts as Senator Mundt would like ? a difference of one elector . Nebraska elected 4 Republicans and no Democrats ? an edge of 4 . Alabama elected 9 Democrats and no Republicans ? an edge of 9 . ) In short , the district plan is far more undemocratic than the proportional plan , if Congressional districts are used ; and it is just as bad as the proportional plan if electoral districts of equal size and compactness are used . ( Actually , even with proper districting the plan would work out somewhat worse than the proportional plan because in a state where one party normally polls 6o to 7o percent of the total vote , that party is apt to carry every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans involving use of the electoral vote , the present Electoral College is the most democratic , the proportional system far less democratic , and the district plan the most weighted to favor rural elements that dominate state legislatures . None of the plans guarantees a perfect reflection of the popular will . Only direct election of the President would accomplish that . But a caveat on direct election ! Since 1932 , the White House has been occupied , most of the time , by a liberal-minded President . With the exception of Kennedy , these Presidents could have been elected without the South , because their main base of power was the solid bloc of electoral votes in the urban industrial states . And Kennedy was nominated only because he had the backing of these decisive states . These Presidents repeatedly wrestled with a Congress dominated by a conservative coalition , a coalition that would not have had a majority without the aid of the gerrymander . Through the manipulation of district lines , state legislatures have given conservatism repeated , synthetic majorities in the Congress . Under our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year when the liberal current is running strong ? can overcome all their disadvantages in the Electoral College to elect a President , who then becomes a counter-weight to the unrepresentative House of Representatives and the unrepresentative Senate . If a constitutional amendment is in order to abolish the Electoral College , let it provide for ( a ) an impartial agency , under court review and order , to set up fair Congressional districting , and ( b ) direct election of the President . That would be a real reform and go a long way to assuring more representative government in both legislative and executive branches of government . But will reformers back that ?                     