@@441235

i ins year Washington and Moscow both face painful problems created by fantastically expensive military and space programs . Not even the United States with its wealth can afford all the desirable domestic programs and pay mounting defense costs at the some time . Already President Kennedy has made fundamental decisions which suggest a major change of emphasis on the New Frontier . To stimulate the economy , President Kennedy has chosen to fight for a tax cut and to postpone some of his social programs . While it is not clear what new paths Premier Khrushchev may take , it is obvious that his defense and space programs have seriously slowed the growth rate of the Soviet economy . Khrushchev must decide on an order of priority . He can have economic growth and impress the world , or he can have a space and defense buildup . He can not have both . He can not direct investments into agriculture and housing if the military has prior claims on the available funds . The President 's critics on the left charge that he has abandoned many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a conservative Congress . He has replied , in effect , that he is concentrating on essentials and on things that are possible . " The Federal budget is hard pressed by urgent responsibilities for free world defense and by vital tasks at home , " the President said in his annual Economic Report . He pointed out that military , space , and atomic energy activities " absorb about two-thirds of the trained people available for exploring our scientific and technical frontiers . " The Kremlin worries If the burden is great in the United States , consider the problem in the Soviet Union . Its military expenditures since 1958 have been in-creased by one third . As a result , promised income tax cuts were canceled last year , and bread and meat prices were increased . Private building activity was curtailed . The economic growth rate , which increased spectacularly in the fifties , has declined as the space and military programs have absorbed increasing amounts of investment funds , scarce materials , and the attention of scientists and other trained men . The Soviet people are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riots in some Russian cities last year when the higher bread and meat prices were announced . The housing shortage is still acute and will remain so as long as the military machine absorbs so much of the nation 's production . Hard-pressed agriculture is denied the investment funds needed to provide new machinery , buildings , and fertilizers . It soon becomes apparent to any visitor to the Soviet Union that the government could improve the welfare of its people if it would concentrate on that task and abandon its expansionist ambitions . Nevertheless , the Kremlin has increased its military and space budgets , and Khrushchev has complained in public about the heavy costs . " There is evidence that the increasing military burden on the Soviet economy has led to debate within the Soviet leadership during the last two years , " Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara reported . " We can expect that the pressures on the Kremlin leadership will be intensified over the next few years , as we continue to move forward with our own military and space programs and as the economic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Whatever the pressures on the Soviet leadership , any prediction regarding its course of action would be foolhardy . With all the information at the President 's disposal , he is known to believe that , while there are opportunities for agreement on a number of important issues , there is no evidence yet that the Kremlin debate to which McNamara referred has been resolved . The President doubts that any government which less than a year ago embarked on the bold and dangerous course of introducing nuclear missiles into Cuba has so completely changed its course as to be trusted today . De Gaulle and Kennedy The President must be on his guard even more since the shattering news of the French veto of Britain 's bid for membership in the European Economic Community . No action by an American ally in years has disturbed Washington so much , for it clearly was directed at the United States as much as at Britain . The veto meant that French President de Gaulle is eager to dominate the defense arrangements in Europe , even though he is incapable of providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring an end to the American presence on the Continent . From the beginning , Washington was convinced that the only gainers from De Gaulle 's action were the men in the Kremlin . Officials were sure that the hard-line group in Moscow was strengthened by De Gaulle 's veto , which constituted the first really encouraging news the Soviet leaders had received since their setback in Cuba in October . Despite all the warnings from Paris , Washington was completely unprepared for De Gaulle 's action , although it must be said that the President was never quite so optimistic as his advisers with respect to Britain 's chance for gaining membership in the Common Market . " I think . . . one of the greatest problems of the Alliance in 1963 is whether the Alliance will begin to fragment into national deterrents which will cost great sums of money , and cause political and strategic imbalances , or whether it will be possible for us to work out some arrangements which will give Europe a greater degree and feeling of security , " the President said at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released later . " There is always the argument in Europe that the United States might leave Europe , which is , of course , in my opinion , fallacious because the United States can never leave Europe . We are too much bound together . . . . But , nevertheless , there are those who argue that we are going to leave Europe , or that this complete control over the nuclear weapons gives the United States too great a voice in the destiny of Europe . Therefore , see are attempting to lessen that feeling of overdependence by this multinational proposal , and the root of it is the Nassau agreement .. . Whether it is going to flower or not , we ought to be able to tell in 1963 . " The President 's comment , made in answer to a question , showed that he recognized the possibilities of fragmentation well before De Gaulle 's January 14 press conference aroused the Western world to the dangers and Moscow to new opportunities . Yet the President 's often-expressed concern over the high cost of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not carry its full defense load tended to weaken the force of his promise that the United States would never withdraw voluntarily from Europe . This spring Washington is grappling unhappily with the whole question of its relations with Europe because De Gaulle dramatically brought the issue out in the open . In that respect he served a constructive purpose . For too long many persons in Washington and elsewhere have failed to realize that France has not been a full partner in the alliance . It is because the Kennedy Administration believes so profoundly in the necessity of an Atlantic alliance that it could never bring itself to believe that De Gaulle would act as he did . The Nassau pact , the American support of Britain 's entry into the Common Market , the support of NATO , and the stationing of 400,000 American troops in Europe form the basis of American policy . And that policy rests on the conviction that Europe can not be defended without American power , that the defense of the West is indivisible , and that the Western industrial countries are interdependent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The issue in Canada The Canadian-United States dispute over defense policy , which brought relations between the two countries to the lowest point in years , had its origin in an Eisenhower-Diefenbaker agreement to use United States nuclear weapons for the common defense of North America , It did not have its origin in this year 's State Department blast against the Diefenbaker government for failing to carry out the agreement . Having had its say , Washington is determined to maintain silence while the Canadians fight out the problem at the polls in April . But Washington , like London , is weary of the Diefenbaker regime , which has had a genius for annoying both capitals . The heavy-handedness of the State Department was widely criticized in the American press . In Canada , the press attacked the State Department on the timing and tone of the statement , but in the main said that Washington 's facts were correct and Diefenbaker 's arguments were wrong . Parliament a few days later registered its agreement when it overthrew the tottering regime . Even a part of the Diefenbaker Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for one , resigned with a bitter criticism of his chief , and other members resigned or made known their displeasure over the anti-American tone of the Prime Minister 's statements . From Washington 's point of view , the crisis began not with the State Department statement but with the Cuban crisis last October . Washington officials suddenly realized that there was a serious gap in the defense network due to Canada 's failure to put defensive nuclear weapons in the Bomarc bases for which Uncle Sam had spent about $77 million . The Defense Department was convinced that without nuclear missiles Soviet aircraft could wing in over the North Pole and reach their targets on American soil . When Diefenbaker argued in Parliament to the contrary , the Administration lost patience and publicly disputed the Prime Minister 's statements . Now it is up to the Canadian voters to determine how the unfortunate dispute will be resolved . Strikes and the public interest Both in the White House and on Capitol Hill there is a deep sense of uneasiness over the apparently grow-ing threat of labor-management dif-ficulties . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expiration of the Taft-Hartley Act provisions , and the prolonged newspaper strikes in Cleveland and New York cast a gloom over the Capital and raised grave questions of public policy . What can be done to protect the public interest ? Any one of a dozen newspaper unions has the power to stop the presses and deny a city its main source of news . The other newspaper unions have little power to protect themselves or to influence the situation either before or after a strike begins . The New York newspaper strike deeply affected Washington because it is a newspaper-reading town and is crowded with newspapermen from all parts of the country and the world . The New York papers are carefully read in the government and in the journalistic community . Many of the writers who suffered as a result of the printers ' strike are well known here . It was like having the man next door out of work . It is known that the President believes that strikes will increase in number and bitterness because of the growing problem of job security and the fear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those involving wage issues . Yet the President has made no new proposals to Congress to deal with the situation . Mood of the Capital Reappraisals of existing policies are always painful . Washington now seems to have more than its usual share . General de Gaulle forced the most far-reaching reappraisal because he exposed to full glare the amount of disarray in Kennedy 's grand design . Washington knows that it ought to face up to the labor-management challenge before it is forced to do so on an emergency basis by a serious crisis ? a crisis it barely avoided during the dock strike ? yet it has not brought itself to act . Nevertheless , the Administration is now more confident about the nation 's economic outlook than it has been in many months . The White House is convinced that its tax recommendations have had a salutary effect and that after a long struggle Congress will approve a major bill this year . AF ma the " liberation " of 1954 which ousted the pro-Communist regime of Jacobo Arbenz , Guatemala was to have become the showcase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticized throughout Latin America for having inspired and financed the overthrow of a " progressive " government , and was apparently conscience-stricken . The dollars flowed in , some $173 million in eight years ( for a population of less than four million ) , nearly half in outright grants . In spite of the injection of dollars , the economic situation is hardly brilliant ; but the present government is at least characterized by a staunch anti-Communism and a good measure of political liberty , no small boon in a country that for most of its 140 years has known only dictatorships . The President , General Miguel Ydigoras Fuentes , is the most outspoken anti-Castroite in the hemisphere . He loaned training grounds and an airstrip for the Bay of Pigs expedition ; the Communist Party is outlawed ; and Guatemala has no diplomatic relations with any Communist country . Although ten years ago the country seemed to be moving rapidly into the Communist camp , there are , in the opinion of most observers , an insignificant number of active Communists today . Ydigoras , however , finds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition , be it left , right , or in between . A shrewd politician , although a poor administrator , he has weathered two military uprisings in four years , and two months of violent street demonstrations , led by students and civic groups pressing for his resignation on the grounds of corruption . At present he appears to be chiefly concerned with riding out the remaining months of his term , and , if possible , selecting his successor . Arevalo , candidate in exile This may prove somewhat difficult . In the recent municipal elections in the capital , the official candidate collected barely a sixth of the votes , and the left showed a surprising strength . There are at present seven legally constituted parties and half a dozen in formation ? an ample choice for the 500,000 voters who will pick a President in November . The catalyst in this shifting situation is Juan Jose Ar6valo , who has launched his candidacy from his exile in Mexico . He has as yet no party of his own , but as President from 1945 to 1951 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes engendered by the revolution of 1944 , his name inspires strong feelings both pro and con . The revolution of 1944 was a civic movement that went far beyond the usual changing of the guard ; it was a break with feudalism and dictatorship , Guatemala 's first step into a modern society of democracy and social progress . The betrayal of the revolution by Arbenz , who led it toward Communism , much as Castro has done in Cuba , and the failure of the subsequent governments to achieve significant social progress should not obscure its importance as a watershed in Guatemalan history . Arevalo 's position in regard to it is dual . On the one hand , he is blamed for having paved the way for Arbenz , who left few supporters behind . ( He is at present part of Castro 's propaganda apparatus and broadcasts regularly from Havana with little apparent effect . ) Arevalo is also well hated by the army for his alleged part in the 1949 assassination of General Arana , the Commander in Chief , who was attempting to restrain Arevalo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fondly remembered by the common people . His presidency coincided with good times for Guatemala ; there was money in the till , thanks to high postwar prices for the country 's chief exports . He also instituted some reforms ? a modest minimum wage and the start of a social security system . His chief political baggage , however , consisted of a violent anti-Americanism . His book The Shark and the Sardines , recently republished and widely distributed by Castro , apparently without his consent , is a virulent rehash of all the anti-American propaganda themes . Arevalo now calls himself a " spiritual socialist " and denies any sympathy for Communism or Castro . He has gone to some lengths to appear as the champion of the Alliance for Progress and as a candidate who would be acceptable to the United States . The most significant aspect of this about-face is that he should think it politically profitable . Economic struggles The present political uncertainty is compounded by economic difficulties . The treasury is bare , and government employees are several months behind in their salaries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coffee , Guatemala 's chief product , since a sliding export tax is one of the mails sources of revenue . Much more basic , however , are an antiquated and inefficient tax system and a generally incompetent , if not corrupt , administration . Guatemalans point with despair to the fact that the President of their small country receives $20,000 a month , tax-free , considerably more than the President of the United States . Guatemalans also note that the planners of public works projects shy away from the international credit agencies , with their strict rules on public bidding and cost control , pre ferring private companies more amenable to padding . Guatemala is also experiencing balance-of-payment difficulties . Here again the favorite scapegoat is the price of coffee : income from coffee is some $20 million lower than in 1956 , in spite of a 30 percent increase in volume , However , Guatemala has had an unfavorable balance of trade for some years , counteracted largely by American aid , which has now been reduced to a trickle . Over the past four years , eighteen American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with meager results ; this source of foreign exchange has also dried up . Therefore , last October the government imposed exchange controls , the first in nearly forty years . This has led to a break with the International Monetary Fund . More disturbing than trade deficits is the sluggish growth rate , hardly greater than the population increase , which , at 2.5 percent , is not high for Latin America . A new development to which American aid has contributed and whirls may ease the situation in the future is the diversification of exports . Ironically , the chief impetus has been toward cotton ? now accounting for nearly 14 percent of the export trade ? which competes directly with the United States for markets in Japan and Western Europe . Bananas , the favorite symbol of American " imperialist " interests , have fallen to below 10 percent . The production of rubber in the Pacific lowlands is being encouraged ' by a $5 million loan from the Development Loan Fund . Cattle grazing is also being developed , to some extent by private American initiative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A common procedure is to offer the usufruct of a tract for a year to highland Indians . They clear it and plant and harvest their corn for their own use , on condition that they leave the land in grass . While the export of frozen meat is a valuable addition to the balance of payments , the morality of using land for this purpose is doubtful in a country in which the average daily diet contains about 2100 calories , half from corn , and the rest notably lacking in animal protein . Central American trade There are also the embryonic beginnings of a light industry , encouraged by the Central American Common Market . This smallest and most thoroughgoing of the common markets in the world today was originally regarded by the United States with a somewhat jaundiced eye . As a godchild of ECLA ( the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America ) it was objected to on the same grounds : too much emphasis on a planned economy , too restrictive of private enterprise , too much at odds with the anti-inflationary practices of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the means at hand . With the new economic focus of the Alliance for Progress , both ECLA and the Central American Common Market have received our increasing support . This Common Market goes somewhat further than the European one , and very much further than the modest one envisaged in the Treaty of Montevideo , to which the larger countries of Latin America have subscribed . Instead of painfully arriving at a list of products to enjoy a progressively lower tariff , the participants immediately freed 95 percent of all products ; the remaining 5 Percent must be freed within five years ( by 1965 ) at the latest . Meanwhile , tariffs on products imported from outside the area are being unified , thus allowing completely free circulation of all goods . Since the total population of the five countries involved ? Guatemala , Honduras , Nicaragua , El Salvador , and , most recently , Costa Rica ? is less than eleven million , the installation of heavy industry is not contemplated ; but an upsurge of light industry ? textiles , food processing , household goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when the market began to operate , trade among Central American countries rose to nearly $50 million in 1962 . The Common Market idea is engendering , as in Europe , even vaster schemes of political and social integration . There is already a Central American Bank , for which we have put up half the capital ; there is talk of a postal union , of unifying the legal and labor codes and the educational programs . The headquarters in Guatemala City ( SIECA ) and our own newly created liaison office ( ROCAP ) are both staffed by enthusiastic young men . They are the most heartening signs in an otherwise depressing prospect . Progress at a snail 's pace Within Guatemala , the new spirit of the Alliance for Progress , coupled with the sharp reduction of American aid for political purposes , has not entirely escaped the notice of the authorities . The Congress has at least paid lip service to the new ground rules by passing two laws , one instituting an income tax , the other laying down conditions for " agrarian transformation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deductions as to be almost impossible to administer . Furthermore , while it was about it , the Congress rewrote in the same spirit the old law taxing business profits . It is now gloomily predicted that the total revenue from bothtaxes is likely to be less than that from the old one on profits alone . The " agrarian transformation " law is an equally complex document . In a country where 2 percent of the farmers own 72 percent of the farmland , it contemplates only the expropriation of idle land , under certain conditions , although it does raise the tax on it . Ydigoras makes much of having distributed 16,000 titles during his term , but the average size of the holdings is one and a half acres , hardly a subsistence plot . A more serious effort is the colonization of government land . Since this requires clearance , the building of roads and schools , technical advice , and credit , the cost is prohibitive on a large scale . However , with American aid , 4700 families have been settled on economically sized tracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is of major importance . In four years Ydigoras has built 425 schools ? more , he claims , than were built in the previous sixty years . The credit , however , is not entirely his , Under a tripartite scheme , the United States has put up one third of the cost , the local community another third or more in the form of land , labor , and local materials , and the central government the rest . The problem now is to find teachers . In the matter of housing , too , self-help schemes , under American aegis , have produced results ? 2700 dwellings to date . Each future owner is required to contribute twenty hours ' labor a week during construction . The mass production methods used in this program have given private builders an idea ; they are now beginning to build homes for the lower-middle class , hitherto neglected . The lot of the Indian There is thus some token progress , at least for that quarter of the population known as ladinos , who can read and write and have adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their meager plots to plant corn , carrying their tremendous burdens on their backs up and down Guatemala 's terrifying mountain trails , worshiping in their own language their own gods behind the Christian altars , wearing their gorgeous handwoven costumes ( the Spaniards originally forbade them to wear European dress ) , living conditions appear to have changed little over the centuries . Even the most progressive Guatemalans show little interest in them . The basic reason for this attitude is , of course , that the Indians provide an inexhaustible supply of cheap , docile labor . Until the revolution of 1944 each Indian was required to carry an identity card noting the number of days he had worked ? for someone else . If he had worked fewer than 150 , he was arrested and set to work on the roads . Since then , the sheer pressure of population increase and inadequate land has kept the supply abundant . Wages run as low as twenty cents a day , and eighty cents is considered generous . The United Fruit Company , accused of being an " imperialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Until 1944 all labor unions were proscribed . The revolution naturally brought with it a spate of union organizers , some of them Communists . By the time of Arbenz 's overthrow , 200,000 agricultural and 100,000 urban workers were unionized . The " liberation " government of Castillo Armas in 1954 dissolved all unions as part of the drive against Communism and jailed over a hundred labor leaders . Today there are possibly 15,000 union members , including the company unions of the United Fruit Company . Labor leaders are still frightened ; organizers who try to penetrate the large estates are likely to find themselves in jail or subject to physical violence . The general picture of Guatemala is thus schizophrenic : on the one hand , a minority , Western in culture but with little social or political cohesion , scrambling for personal benefit and unable to create an organic structure as a basis for progress ; on the other , the Indians , divorced from national life except as hewers of wood and drawers of water . It follows that there are two problems in Guatemala @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to improve the lot of the Indian . There is also a third , of gigantic proportions : to integrate the two . Not even a small beginning has been made in solving this one . As A result of its failure to get into the Common Market , Great Britain has been forced abruptly into new ways of economic thought and action . The new budget , to be announced in early April , ' sill probably set social and economic precedents . Britishers expect the general election campaign to begin immediately afterward , although the election itself need not come until the moment chosen by Prime Minister Macmillan between now and the summer of 1964 . The businesslike exchanges of notes and ministerial visits with " the friendly five " among the Six of the Common Market , the refurbishing of the somewhat rusty machinery of the Western European Union ( which since 1954 has " contained " the Six plus Britain in a quite static sense ) , and the new urgency in the atmosphere of the European Free Trade Association ( the Outer Seven Pool ) may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence has been to return Britain , perforce , to the famous " three circles " policy of Churchill , with Britain maintaining simultaneously a different special association with the United States , the Commonwealth , and Europe . The added complication now is that Europe is divided . The government can certainly claim one substantial victory from Brussels : it has converted every country except France , and every government except those of France and West Germany , to the cause of an Atlantic Europe . But in all other respects the Labor Party has been the victor . For it has consistently maintained that the effort to join Europe was doomed to failure , either because it would be impossible to get in or because , in joining , Britain would be required to break contact with two of its three circles . Being right could significantly strengthen the Labor Party 's appeal to the voters . For among the other consequences of Brussels is also an increased pressure for an organized economy . With its National Economic Development Council and its National Incomes Commission , its target of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Conservative government has already been moving in that direction . Reginald Maudling 's first budget will give further clues as to how far and how fast the Conservatives intend to go . But it should also indicate whether the Conservatives intend to add to their policy on incomes a policy on privilege . Britain 's Tories Many people believe that the Macmillan government will be the last " government of privilege " to hold power in Britain , a government representing , either directly or through marriage , the traditional great families , like the Devonshires and the Marlboroughs ( Macmillan himself , Lord Home , the Duke of Devonshire , Duncan Sandys , Christopher Soames , Julian Amery , John Hare ) . They associate primarily , in politics , with near-great families ( Lansdowne , Perth , Dundee , Carrington , Brecon , Waldegrave ) , and they rigidly maintain the special privileges of property , capital , and family business ? high taxes on incomes and on stock market speculation , but no taxes on capital gains , capital growth , or capital gifts . New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reginald Maudling , a large , comfortable man , upper-class but not a member born into the Establishment , possibly the cleverest man in the government ; Iain Macleod , bridge player , doctor 's son , professional politician , party manager ; Edward Heath , son of a builder , who brought out of the Brussels debacle a much increased reputation as a negotiator with dignity , scope , perseverance , principle , and astuteness . France 's Couve de Murville may have won the battle in the Rue des Quatres Bras in Brussels , but it was Heath who achieved stature . Brakes on economic growth By an extraordinarily timely coincidence these men , and others like them , are coming into prominence just when developments in economics draw attention to the probability that the traditional class structure of British society is a powerful and insistent brake on growth . There is certainly a mysterious element in the British economy . It rode the shock wave of Brussels quite serenely . When the bad news came the London stock market enjoyed its best day for a month . Investors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians . Export trade is growing slowly but steadily . The January figures showed the gold reserves rising ' for the fourth month in succession . But there has been no general growth , except in unemployment . During the winter , interest rates were first lowered ; the banks were then relieved of restrictions on loans ; installment buying was made easier ; more public investment was authorized ; sales taxes on cars , television sets , and other durables were cut from 45 to 25 percent ; higher social security payments were announced ; tax allowances for new industrial investment were increased ; the interest rate was cut again . But there was still no growth . Is it possible that there is in Great Britain not so much a failure of demand as a failure of ambition ? Still too few people , it seems , see their way through the stratified class structure to higher levels . It is significant that more than half the new houses built these days are council houses . Such building by local governments of cheap housing , almost all for rent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the community . Yet this local government housing may be as much a cause of class stratification as it is a sign of it . You spend years on the list for a council house ; you get it ; you stick with it . Meanwhile , very high mortgage rates for house purchase ( at 6.5 percent throughout 1962 ) discourage private ownership of homes and keep people in the renting class . Idle money and a quick buck The Treasury reports that total savings have gone up from 16 percent to 21 percent of the gross national product . Individuals now equal companies statistically as the biggest source of these savings ( 42 percent ) . But in fact , as far as individuals are concerned , the figure does not refer to savings at all but to money not spent , which is a very different thing . It is just idle . Here is certainly a brake on growth . " The amount of gambling in Britain is now stupendous , " remarks an unpublished social survey circulated recently through all government departments . The turnover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is horse racing , greyhound racing , football , and bingo . Off-course betting was made legal for horse racing in 1961 , and 10,000 betting offices were licensed that year by the government . The authors of the survey conclude that , while British home life is busy and vigorous , " it contains a malaise which is probably a basic discontent with what has become very strongly an era of materialism , and this discontent expresses itself in a grasping after unearned wealth . " There is some truth in that ? perhaps not surprisingly , since the tax system , unreformed , has in general preferred unearned wealth to earned . But it is not the full truth . A more basic fault may lie in the makeup of a society that now offers to so many people possessions without progress . Eight out of ten households now have television sets . By 1970 there will be a car for every family , on the average . Since 1949 the number of incomes between $2000 and $3000 has multiplied ten times . The number between $3000 and $6000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stagnation in the north A general drift to the south of England , where jobs have been plentiful , has been accelerating . This also could have political significance . Large areas in Scotland , northeast and northwest England , north Wales , and Northern Ireland , mainly dependent in the past on heavy industry , shipbuilding , and steel and coal , have been losing work and population . Unemployment there is double or treble the national average . These are not yet depressed areas . But government action has become inescapable . Investment has to be encouraged to go north , with factories at low rentals and large loans at low interest . A vast problem of urban renewal has been uncovered just at the time that local funds for dealing with it are being diminished . The few slums that are left in Britain are in the north . The problem of communications also has to be tackled with new urgency , particularly as the effort to make the railroads pay is closing down unprofitable lines and unprofitable railroad workshops , mainly in the very areas of above-average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road programs for the north , new bridges , and new airports have already been planned . The plans are not yet adequate . But in a political sense it is not their ade-quacy or inadequacy that is signifi-cant , but rather the fact that the need for them is accelerating the trend toward government interven-tion and planning of the economy . The failure to get into Europe , while it threatens no immediate economic hardship and even relieves the country of some balance-of-payments anxieties , also makes the trend toward intervention stronger and faster . For the failure to join the Market was in part also the failure of a plan to reinvigorate the economy through great drafts of the heady force of competition . All this adds meaning to the National Economic Development Council and the National Incomes Commission , just as it adds fuel to the demand for thoroughgoing tax reform . Even the government 's youth organization , the Young Conservatives , has published a tax reform plan that is as much a scheme for social reform as it is for economic rationalization . How much socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ferment . This presents a mighty challenge to a government so long in power and so set in its traditions . This ferment of hopes for purposeful social and economic change probably accounts for the remarkable showing of the Socialists in the public opinion polls . After Gaitskell 's sad and untimely death the Labor Party still held its own , apparently ahead of the government in public favor . Macmillan faces an awkward problem of timing . If he goes to the country soon , before the new Labor leadership has had time to establish itself , he may lose because of the failures of his government , because of unemployment , because of Brussels , because of slow growth , because of the lack of a new image for the Tory Party . If he waits , he has to gamble : first , that growth will in fact be achieved , and , second , that the public will accept the Tories as a party of radical social reform . Thus , the leftish reputation of Harold Wilson may be an asset to the Labor Party instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be a more formidable proposition than the Tories at first expected . If one compares his standing , for instance , with that of the middle-aged Attlee at the time the latter became the opposition leader before World War II , Wilson looks like something of a giant . Wilson at forty-six would be the youngest Prime Minister of the century . He is an economist . He has held office , having been president of the Board of Trade , with a seat in the Cabinet , when thirty-one . Now that Bevan has gone , he is probably the best debater in the House of Commons , possessing the quick mind and the long memory that make wit a deadly weapon . Wilson 's position on the Atlantic alliance and on the possession of nuclear weapons has been somewhat equivocal . But it is possible that the need to keep the party together will make him take the firm Gaitskell line on those matters , so that he may advance the more easily with his socialist economic program . Macmillan is likely to try to edge Wilson as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions himself , for his hope of retaining office now lies largely in persuading the public that the alternative to Tory reform is outright socialism . The fear of socialism remains very strong in the middle classes and is almost certainly stronger than their disappointment in Macmillan . Lmid-December , 1962 , Philibert Tsiranana , President of the Malagasy Republic , told the press in Paris that Madagascar needed a strong army for self-defense . He implied , further , that his country was so strategically and economically important as to tempt invasion by a predatory Oriental power , This briefly caught the attention of the general public , who , insofar as they were aware of Madagascar 's existence at all , had associated the island only with lemurs and coelacanths . Those who were more aware of political developments in that part of the world were astonished , for no recent events in the area seemed to indicate that Madagascar , 250 miles off the southeast coast of Africa , was in imminent danger from any foreign source . In 1960 Madagascar was one of thirteen French-speaking territories to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sovereign nation the Malagasy Republic has followed an unsensational course . Its government has been stable , moderate , and pro-Western . Its economy resembles those of other underdeveloped and newly independent countries , except that Madagascar is perhaps somewhat poorer in resources and manpower and farther removed from world markets . Cultural cohesion Far off the beaten tracks of travel and trade , Madagascar has been preoccupied during recent years with the slow and arduous task of building a united and economically viable nation out of its eighteen tribes and mediocre economy . In so doing , it has had certain assets and liabilities that distinguish it from other newborn states on the African mainland . To begin with , it is an underpopulated island , big enough and far enough away from Africa to have evolved , for the most part , independently of mainland influences . It produced a royal dynasty that succeeded in ruling most of the island for almost a century and in imposing its language on all of the inhabitants . Not only is Malagasy spoken from one end of the island to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the population . Those mainly responsible for providing Madagascar with this linguistic bond were Christian missionaries , first British and then French . ( As a result of their activity , about half of the Malagasy today are Christians . ) Economic self-sufficiency Madagascar 's second greatest asset is its economic self-sufficiency . Although the volume of its output is on the scale of samples , the variety of its animal , vegetable , and mineral resources is extraordinarily rich . That it could adequately feed and clothe its inhabitants was shown during the Second World War , when Madagascar was cut off from France , with which it had had very close trading ties . Since then it has been able not only to feed a population that is growing at the rapid rate of nearly 3 percent a year , but also to increase the export of its basic food , rice , and to begin to ship out sugar , sisal , tobacco , and cotton . Moreover , despite a generally mountainous terrain and eroded soil , it still has considerable areas of unutilized arable land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about five and a half million . It has a corps of trained and experienced civil servants , the legacy of both the Merina dynasty and the French colonial administration . Furthermore , relations with France have become exceptionally cordial since Madagascar attained independence . The Malagasy have shown themselves to be insular psychologically as well as geographically . Even their elite , with few exceptions , seem to have little or no interest in events outside their island , and the rural Malagasy , who form over 85 percent of the population , care only about what happens in their own villages or tribes . Madagascar 's membership in the Union Africaine et Malgache and the Monrovia group and its association with the European Economic Community have been pushed through by a few of its farsighted leaders who realize the dangers of their country 's isolation . Even the Merina tribe , the most advanced of all and the one that feels itself to be " Asian , " has no knowledge of or concern with developments in the Far East . And the predominantly Negroid coastal tribes , called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they consider themselves superior . Racial antagonism Their relative immunity from external pressures has given the Malagasy time to work out their own salvation and to avoid the strong-arm dictatorship , one-party rule , and statism to which many of the African nations have succumbed . Although the Tsiranana government has used authoritarian methods and become increasingly centralized , an opposition party and opposition press still exist , and no Malagasy is now in prison for his political views . In the economic and educational domains , progress has indeed been made toward closing the gap between the backward coastal regions and the more advanced central plateaus , but the ethnic conflict that divides the Merina from the cotiers has widened since independence and remains the single greatest obstacle in the way of creating a Malagasy nation . Racialism , condemned in certain countries as the alleged monopoly of Western imperialists , lies at the heart of Madagascar 's political problem . The " Asian " Merina can not forget that their ancestors once ruled in Madagascar , and they strongly resent the present political ascendancy of the coliers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real resistance to the French conquest and to the spread of a foreign language and culture that relegated their own to the background . Inevitably , it was the Merina who launched the nationalist movement born during the First World War and who inspired the revolt that broke out after World War II . However , not the Merina but the coastal tribes bore the brunt of the harsh repression which followed the revolt of 1947 . This naturally increased their antagonism . Paralleling and intensifying this political , economic , and ethnic conflict is a religious one . Although the Malagasy Christians are fairly evenly divided into Protestants and Catholics , the Merina , especially their urban upper classes , are the most staunchly Protestant , and the rollers are mainly Catholics . The success of Protestantism was due to the early British missionaries who converted a Merina queen and her nobles , and the success of Catholicism to the French Jesuits , backed by the colonial administration , among the coastal tribes . By and large , the pro-French and Catholic coastal tribes form the backbone of the PSD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power , whereas the predominantly anti-French , Protestant , Merina bourgeoisie of the Tananarive region are the leaders of the opposition AKFM ( Party of the Congress of Independence ) . Both parties contain elements that do not fall so neatly into the foregoing categories . Generally speaking , France 's colonial administrators had a strong anticlerical bias that prevented them from giving their full support to the Jesuit missionaries , and many of the latter , far from endorsing the PSD , tried to create a third force in the country under the Catholic Malagasy leader Jacques Rabemananjara . Tsiranana , the first President To fill the political void that followed the suppression of the 1947 revolt , Andre Soucadaux , the Socialist governor of Madagascar in the mid-1950s , created the PSD , modeled after the French Socialist Party , the SFIO . To be its leader , he promoted Philibert Tsiranana , an obscure schoolteacher who had studied in France at Montpellier University . In addition to being a Catholic and a member of a non-Merina tribe , and not having been involved in the and his pro-French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own people . Thanks to his gifts and to the administration 's backing , Tsiranana 's political rise was meteoric . Elections held under universal suffrage for the first time , in 1957 , brought the PSD to power . The next year Tsiranana became head of Madagascar 's first autonomous govern- ment , and in 1959 he was chosen to be President of the republic . By mid-1960 Tsiranana had not only been successful in negotiating independence from France and a political amnesty , but had also persuaded two of the three outstanding leaders of the 1947 revolt to accept ministerial posts in his Cabinet . This successful coup , however , was only the prelude to Tsiranana 's far more difficult task of consolidating Madagascar 's independence politically and economically . By inclination and by necessity , he wanted to maintain close ties with France . Madagascar 's trade balance was persistently unfavorable , and though its internal revenues were increasing , its government still depended on French subsidies , not only to carry out its development program but even to meet operating expenses . Tsiranana enjoyed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintain the flow of French aid . This very success , however , as well as the fact that Tsiranana owed his initial political rise to French backing , laid him open to the charge of being a tool of Paris . The left-wing opposition The AKFM leaders were quick to accuse him of subservience to France , and on this ground they rejected Tsiranana 's repeated appeals for national unity . Briefly , toward the end of 1961 , it looked as if the deep rift between the Merina and cotiers might be bridged , for a number of dissident leaders gave their support to the President , even though not all of them joined the PSD . But the Merina could not bring themselves to accept rule by the cotters and remained adamantly opposed to Tsiranana and his party . In contrast to the PSD , which is a mass party with a claimed membership of 400,000 , the AKFM is a party of cadres , about 20,000 strong . It ' is tightly organized into a pyramidal structure that reaches down to the village cell and is subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the AKFM follows the Communist pattern that has been set by its extreme left wing , a small group , some of whom received their training in the Eastern satellite coun tries . But the Merina nationalists have prevented the Communists from capturing leadership of the AKFM , and for the time being doctrinal disagreements between the Communist clement and the Merina nationalists , as well as the rigid social divisions among the Merina themselves , are soft-pedaled New industries Thus far President Tsiranana has been able to pursue a middle-of-the-road policy that has inspired confidence among both the Malagasy masses and Europeans . Thanks to a favorable tax structure , new industries have been created recently in Madagascar , including a big sugar mill and two automobile assembly plants , and none of the big established French firms has left the island . The only sizable group that has pulled out are the settlers of Reunion Island origin , but many nationalists regard this as a good riddance because of those settlers ' slight economic contribution to the country and their attitude of superiority toward the Malagasy . All Malagasy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see their country less dependent upon French subsidies and to extricate Madagascar 's trade from the grip of the big French export-import firms and the 21,000 or so Indian and Chinese retail merchants . They would also like to break the hold of the Franco-Scandinavian combine on the island 's shipping , which they consider responsible for the heavy freight rates that largely account for the high price of Malagasy exports . With reason , they assert that as long as such monopolies persist , it is useless for the government to create cooperative societies and price-support funds . Aid from abroad Madagascar receives small amounts of aid from the United States , the Common Market countries , Israel , and the UN Technical Mission , and a Bulgarian-Russian trade mission was in Tananarive for some months last year . However , none of these sources has as yet appreciably benefited the island 's commerce . France has , for some years , bought Madagascar 's coffee ? which supplies 40 percent of the country 's income ? at higher than world prices , which no other country has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been paying Madagascar 's bills , supplying it with technicians , and ? without exacting any visible quid pro quo ? building its hospitals and schools . Tsiranana is well aware that Madagascar produces nothing in quantity that the world really wants to buy , and that if he is given substantial aid from foreign sources it is not for economic but for political reasons which are subject to change . Repeatedly he has told his people that their only hope for economic independence lies in increased production . Probably his recent appeal for a strong army reflects his desire to arouse in his own people a sense of urgency , which they now sorely lack , as much as his desire to obtain more foreign aid . Widespread apathy and complacency and a passive sense of frustration are the real enemies of Madagascar , not revolutionary violence or invasion from abroad .                     