@@268242

U.S. and foreign newsmen packed the State Department 's Washington auditorium last week along with Senators , Congressmen and Chief Justice Earl Warren of the Supreme Court . The big attraction : first full-dress public report by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration on its Mercury man-in-space program . All foreign embassies got invitations and many sent representatives , including the Russians and Hungarians . Everyone got a 116-page illustrated book on the medical aspects of Commander Alan Shepard 's memorable 15-minute flight from Cape Canaveral . <P> Heart &; Temperature . The U.S. kept no secrets about its first spaceman . For hours , scientists , engineers and doctors went over masses of intricate detail . The complicated Mercury capsule was described completely . Experts explained the instruments that kept track of all Commander Shepard 's reactions to space flight . A group of physicians reported on the astronaut 's physical condition before the flight and after : his temperature was slightly higher after landing , and his heart was beating a little faster than normal . A broken toenail and a small patch of sunburn were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the symposium with a dramatic movie of the flight , some of it taken by cameras in the capsule focused on Commander Shepard 's face . He showed little discomfort as the forces of acceleration and deceleration rose to their peaks . His eyes swung methodically to check instrument dials , and his lips moved to make his now-famous remarks : " All systems , A-O.K. , " and " What a beautiful sight ! " <P> Soft Landing . Last to take the stand was Commander Shepard himself . As coolly and unemotionally as any of the scientists , he told exactly how he spent every moment of his 15-minute rocket ride-how he watched the instruments , maneuvered his craft according to plan , snatched hasty looks through the periscope and the capsule 's two portholes . The sky was almost black , he said , but because of the position of the sun , he did not see any stars or planets . When the first parachute opened , he got an 11-G shock , but did not mind it much . Through the periscope he watched the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready for landing . He disconnected his oxygen hose , loosened belts that held his body to the contour couch . The landing in the Atlantic was soft . For a few mo ments the capsule lay on its side with one porthole under water . Slowly it righted itself , and Commander Shepard opened the door to greet the rescue helicopter . <P> In Soviet Russia there is surely as complete , or almost as complete , a record of Major Yuri Gagarin 's orbital flight around the earth . But so far , the Russians have released only trifles . Major Gagarin 's heart speeded up during the flight , just as Shepard 's did ; he was reportedly in normal condition soon after landing . But little more has been told . Non-Russian space specialists who are interested in the technical details of man 's first orbital flight will have to wait until the Soviet government attaches less value to secrecy .                     