@@274123

Dr. Christiaan Barnard's-and the world's-first patient to receive a transplanted human heart , Louis Washkansky , lived for only 18 days after his historic operation . But Barnard 's second transplant recipient , Dentist Philip Blaiberg , recovered fully , wrote a book about his experiences and displayed such a zest for life that he went swimming on the first anniversary of his operation . Last week , after surviving for an incredible 594 days with another man 's heart in his chest-longer by far than any other heart transplant patient-Blaiberg died peacefully in the same Cape Town hospital at which he had received his new lease on life . <P> The challenge that confronted heart-transplant teams in Blaiberg 's case , as it has in all others , was more medical than surgical . The South African dentist was 58 when his own heart reached such an advanced stage of slow , progressive failure that it could no longer pump enough oxygenated blood to support any physical activity . After having been obliged to give up his dental practice , Blaiberg was bedfast . It was problematical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week . In these circumstances , Barnard felt fully justified in removing Blaiberg 's heart and replacing it with that of a young " Cape Colored " ( half-caste ) man , Clive Haupt , who had died of a stroke . The surgical technique , worked out by Stanford University 's Dr. Norman E. Shumway Jr. , was clear-cut and immediately successful . It was only after the operation that the real struggle began . <P> Small White Cells . Blaiberg 's doctors were at once faced with the problem of controlling the immune mechanism by which the body seeks to reject any invading foreign substance , especially protein . Nature devised this complex reaction largely to protect the higher animals against parasitism and infection by such lowly microbes as bacteria and viruses . But the defense works equally well against tissues from higher animals , including those from any other man ( except an identical twin ) . <P> The detailed workings of the immune mechanism are still imperfectly understood , but the main outlines are clear . The principal components of immunity are a type of white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetically built-in ability to identify other cells as " self " ( part of the same body ) or " not self " ( invaders to be destroyed ) . In the presence of " self " cells the lymphoid cells remain passive , but if they detect foreign material , they manufacture antibodies to contain or attack the invader . These antibodies are in the form of gamma globulin particles . Some remain on the surface of the lymphoid cells and circulate with them ; others , free-floating , circulate in the blood stream . Both kinds adhere to cells in the foreign tissues of such organs as the transplanted heart . Which type is more important in graft rejection is still debated . What is certain is that , together , the two types can be devastatingly effective in destroying a graft .                     