@@442123

AT THE center of the Communist heartland sit Nikita Khrushchev and Mao Tse-tung , men who agree on the necessity of destroying the United States and what it stands for and only disagree on what is the better method . The President tends to accept the view of his experts ? though , since Cuba , he is less inclined automatically to believe any " expert " ? that Khrushchev 's policy is the dominant one and that central to it is a determination to avoid a direct nuclear conflict with the United States . To prevent any temptation to the Communists on that score , Kennedy has begun to improve the ability of the American nuclear striking force to survive a Soviet attack and still have power enough to render a retaliatory blow which Khrushchev would consider an unacceptable risk . This was the belief before Cuba and Laos , but those crises have sharpened Kennedy 's view of the other areas of conflict and potential conflict , and the necessity to revamp the organization in Washington to meet them . The Cuban fiasco , particularly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kennedy advisers . Alibis were put forth to explain the intelligence failure of the C.I.A . and the military foolishness approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff , but fortunately they had no ascertainable effect on the President . To say that the Joint Chiefs were shoved aside by the C.I.A . in the military planning is nonsense . At a White House briefing , the walls were covered with military maps showing the beaches and landing areas , and two of the Joint Chiefs put their approval of the plan in writing . The C.I.A . failure is something far larger than bad military planning . This agency has scored a good many successes , some of them known in Washington but unpublicized . The U-2 had been fabulously successful until the failure to see the political implications of the final fatal flight so close to last summer 's scheduled Summit Conference . It is the same faulty political analysis which was so critical in the Cuban fiasco . At the end of World War II , the United States went into the espionage business on a large scale very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in recent years Allen Dulles and some of his deputies got into the speechmaking habit and C.I.A . lost much of its anonymity . Also , the C.I.A . bureaucracy grew so big that it became an empire unto itself , gradually making policy decisions with little or no direction from the President or coordination with the State Department . It is probable that C.I.A . ' s intelligence-gathering function will be separated from its operations function . But the United States can not halt covert operations . In a world of Communist espionage and sabotage , the democracies have no choice but to indulge in similar tactics . How much secrecy ? The Cuban affair , on top of the U-2 , has let the American public know , as it never knew before , how deeply its government is involved in these shadowy affairs . Although there is a wide moral revulsion against such goings on , it certainly would be perilous to halt them . But how can they be carried on in secret ? After Cuba , the President said in a New York speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public information , " there also was need for " far greater official secrecy . " This raised a howl from the press , but the problem needs to be thought through . Certain military information , ranging from troop movements to details of weapons , should be secret , and the responsibility for keeping it secret lies with the Pentagon first of all . There are laws , and prison sentences to back them up . Irresponsible publications can be prosecuted , as well as officials who hand out the secrets , often as an offshoot of interservice rivalries . But this is not at all the same thing as secrecy on the nature of weapons . The theory of mutual deterrence between the United States and the Soviet Union requires that each side have a good idea of the abilities of the other in terms of raw power . As one official has said , if the United States had bragged about its radar at Pearl Harbor instead of hiding it , even from many of our own military , the Japanese might never have dared to strike . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more difficult is the secrecy around , operations such as those in Cuba . A lot is well known that Miami was full of Fidel Castro 's agents and that he knew far more than was printed in the American press . If more had been published , in fact , it might have made the Kennedy Administration reconsider its decision in light of the big advance invasion build-up . American guerrilla activities One high-ranking official was asked at a background session in Washington recently whether the United States , now that it is getting into guerrilla warfare , should infiltrate Communist North Vietnam from free South Vietnam , just as the Communists do the other way around . He said yes . But this is a kind of warfare Americans of this century have not known . There are no rule ' of war for such activities , no Geneva Conon to I tore and prOirti I prisoners of war . -I he ProMent has ordered a ISO per rent inrt ? , . , e in U.S. guerrilla lOrcei , but the Administrant ' ' , skill not make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hal yes nixed : Move , the Administration has nil yet decided how to use these Mell , Its lest move has been to increase guerrilla ? training for such troops as thus in South Vietnam , at that they t all infiltrate the Communist moth . A major part of retired general Maxwell Taylor 's assignment from the President involves this paramilitary problem . There is no doubt that men can be trained for such work and that they can do it if ordered to . But there are other problems . One is that the way the Cold War is fought today it is ethical for the Communists to use any sort of dirty trick , but unethical for Americans to do so . Unhappily , much of the free world never seems to raise an eyebrow at Communist skulduggery , it is so common ; but there are anguished outcries at such American activities . It is questionable to what extent a nation such as the United States can engage in these tactics , together with the official lies which are inevitably involved , without affecting its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press 's function in carrying out the people 's right to know what their government is doing . The will to be free But there are other aspects , too . Kennedy has been stressing more and more , since the failure of the Laotians to make effective use of the military aid given them , the matter of will . He said not long ago that in effect the United States today is performing the function which the British navy performed for a century or so ? providing a safe cover for normal life in many other lands . In addition , the United States is giving economic aid , and , if Kennedy has his way , will increase this aid and offer it on a long-term self-help basis . And the United States offers military equipment and training for local forces . " There is a limit , however , " the President added , " beyond which our efforts can not go . " For , " in the final analysis " the leaders of the smaller , and often newly independent , nations " have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way that they maintain the support of their people . " It is this thought which lay behind Kennedy 's proposals to relate the extent of American aid to the willingness of other governments to engage in such vital necessities as land and tax reform . One of the major tragedies of Kennedy 's foolish approval of the Cuban invasion attempt was the setback it gave his alianza porn progress in the rest of Latin America . Nor was it a very happy fact that it was the Cuban fiasco which finally drove Congress to appropriate the full $500 million to get the program started . But , at any rate , the money is now available . It will take extraordinarily clever use of the money to help break down the land and tax privileges which so abound in Latin America . The problem differs from nation to nation , of course , but there are leaders , especially President Quadros in Brazil , and some others who are ready to go along with Kennedy 's prescription of using the money to " combat illiteracy , improve the productivity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archaic tax and land-tenure structures , provide educational opportunities , and offer a broad range of projects designed to make the benefits of increasing abundance available to all . " The important thing is to get started , to create a sense of forward motion , so that millions of Latins will cease to feel that the only way out is the violent anti-Americanism of Fidelismo . The United States will have to grin and bear the taunts that the money is really a " gift from Fidel . " Nothing could better demonstrate the movement of history than the first months of the new Administration in Washington . Events refuse to be tidy ; crises refuse to wait for opportune moments or for completed plans to meet them . The Administration has had a baptism of considerable fire , to be sure , and the news may get still worse before it gets better . Yet , it can be said that the President has picked his Administration up off the floor and caught a second breath . Domestic politics Onrushing foreign events have tended to drive from the front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politicians know the calendar moves on and that elections soon will be coming up . This year there will be only two gubernatorial elections ? in New Jersey and Virginia ? and both are important in assessing the temper of the nation . In New Jersey , where a conservative Republican machine long has been entrenched , there is a major opportunity for the modern Republicans , almost entirely the work of an unassuming , 57-year-old , often unorthodox politician , Senator Clifford P. Case . Last fall , for example , when Senator Kennedy , then his party 's presidential nominee , failed to win Senate approval for his medical care plan tied to Social Security , he won only a single GOP vote , that of Senator Case . Both times that Case has run for the Senate , he first had to beat right-wing GOP opponents , well financed and vitriolic . This year , in the primary , he staked his career on backing former Labor Secretary James P. Mitchell for the gubernatorial nomination . If Mitchell wins in November , Case will be in the unique @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And New Jersey will join neighboring New York , with Governor Rockefeller , in the liberal leadership of the GOP . In Virginia , the Democratic primary on July 11 will be controlling , though the Republicans , who have carried the state in the last three presidential elections , will have a candidate on the ballot in the November general election . The issue in Virginia is the machine so long led by Senator Harry Flood Byrd . The present governor , J. Lindsay Almond , who destroyed Byrd 's " massive resistance " to desegregation doctrine , is ineligible to run again . His lieutenant governor , A. E. S. ' Stephens , is the Almond candidate , while the state 's attorney general , Albertis Harrison , resigned to become the Byrd stand-in . Negroes in Virginia public schools so far number only about 200 , in several counties , but there are enough to win wide acceptance of the principle that the public schools must be preserved , even with token integration . One county , Prince William , has closed its schools entirely , with white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have little or no education . Attorney General Robert Kennedy has moved into the Prince William case to try to bring about reopening of the public schools , even if only Negroes attend . It is this move that Byrd and his man , Harrison , have now seized upon as a campaign issue against the Almond-Stephens team . Virginia has one of the nation 's most restricted franchises , the result of the state poll tax and other means of discouraging voters . But , none theless , the outcome of the fight in July will be important in terms of whether there is continual but gradual progress in civil rights , or an effort to revert to some new form of " massive resistance . " THE uprising in Algeria on April 22 was a strange mixture of the predictable and the unexpected . Ever since De Gaulle 's speech of September 16 , 1959 , in which he linked Algeria 's future to a self-determination vote , Algiers has never ceased to seethe with plots of one kind or another . An army revolt had been feared in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate last-minute endeavor to stave off the January 8 referendum , but it failed io materialize ; and after the sweeping mandate given to the French President to negotiate with the F.L.N. rebels in Tunis , it was felt that the time for a revolt had passed . According to one plan , it appears , the revolt had been scheduled to take place over the weekend of April 15-16 , on the heels of De Gaulle 's press conference of April 11 , but the plotters had not had sufficient time to rally the support they needed . The limit date set was April 25 , and nothing could better illustrate the quixotic romanticism of the entire enterprise than this . Why April 25 ? Simply because this was the day on which the French cruiser Colbert was due to dock at Toulon with the coffin of Marshal Lyautey . The great French proconsul of Morocco , who died in Nancy , had requested in his will that he be buried in African soil . The transfer of his ashes back to France was ? at any rate , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intolerable breach of his final testament , and certain of the plotters hoped , after staging a coup in Algiers , to be able to redirect the Colbert to the Algerian port of Oran , to demonstrate to the world that France 's colonizing mission in North Africa had not yet ended . There is a sad irony in the fact that it was De Gaulle who was partly responsible for this tragic rebellion against his rule . Instead of following up his referendum victory of January 8 by energetically pressing the negotiations with the Algerian rebel leadership in Tunis , he allowed three weeks to pass before issuing a casual invitation to President Bourguiba . Another three weeks were allowed to pass before the Tunisian President actually visited Paris , so that it was not until March that the French and Algerian negotiators could really come to grips with the many points at issue before the formal negotiations were to open at Evian on April 7 . The civilian activists in Algiers and army hotheads on both sides of the Mediterranean were thus given three months to work up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained by a campaign of bomb explosions , one of which killed the mayor of Evian . De Gaulle 's bitter truths In his press conference of April 11 , De Gaulle went further than he had ever gone before in defining his future policy for Algeria . In fact , he went too far and let his inhuman haughtiness get the better of him in public . Algeria , he intimated loftily , was a burden to France . It cost far more than it brought in return , and the sooner France was rid of this troublesome handicap , the better . In evoking the somber prospect of an eventual partition of the two hostile populations of Algeria , he failed to offer any compassion for the hapless peoples involved . Overnight , De Gaulle was subjected to violent attacks from the French right and the French left . In a blistering editorial which precipitated Francois Mauriac 's resignation from the left-wing weekly L'Express , its editor , Jean-Jacques ServanSchreiber , stigmatized De Gaulle 's language as that of a rug merchant who had committed his country to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and embitterment . " Paul Deheme , the right-wing author of the best-informed newsletter in France , described De Gaulle 's attitude as that of a jilted lover who , if he could not bring the Algerian Muslims to love France , was ready to throw them to the , dogs ? and whether those dogs were Russian or Ainerican was to De Gaulle a matter of indifference . Most impassioned of all was Jules Roy , the former air force colonel and author of the bestselling War in Algeria , whose sentiments often accurately reflect those of his fellow Algerians . " For me General de Gaulle died on April 10 , " he concluded an embittered editorial . " It was a notary who spoke up the next day in his place to read a somber testament . " The rebel officers The men who actually prepared the coup were for the most part colonels and majors who had already taken a prominent part in the successful coup of May , 1958 . Some of them had been transferred back to France and been refused further access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other demonstrators in Algiers in January of last year . They were almost to a man veterans of the Indochinese war , profoundly impressed by the brainwashing and revolutionary warfare techniques used by the Vietminh and the Red Chinese . These officers , and the hundreds of others who shared their views or friendship , had long hoped they could move General de Gaulle to come out openly for that new , fraternal , and , above all , French Algeria which they had never ceased to advocate . It was this hope , alternately dampened and rekindled by the General 's successive declarations , which had hitherto prevented them from attempting anything as serious as a full-scale revolt against his rule ; a hope which came all the more naturally to men who , in the overwhelming majority of cases , distinguished themselves as Resistance heroes during World War II . The conditions for success Two conditions , at least , were essential for the success of an insurrection against De Gaulle . The first was the acquisition of a front-rank military personality capable of rallying the army in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a coup in Paris simultaneously with the one planned in Algiers . The plot turned sour because neither of these two conditions could be fulfilled . The plotters were thus reduced to trying to set up a directorate of three or four generals in the hope that their combined prestige would equal the glory of one genuine hero . Even here they almost failed , for the key 10 general they wanted to round out the triumvirate , the former supreme commander in Algeria , General Maurice Challe , was lukewarm to the scheme up to the very last moment , and but for De Gaulle 's catastrophic press conference of April 11 , he might well have demurred . ! altogether . To make matters worse , certain of the plotters insisted that an army uprising in Algeria had to be accompanied by a joint civilian uprising and that the only man who could ; enlist civilian support in Algiers was another former commander in chief in Algeria , General Raoul Salan . This was fatal miscalculation , for Salan , who is a devious political operator , never enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his onetime subordinate , General Jacques Massu . Challe 's involvement in the plot was , indeed , the strangest aspect of a strange affair , and his divided loyalties and aspirations faithfully attest the dramatic crisis of conscience to which the French officer corps is now subjected . Challe is a Resistance hero who set up an intelligence network in Southern France which gave the Allies the Luftwaffe 's entire order of battle on the eve of the Normandy invasion . He emerged from the war a Gaullist , and it was he who greatly facilitated the May , 1958 , coup and helped De Gaulle return to power by ordering twenty-five air force transport planes to Algiers to fly over the paratroopers , in case extreme measures were needed . De Gaulle rewarded this fidelity to his ; cause by appointing Challe to suc-id Salan as commander in chief in Algeria in October of 1958 . As an air force officer , Challe had had little contact with the officers and soldiers of the French army in Algeria , but his passionate belief in the cause of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect . He insisted , over the opposition of less intelligent officers , like Massu , upon forming a strategic and mobile reserve force of crack Foreign Legion , paratroop , and other regiments to clean up rebel-infested areas . The success of these cleanup operations was such that the average rate of killings in Algeria , both military and civilian , declined from forty a day in 195E to eight a day in 1960 . Challe was persuaded that he had found the military key to success in Algeria . It would be merely a matter of time before all the rebel bands were wiped out , Algeria completely pacified , and the rebel F.L.N. , with 15,000 men , simply isolated in Tunisia on the other side of an impassable electrified barbed-wire line . Challe 's break with De Gaulle Such , however , was not De Gaulle 's ? conviction , and in January of 1960 he did not hesitate to tell Marc Lauriol , one of Algiers ' French deputies to the Assembly : " The Muslims will never be French , they detest the French of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abbas . " For Challe , and most of the French career officers in Algeria , this meant just one thing ? that De Gaulle had succumbed to the woolly-headed illusions of the defeatists and left-wing crypto-Communists in Paris who had been led by Russian and American propaganda vastly to overestimate the F.L.N. 's strength . The decisive break between Challe and De Gaulle seems to have come around March of last year . At that time , two F.L.N. colonels , Si Salah and Mohand el Hadj , commanding the villayas ( operational regions ) of Kabylia and Central Algeria , made secret overtures to the French , saying that they would be willing to accept De Gaulle 's offer of a " peace of the brave " and to quit fighting if they received the proper guarantees from the government in Paris . A certain Colonel Georges Jacquin , then heading a camouflaged psychological warfare bureau in Algiers , was dispatched to Paris with the two F.L.N. dissidents on a private mission to see De Gaulle . De Gaulle , however , refused to be impressed by this piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be deterred from making future overtures to the F.L.N. leaders in Tunis , who alone could bring lasting peace to Algeria . Shortly thereafter , the rebel leaders in Tunis got wind of the affair and ordered the liquidation of the defecting bands and their leaders in savage reprisal . To the French Army High Command in Algiers , this smelled like treason . Some traitor in De Gaulle 's entourage had leaked the information to Tunis , once again sabotaging the French army 's earnest efforts to pacify Algeria . Challe , persuaded that De Gaulle would never listen to reason or to the on-the-spot evidence , resigned his command and returned to France to assume the post of commander of NATO 's Central European forces . Six months later , after De Gaulle 's November 4 speech , in which he spoke for the first time of an Algerian republic , to be linked to France only in the fields of education , technics , finance , and defense , he resigned this post , too , and retired from the French air force . General Challe thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chief of staff of the French armed forces , the highest military post in France . If Challe , who has never been a hothead , was finally talked into crossing the Mediterranean and directing the Algiers coup , it was not out of any personal ambition ; it was solely out of the deep conviction that his feelings were shared by the overwhelmirig majority of the French army in Algeria . The army which he found in Algeria , however , was no longer the army he load left one year before . In the interim , a large number of top-ranking officers had been transferred in what is commonly known in the French army as " the waltz of the generals . " The officers chosen to replace them had been selected more for their personal loyalty to De Gaulle than for their military brilliance , and this partly explains why the plotters of the April 22 revolt were reduced for the most part to relying on colonels and subordinates rather than on the commanding generals . They also seriously underestimated the resistance which they would encounter among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aftermath of this tragic insurrection will long be felt . To crush it , De Gaulle was forced to issue an open call to insubordination , and this has had a shattering effect on the army 's discipline and morale . In Algeria , officers of certain units were trussed up , and in some cases even stripped by their rebellious men . Officers belonging to the same staff or unit suddenly found themselves in opposite camps . Many 1 who took no open stand but whose 1 loyalties were suspect found themselves suddenly being secretly denounced by subordinates or by ci-vilia n administrators only too glad to settle old scores . In certain units , revolutionary committees of noncoms and men suddenly appeared to " purge the army of traitors " and Communist sympathizers who had unexpectedly found a fertile climate to work in . Even the outward aspect of many army units rapidly deteriorated with the collapse of discipline , and ten days after the abortive coup , night patrols could be seen in the streets of Algiers lolling around and upsetting trash cans on the sidewalks simply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned against them . For De Gaulle the collapse of the insurrection was a bitter victory . Of the 200 to 300 officers openly implicated in the revolt in Algeria , a high proportion were once ardent Gaul-lists , and many of them , Resistance heroes . Among them were Major Benoit de Saint-Marc , who spent part of World War II in Buchenwald and who led the First Foreign Legion Parachute Regiment , which seized Algiers ; and Colonel Jean Brechignac , a swashbuckling Gascon like D'Artagnan , who fought with Mikhailovitch in Yugoslavia , then trekked all the way across Italy , France , and Spain to join De Gaulle 's forces in North Africa . Such men , though obviously misled , were among the finest officers in the French army , and it will not be easy to replace them . As a fighting force , the French army in Algeria has been seriously weakened . For the first time Muslims have seen French army units oppose an insurrection for which the Europeans were all too openly cheering , and they have not concealed their pleasure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the populous quarter of Algiers ' Babel-Oued were being invited into caf ? s and houses to share dishes of couscous with radiant Muslims ? something which has not been seen in this tense and volatile city for years . LAST summer , in the once proud city of Buenos Aires , the lights constantly flickered and died ; some sectors were without current for days on end while worn-out generators were being patched up . The rain fell and the sun shone on turbines and generators ordered from England five years ago , while the government still discussed ways and means of building a plant to house them . The suburban train service is so poor that one day irate passengers set fire to the cars . In the city , the most decrepit taxis in the Western world shudder and shake over streets pock-marked with holes deep enough to burst a tire or break a spring . And , as a monumental symbol of general stagnation , there stands on the corner of the " widest avenue in the world " the skeleton of a municipal office building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One should add , of course , that a superb steak can still be bought for less than a dollar , since this compensates for much in the eyes of the Argentines . The general process of decline and decay , although it has now reached a paroxysm , is not recent . The United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America points out that , while Argentina had an annual per capita growth rate of about 1.2 per cent during the first thirty years of this century , it has since then achieved an average of only .6 per cent . This means that the average per capita income has increased barely more than 50 per cent since 1900 , whereas Mexico , in the decade from 1940 to 1949 alone , increased its average per capita income 42 per cent , and Brazil , in the five years after 1955 , by 21 per cent . No other major country in the Western world has grown so slowly . Furthermore , Argentina suffers from remarkably few of the usual handicaps to development . Its population is almost entirely European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lowest in the hemisphere . Argentina has engaged in no wars since a campaign against the Indians in 1879 ; in fact , as a major supplier of grain , meat , hides , and wool , it has profited handsomely from the wars of other people . The terrain of the country , one of the greatest plains in the world , offers no particular obstacles to transportation . The richness and accessibility of the fields mean cheap and abundant food for everyone . Frondizi 's conservative program In a country with so stagnant an economy , the impetus gradually shifted from an effort to produce more to a pitched battle among the various sectors of the population to grab each for itself a larger piece of the dwindling pie . The result was the familiar wage-price spiral , inflation , social disorder , and approaching bankruptcy . In these circumstances , President Arturo Frondizi , nine months after taking office in May , 1958 , propounded a new policy , totally different from his previously professed philosophy , which he calls the " program for stabilization and development . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple technical application of orthodox economics as set forth by the International Monetary Fund : abolish government subsidies and preferential rates of exchange ; tighten credit ; let prices find a realistic level , but discourage wage increases , except as justified by increased productivity ; encourage exports ; limit imports ; balance the budget . These measures suffered from the start because there was no influential body of political opinion which supported them . As in many other countries facing the pinch of hardship , in Argentina people of all shades of opinion had come to believe that government controls were the only way to ensure their profits , their wages , and low prices for the necessities of life . The new policy was adopted reluctantly as the only alternative to bankruptcy . New money In spite of their unpopularity , resulting in only a partial application , these measures have today resulted in a certain degree of financial stability . The peso , after a devaluation of some 50 per cent and some wild fluctuations thereafter , has held to within a point or two of its quotation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which since 1955 had more than quintupled , was held to a modest 12 per cent rise in 1960 . This relative tax on his produce and an import stability , coupled with a more favor tax on his equipment . It costs two and a half times as much wheat to I able investment climate , has encouraged foreign capital to come in ? an buy a tractor in Argentina as in the estimated $300 million since the start United States , for instance . The of the program . Some Argentine producer is further hampered by the capital is also being repatriated , deterioration in transport facilities , ' ; partly because tight credit has obliged labor laws and union rules illbusinessmen to mobilize their re adapted to farm conditions , and a serves . High rates of interest have certain incoherence in the fixing of ' also attracted a certain amount of support prices , which has had the " hot money " in short-term loans . effect of destroying the orderly rotaFurthermore , the Argentine govern tion of crops . ment and local firms are finding it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain credit abroad for the purchase of machinery and raw to be frightening . Less acreage was materials . sown to wheat last year than at any time since 1902 . A severe drought The result of all this new money is deleted material prodigious Argentine soil . It is cer- several hundred thousand more in provincial and municipal offices . The new policies aimed to reduce the bureaucracy . After two years , the reduction is less than 3 per cent . One of the simplest ways of reducing the deficit would be to return to private hands the highly inefficient state enterprises . Official suggestions to this effect have been greeted with horror by politicians of practically all persuasions , including those of the President 's own party , for whom government ownership of public utilities is a basic credo . Furthermore , private enterprise has shown no great enthusiasm to take over these companies , which must struggle with obsolete plant , politics , featherbedding on the part of the unions , and a completely unrealistic rate structure . Bright spots in industry The development aspect of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most dramatically ; favorable factor has been the victory in the battle for oil . Two years ago , Argentina was able to supply only 30 per cent of its own oil needs and spent some $300 million for petro1 leum imports . In 1961 , it is confidently expected that the country will be self-sufficient , and even have a small exportable surplus . This does not mean a total saving of $300 mil-1 lion in the balance of payments . The contracts of various types for the extraction of the oil require the disbursement of dollars . Argentina will still have to pay over $100 million for its oil . In the industrial field , there are several striking developments . Argentina 's growth has long been hampered by the lack of any significant production of steel . However , the government-owned steel mill at San Nicolds , begun in 1947 , has finally come into production . It should produce some 450,000 tons this year , using imported iron and coal . Further hopes for progress in steel center around the largely unexplored iron deposits in the bleak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement has recently been signed with a group of American , German , and Argentine companies to explore the region , mine the ore , and eventually build a steel mill . Report on Argentina Another promising development is in the field of petrochemicals , using as raw material the country 's abundant supply of natural gas . Four American companies will invest $70 million this year in an industrial complex to produce synthetic rubber , benzene , and carbon black . The motor vehicle industry is also expanding rapidly , and understandably so . The sight of the ancient vehicles rattling through the streets of Buenos Aires is enough to make any car manufacturer 's mouth water . The first stage has depended to a large degree on the importation of finished parts , and has therefore been a heavy drain on the balance of payments . The government has stipulated that an increasing proportion of locally manufactured components must be incorporated in the new cars . Except for oil , however , most of these promising developments are still in the planning stage or have just begun to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the economy , which the current report of the UN Economic Commission for Latin America , usually chary of adjectives , characterizes as " sluggish . " Political troublemakers When Frondizi took office in May , 1958 , it was proudly stated that he was the first constitutionally elected President in nearly thirty years . Since then he has survived twenty-nine coups d'itat . The habits of unconstitutionality die hard . The chief troublemakers have been labor and the armed forces . The labor problem , in its political aspect , was to confine to purely union matters the Peronist-dominated unions , accustomed under the dictator to playing the leading political role in the country . By an astute policy of division and persuasion , this problem now appears to be on the road to solution . In any case , the government felt sure enough of itself in March of this year to hand back the central union organization to labor control . It had been under government supervision since the revolution in 1955 . The armed forces present a knottier problem . They are , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administer a good deal of the mineral wealth of the country , and run a steel mill and a wide variety of other factories . Their budget is never published . Informed guesses put it at about 35 per cent of the national budget . They consider themselves the guardians of national sovereignty and the appointed mentors of economic policy , internal politics , and foreign policy . In a lengthy memorandum during a crisis in October , 1960 , the commander in chief of the army instructed the President , among other things , to repudiate his policy of " integrating " Peronists into political life and to fire anyone in the government who supported that policy , to revise the labor laws , balance the budget , improve the balance of payments , and change the directorate of the national oil monopoly . It must be said , to their credit , that the military are the most resolutely anti-Communist and antiPeronist force in the country . They also consider themselves stanch democrats , although it is doubtful whether their conception of their role falls within our definition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the unions attempting to dominate political life , it is not surprising that politics itself more often resembles a game of checkers than a serious consideration of the country 's problems . Thus , as the President , elected on a leftist platform , moved toward the right in the application of orthodox economics , the major opposition party , previously on his right , switched around and came in on his left . This party , the Radicals of the People , now raises the popular war cry of anti-imperialism and attacks the new economic policy not on its merits but as something imposed by rapacious Uncle Sam . Although there is a vociferous body of opinion which is hostile to the United States , blaming us for everything from the high cost of living to the low price of wheat , official Argentine foreign policy is as friendly to us as any on the continent . This is a vast and favorable change from the days of World War II , when Argentina was as close to being our enemy as any other nation in Latin America . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           