@@247811

Every muscular function of the human body is triggered by a small electrical current transmitted to the muscles through the nerves . Doctors have long assumed that a chemical reaction at the synapses ( the junctions between nerves ) causes the impulses to flow through the nerves until-through junction after junction-they reach the muscles . But the chemistry of impulse transmission along the nerve fibers was not known . Last week Colum bia University announced that Dr. David Nachmansohn and his colleagues in the university 's Department of Neurology had found new evidence to support his 20-year-old theory of the biochemical reaction that lets a nerve carry a current , then shut it off . <P> <P> By isolating a " receptor " protein , the Columbia biochemists proved that the same reaction that takes place at the synapse is repeated all along the length of the nerve . When a nerve is stimulated , a chemical called acetylcholine is released within the nerve . It combines with the receptor protein , causing an interchange of sodium and potassium ions . The ions in turn trigger release of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current advance . To turn off the signal , an enzyme , cholinesterase , is released that instantly destroys the acetylcholine in the nerve . <P> <P> Identifying and relating the chemicals involved in this process has been Dr. Nachmansohn 's life work . Four years ago , while studying cholinesterase , he stumbled on a chemical , nicknamed PAM , which proved an effective antidote to deadly nerve gases . Now his explanation of how nerves work offers insight into yet another obscure matter : how nerves are deadened by anesthesia . The discovery that such anesthetics as procaine and the Indian poison curare combine easily with the receptor protein , blocking the biochemical reaction , could lead to better anesthetics and more efficient drugs for treating disorders of the human nervous system . " One of the basic functions of human life is coming closer to being understood , " said Dr. Nachmansohn.                     