@@494772

Eisenhower The Good by Joseph C. Harsch In former times Kings and Princes acquired popular descriptive labels which have clung to them ever since . There was Charles " The Bald , " Charles " The Bold " and Charles " The Great , " Edward " The Confessor , " " Saint " Louis , Richard " The Lionhearted , " John " Lack-land " and " Bloody " Mary . One obscure Anglo-Saxon King has come down to us as " The Unready , " although this may be a language corruption rather than a reflection on his military behavioi . It is interesting that none was ever popularly known as both " good " and " great . " It is of course premature to pass judgment on the career of Dwight D. Eisenhower , but as the third of his three public careers comes to its appointed end the presumption is permissible that by medieval standards of nomenclature he would be known as Eisenhower The Good , rather than as Eisenhower The Great . He has been popular with , and trusted and respected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that they twice elected him to their highest magisterial office and presumably would have been happy to do so a third time had the opportunity been constitutionally available . Similarly popular princes were in times past usually given the title of " Good . " The title " Great " has been reserved for princes of massive authority and spectacular successes . The specific deeds of those who achieved it were frequently anything but " good " either by our standards or even by those of their own times . Perhaps it is to Mr. Eisenhower 's credit that future historians are unlikely to refer to him as " great . " His reputation for goodness is challenged only by a few known incidents such as his hesitation to dispense with the services of Sherman Adams after that gentleman 's indiscretions with Mr. Goldfine . And that , after all , could be put down to loyalty to a faithful courtier and loyalty is a " good " quality , although to admit it here would be to admit it also for Harry Truman 's more frequent loyalties to questionably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's title to greatness which future historians are more likely to JOSEPH C. HARSCH , author of Pattern of Conquest and The Curtain Is n't Iron , for many years wrote for the Christian Science Monitor . He has been a CBS news commentator , specializing in foreign affairs , and is now in London as Senior European Correspondent for NBC . notice than do his contemporaries . One belongs to each of his three careers as soldier , politician and statesman . In each case the flaw can measure the difference between a distinguished career and a truly great career . Eisenhower the Soldier led , or presided over , an enormous , complex and decisively successful military operation which began on the shores of North Africa and ended with the German surrender at Rheims . But there is a question whether he ranks with the great military commanders of history . The question arises out of the conviction of many who served in high rank under his command that he missed the one great opportunity to exercise the essential and decisive quality of command at the moment when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six months and produced victory for the Western Allies well before the Russian armies had broken into central Europe . After the successful Normandy landing and the spectacular sweep across France , Hitler 's western armies were broken and scattered . Had the momentum of the Allied advance been maintained , Eisenhower 's armies would certainly have swept across the Rhine and deep into Germany . There was no organized defense at the Siegfried Line or behind the Rhine ready to contest the Allied advance . It came to a halt in the mud of the Rhineland , and the Second World War dragged on into the following spring . At the time of the halt Eisenhower possessed in Patton and Montgomery two of the great field commanders of all time . Each believed that he could maintain his advance across the Rhine and sweep on into Germany if given all available support . There was n't enough fuel or ammunition reaching the front at that time to keep both going . Each wanted to keep on and each clamored for the supplies and the permission . They were passionately jealous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choice between Patton and Montgomery . He divided his supplies between them and ordered them to advance in step along a " broad front . " The decision was presented at the time , and defended since , as the prudent course of action . It also avoided the prickly problem of making the choice between Patton and Montgomery . One was American and the other British . National pride would have been bitterly hurt had the one been favored over the other . Also , while both were magnificent battle leaders and fighters , they were also both prima donnas . It was probably politically impossible to hobble and starve the one and release the other . But it might conceivably have been possible to cajole or coerce the two into working as a team . Montgomery was probably bluffing when he offered to serve , if necessary , under Patton . Yet it was a bluff which might have been called . There were other possible devices , such as the alternating command system which worked so successfully with Spruance and Halsey in the far Pacific . One ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Napoleon would have found the solution to the problem . Dwight Eisenhower did not find it , and the Russians reached Berlin , Prague and Vienna before the armies of the West . Much sorrow has flowed from that sequence . Eisenhower the Politician led , or , presided over , two enormously successful presidential election campaigns for the Republican Party . Events proved beyond doubt that there was never the slightest question about the outcome of the first campaign . There was n't much serious question at the time . Yet when his more timorous advisers urged him to avoid offending Senator Joseph McCarthy , Eisenhower put away a passage he had prepared for a speech in which he paid his respects to his former commanding officer , General Marshall . George Marshall had for many years been Dwight Eisenhower 's friend , patron and supporter . It was Marshall who picked Eisenhower for the North African campaign , who defended Eisenhower in Washington after the first failure at Kasserine Pass and during the tempest over the Darlan-de Gaulle affair and who gave Eisenhower the Normandy invasion command . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division commander had it not been for George Marshall . There were other debts which are not yet on the public record . McCarthy had attacked Marshall , brutally and wickedly . Eisenhower 's impulse and intention was to speak in Marshall 's defense . He owed Marshall far more than he owed any other living man . For the sake of an alleged few votes , he allowed himself to be persuaded to keep silent . So far as we know today George Marshall never discussed the incident with anyone . He died , in silence . Eisenhower 's debt to Marshall stands unpaid . Eisenhower the Statesman led , or presided over , a phase of what appeared to be gradually-improving relations between the United States and the Soviet Union . The trend of events through the meeting at Camp David seemed to be moving in a promising direction . On the first of May in 196o , when Eisenhower 's Presidency still had nine months to go , an American reconnaissance aircraft was brought down inside the Soviet Union . Eisenhower was scheduled to meet Nikita Khrushchev in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peacemaker and a statesman depended on the outcome of that meeting in Paris . It is official Washington doctrine that Nikita Khrushchev intended to wreck the Summit before he reached it . What is not known is the date on which the decision was taken in Moscow to wreck the Summit . There is interesting and impressive evidence that the decision was taken only at the last minute , and only after Mr. Eisenhower had personally and publicly claimed responsibility for the U-2 mission and publicly asserted that the flights would continue . It is also contended that the Summit was a foregone failure and that the West ended up ahead of the game because it never took place . This is possible . The fact is , however , that until the time of his assumption of personal responsibility for the U-2 flight Dwight Eisenhower was an influential force in world affairs . Whether he might have been able to use his influence for good during the remaining months of his term of office is problematical , but it was a respected influence . It disappeared from world affairs at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended Eisenhower 's influence with his Allies as suddenly as it did in Moscow . The Allies were aghast ? not of course at the reconnaissance flights , in which they had participated and which their governments entirely approved , but at the Eisenhower assumption of personal responsibility for them , which violated all standard procedure in such cases and which certainly provided Khrushchev with the perfect weapon for wrecking the Summit even if it did not necessarily cause the wrecking . There are several explanations offered for the Eisenhower role in the U-2 affair . The most plausible , and the one backed by the most impressive evidence , is that Mr. Eisenhower 's political advisers told him that it would be bad domestic politics for him to make the conventional disclaimer , that the Democrats would accuse him of being on the golf course when he should have been minding the store . The Democrats undoubtedly would have done so . It probably was good domestic politics for the President to assert a personal knowledge of the specific flight , which apparently he actually did not have , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they were not . But was it good foreign policy to end abruptly and for all time Mr. Eisenhower 's capacity to play a role in foreign affairs ? The postscript on his personal influence as a statesman was written in Bonn six months later in the twilight of his Presidency when he sent his emissaries to the Germans asking for helpto staunch the flow of gold from the American Treasury . For Dwight Eisenhower the Germans did not have a penny to spare . The soldier did not harness Patton and Montgomery . The politician did not defend his greatest benefactor . The statesman did not survive the U-z incident to play out his role to the end . For other reasons he will long be remembered in the hearts of his people as Eisenhower The Good . For these reasons it is unlikely that future historians will refer to him as Eisenhower The Great .                     