@@493510

Hoffa on Trial by Christopher Jencks The Nashville trial of James R. Hoffa for violation of the Taft-Hartley Act should draw to a close this week . Even if Hoffa is convicted , the longstanding war between Hoffa and the Kennedys will still be far from over . A conviction would be appealed . An appeal might be sustained . Even if it were n't , and Hoffa went to jail , he would face a maximum sentence of two years and a fine of $20,000 . He would probably remain president of the 1.7 million member International Brotherhood of Teamsters , Chauffeurs , Warehousemen , and Helpers . The Administration would still not have delivered on Kennedy 's campaign claim that " an effective Attorney General with the present laws that we now have on the books can remove Mr. Hoffa from office . " This was a startling claim . Most people would imagine that removing union presidents from office was a job for the membership , not the Attorney General . There is , of course , provision under the Landrum-Griffin Act that men convicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Hoffa had not in 1960 ( and has not today ) been convicted of any crime , serious or otherwise . A Nashville conviction would not be of sufficient magnitude to bar him from office . The Kennedy effort to divest Hoffa of control over the Teamsters has all the earmarks of a moral crusade , and moral crusades tend to become larger than life . For one thing , the magnitude of the threat posed by Hoffa is usually exaggerated . For another , the mixed motives and consequences of his activities are often ignored . He is treated not like other defendants , a mere mortal , innocent until proved guilty , but as the incarnation of evil . On August 19 , 1960 , for example , Robert Kennedy wrote to the editor of the American Weekly , commenting on a story which had quoted him as saying that the Teamster attorneys were " legal prostitutes . " The Teamsters , he said , " have about the largest array of legal talent in the country . Many of them are not labor lawyers but criminal attorneys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of union members ' dues money and often their only job is to ensure that Mr. Hoffa and his cronies remain in their positions of power within the Teamsters ' Union . These men are the legal prostitutes . " It is important to look closely at this charge . Note that Robert Kennedy was not alleging a breach of professional ethics or sharp practice by any particular Teamster attorney . He was implying that any attorney , however honest , who devoted himself to keeping Hoffa out of jail and in office was , ipso facto , a prostitute . This despite the fact that the right to counsel is guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution . In this case , the charge is made doubly disturbing by the fact that the main crime of the " prostitutes " had been to persuade two different juries that indictments for bribery and wiretapping obtained by the Justice Department against Hoffa had been groundless . It is understandable that those who regarded Hoffa 's guilt as one of the axioms of life ? and they were many ? saw these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But an equally logical inference might have been that Hoffa had been wrongfully accused and that his attorneys had rendered service not only to him but to the cause of justice in seeing that he was not convicted . Five months after making this charge Robert Kennedy became US Attorney General . Since then he has sought , in his brother 's phrase , to be more " effective " than his predecessors . Between 3o and 4o different grand juries are believed to have looked into various Teamster activities ; many of these investigations have produced indictments . But the only indictment against Hoffa himself has been the one returned last May in the " Test Fleet " case now on trial in Nashville . In trying to gain perspective on the whole Hoffa-Kennedy war , one must bear in mind that the Test Fleet case is eight years old , having first been aired in Congressional hearings of 1954 . According to Drew Pearson the Justice Department dropped the case then in return for Teamster support for Senator Homer Ferguson 's reelection campaign . The Teamsters say the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reason , the case lay dormant long after Ferguson 's retirement , and was not revived until last winter . According to the indictment , Commercial Carriers , Inc. , an auto shipping firm , with whom the Teamsters had been negotiating , established a subsidiary in 1949 called Test Fleet , Inc . Test Fleet leased trucks back to Commercial Carriers . Once established , its stock was transferred to Mrs. James R. Hoffa and Mrs. Bert Brenner . Over the next decade Test Fleet earned nearly $250,000 before taxes . The Teamsters say this was a normal business transaction and that in any case the prohibition of Taft-Hartley against union officials taking money from employers does not mention wives . The Justice Department disagrees with this explanation . Having inflated grand jury inquiries in Nashville last February , the Justice Department was unexpectedly confronted with a problem in April . On April 2 , 1962 , Judge John D. Martin of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals died . For political reasons his successor had to come from Tennessee . And Judge William E. Miller , the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious candidates . He was , it is true , a Republican . But he had endeared himself to local Democrats by appointing Democrats to almost all the Court House jobs at his disposal , sometimes even displacing Republicans to make room for them . He was also respected ( and later endorsed ) by the Nashville Bar , despite the fact that he had come to Nashville only a few years before . As a result , according to press reports , he was one of several men mentioned for the Circuit Court by Senators Gore and Kefauver to the Attorney General . At this point the Justice Department had a choice . It could have dropped the case against Hoffa in Nashville , seeking an indictment in Detroit or elsewhere . Instead , it pressed on , obtaining an indictment on May 28 . Having done so , it confronted a second problem . On April 26 Deputy Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach had predicted in Nashville that there would be an Appeals Court appointment to fill the vacancy left by Martin 's death by " early summer . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointee had not been Judge Miller , the problem would have been solved . However , had Miller been promoted to the Court of Appeals , the Hoffa trial would have fallen to the other Nashville district judge . This judge had been appointed by President Kennedy several weeks after the grand jury which indicted Hoffa was convened . If such a judge had presided there would certainly have been a great outcry about hand-picking him to try the Kennedys ' leading enemy . No- promotion was made either by " early summer " or , indeed , by early winter . Nor is one now thought imminent . Instead , Judge Miller was asked to try Hoffa , while his candidacy remained in the air . This has placed the Judge in the awkward position of knowing that while he is arbitrating between the Attorney General and Hoffa , the Attorney General is scrutinizing his judicial work with an eye to promotion . This is not to say that Miller is or could be influenced in any egregious manner . Even the cynic must realize that the worst thing he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned , would be to rule in favor of the government and then be reversed by the Appeals Court , producing a mistrial . But where the law is ambiguous ? where honest men disagree and it is impossible to tell what the Appeals Court will decide ? Miller is in a difficult position , no matter what he does . In particular , he may have surmised that if he refusedjurisdiction , supporting the Teamsters ' claim that the cases should be tried in Detroit , he would remain an outside candidate for promotion . If , on the other hand , he accepted jurisdiction , handled the difficult but widely-publicized case with distinction , and was not reversed by the Court of Appeals , he would deservedly become a leading candidate for promotion . In elaborating these possibilities I am not suggesting that Judge Miller has treated the Teamsters unfairly . I have no reason to think he has . Nevertheless , I wonder whether it is wise to perpetuate a system which makes the same agency of the government responsible both for prosecuting cases and recommending promotions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an independent judicial commission to advise the President on judicial nominations , and while such a plan is open to criticism it might do something to solve this particular problem . As has been said many times , it is important not only that justice be done , but that it is seen to be done . Any seeming conflict of interest , no matter how unsubstantial , brings the integrity of the courts into question . So long as Hoffa remains head of the Teamsters ' Union it is of comparatively little consequence whether he is convicted or acquitted in Nashville . The great public issue is whether the government will , through its Nashville presentation and a court verdict , persuade the typical truck driver that Hoffa is unfit for office . In my own view , he is unfit for office . But I am not a member of the Teamsters ' Union , and my view is not likely to influence Hoffa 's future . Hoffa and his colleagues will try to convince their membership that he is being persecuted by the Justice Department for his militance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizing the hitherto unorganized . Given the pretext of presiding Judge Miller 's situation , they may well succeed . It is of no use in such cases to point out that the trial has not been rigged , or that the Court of Appeals would reverse Miller if he were unfair to Hoffa ; a truck driver with a suspicious mind and a limited knowledge of the law is not likely to be impressed by such abstract arguments . What should the Justice Department have done ? It could easily have cleared itself of all doubts by appointing someone other than Miller to the Circuit Court before the Hoffa case came to trial , allowing Miller to try the case free from anxiety . If , on the other hand , it wanted to promote Miller , Justice could have removed the case to another District or dropped it altogether . ( Removal would not , of course , have prevented another vacancy occurring in the new Circuit 's Court of Appeals , starting the whole cycle over again . ) Dropping the Nashville case would not , it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way unchallenged . There is another case pending against Hoffa in Tampa , initiated in the last days of the Eisenhower Administration and dragged out until this fall by the obstructionist tactics of the Teamsters . This is a more serious case than the Nashville one , charging Hoffa and a Detroit banker named Robert E. McCarthy with fraud , " by mail , telegraph and telephone . " In arguing against bringing this case to trial on October 15 , as agreed last June , the government even went so far as to obtain an affidavit from McCarthy 's physician , without McCarthy 's consent , stating that he was too sick to go to trial . This despite the fact that McCarthy himself claimed he was ready for trial . In addition , the Teamsters charge that the Justice Department put pressure on the Courts to have the case delayed , so as to go to trial in Nashville . Finally , let me emphasize that Hoffa is not the innocent victim of a Kennedy vendetta . In distributing pluses and minuses in this case I imagine an impartial observor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minus he gave the Justice Department . But even one minus is one too many . In dealing with a man who has had a record of personal animosity and political conflict with the Attorney General , no amount of restraint by Federal prosecutors is too great .                     