@@477669

American hospitals are in deep trouble . Too many of their customers are dissatisfied ? too often with good reason . Hospital employees , in most places , are disastrously underpaid . Most hospitals are pressed by mounting deficits although their rates have soared in the past decade , increasing twice as fast as medical care in general and outdistancing every other item on the consumer price index . At a time when they can perform awesome miracles of lifesaving and healing , the nation 's hospitals face a financial , social , and philosophical crisis . Fifty years ago , when a doctor 's personal ability was what mattered most , a superior physician in an obscure little hospital could give better care than was available in many a large institution . Today , however , installing a single piece of equipment , such as a 35-million-volt betatron used to treat cancer , may cost a quarter of a million dollars and require a team including physicists to operate it . The solitary practitioner has been replaced by an army of specialists whose skills must he integrated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Recently , for instance , a boy with a heart murmur entered a large medical center for diagnosis and treatment . Doctors threaded a tube through a vein into his heart , injected dyes through it , and after studying the results by means of special X-ray and recording techniques , found a hole between the two major chambers of the heart , and a narrowing of the pulmonary artery . A decade ago , the child would have died within eighteen months . The modern medical team that established the diagnosis had spent the past four years doing heart operations with a new machine called a pump-oxygenator , working first on dogs and then on humans . In the operatingMARTIN CHERKASKY , M.D. AND MAYA PINES A young doctor-administrator believes many hospitals are doing the wrong job ? and going broke in the process while costs skyrocket . Dr. Cherkask.y is director of Monte fibre Hospital in New York and a consultant to the New York State Joint Hospital Surrey and Planning Commission . His collaborator , Maya Pines , is a freelance writer specializing in medical subjects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gathered around the boy . They anesthetized him and opened his chest , stopped the heart , and introduced the pump-oxygenator to Lake over the heart 's functions . They replaced the blood in the body as needed , using some ten pints of fresh blood collected from donors who had been called to the hospital early that morning . Throughout the operation , they watched his brain waves on an electroencephalograph to make certain that sufficient oxygen was being provided to the brain and other vital organs . After opening the heart , they sewed up the hole between the ventricles , removed the narrow portion of the pulmonary artery , and replaced it with a plastic tube . First making sure that the sutures were properly placed and holding , they then restored the heartbeat . Once the heart was ready to resume its function , the pump-oxygenator was discontinued . Then they closed up the linings of the heart and chest . The child spent the next critical hours in the recovery-room next door . Two weeks later , he was discharged with the prospect of a normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here was modern medicine demonstrating its potential . A major hospital is a precious social and economic asset , requiring a huge investment . Rut if society is to reap the return , hospitals will have to redistribute their functions , as industry learned to do long ago . All too often the very opposite happens . For instance , doctors may convince their trustees 159 that a small hospital needs a new heart pump . It is duly purchased and installed . But cases requiring it turn up only once a month , and with so little practice the technicians who run the machine never become really skilled . Obviously the hospital can not do this job well , though it can certainly do it expensively . From the patient 's point of view this hospital is a menace . Meanwhile , an ideally equipped institution may be squandering its resources . For example , after his day 's work a young man is admitted to a large teaching hospital for diagnostic tests . He exchanges his clothes for a short gown and climbs into a bed designed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Next morning a professional nurse serves him breakfast on a tray , although he is quite capable of going downstairs to the cafeteria . This is the only way he can get the services he needs : three days of intricate , continuous laboratory tests and X-rays which must be interpreted by specialists with experience and judgment . Elsewhere in the same hospital , a young matron who has been making good progress in her struggle against heart disease develops symptoms of severe anxiety . She is worried about her small children , left at home under doubtful supervision , about her husband 's feelings toward her , and about their finances . Prolonged hospitalization in impersonal surroundings further strains her mental defenses . She needs help from both social worker and psychiatrist . Most hospitals , however , do not even have a social-service department , and in many hospitals psychiatric services are so rudimentary that a consultant would be called in only to decide whether the patient can safely remain in the hospital , or whether her mental illness is so severe that she should be committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both an appalling shortage of psychiatrists and a lack of highly-specialized medical care . A physical relapse would be almost inevitable . The hospital of the future will have to limit itself to the functions that can not be performed elsewhere . It will concentrate on definitive diagnosis and definitive treatment , delegating all other medical care to closely associated lint less expensive satellite facilities . This calls for drastic reorganization within hospitals and the communities where they are located . In a town of 200,000 people , for instance , there might be one central 600-bed hospital , housing all the special departments and expensive equipment . This would be the only place for neurosurgery , cardiac surgery , and complicated diagnostic tests . Unlike today 's hospitals , in which patients admitted on Friday often stay two days extra because some departments do not function over the weekend , the central hospital would be fully active seven days a week . In other parts of town , intelligently placed according to population patterns , there would be three other related but smaller and less specialized 200-bed hospitals . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations . HOW SHOULD PATIENTS BE GROUPED ? I n appearance and organization future hospitals will differ from those of the past . They will be designed for " progressive patient care " : that is , patients will be grouped according to the intensity of their medical and nursing needs rather than according to their incomes . This plan ? long advocated by the U. S. Public Health Service ? is already being tried out in varying degrees in some 150 hospitals . At Methodist Hospital in Rochester , Minnesota , for instance , the intensive-care unit is housed in a circular building completely furnished with emergency equipment . Patients ' rooms have large glass panels in the doors and since all beds are plainly visible from a central station , a small number of nurses can keep seriously sick patients under constant observation , For ambulatory patients ? such as the young man who came in for diagnostic tests mentioned above , or convalescents ? tomorrow 's hospitals will have inexpensive facilities like those at Umchester Memorial Hospital in Connecticut . Here such patients ( who make up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dress themselves , walk to the laboratory and X-ray departments on schedule , and line up for meals in the cafeteria . The bill is only $11 a day . Another ingenious approach to this problem has been tried in Houston , Texas , where a ramp connects an adjacent motel to the Methodist Hospital . In addition to its own central buildings , each hospital would have separate auxiliary facilities nearby . One would be a new kind of nursing home ? a halfway house between hospital and home . Here patients would recuperate after surgery . Here too there would be treatment and rehabilitation programs for people who are chronically sick , particularly the aged . Traditionally they have been set apart in special hospitals or poorhouses of their own , conveniently tucked out of sight . With few exceptions the private nursing homes of today , in which thou- 161 sands of old people vegetate , are a national disgrace . The only solution is to bring this class of patients , too , back into the main stream of medicine . Nursing homes should be intimately connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( often more complicated to establish in chronic than in acute illness ) and for treatment , including surgery . Then , if nursing homes have working arrangements with hospital-based staff , they can bring to bear on these patients everything we know of modern medicine , professional nursing , rehabilitation , and occupational therapy , and wherever necessary retrain them for a more modest life . Nursing homes of this kind can prevent patients from sinking into complete invalidism . They can make sure that each patient reaches his maximum potential . A woman with arthritis so severe that she has been totally incapacitated , for instance , may take a new lease on life when she is taught to use her limbs enough to turn the pages of a book . If , eventually , she is unable to go home , she will he transferred to another nearby building designed for permanent care . There she would still be under the hospital 's watchful eye . Doctors ' offices , too , would be clustered around the lour hospitals . The problems of distance and time between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed-circuit TV for inter-hospital consultations , and electronic transmission of records , X-rays , and diagnostic tracings . LEVELS OF CARE T he hospital of the future must be geared to the long-neglected needs of the chronically and the mentally ill , and to the social factors in disease and rehabilitation . An experimental approach to some of these problems has been attempted at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx , New York , which was founded in 1884 with the dreadful name of " Montefiore Home for Chronic Invalids . " Its staff soon realized that the emotional and economic results of long-term illness , both to the patient and his family , were almost as bad as the illness itself . With the help of a very active social-service department , a tradition of social research developed , persisting as Monte-fibre expanded to take in all kinds of patients ? acute as well as chronic cases . Under E. M. Bluestone , a man of broad social vision who became administrator in 1928 , the hospital started a modern home-care program , inspired by the tragic decision which routinely faces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hospital . For example , after six months of heart disease , during which he has been in and out of hospitals and has run through his $6,000 life savings , a man in his early sixties can see nothing but disaster ahead . Good nursing homes , even though they generally provide very little in the way of rehabilitation , cost up to $120 a week . The other nursing homes come close to Iris idea of hell . The hospital can not keep him any longer . And much as he would like to go home , he still needs medical supervision , a hospital bed , a wheel chair , special bathroom equipment , oxygen for emergencies , drugs , perhaps even round-the-clock care . What is lie to do ? The home-care program assures him visits by a hospital-based specialist and nursing care . The equipment he needs , including hospital bed and oxygen , will be lent to him . His family will be helped by a social worker , and a visiting rehabilitation counselor will try to train him for a new , part-time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these services is only $4.60 a day . Until recently psychiatry has been totally divorced from the general hospitals . The loss to patients , to doctors , and even to psychiatry itself has been incalculable . Isolated in large , overcrowded mental hospitals far removed from population centers , or in small private offices where they concentrated on a few neurotic patients , psychiatrists have been cut off from the main stream of modern medicine . At the same time organic medicine has been deprived of the contribution of good psychiatry . Now as our fear of mental patients recedes ( thanks , in part , to the tranquilizers ) psychiatry is again becoming one of the major hospital disciplines . In the future , probably a significant proportion of general-hospital beds and facilities will have to he set aside for psychiatry . One way to c/o this will soon be tried out at Montefiore , which will offer psychiatric patients five different levels of care . A teen-age girl diagnosed by a psychiatrist as moderately disturbed , for instance , may be admitted to the " day hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have violent objections to her being committed to a mental hospital , with its apparent finality and its stigma ; complete separation from her usual surroundings might also be harmful to the girl in the long run . In the " day hospital " she could simply come in the morning , as if it were school or a job ; she would receive treatment from a psychiatrist , eat in a small cafeteria , and go home at night . Conversely , a young executive who manages to function normally at work despite a complete breakdown in his personal life might find a haven in the night-care section . After a session with his psychiatrist , who would have evening office hours , he could have dinner , relax in plain but comfortable surroundings , and go to sleep in an inexpensive men 's dormitory . Upstairs , highly disturbed in-patients will get twenty-four-hour care . Another section of the new psychiatric pavilion has been reserved for outpatients . And for those who can not leave their homes there will be home care . Hospitalization can be psychologically damaging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to confirm the patient 's worst fears . This graduated system is designed to minimize the ill effects of hospitalization , as well as its duration . It is an experiment in community psychiatry . The full-time psychiatrists in the new Division of Psychiatry will also give consultations to any patient in the hospital upon request , maintain close liaison with all the other divisions , and of course pursue their interests in teaching 71-1 ( 1 research . Admittedly , it will not be easy to change the pattern of our hospitals . They have grown up helter-skelter , in all shapes and LI , sizes . Some are run for profit ( proprietary hospitals ) , some by government ( city , county , state , or federal ) , and the majority of general hospitals by private , nonprofit groups ( voluntary hospitals ) . At present there is nothing to prevent a general practitioner with limited surgical experience from having a patient admitted to a small hospital he is affiliated with , then opening the patient 's abdomen to do a major cancer operation . Licensing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require strict records and the examination of all tissue removed during an operation , no questions will be asked . The patient who has complete confidence in his family doctor may be very grateful for this personal attention . But even the simplest-looking surgery may prove exceedingly complex , and in many hospitals the patient is inadequately protected . A minimum safeguard is ac-creditation by the Joint Com- mission on Accreditation of Hospitals , a representative professional body . This does not guarantee that a hospital is good , but at least it ensures that adequate records will be kept and that tissue committees will make regular , systematic appraisals . But the sorry fact is that of all 5,300 non-federal general hospitals in the U. S. with twenty-five beds or more , only 61 per cent have been accredited . HOW YOUNG DOCTORS LEARN 0 f the accredited hospitals only 220 are af-filiated with medical schools , though more than one thousand hospitals will take graduates ? interns or residents ? to train them in some specialties . The more teaching a hospital does , the higher its general level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , will not appoint a doctor to a post as surgeon unless he has passed his specialty hoards in surgery ( or is about to pass them ) . These specialty boards , which require doctors to demonstrate ability well above ani ! beyond the legal requirements , are probably the best protection available to the public today . In the future , it seems likely that all good hospitals will be closely affiliated with medical schools . And they will have full-time key staffs . Teaching methods have changed radically since the days when the general practitioner , after taking care of his private patients , could instruct the interns as he made his charity rounds in the hospital . To be sure , medical students can still benefit from a practicing physician 's clinical experience . But in addition , full-time specialists with academic and research leanings must instruct them in physiology , chemistry , physics , and electronics as well as in the medical and surgical sciences . This can only be done by doctors who are not torn between their duties at the hospital and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best care to its patients and to carry on even modest training programs , a major hospital needs at least four salaried doctors working full-time ; a chief of surgery , to supervise all the work in his department ; a chief of medicine ; a chief of the diagnostic X-ray department ; and a pathologist , plus other specialists according to the hospital 's program . A nucleus of such specialists , devoting their full attention to the hospital , can create the kind of atmosphere in which alert , responsible doctors thrive . Prospective interns are well aware of these facts . Every winter seven thousand young medical-school seniors preparing to spend a precious year as interns look over the nation 's hospitals with a critical eye . There are twice as many internships available as students . In a matching program developed in 1951 , both students and hospitals list their preferences , which are processed on IBM cards in a kind of musical-chairs game . The results are revealing . While an overall deficit is inevitable until we turn out the many more medical-school graduates our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospitals can no longer fill their intern quotas because their educational programs are not good enough . Usually this is due to lack of a full-time clinical staff , practicing in the hospital , supervising services , and doing research and teaching . Clinical teaching today presents some new problems . Formerly there were two categories of patients : those with money , who paid their bills but did not contribute to the educational process ; and the charity cases , on whom young doctors learned . With the tremendous growth of prepaid insurance plans , most patients are treated in private or semi-private rooms . Unless we want this to he the last generation of doctors , eventually all hospitals will have to involve the full-paying patients , too , in the teaching process . As long as the doctors ' attitude is warm and humane , this will help rather than harm the patients . In teaching hospitals it is the house staff ? interns and residents ? that provides the continuum of medical care , under the supervision of the attending physician . The intern or resident who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examination never has full say in the case . But he is deeply involved in all diagnosis and treatment , and he is on the spot if an emergency occurs at 1:00 A.M. Most patients are glad to have the house staff care for them in this way , but the teaching process becomes far more complicated in surgery . Patients naturally expect to be operated on by the surgeon whom they have selected and whom they will pay . Yet no one can learn to be a surgeon wirhout operating , and there are too few ward cases to go around . So where can the young surgeon start ? The answer is that every operating procedure today requires a team , on which there is room for various levels of skill . If the patient 's own surgeon is in full charge of the operation , he can make sure that all parts of the job are well done , even if the sutures are sewn by an intent . WHO SHALL RUN THE HOSPITAL ? 1 n the world of hospitals , community planning has existed for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1946 , which produced a burst of hospital building with federal aid , also set up plans for state-wide coordination . An admirable effort along these lines was begun in Rochester , New York , in 1946 when a group of eighteen hospitals mapped out a plan for the rational distribution of hospital facilities throughout a region of seven thousand square miles with a population of one million . Within this area , the Rochester Regional Hospital Council administered the federal construction grants provided under the Hill-Burton Act . It raised hospital standards by providing numerous advisory and co-operative services ; sponsored a continuous education program for physicians , dentists , and hospital personnel ? and even for trustees . Despite many difficulties the council is still going strong , with the help of a very broadly representative board of directors . But changes have been slow , and certain problems ? such as how to provide out-patient diagnosis and improve the care of the mentally ill ? have not been tackled . Rochester , however , is a notable exception . By and large , hospital planning has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for instance , the twin cities of Benton Harbor and St. Joseph , Michigan , used Hill-Burton funds to build two general hospitals only two miles apart . The hospitals duplicate expensive facilities but must share specialists to operate them , and both have many vacant beds . Resistance to planning reflects a little-publicized but bitter struggle over who shall control our hospitals and for what purpose . Historically , private practitioners have been in the saddle although in voluntary general hospitals lay trustees are supposed to set the policies . Often , however , trustees are not fully aware of the responsibilities and opportunities of a modern hospital . With a limited knowledge of medical matters , they tend to rely upon their staff doctors . They may be misled . Doctors are not necessarily above bias or economic motives , and it is not always true that what 's good for the doctor is good for the people . The introduction of full-time , salaried specialists in hospitals , for instance , has been hotly resisted with the war cry of " socialized medicine . " It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a doctor to practice in a hospital where there is no supervision , where full records are not kept , and where no demands are made upon his time for teaching or free clinic work . His patients are admitted quickly , he provides no service to the hospital . It is simply his private workshop . As substantial control is given to full-time specialists , some physicians can not measure up to the standards of a major teaching hospital . Others feel that they are losing their patients when they send them to the hospital . Another source of conflict is that busy private practitioners may regard important new services such as a home-care program as just time-consuming , inconvenient projects . They could , after all . see six patients in one hour at the hospital , but might have to spend all day visiting them at home . Who , then , should spark the imperative changes ? As in every major business , the administrator should take a leading role . He can do this , of course , only if he is a true professional who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . Unfortunately , most schools of hospital administration give only vocational training . With few exceptions their graduates are not M.D.s . Yet there is no tougher assignment than that of a layman dealing with a group of doctors , and it is to the great credit of some lay administrators that they have sueceeded in being extremely effective despite their status problem , The trustees themselves tend to look for technicians , rather than leaders , as hospital administrators . When they do choose a doctor they may select one who was not quite good enough for what he did before . Instead , the administrator of a major hospital with aspirations to be a teaching and research center should be a physician with such personal qualifications and medical training that he will command the respect of his colleagues . He should be chosen because he recognizes the job as a fascinating challenge and a great responsibility that will keep him awake nights looking for new directions . COSTS MUST GO UP he daily work of the average hospital administrator , istrator , however , is hardly conducive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about inefficient and insufficient help , bills to pay , obsolete buildings , and the many subsidiary businesses such as restaurants and laundries that a hospital must run , administrators have been known to walk around with enough money in their pockets to pay off the most importuning creditors and thus buy a little peace of mind . Should the Blue Cross check arrive a few days late , some hospitals could not meet their payrolls . Many a gigantic , multi-million-dollar institution is run like a small candy store ? with hardly a month 's financial reserves . Hospitals have come to this sad pass despite unbelievable underpayment of their employees . When hospital workers went on strike in New York last year , some were being paid as little as $34 for a forty-four-hour week . Even now many unskilled workers earn only 540 a week . Hundreds of them have qualified for the relief rolls while holding full-time jobs . The turnover in some hospital departments reaches 300 per cent a year . Meanwhile the patients suffer . When dealing with the sick , one needs not just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are warm , friendly , concerned . In spite of their law wages some hospital employees have managed to remain amazingly kind , with real interest in the patients . As a general rule , however , the most that can be expected from people working under such conditions is that they will be sullen , if not mutinous . Even the professional staff in most hospitals is underpaid . Young doctors who have spent four arduous and expensive years in medical 165 school after graduating from college , who may be married and have children , earn only ? $75 to $250 a month as interns or residents although they may work sixty to one hundred hours a week . If they are training for a specialty , they may continue at this scale of pay for another five years . The worst shortage of all , in hospitals , is the shortage of nurses . In many hospitals one fifth of the nursing jobs are unfilled . ( New York City 's Department of Hospitals reported a 58 per cent shortage in 1959 . These vacancies impose a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technicians are being paid somewhat better salaries than a few years ago , they do not receive nearly enough for such critical positions . Hospitals should be spending millions more on their staffs . Their present financial difficulties are very mild compared to what they should be ? or what they will be in the near future . Personnel represents close to 70 per cent of a hospital 's total costs . Even without adequately raising salaries , at the average voluntary hospital daily expenses per patient have mounted from $14.06 in 1948 to $29.24 in 1958 . In California , where hospital employees earn about as much as in industry , the hospitals ' costs per patient have soared to $40 or $50 a day . Keeping our hospital costs within acceptable bounds will require a level of community cooperation that has never occurred before ? embracing all our hospitals , large and small , whether they are run by the government or private groups . Inevitably such an effort will be resisted by many trustees and doctors with prideand ? sometimes ? vested interests in their own institutions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield their closely-guarded autonomy . On the other hand they may soon he subject to strong pressure from insurance plans , which are a major source of hospital income , from business firms , labor unions , and other citizens ' groups . Blue Cross alone has 53 million subscribers across the country . In New York City it pays $22 million a year to unaccredited hospitals ? a practice which will be increasingly questioned as costs and rates rise . Recently Dr. Ray E. Trussell of Columbia University 's School of Public Health suggested that non-profit insurance plans should pay for patient care only in hospitals that meet specified standards of care . These would be established by broadly representative councils which would also approve all local use of Hill-Burton funds for new hospital construction . Whatever the means we adopt to meet the enormous problems ahead , we must accept the fact that good hospital care can not be produced cheaply . The technological revolution in medicine has only begun ; there will be more expensive equipment , more need of skilled technicians . But if we continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , without defining their goals and without support of less expensive satellite facilities , costs will simply skyrocket without any gain in the quality of care . For only with sound economic and social planning can tomorrow 's hospitals fulfill their ever-rising potential .                     