@@431783

 | Chief Reddin : New Style at the Top SINCE modern law enforcement , like modern warfare , is as much dependent on appearances as reality , it was inevitable that Madison Avenue would eventually penetrate the world of the station house . Nowhere is this intrusion more apparent than in Los Angeles , where the police department , always the well-oiled crime-fighting machine par excellence , decided two years ago to recast and humanize its image and then proceeded to mount a public relations campaign of the kind that is usually used to sell a new breakfast cereal . Suddenly , billboards displaying the smiling countenances of policemen took root in the burned-out lots along Watts 's Charcoal Alley . Schoolchildren were sent home with replicas of LAPD badges and registration slips for the department 's Little League teams . Kaffeeklatsches organized by police brass brought together suspicious citizens and unwilling patrolmen . Radio spot announcements , Sunday afternoon television panels , and Hollywood-produced recruiting films clogged the media . Not even prime time was beyond the department 's means . Dragnet , the network TV series @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new upbeat look . Week after week , Sergeant Joe Friday , Dragnet 's perennially dour detective , behaved in a very uncoplike manner . Instead of busting up smuggling rings or chasing petty hoodlums , Friday rapped with black militants and tongue-lashed cocky rookies who made the mistake of treating Negroes " discourteously . " He even allowed himself an occasional grim-lipped smile . This intensive campaign to alter , and improve , public attitudes toward the police , which has since served as a model for other cities , goes under the name " community relations . " It is a tactic prescribed , after five seasons of rioting , by such authoritative bodies as the President 's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice , the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders , and the International Association of Chiefs of Police . In Los Angeles , where it has been most widely tested , the " community relations " campaign has had noticeable consequences . It has soothed middleclass Angelenos , shaken by the August , 1965 , riots that rocked this city and by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eagerly , although perhaps unsure what was real and what TV drama , they took all the publicity as a sign that something was being done . In their gratitude , they began to look with awe on the man responsible for the apparent changes in police performance , the Los Angeles chief of police , Thomas Reddin . A beaming six-foot-four-inch , two-hundred-tenpound giant , he is a natural target for such adulation . Reddin both inspires confidence , and as an undeniably talented publicist , knows how to manipulate it once it is aroused . He possesses all the attributes of a top-notch salesman : an ingratiating personality , an ability to inject a winning note of candor into even his stalest speeches , and an endless reserve of enthusiasm . He observes a twelvehour workday , hustling from meetings with black militants to Rotarian luncheons and TV taping% sometimes making three or four speeches and rarely refusing an interview . During his first year on the job , his staff calculated that he made 245 speeches before an estimated 70,000 persons and spent only 5 nights at home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they released the statistics to the press . Reddin carefully cultivates the media and sometimes slips unconsciously into the huckster 's rhetoric . He has been known to take reporters aside at press conferences and whisper conspiratorially , " You 'll help me sell this , wo n't you ? " Even a little old-fashioned Hollywood sex appeal is permissible . " You 're going to love the chief , " Reddin 's television adviser once told two startled women reporters . " All the ladies do . " Reddin 's energy is infectious ; at noon every day ,  | the offices of his subordinates in the glittering eightstory police administration building downtown are deserted . Like their boss , his assistants are out breaking bread with the people and selling community relations . The able community relations director , Deputy Chief James Fisk , says the top administrators keep such whirlwind schedules because that is the way " they can reach as many people as possible and gain their trust . " Anticipating the inevitable put-downs ( luncheon toastmasters sometimes wonder when the police do their work ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out their administrative , technological , and social innovations just to prove there is substance behind the claims of progress . It is a list which reads like the recommendations of the Kerner Report or the summary of the latest police science primer , and leaves no doubt about the progressive bent of the LAPD . Every commission-stamped police experiment known to American society is being tested there , which lends to Reddin 's efforts a significance they otherwise ' might not have . One is led to the conclusion that if the LAPD fails , it will be a failure for all the less progressive cities and for all the standard commission-produced remedies as well . To understand the pressures on Reddin and his compulsion to sell community relations , it is necessary to examine the state of the department he inherited in February , 1967 . It was a well-turnedout corps , with a rather outsized pride in its efficiency , its incorruptibility , and its crime-busting prowess . Rules and regulations proliferated , dictating every move an officer made , and pay was high . Despite all this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scale of its own deficiencies only when Watts went up in flames and the whole world looked on . " We went by the book , which we thought had all the answers , " one watch commander said ruefully afterward . " Our biggest mistake was that we did n't just chuck it in the incinerator . " Not only had then Chief William H. Parker failed to draw up contingency plans or give his men any special training to cope with massive civil disorder , but as Watts burned , he refused to negotiate with Negro leaders who were trying to quench the flames . Even the department 's equipment , supposedly second to none , proved hopelessly obsolete : commanders could not communicate with patrol cars because their radios operated on different frequencies . In the end , because the LAPD could not do it alone , 14,000 National Guardsmen were required to subdue the curfew area ( which by that time encompassed a region the size of San Francisco ) and to halt the sporadic freeway sniping that terrorized the rest of the city . Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force and the crusty old chief ; Parker responded by ordering riot helmets . But the lessons of Watts were not lost on Reddin , then a deputy chief . When he ascended to his present position after Parker 's death , what he learned in 1965 determined his priorities : re-establishing contact with the city 's residents , restoring themorale of the force , and ensuring there would be no recurrence of mass destruction . The result was a community relations campaign that is essentially two campaigns because Reddin has two distinct constituencies . One , the city 's large WASPish middle class , wants a police department that will protect it from the " criminals " and those on the outs with society , put down future disturbances , and maybe , as an afterthought , be " fair " without demonstrating any softness with lawbreakers . This constituency , which rarely encounters a lawman except in the form of a traffic cop , prizes efficiency . The other constituency , including the 3o percent of the population living in the sprawling Negro ghettos and Latin barrios , shares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the memories of those August nights burned indelibly in their minds , these very copwise people feel themselves threatened not only by criminals but by the police themselves . To satisfy the first constituency , Reddin primarily had only to demonstrate that the department was prepared for all contingencies that might conceivably ruffle the near-suburban scene , whether another Watts riot or multiplying home burglaries . These problems yielded quickly to technological  | and tactical solutions , for which Reddin had clear precedents and guidelines : and the solid citizens meeting their affable chief at luncheons or seeing him on TV were pleased with his promptness and apparent dedication . Thus , today 's basic anti-riot formula , which calls for superior speed and large-scale infusions of manpower into troubled areas , is designed as much to soothe uptight WASP 's as to contain violence . " It 's a beautiful plan , " Reddin says , " because the police response is carefully calibrated to the size of the disturbance , always enough to smother the trouble quickly without igniting the rest of the community . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-day review sessions in riot prevention and control for its officers , determinedly recruits Negroes and MexicanAmericans for the force , and operates a $25,000 armored trailer which serves as a mobile command post . In every technical respect , the LAPD is riotready . As for fighting " crime in the streets " ( a shibboleth the usually restrained Reddin uses nonetheless ) , the chief has begun to apply scientific and technological tools which will make the force as mechanized as anything Ian Fleming ever dreamt of . Already , thanks to a computer bank financed by a $450,000 federal grant , the time for checking prisoners ' records has been cut from twelve hours to thirty minutes , and the prior arrests of motorists stopped for traffic violations are ready in about sixty seconds . Police missions have been defined so that two years of crime statistics can be fed into a computer that will print out the optimum deployment of manpower . Within a couple of years . computers will not only pinpoint crime target areas but also automatically assign patrols when and where they are needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an officer at the scene of a call minutes after it 's made . Hipped on technology , Reddin wants gadgets that will permit officers to see in the dark , frisk suspects without touching them , @#  | and halt speeding automobiles without firing a shot . In his conception of law enforcement , computerization and gadgetry are not ends in themselves but will free officers to get at the real task of policing : knowing the people . That may well be ; in the meantime , his willingness to experiment along these lines and his skill at grantsmanship , unlike more humdrum administrative changes , have convinced the middle class that the force is on the move and criminals had better beware . Technology , too , if applied correctly , becomes effective community relations . In great sections of the city today , citizens carry on serene in the knowledge that Toni Reddin is out chasing crooks with computers . The chief 's other constituents , those who live in the ghettos and barrios which today make up the south and east ends of the city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parker , have scarcely been altered by the same tactics and promises that have worked so well with the middle class . The poor , who come into contact with the cops every day , are aware as the WASP 's are not that the realities of the streets do not yet resemble Dragnet 's well-made little dramas . On paper , however , the community relations program is flawless . And Reddin , a perfectly sincere and thoroughly devoted policeman , does his best to make it work with the poor . Again anticipating the Kerner Commission , the chief soon after his installation set out to re-establish " positive " contacts with the people , a task Parker ( " we are not sociologists " ) neglected during his sixteen-year tenure . " We found out as a result of that little training exercise in 1965 that we had completely lost touch with the public we were attempting to serve , " Reddin recalled recently . " Our men were faceless badges behind the windshields of patrol cars , and the only time they ever talked with citizens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making arrests . " A THICK blue-bound manual describes the programs created in the last two years : athletic leagues and camping trips for the children ; Teen Posts , police-youth councils , and Explorer posts for teenagers ; a federally financed program to hire young ex-convicts as " community liaison aides . " The community relations staff has been enlarged from 3 officers to 120 and dispatched to each of the 17 divisions with instructions to organize community councils that include the militant cop-haters as well as the usual cop-sympathizers . Reddin sits in on some of these meetings and welcomes the most militant , who usually disdain the councils , to private sessions in his office . On a more formal level , he has decentralized the functions of the department to give the local divisions more autonomy and , it is hoped , a less starchy and inaccessible character . As a means of personalizing and stabilizing the force , Reddin has also reversed an ancient department policy that rotated assignments around the city and around the clock every six months . " I wanted the people in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get the same man on the phone every time they called the station , " he explained . The most popular innovation so far , however , has been the simplest . Reddin merely revived an old institution that was rapidly approaching extinction in motorized Los Angeles : the cop on the beat . He took more than forty men out of prowl cars and set them to pounding the pavements in high-crime and high-density areas . The response to Reddin 's first overtures was cautious but favorable . The youth programs were well subscribed , and minority businessmen and housewives , those most aware of daytime street activity , liked the cops on the beat . The citizens ' councils , begun with such hopes , quickly deteriorated as participation fell and only the confirmed cop-symps remained . Despite their failings , the councils had the chief 's ear , and he implemented several of their recommendations : officers are now required to wear breast-pocket nameplates and carry business cards ; warnings instead of expensive citations are given for automobile equipment violations ; the bitterly resented and dehumanizing " roust-frisks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands held high ) have been " de-emphasized , " though not eliminated . But community councils , handouts , and TV programs could not in the end remove the most formidable obstacle to winning the trust of the ghetto : the whole long sordid history of police-minority relations . " Talking out problems " and " getting to know each other " are essentially middle-class solutions to problems ; but ghetto people , especially the angry young men who were Reddin 's special targets , are suspicious of such modi operandi and do not ordinarily even go to meetings . In the ghettos , the councils which worked well elsewhere became incestuous . At a recent city-council inquiry into a police-Black Panther shoot-out , the star witness for the LAPD was all elderly Watts resident , a citizens ' council stalwart , who is notorious for her antipathy to her neighbors . She appeared at the behest of " my lieutenant , " as she called the community relations officer who escorted her downtown . ' What most poor black and Latin people ( even those who liked Reddin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitudes and actions of the lowly patrolmen had been reformed . The chief , to  | his credit , was well aware of the need for reforms at the street level : but the patrolmen 's behavior was the one thing Reddin could not control . He struggled manfully to sell his ideas to the line officers , many of whom resented the innocuous concessions that had come out of the community councils : he tried to convince them that the community relations program was not just window dressing but would make their job easier . The chief circulated throughout the department , visited division roll calls , summoned command-level officers to weekend conferences at a mountain resort ( where they engaged activities that looked suspiciously like sensitivity training and enraged the Bircliers ) , and called patrolmen into his office for biweekly meetings . Twice a month , the troops got a newsletter from the boss , with a one-paragraph message . One typical caveat : " Do n't blow your cool and be the one who starts an incident . One man who allows his bigotry to enter into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men can do good . " But the patrolmen are tough customers . Community relations strikes many of them as softness , which is antithetical to their self-image . Practically all resent Reddin 's conferences with militants and consider his negotiations with the enemy ( read " Negro troublemakers " ) tantamount to treason . When dissension appears the ranks , Reddin has only the most negative means for setting things right : he can transfer the known bigots out of trouble spots , which he does : he can discipline those who are openly insubordinate or demonstrate " conduct unbecoming a policeman . " But for the majority of patrolmen who are hostile to change but who never make any overt gesture of rebellion , there exist no specific sanctions . ( What could be done , for example , to those officers who last April , on the day of Martin Luther King 's funeral , disobeyed a Reddin directive to turn on the headlights of their patrol cars ? ) And no one has yet to find an adequate reward for the man who displays positive attitudes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division , where he obviously belongs . If balky patrolmen represent one aspect of police operations which Reddin apparently can not reform , there is another aspect , even more fundamental , that he trill not reform , though doing so might be the one demonstration of sincerity that would win over minority groups . This is the old bugbear , the department 's internal disciplinary procedures . Reddin claims he can not alter the basic disciplinary pattern so as to allow more civilian participation without ' ' completelv losing control of the force . " To compensate , he has tried to give some appearance of equity by juggling personnel and renaming administrative positions ; an inspector ( with a large staff ) outside the chain of command is empowered to investigate all complaints against the force . To the layman , however , the inspector 's place on the organizational chart scarcely matters ; few minoritygroup members who have had experience with the system consider it just . In an attempt to discredit the complaint procedures , the American Civil Liberties Union has filed a $600,000 suit against Reddin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ACLU 's purported goal is a civilian review board , though spokesmen admit in private they would settle for open hearings on complaints . On this , Reddin is unmovable . " Maybe we will never reach the point with our critics that they trust the system , " the says philosophically . " We just have to rely on the fact that we know we 're strictly disciplined . " Because he is unable to provide the more meaningful reforms the poor would prefer ? changes that might bring about a " partnership between the police and the total community " ? Reddin has settled for a peacekeeping function in these neighborhoods , which at least keeps the middle class happy . Lacking the same kind of citizen support the chief has been able to generate in better-off sections of town , this is a very fragile peace indeed . Once this past summer ( at a festival organized , ironically enough , to celebrate the third " peaceful " anniversary of the 1963 riots ) , Watts ' threatened to blow up again . Ignited by the arrest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the almost instantaneous arrival of dozens of patrol cars , violence spread throughout Watts and left three Negroes dead ( through circumstances the coroner was unable to establish ) . The police , wearing riot helmets , patrolled the south end for two clays aftertward ; the militants , who claimed Reddin 's " cm erreaction ' ' had caused the trouble , broke oft diplomatic relations with the chief and have not resumed them . Negro City Councilman Thomas Bradley , a former police lieutenant , estimated the community relations program was set back six months to a year . AFTER Two years on the job , Reddin has no sure way of judging his accomplishments or the effectiveness of the community relations concept . The statistics show mixed returns : the force , for the first time in years , is growing steadily , and the percentage of Negro and Mexican-American officers has climbed by one percentage point ; crime is up ( but not as high as the national average ) , assaults on officers clown , complaints up ( " Does that mean the public trusts us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this might have happened had there been no community relations , of course .  | To an outsider , it appears that speechmaking and the media blitz have paid off with at least one constituency , the middle class . Reddin 's genial salesmanship has aroused excitement within the upper echelon of his department , charmed the ladies , and disarmed the businessmen who go to luncheons . Los Angeles is once again proud of its police force , so much so that Reddin has obviously considered moving into politics ; his assistants have quietly felt out potential donors to finance a mayoralty campaign . But in the ghetto , there is only the flimsiest police-citizen detente . Patrol cars are relatively safe on the streets of Watts , an achievement which police chiefs in other cities might envy although it falls far short of Reddin 's goals ; Negro children wave at passing cops . That these are the only tangible achievements of two years of determined salesmanship ( and , to be fair , hard work ) demonstrates the limitations of the community relations concept as it is applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a law enforcement agency , and one with pride in its efficiency , the very characteristic that will always mitigate against its acceptance in the ghetto . Aggressive law enforcement practice , which is the normal expectation of the public and the normal mode of operation for police chiefs , requires , for example , that Reddin deploy the greatest concentration of men in high-crime areas . Doing that , he guarantees that if his men are normally zealous , those areas will remain high-crime areas . So it is in Watts , where the people being policed ( through no fault of their own and no fault of the police either ) end up with a disproportionate number of arrests and an insoluble residue of resentment . Reddin can not abandon these practices , no matter how they impede real progress in the ghetto , as long as he wants to retain the support of the middle class and the loyalty of his own officers ; that is to say , as long as he wants to remain the Los Angeles chief of police . That he is unwilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his character or sincerity . As police chiefs go , he deserves the reputation he has gained through his energy , his relative openness , and his undoctrinaire approach to problems . His tragedy is that like other top police administrators he is held accountable for matters over which he has no control . He can not hope to make community relations compensate for a do-nothing mayor who is essentially apathetic about the problems of the poor , a governor whose solution to social problems is to cut budgets , and a business community that has not yet become attuned to the idea of black capitalism . Some of Reddin 's most sympathetic observers are the black militants themselves , which would surprise him . " Hell , " said one , making an observation that would do credit to the best criminologist , " you ca n't blame Reddin . One ma ca n't change an institution . The way I look at it ; cops is cops . "                     