@@488141

Mr. Wheeler is a staff member of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions , and the author of its publications , The Rise and Fall of Liberal Democracy and The Restoration of Politics . The problems dividing the world are often stated in terms of ideological differences between the liberal and the collectivist democracies . This leads quickly to disputes involving the conflicts between individual liberties and economic justice , and to charges and countercharges employing epithets such as capitalist imperialism and Communist expansionism . An inspection of these conflicts reveals that they all share one thing in common : they are international rather than mondial . That is , they are stated in terms of the components making up the world rather than in terms of the problems of the world as a community . The distinction is like that made by economists when they contrast the micro-economic problems of the individual unit with the macroeconomic problems of the economy as a whole . It will be objected immediately that macro-economics does not exist on the level of the world as a whole . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the only way one can state the economic problems of the world is in the terms through which they present themselves to us . Therefore , the only realistic way of stating world economic problems is in terms of the separate communities that actually exist , namely , the nation-states . To repeat , actual economic problems are international , not mondial . This is indisputably true . However , it is just as true that if one persists in stating economic problems in terms of the presently existing components of the world , it will be almost impossible  --  if not certainly impossible  --  ever to see the world economy as a whole . And if we can not even conceive of world economic problems in terms of the world as one community ( a community , admittedly , that has yet to be formally ratified ) , it will be very difficult , if not impossible , ever to see how the various international components that now exist will have to comport themselves in order to become the macro-economic community of the world . So , let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community in mind , and see where they lead us . If one looks at the world economic community from the standpoint of its poor nations , all rich nations look surprisingly alike . This is not to deny that the rich nations differ among themselves in many details . Their negotiations are conducted under different auspices . General Motors and AMTORG show but few resemblances to each other . Yet both are from capital-rich nations . Their internal differences are swallowed up by their external similarities . Both , when they approach the poor nations , represent the interests of the rich . The overall economic situation is one in which those who are rich in capital tend to act in much the same way regardless of 358 the highly publicized ideological differences that are said to distinguish them . Capital is color blind . It carries with it very nearly the same imperatives whether it is all red , or red , white and blue . Any nation that is in a position to invest capital in other nations wishes to maximize the return on its investment . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital suppliers may differ greatly , these differences tend to disappear when seen through the eyes of the poor . The point is simple : advanced industrial nations , of whatever ideological hue , occupy similar economic positions in the world and have similar economic interests to protect . These similarities are most apparent to the poor , for the poor also have special interests which they hold in common . The result of this situation is that the more vigorously the capital-rich nations pursue their own economic interests throughout the world , the more grievous becomes the situation of the poor . It is hard to see how matters could be expected to turn out otherwise . And the fact is that in recent years the capital-rich nations have indeed been getting richer . On the other hand , the poor nations have stagnated or fallen behind . That is , the rate of economic development among the poor either barely keeps up with their rising needs or , in some cases , has even begun to fall , relative to needs . More of this later . This state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worsening condition of the 19th-century working classes . If one regards the world as a single political community , the poor nations within that community can be viewed as the world counterparts of the working classes within the nations of the 19th century . And the capital-rich nations confront the poor in the stance of ruling classes . There is nothing new in this proposition . Long ago , Arnold Toynbee referred to the world 's poor nations as the " external proletariat " of the advanced industrial nations . Before that , Socialists had made a similar point in claiming that the capitalist nations had " exported " their unemployment problem through imperialist exploitation of the world 's colonial areas . It must only be re-emphasized that the important part of the simile between nations and classes concerns not only the poor but also the rich . For all capital-rich nations treat the poor in pretty much the same way regardless of whether they are liberal or collectivist . In short , Russia , Japan , the United States , Germany and England approach Nigeria , Cambodia and Uruguay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalists approached the working classes . But what is the reaction of the poor ? Here agall a rough parallel can be drawn . The poor do not respond ? collectively . Instead , they respond as individuals . Each seeks his own individual betterment . The immediate reaction of each is to try to bargain separately against the rich as well as possible . It is necessary to use raw ? materials , market concessions , diplomatic pressures and long-term contracts in order to entice economic benefits from the capital-rich countries . That is , each poor nation , THE NATION/ October 16 , 1967 acting as a sovereign , independent state , seeks to acquire more capital goods of its own and more subsistence goods for itself alone In order to do this effectively it obviously becomes necessary first to qualify as a sovereign nation-state . The poor struggle  --  perhaps prematurely in some cases  --  for national independence in order to proceed more expeditiously in the business of development and modernization . They must have their " union card " of national sovereignty in order to enter the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the United Nations . They must jealously protect their sovereign integrity . They must become adamant defenders of the principle of sovereignty in defiance of movements toward world order that appear to threaten its infringement . For they believe that without their sovereignty they would lose their ability to negotiate freely . They believe that any infringement of their sovereignty would cause them to fall even further behind in their struggle for development It is obvious that this way of thinking corresponds to what Marx called " trade union consciousness , " when he reflected on the immediate reactions of the 19th-century working classes to their depressed conditions . And the same criticisms Marx made of trade union consciousness now apply to the " state sovereignty consciousness " that exists among today 's poor nations . It leads In only to ad hoc , reformist and gradualist improvements . But the situation of the poor is so grievous , and is worsening at so rapid a rate , that much more profound measures are required . For the cause of their difficulties traces to the overall system of relationships in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? than a change in the overall system in which they are encompassed will improve the condition of the poor The logic of all this would appear to indicate that so long as the poor insist on jealously maintaining their own sovereign independence they will condemn themselves to continue suffering the depressed status they now experience . In this special context the sovereignty principle means economic nationalism But as we have ? seen , economic nationalism is the game of the rich . It is a game poor nations can never win . Now we are brought back to the question with which we started . For the one thing that the rich are it agreed upon , regardless of their other differences , is the paramount need to protect economic nationalism . Indeed , in the collectivist democracies economic affairs are nationalized by actual law . They are even more adamant defenders of economic nationalism than are the liberal democracies . Moreover , it appears that the collectivist democracies may one day become the leading " capitalists " ? that is , the most formidable capital-rich actors  --  in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A.T &T.; become , they are not likely to rival the economic power of the USSR or that of the centrally coordinated economies such as Japan The other side is that no matter how much capital development ? Ghana , for example , acquires , it can never hope to bar-gain equitably against either General Motors or the USSR . Moreover , bad as is the situation of the poor today , THE NATioN/Orloher 16 , 1967 everything indicates that it will deteriorate at an ever-increasing rate during the next few years Gunnar Myrdal has given us indisputable empirical evidence of this fact , should we be tempted to avert our eyes or trust blindly in some providential improvement : ( 1 ) Capital inflow to the poor is declining and it is changing into types less and less suited to their real , longterm needs . ( 2 ) The population explosion is just getting under way . ( 3 ) Agricultural productivity is not increasing in proportion to needs . In short , the poor nations figure to get even poorer while the rich will become even richer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century with the poor nations of the 20th century now becomes quite disturbing . For the condition of the world today appears to conform to the classical description of a revolutionary situation . What is the solution ? The only hope appears to lie in the renunciation of the world counterpart of the private property principle ; the renunciation , that is , of the principle of economic nationalism . Let us give the name economic mondialism to the alternative . Economic mondialism is the world counterpart of national collectivism That is , it implies the world counterpart of a Socialist revolution . This seems to be what is required before the poor nations can truly improve their lot . Nationalization must give way to mondialization . World ownership of certain of the most fundamental forms of capital must be the solution of the future . What would economic mondialization mean ? For one thing , it would mean vesting ownership of certain types of capital in a world authority This would entail the creation of a more effective world order . In the beginning , however , quite rudimentary institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes the World Bank could qualify as an example of mondial ownership Similar authorities could be instituted for the control and exploitation of the riches of the seas . The world 's atmosphere and control over its use must soon be vested in a world authority . It is not seasonable to allow private firms or even individual nations to possess space satellites as private property . Regulation and control of world communications and the use of world airways is needed already The approaching capacity to influence and control weather will require a world authority . The development and use of atomic energy can be made just , equitable and free of danger only through a world authority The world 's major canals must shortly come under the control of a world authority . But beyond this , world redistributions of agricultural surpluses and allocation of certain basic commodities , such as steel , will be required to alleviate the plight of the poor nations . But in all these cases , the important thing is to make sure that these new world authorities are independent of domination by the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence of the judiciary is required : a world economic counterpart of the principle of the rule of law For the so-called " welfare state " approach will 359 not suffice . The welfare approach depends upon the enlightened humanitarianism of the capital-rich nations , and there is no reason to expect that it will work any better on the world level than it does on the national . In the long run every nation of the world , rich and poor , will benefit from such maneuvers . But in the relatively short run the rich may feel that their present rate of growth will be adversely affected . One can not , therefore , expect capital-rich nations to introduce such measures of their own free will . The rich will never curb their immediate impulses unless they receive sufficiently forceful pressures from outside But how can this happen unless the poor perceive their interests collectively ? This would require the poor to abandon their present state of **25;2034;TOOLONG in favor of a new world-consciousness . For reason would indicate that the poor should be the ones to demand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of production Only then would the rich accede . Only then would a just solution to the world 's economic problems become possible . At this point , however , it must be admitted that the history of reform movements gives little ground for hope that matters will turn out exactly this way . Really effective reforms and revolutions appear to initiate from certain displaced middle-class intellectuals , rather than from the poor on their own initiative . But here again , today 's world seems to have learned its prehistory well . Today 's world happens to contain a series of just such potential leaders . England , France and Scandinavia , among others , are the world 's displaced middle-class intellectuals . They might possibly furnish the leadership and the spark of world consciousness that the poor require to inaugurate the revolution of world ownership World peace through world ownership is the theme of this essay But not only world peace , world order as well For the history of man 's effort to forge true political unions appears to indicate that the creation of a community follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among other instances , by the early history of the Christian churches There must be common goods , owned in common , before there can be a common good . Because the most elementary problem of the common gc.od is what to do about what is held in common .                     