@@494795

Professor Morgenthau has a distinguished reputation as a firm " realist " in the theory and practice of world politics . In this work , he takes the stage as a political moralist . He affirms and elaborates a fervent moral view of America 's purpose and duties in the world , and , with cogent argument , applies it to a judgment on the contemporary way of life of the US . The sweep of his mind is vast in its scope , taut in logic , ingenious in relating principle to action . The gist of the rich and intricate pattern is this . At the foundation of the Republic , Americans were the conscious choosers of a society in which the twin ideals of Freedom and Equality were paramount , as never before in the stuffy classridden and aristocracy-dominated Old World . These ideals animated and developed a good national society , guiding it to face successive crises produced by emergent domestic and international forces , in which the Old Adam ( power , inequality , the evil in men ) stubbornly emerged again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Freedom-cum-Equality . Every succeeding generation of Americans has been involved in such a struggle and such a triumph . The principles had and have their import as a kind of mission to Europe and to what we may call the as yet Unknown World of the Middle and Far East and Latin America . Professor Morgenthau luminously interprets the vicissitudes of the American people in this light , to illustrate his thesis , and then turns to the anxieties and agenda of our own day . He analyses the struggle in the Alien and Sedition Laws ; the emancipation of the slaves ; the Know-nothings ; the era of trusts and monopolies , their corruptions and oppressions ; the advent of Midwestern and Western populism ; the leadership of Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson to a New Freedom ; the loss of opportunity of economic fortune and areas of civic escapism as the old frontiers were filled up ; the degradation of the cities ; World War I ; the Great Depression , FDR , and the creation of social security , business regulation , the development of civil rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by powerful economic groups , and the claims of society to be free from the leadership and authority of national government ; the pall of materialist apathy , eupeptic and vulgar , that descended on the nation 's spirit , with the forgetting of the principle of excellence in education and culture and a renewed vision of America 's place in an entirely new world beyond its shores ; the agonizing phases of America 's emergence from its mainland : primitive isolationism , imperialism in the Caribbean and Pacific , Wilsonian crusadism , inter-war isolationism , pessimism over the revealed evil in men , the self-delusion that specific and locatable villains were the only cause of the world 's troubles . The author shifts his gaze to the tragic anxieties of the present , made all too familiar by recent popular discussions of America 's national purpose and the themes of the Presidential campaign of 1960 . " How can equality in freedom beachieved in America ? How can the area of equality in freedom be expanded beyond the territorial limits of the United States ? How can equality in freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expands this into six tasks : America must find a way to enable all people according to the measure of their ability to rise to their appropriate place in the economy and politics , casting down all the obstacles presented by private wealth , in a society fast changing under a new technology ; it must support the bringing forth of a great culture ; it is obliged to spread its ideals beyond its frontiers to the whole world , through some form of supra-national organization ; its virtue will be demonstrated by its solicitude for the new nations emerging from colonial status and old ones that suffer from autocracy ; it must solve the nuclear threat ; it must restore democratic government in America , while defending freedom against its intrusions . Some of his answers are supplied in detailed formulae ; some not ; some follow from his major premises ; some could be sustained otherwise . The enterprise is valiantly executed . It is permissible to ask some questions . Firstly , was America , in sincerity , endowed with the twin principles , Freedom-cum-eqUality , or with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points to another element , the pursuit of wealth . The Declaration of Independence does not , in fact , contain any principle of public virtues , but rather , that license egoism , " life , liberty and the pursuit of Happiness . " Secondly , is the problem of Presidential leadership to be solved only by the restoration of one-man leadership , the leadership abdicated by Eisenhower ? Professor Morgenthau rightly condemns the excessive relinquishment of initiative to parades of committees . In my work , The Presidency : Crisis and Regeneration , I have raised the gravest of questions : whether it is not indispensable to try to meet modern American tasks by an elected collective executive , however good a person the President may be ? Thirdly , is it politic to criticize the American government for seeking " absolute security " in a treaty on atomic weapons ? It may be . The problem is alertly discussed , deploying the terrible element of risk for the whole world as ever more nations obtain such weapons . The problem is the degree of risk acceptable with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What degree and through what modalities such risks might be acceptable are questions not satisfactorily answered . Fourthly , is there not a distinct advance in Professor Morgenthau 's thinking , connected with the previous question , that is of some importance ? He asserts that the challenge of Russia is a " total challenge . " This is markedly different from the view that Soviet foreign policy is , after all , only Tsarism up-to-date . For he now emphasizes that Communism is the driving force . He is right . But does this not vitally affect the nature of any agreement that might be negotiated on atomic weapons ? Fifthly , is it a true analysis to suggest that America did not , at propitious moments after 1945 , bear down on its Allies to organize a more organic community say , than NATO ( the product , he says , of military considerations alone ) because it held to the principle of equality ? among nations ? Could America possibly have overawed either Britain or France , even with a policy of boldness and conscious purpose ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an age where they are the hosts to America 's SAC and missile bases gives them considerable power to have their own way . Sixthly , is it doing full justice to Woodrow Wilson to ascribe his assertion of democracy for all nations merely to a kind of misplaced idealism ? Is it not rather that he believed that democratic governments were more likely to be peaceful because the openness of their politics and the existence of oppositions tended towards peace and the keeping of treaties ? If this is so , was not Wilson supremely right ? The drive and cogency of Professor Morgenthau 's argument focuses on the need for leadership in the highest places . This is to supply the content of American virtue and purpose . But this can not be sustained on the theory ( to which he seems to be partial ) that the people have no right to participate in the formulation of policy , but only to consent to it when it is made . It is true that in the Eisenhower years there has been a subservience to popularity ; but perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dithering . The theories of the " plural society " and the idea that government is merely a " broker " between groups have certainly not served America well . A new era for America and the world can dawn if the new President-elect and his successors return to the " steward- ship " theories of Presidential leadership personified in men like Theodore Roosevelt , Woodrow Wilson and F.D.R. The people will always follow their lead if it is given in sincerity , presented with clarity , conceived in conscientiousness , and conducted with ability . Morgenthau 's book maps the general pattern and justification for such a course .                     