@@431678

 | Too Much Sex on Campus AT Too MANY colleges today , sexual promiscuity among students is a dangerous and growing evil . Recent faculty charges that Harvard men were using dormitories for " wild parties " and " sexual intercourse " were followed by an alarming article by Harvard psychiatrist Dr. Graham B. Blaine , Jr . Dr. Blaine quoted reports by other psychiatrists indicating that more than 50 percent of college women have had premarital relations . The upward trend , he said , reflects " a cultural change in the United States . " Unlike authorities at Harvard , however , some college officials view the problem with complacency , and look away , fearing to stir up scandal . The tragic consequences of this ostrich-like attitude can be seen at college after college . Illicit relations are leading to out-of-wedlock pregnancies , hasty marriages , divorce , emotional illness , the cutting short of academic careers . Prof. Lester A. Kirkendall , of Oregon State University , has said , " The conclusion that we have done a thoroughly unsatisfactory job of sex-human-rela- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges , is simply inescapable . " I have been a lawyer and judge for a good many years . Just lately I have seen an appalling number of girls in trouble . They come to me for help . These are not the tough , skid-row girls of former years , but the cream of the crop , girls whom colleges have carefully selected for admission . It is pathetically obvious how confused many of them are . Whatever they may have learned of sex from books , they are as naive and emotionally immature as the young , innocents in my day . Many have told me that what they did went against their moral principles . Yet there are growing pressures on them to adopt a view of sex that has no basis in law or ethics or religion , and which they can not handle . I think of one girl in particular . When she was 17 , she stepped from a warm life at home into the sophisticated college world . She was thrown into the company of older girls , some from broken or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some defiant girls rebelling against authority . Many of these girls found her moral standards amusing . They told her she would have a dull time unless she quit being so old-fashioned . In her sophomore year , after six @# weeks of steady dating , she was " pinned " by a senior . He began to demand privileges , arguing about the " rightness " of intimacy between two people in love . After discussing his arguments with her dormitory mates , many of whom were already sleeping with their dates , she submitted to her young man . As she became more deeply involved , she began to tell herself that what she was doing was right . On weekends she could leave campus , ostensibly to visit relatives ; school officials never checked on her whereabouts . Then she received a letter from the boy , telling her he was returning home to marry a girl he had known since childhood . She was stunned with disbelief . A short time later she discovered that she was pregnant . At this point she appealed to me for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her parents , so that they could help her in this frightening experience . She refused . She had an abortion performed in another state over a weekend . Returning to her studies , she could no longer concentrate . Her grades began to fall , and the dean 's office warned her that the college would have to notify her parents . Her world crumbled about her , and at the end of the semester she dropped out of college . Officials , supposedly dedicated to bringing her to mature womanhood , never knew why she had failed . This girl was the victim of male indifference . The average young col- lege man still adheres to the " double parents ' duty to talk frankly to a colstandard . " Even those who advocate lege-bound daughter . And the parents ' advice must be shrewd as well as frank . It is foolish , for example , to base the argument against premarital sex on the danger of pregnancy . The daughter may avail herself of contraceptive measures and feel that she has met her mother 's objections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against premarital sex ? and she should be made to face that issue ? then the parents must help her to see the fraudulence of boys ' pleadings . Can sex before marriage be an act of love ? Almost never . Rather , it reflects a young man 's craving for ego-nurture . In his college years , often the most emotionally disrupted years of his life , a young man may seek sex to ease physical and psychological anguish . A parent should put the matter bluntly : Even the nicest young man may be selfish . But the odds are against even the best-advised girls if colleges are indifferent to student attitudes . As long as the residential college operates in loco parentis , it is duty-bound to protect the emotionally immature girl ; it must assume the task of maintaining the standards of proper moral behavior demanded by parents and society . To give a young girl unrestricted opportunities , to give her freedom to study in a boy 's room , to set curfew as late as 3 or 4 a.m. , and then expect her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the first day students arrive , sex equality for women usually put an end to liaisons by marrying someone else ? a chaste girl if they can find one . Deserted girls of sensitivity feel that they have been merely objects of lust , and their distress is overwhelming . Dr. Carl Binger , a psychiatric consultant at Harvard University Health Services , wrote of these young women in the book , The Em otional Problems of the Student : " The most frequent disturbance is depression . There is a risk of suicide . More common is the loss of zest , a feeling of fatigue , apathy and guilt . The depression is a muted cry for help . " But by the time this tragic plea comes , it is too late . What distresses me is that many girls are overwhelmed by the pressure to conform . They believe that if a girl remains chaste she 's likely to be stricken from available-for-dates lists . Nice girls , too timid to defy the crowd , make sexual commitments for the security of " belonging . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home , the sexual answer to loneliness can lead to the loneliest of lives ? an almost total absence of feeling . In the words of Prof. O. Hobart Mowrer , of the University of Illinois , all that is left is a " ritualized , routinized , robotized pretense at lovemaking . " Part of the blame for what has become an intolerable situation must be placed upon parents . It is the  | colleges should spell out acceptable standards of social behavior . Contrary to popular belief , young people do not want absolute freedom . At one college , coeds objected to a planned cancellation of the curfew hour ; its existence helped them break away from their dates and from the " obligatory kissing . " In effect , they wanted the college to protect them . The men 's colleges deserve equal blame for their failure to concern themselves with the illicit sexual activities of their undergraduates . Colleges should make it clear to their male students that they will not tolerate immoral behavior damaging to a girl 's reputation . The penalty can be either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in themselves solve the problem . The desire to behave morally must be instilled in college youth . As Landrum Bolling , president of Earlham College , in Indiana , put it : " We can no longer limit ourselves to rules and moral preachments . That 's not our main job . How to challenge young men and women to have an intellectual understanding of the place of moral and spiritual values , this is our main job . " A few institutions have taken steps in this direction . One college in the state of Washington already has advisers to guide students in moral as well as academic problems . The advisers , generally teachers , have ten students apiece . This personal relationship between the mature adult and the immature student has been profitable . Duke University has , in addition to a comprehensive family-life program , a series of seminars for couples who are pinned , engaged or about to be married . Man-woman relationships are discussed with utmost candor . Dormitory discussion groups , attended by students , faculty members and alumni , are being planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are waking up . Last July and August , 34 college deans and guidance counselors attended a conference on " Current Sex Mores Among Young People , " comparing notes on dating customs , campus marriages , premarital pregnancies and conflicts between ethics and behavior . At another conference , officials from nine women 's colleges and eight universities considered how best to prepare women for marriage . Now these colleges will seek ways of persuading the men 's schools to share the responsibility of education in the field of behavior . Colleges can not do everything . Their efforts must be supported at all levels of society ? home , business , church and social agencies . But , having done a good job at home , mothers and fathers have a right to expect the schools to follow through .                     