@@493489

Entering the last lap of his CastroStevenson-Kennedy relay race in the last week of November , Mikoyan paused long enough to utter a statesmanlike pronouncement : " The first condition for progress in negotiation is to understand each other correctly and well . " Greater understanding does not necessarily lead to greater sympathy or affection , but , as Gertrude Stein said , familiarity does breed more familiarity . Deming Brown has given us a study of how Soviet authorities have dealt up to now with one aspect of the problem of understanding America . It is a sorry record . Strenuous effort has been exerted throughout the past forty years to prevent the Russian people from getting a true image of the US through the novels , plays and poems of American writers . There is a double screening process : first the selection of what may be translated and published and then the interpretation of the Soviet critics . Mr. Brown 's account is replete with the twists and turns of aesthetic " theory " as it accommodated itself to the ever swiftly changing Party Line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research , but much of it suffers from monotony . There is a basic reason for the lack of lustre in large parts of Mr. Brown 's recital . He identifies it himself when he writes : " The Soviet critic is held fast by a doctrinal anchor , " being constrained by a " rigid dogmatism which permits few subtleties and uncertainties . " Literary criticism thus stultified can be interesting to few other than specialized scholars . The author provides relief for the ordinary reader , however , in an interesting concluding chapter where he summarizes and interprets what has gone before . Non-specialists will also find much of interest in the " case studies " of criticism of selected American writers who have been widely read in the USSR . In these chapters Mr. Brown permits himself to speculate about what actually got through to the Soviet reader between 1920 and 1960 . The case of Hemingway is particularly interesting . His Anglo-Saxon under-playing of emotion and his laconic characters would , one would think , seem alien to the Slavic temperament . Professor Brown suggests what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reader : " ... his vigorous love of nature , sports , combat , and adventure must appeal to the Russians . This clean , rugged outlook on life ( despite its elements of bravado , of which the critics took due note ) strikes the same chord in the Russian heart as do the stories of London . In the Russians there is a strong love of the primitive , and a comparable distaste for the sophisticated , which amounts at times to a puritanical attitude toward the ' decadent ' trappings of civilization . The unmistakable longing for a simpler , purer , and more elemental life which rings in Hemingway 's stories must find response in this part of the Soviet reader 's nature . Ultimately it is Hemingway 's profound understanding of the natural aspirations of men which appeals to the Russian public . " There are some lacunae in Brown 's book . His decision to concentrate on the Soviet treatment of zoth Century American writers perhap led him to omit mention of the Literary Gazette 's assault on Charles Neider , editor of Mark Twain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this episode on US literary circles , readers would have welcomed discussion of it in a book entitled Soviet Attitudes toward American Writing . Understanding is , of course , a two-way street . Russians constantly complain that while American writers appear in millions of copies in the USSR , only a few Soviet writers are translated and published in the US . There may be enough substance in their protest to make it worthwhile for US publishers to take a closer look at the Soviet literary product ; and there are undoubtedly US publishers who would be eager to publish some of those manuscripts by Soviet writers which Soviet publishers reject or which are never submitted to a Soviet publisher . But their fascination with statistics mislead Soviet citizens who make the above complaint . In the decade after World War II , ten American authors were published in the USSR in editions of from nine million to one million each . They were ( in this order ) : Dreiser , London , Twain , James Fenimore Cooper , O. Henry , Howard Fast , Harriet Beecher Stowe ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sinclair , Bret Harte , Albert Maltz . These authors are no more representative of the US in the middle of the 20th Century than Tolstoi , Dostoevsky and Pasternak ( published in large editions in the US ) are representative of Soviet Russia . Moreover , as Professor Brown points out , complaints that the " quantity of American literature printed in the USSR is greater than the quantity of Soviet literature printed in the United States " are " beside the point , since the proper question is not one of quantity but of quality : " Had Soviet literature proved generally attractive to American readers , the publishing houses of the United States would gladly have satisfied the market , whereas American works , in order to reach the Soviet public , had first to pass through the thick filters of official censorship . Soviet readers have never been really free to choose among contemporary American works , and it is a tribute to the vitality of American writers that with even a limited choice , the Soviet public maintained an affection for them . The point is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing would have been much more popular than it was . " Mr. Brown occasionally succumbs to the human temptation to strike back when slapped at , and to use loaded words . A reader might question whether he may also sometimes retaliate in kind with the typically Soviet device of quoting out of context . And he might be vulnerable to criticism from Soviet sources for not mentioning Khrushchev 's speech at the Third Writers ' Congress in May , 1959 , where the Soviet leader not only adopted a remarkably impartial judicial role in the open fight between the Thawers and the Icemen ( the anti-Stalinists and the neoStalinists ) , but delivered himself of what sounded like a major pronouncement on literary criticism . He told the writers , critics and publishers present not to " burden the government " with decisions on what should or should not be published , but to decide for themselves , adding : " In my opinion this will be criticism , real criticism . " The author 's greatest shortcoming , however , is one he shares with the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the erudition is derived from books , too little from first-hand experience in the Soviet Union . If Mr. Brown had had the opportunity to live in the Soviet Union for two or three years he would have learned that while politics is indeed basic , quirks of personality , personal ambition and other human traits also influence writers and critics . He would also have acquired more tolerance for the bitter and savage polemics which seem to be inherent in Russian literary controversy . ( Soviet writers fare no better than foreign in the hands of Soviet critics . ) Nevertheless , Brown demonstrates that the swinging pendulum of Soviet criticism has an immovable axis of suspension : the dogma that the purpose of art is to serve the interests of the state . He also indicates , though he under-stresses , that the personal taste of the dictator has as much force as any " theory " of aesthetics . Seldom in Soviet history were these two constants more vividly displayed than in the period between the last week in November and the first week of December , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the final session of the Central Committee , that restrictions on artistic expression be removed . Various moves ( such as the announced demise of the neo-Stalinist organ Literature and Life ) seemed to confirm the report . Abstract painters took heart and hung daring canvasses in the Manezh at the foot of the Kremlin . Khrushchev took on a horrified look and pronounced the paintings " daubed by a donkey 's tail . " A few days later Pravda , taking ( or taking advantage of ) the cue , thunderously accused many Soviet artists , writers and composers of betraying " socialist realism " in falling under the influence of modern Western style which was defined as " all-forgiving liberalism or rotten sentimental complacency . " One might wish that , despite its shortcomings , Brown 's book could set a precedent . The millenium will have come when a Soviet scholar produces a book on American attitudes toward Soviet writing that would be no less thorough and objective than Brown 's . It would be an important contribution to Mikoyan 's goal : mutual understanding . 