@@246014

For Katanga 's Moise Tshombe , it was the worst of times . Once he was the cockiest Congolese of them all , the man with the most money and the tidiest private army . Last week , stripped of his Belgian advisers and cut off from his troops , he languished in a guarded villa in Coquilhatville . He was a victim of that old Congolese persuasion tactic-kidnaping . And nobody much seemed to care . <P> The U.N . politely asked President Kasavubu to accord Tshombe " fair treatment and due process of law . " But the U.N . ' s special representative to the Congo , India 's Rajeshwar Dayal , who had been quick to protest Kasavubu 's least move to counter the machinations of pro-Communist Patrice Lumumba , uttered not a word of reproach . In fact he was still " consulting " in New York , and seemed disinclined to return to the Congo , where he seems to have incurred the displeasure of nearly all Congolese . Explained one observer : " In the next few weeks , it 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congo sitting around a table thick as thieves . We do n't want to distract them with anything-such as personalities . " <P> Everybody 's Friend . A stylish , wealthy businessman - turned - politician , Moise Tshombe found himself top man in the Congo 's richest province when the Belgians relinquished rule . When the Congo erupted in factional squabbling . Tshombe declared mineral-rich Katanga independent , hoping to maintain economic and cultural ties to Belgium . He tried to keep the U.N . out of Katanga , strengthened his hand with hired mercenaries and Belgian advisers . While the rest of the Congo starved and squabbled . Tshombe prospered . He began to infuriate the Congolese leaders . When Tshombe boldly agreed to attend the Coquilhatville conference , Kasavubu saw his chance to pounce on him-and did . <P> Tshombe came to Coquilhatville with the air of a man who was going to dictate his own terms . He declared that he would accept only a confederation in which Katanga would have nationhood of its own ( and spend its own money ) . He mocked Kasavubu 's willingness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knees to mime Kasavubu 's attitude for news photographers . Once arrested , his mood changed . He became all oozing contrition . He begged for permission to rejoin the formal talks . The leaders refused but hauled him down from his villa prison for a private tongue lashing on another subject . " Why did you have Patrice Lumumba killed ? " demanded Kasavubu . " He was my friend ! " shouted Foreign Minister Bomboko . " He was my friend too ! " added Major General Joseph Mobutu . " He made me a colonel . " Tshombe meekly mumbled regrets , hastily assented to the new plan to reassemble Parliament in Leopoldville . Unappeased . Tshombe 's captors charged him with treason on ten counts , ranging from secession to bootlegging cigarettes . The 19 aides who had accompanied him to Coquilhatville were also accused .                     