@@311996

During last October 's missile crisis , every Latin American nation lined up solidly behind the U.S. in demanding the immediate removal of Russian rockets from Cuba . Now that the missiles are no longer in evidence and Castro is singing a coexistence tune , there is no solidarity in Latin America on what to do about his Communist regime . Last week the OAS was asked to approve a series of moves designed to minimize Castro 's infiltration and subversion around the hemisphere . Among the recommendations was a formal ban on all travel to and from Cuba . Only 14 nations voted aye . Brazil , Mexico , Haiti and Venezuela abstained . Chile was firmly against . <P> As an expression of Latin American sentiment , the vote was a bitter disappointment to the U.S. While Latins are well aware of Castro 's troublemaking ( Mexico , for example , takes mug shots of every Cubana Airlines passenger ) , many nations are still reluctant to go on record in favor of anything that suggests intervention in the affairs of a sovereign state . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to go along , arguing that a travel ban and other moves to tighten internal security were police state tactics . " My government , " said Venezuela 's OAS delegate , " can not accept fighting Communist subversion with measures that are not in strictest conformity with democratic principles . " U.S. citizens in Caracas , subjected to harassment and bombings in recent weeks , think this excess of scrupulosity helps explain Venezuela 's poor security protection . <P> In the face of so much opposition , the U.S. last week withdrew a second measure against Castro that it had planned to put before the OAS : a call for an OAS economic embargo on Cuba , restricting all trade and commercial relations . The trade is small in any event - only about $ 1 3 million last year between Castro and the rest of Latin America - and to press ahead now on a ban might cause more divisiveness within the OAS than trouble for Castro .                     