@@247800

Along the snow-banked road to Moscow 's Vnukovo airport , the well-padded commissars of the Kremlin whizzed back and forth last week like commuting suburbanites . Day after day they rode in portly twosomes to welcome the Communist bosses of ten satellites . One afternoon , a round dozen of them wheeled out , led by rotund Nikita Khrushchev , to greet the guest of honor , China 's lean , scowling chief of state , Liu Shao-chi , 62 . The presence of Liu and other rulers of Communist states barred from the U.N. , as well as Communist Party chieftains from all around the world , made Moscow 's gathering the biggest assemblage of Communist satraps since 1957 , bigger by far than the convocation of satellite bosses that Khrushchev whistled up for the U.N . Assembly meeting in September . <P> Officially , the Red leaders had arrived in Moscow to help celebrate the 43rd anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution . Actually , they had been marshaled to reaffirm the primacy of Soviet leadership at a " Red summit , " and thereby head off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he stepped from the Soviet jetliner at Vnukovo , Chairman Liu raised his arms in salute to Chairman Khrushchev . But on the eve of Liu 's departure , Peking had seized on the pretext of the publication of a fourth volume of Mao Tse-tung 's selected works to print an " introduction " ' by General Fu Chung , in which the general pointedly quoted old Mao dicta on war and peace and , inferentially , challenged Khrushchev 's favorite doctrine of peaceful coexistence . " Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun , " quoted Fu . " Politics is war that sheds no blood while war is bloodshedding politics . " Against the fearful power of nuclear arms , Fu spoke for the masters of 670 million Chinese : " It is man who is the leading and decisive factor . Though atom bombs have huge and destructive power , they will never be able to occupy territories or settle a fight . The issue of a future war will not be decided by guided missiles or atom bombs . It will be decided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An icy drizzle fell next morning as Chairman Liu stood beside Khrushchev and Soviet War Minister Rodion Malinovsky atop the Lenin-Stalin tomb to review the traditional parade through Red Square . The military parade lasted eight minutes , just long enough to flaunt a thumping train of Russian rockets , including a slim newcomer called the Silver Needle , which the Soviet press claimed was the kind that downed U.S. Pilot Francis Powers ' U-2 last spring . <P> At the reception that followed , Khrushchev proclaimed : " Peace is inevitable . War will not help us reach our goal-it will spoil it . We must rest on the position of coexistence and nonintervention , and eventually Communism will be in force all over the earth . " Offering toast after toast , Khrushchev seemed in high spirits . " They say that in the Congo the Soviet Union was beaten , " he cried . " We say those who laugh last laugh best . "                     