@@477726

This spring hundreds of thousands of high-school students will take the College Board tests which will largely determine their chances of getting a higher education ? and thus may affect their whole future . Similar mass-produced . multiple-choice tests are coming into widespread use by corporations , colleges , and government agencies all over the country . How good are they ? Do they really give a fair and effective measure of a man 's intelligence , aptitude , knowledge , or ability to think ? Dr. Banesh Hoffmann is professor of mathematics at Queens College , New York , and the author of " The Strange Story of the Quantum . " After taking degrees at Oxford and Princeton , he collaborated with Albert Einstein and Leopold Infeld on fundamental studies of relativity at the Institute for Advanced Study during the ' thirties . He became involved in problems of testing when he published a criticism of the selection methods used by the Westinghouse Science Talent Search in 1943 . As a result , he was asked to undertake a yearly commentary on the Westinghouse tests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford Foundation put Dr. Hoffmann in touch with offlcials of the Educational Testing Service in Princeton . " We had many discussions , " he wrote the editors of HARPER 'S , " and they let me study . under pledge of secrecy , a complete College Entrance Examination Board Aptitude Test . I wrote them a thirty-page critique of it and they asked me to be a consultant , but I declined in order to have a free hand . " The results of Dr. Hoffman 's independent study of the tests ? and his specific challenge to the test-makers are contained in this article . THERE is no escaping the testers with their electrical scoring machines . They measure our IQs at regular intervals and assess our scholastic achievement throughout our school days . They stand guard at the gateway to National Merit Scholarships , and they tell admissions officers how many points ' worth of college aptitude we possess . They pass on our qualifications for graduate study and entry to professional schools . They classify us en masse in the Army . They screen us when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are even undertaking to certify our worth when we conic up for promotion to positions far outranking their own . The nation , in short , is placing enormous reliance on machine-graded multiple-choice tests as a measure of ability . But , unhappily , it can be shown that they have grave defects . Our confidence in them can have dangerous consequences , not only for education but for the strength and vitality of the nation . The whole question of multiple-choice testing needs thor38 MULTIPLE-CHOICE TESTS ough re-examination ? and it is not getting it . Few of the people who take these tests give much thought to where they come from . For the most part , they are not made up by the schools and other organizations that administer them . They are bought or rented . Test-making has developed into a large , lucrative , and increasingly competitive business ? some of the test publishers employ traveling salesmen to promote their wares . If you have a valid reason for giving a test , you can probably find an appropriate one already in stock . Or you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your special needs ? although the cost may run to many thousands of dollars . ( Though some tests may be purchased outright , many of the more important ones are available only for rent anti under pledge of stringent secrecy ; all copies must be returned immediately after use . ) The most recent edition of the Mental Measurements Yearbook , * a compendium of information used throughout the testing industry , reviews 957 different tests ( most of them of the multiple-choice type ) produced by some 173 organizations , of which 28 issue catalogues of the tests they have for sale or hire . It is difficult to estimate how many millions of machine-graded multiple-choice tests are administered each year ; the National Merit Scholarship Tests alone now account for half a million . Of all these test-producing organizations , five arc generally recognized as the most important : Educational Testing Service , of Princeton , New Jersey , a nonprofit organization concentrating mainly on academic tests , among diem being the well-known College Entrance Board Examinations ; Psychological Corporation , of New York City , a business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a larger proportion of its activities to nonacademic tests ; Science Research Associates , inc. , of Chicago , a business organization which , among other things , now publishes the Iowa Tests widely used in schools ; California Test Bureau , of Los Angeles , a business organization , one of whose best-known products is the California Test of Mental Maturity : World Book Company , better known to the general public as a publisher of educational books ( recently merged with Harcourt , Brace to form the firm of Harcourt , Brace World , Inc . ) . All five organizations are highly reputable , and together they produce the bulk of the tests used in this country . Their work is not simple . The very concept of multiple-choice tests is the result 4 ' Edited by Oscar K. Buros and published by the Gryphon Press.of years of research by test psychologists seeking ever more precise ways of measuring human abilities . A test emerges from an intricate collaboration . First an expert on testmaking , usually one trained in psychology , maps out the test with experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these , or other , subject experts to submit questions which can be graded by scoring machines . Test experts and subject experts reject many of the questions and reword others . The surviving questions are then " pretested " on people comparable to those for whom the test is intended , and a statistical dossier is compiled for each question . if a question is answered correctly mainly by the " better " examinees it is a good question . If it is answered correctly mainly by the " poorer " ones it is a bad question . If a fair number of the " better " examinees favor one answer and a comparable number another answer , the question is probably ambiguous . if everyone gets it right , it is useless . And so on . In the light of the pretest statistics , still further questions are rejected or rewritten , and ultimately a rigorously screened version of the test emerges . It is now ready to be given to the people for whom it was constructed , but the process is by no means over , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive elaborate statistical analysis . This yields a variety of important technical information ? for example , a numerical measure of the test 's success in fulfilling the purpose for which it was constructed . The test-makers put this information into a " manual " which accompanies the test . And even now the process is not necessarily at an end , for the manual may be revised in the light of statistics accumulated during actual use of the test ; and sometimes the test itself is revised . MELANCHOLY FLAWS T H E services of the test-makers understandably have been in heavy demand . They aim to meet urgent and large-scale needs ; to sort out millions of servicemen ; to give reliable information to college admissions officers about the abilities of candidates for entrance ; to deal with increasingly large groups of job candidates in private business . Busy executives ? especially those who secretly lack confidence in their own judgment ? are only too happy to hand over to professional testers the job of deciding who is worthy and who is not . For such clients , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency and economy with the splendid advantage of 39 being labeled " objective " : it can be graded quickly by machine or with a scoring stencil that even a child can use . No subjective element enters the process of grading . ( 01 course , highly subjective judgments may enter the test-makers ' decisions as to which answers are to be counted as right and which wrong . ) The great question that the public must ask of the multiple-choice testing industry is not how quick and economical its products are but , simply , how good the tests are themselves . Significant flaws in the tests we use so widely should certainly be of vital concern . The test-makers , by their impressive scientific ritual of psychological expertise , pretesting , and statistical analysis , have created a widespread impression that their products must surely he free of such flaws , an impression especially prevalent among people with unshakable confidence in scientific routines , no matter how or by whom applied . Yet there is melancholy evidence to the contrary . How would you feel , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you were given a test with questions like this : You are an editor forced to turn down a scholarly book which you think is a good piece of work but which will not sell . Which one of the following statements would best inform the author of your decision without discouraging him ? ( A ) You 'll probably think me grossly mercenary when I tell you that , good though I think it is , I must turn down your hook because it would have very little commercial success . ( B ) You are obviously unfamiliar with the requirements of the publishing business ? through no fault of your own . The point is that your book would have a very limited sale , and therefore we can not accept it . ( C ) Having read your book with great care , I must admit that it is a creditable effort . However , we doubt that.it would have a great enough sale to justify our publishing it . ( 11 ) We feel that your book is an important contribution in its field . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we find that we can not fit the book into our publishing program . You can not , of course , ask your examiner what he meant by " would best inform the author of your decision without discouraging him . " You are not allowed to ask questions ; nor even to explain your answer . You must simply pick a letter ? A , B , C , or D ; you will be judged right if you pick the one the tester wants , wrong if you do not . If you fail to pick the wanted answer , and thereby jeopardize your chances of getting the job , it will be small consolation to you to know that neither one of the two editors on whom I tried this question picked the right answer . JAMES WRIGHT MARCH A BEAR under the snow Turns over to yawn . It 's been a long , hard rest . Once , as she lay asleep , her cubs fell Out of her hair , And she did not know of them . It is hard to breathe In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breaks And lets the stars fall Into the kitchen of leaves And forgotten snow . When the wind opens its doors its own good time , The cubs follow that relaxed and beautiful woman Outside to the unfamiliar cities Of moss . This question is a product of the Educational Testing Service . It is taken verbatim from a booklet , Sample Questions from the Foreign Service Officer Examination , put out by the U.S. State Department , and is quoted here with permission . It is intended to test " the candidate 's ability to recognize the appropriateness of certain forms of expression to specific situations . " I tried it on several of my colleagues . Here are their choices ( I omit their various cogent reasons ) : a professor of classics ? D ; a public relations man ? C ; a personnel director ? C ; a professor of music widely known for his writing ability ? A ; a professor of English ? A ; a professor of anthropology ? C ; two professors of anthropology acting in concert ( after long wavering between A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? D ; a dean ? C. And not one of them had a kind word to say for the question . ( The test-makers happen to consider answer D the best . ) Do questions of this sort really test what is claimed ? Do they not rather test ability to fathom what is in the mind of the examiner ? When a question is merely ambiguous , like the one above , you have at least a sporting chance . But there are sonic questions that load the dice 40 MULTIPLE-CHOICE TESTS against you if your ability is far above the average . These occur far too frequently . Suppose you were up for promotion to an executive position and were ordered to take the Watson-Glaser Critical Thinking Appraisal . Your career may be at stake . In the part of the test called " Recognition of Assumptions , " you read that you are " to decide for each assumption whether it necessarily is taken for granted in the statement . " You then read the sample question , reproduced below , that is intended to show what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tester , of course , would provide parenthetical explanations of the choices if this were an actual instead of a sample question . The marks at the right , used for machine scoring , indicate that the " correct " answer is that Assumptions l and 2 are MADE , while Assumption 3 is NOT MADE . Passing over the doubly faulty English in the phrase " greater speed of a plane over other means of transportation , " look at the second proposed assumption , hearing in mind what the test is supposed to test , and note the force of the word " necessarily " in the italicized part of the instructions . In order to save time by plane it must indeed be possible to go by plane . But not necessarily " to our destination . " Nor are plane " connections " essential . Therefore , the correct answer ought to be " not made . " But the test-maker says it is " made . " Thus , with your future at stake , and with resentment mounting inside you , you must now abandon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to guess what other blunders the tester has made . You dare not assume he has made none . No matter how transparent a question may seem , you must stalk it warily , wondering what possible mental quirk may have influenced the test-maker 's choice of answer . And while you are agonizing over the answers , less capable competitors in the promotion race who failed to spotthe error are going blithely ahead , quite possibly picking wanted answers , and certainly confident that they are taking an objective test . What would happen if you protested ? Judging by what has happened in the past when individual questions have been criticized , I believe the test experts might deny that the question was bad . Certainly , they would point out that in all the years the test had been in use nobody else had complained about the question and that , in any case , statistics proved she test to he an excellent instrument for determining who is able to think critically and who is not . In effect , you would he told that you must pay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misfit in an age of mechanized judgment . DUBIOUS NATIONAL MERIT T HOSE who produce and administer tests have strong interests in defending their effectiveness , and they often cite statistics to show that the high scores of those who did well on the tests were confirmed by their later performance . Consider , for example , the National Merit Scholarship Corporation , which each year awards many millions of dollars ' worth of college scholarships all over the nation and gives valuable testimonials in the form of certificates of merit to many thousands of runners-up . In its latest annual report , it speaks with pride of the accomplishments of the National Merit Scholars in college . Among other things , it says " about 82 per cent of the scholars rank in the top quarter of their classes even though many have selected colleges of very high academic standing . " This is a curious boast . In 1959 , out of 478,991 candidates for the Merit Scholarships , all but 1D,334 were eliminated from further consideration because of their scores on a qualifying test , and ultimately a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of 959,683 candida tes only 3,465 were awarded scholarships . The scholars are certainly a select group . Yet we gather from the Corporation 's statement that not all of this presumed elite went to colleges of very high academic standing and that , nevertheless , almost 20 per cent of them failed to rank even in the first quarter of their classes . Do these facts encourage faith in the screening process ? Again , the Corporation says in its report that " the national examinations have been praised as among the best available for determining aptitude and readiness to profit from a college education , " and nowhere does it make any adverse remarks about these tests ( except inadvertently , as in the above boast ) . The Corporation can not always have been satisfied with its qualifying test , for in 1958 it not only made an abrupt change in the nature of the test but took the contract away from the Educational Testing Service and gave it to Science Research Associates . What of the new National Merit tests ? There arc two reviews of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of them is , on the whole , favorable , though it does not give the glowing impression that the Corporation 's words might convey to the unwary reader . The reviewer characterizes the quality of the individual questions as " acceptable , " and he is by no means convinced that the new type of test is an improvement over the old . Of course , it is natural for the Corporation to put its case in as favorable a light as possible . Foundations and industrial corporations have entrusted it with the distribution of enormous sums of money for scholarships and it has become , willingly or not , a by no means negligible force in the affairs of the nation . So it is understandable that the Corporation did not take public notice of the other critic , who complains that data supplied along with the test by Science Research Associates " exhibited characteristics suggestive of too much emphasis on salesmanship , " and cites " as a wholesome contrast " the literature prepared by Educational Testing Service for their earlier form of the test . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , that the test " was not suited to its task of identifying potential scholarship recipients " because it was not difficult enough for the superior candidates , and that " considerable psychometric naivet ? is exhibited in several sections of the Technical Manual , " a charge he documents by pointing out significant flaws in the interpretation of statistics . He remarks briefly that " some of the questions are poorly written . " He says that the parts of the test that deal with social studies and natural science " measure almost entirely reading ability and general verbal aptitude , " and in this connection he points out that the statistics cited by Science Research Associates show scores on the social studies part to be about as good a measure of ability in natural science as they are of ability in social studies , and vice versa . He ends with the following words : " In conclusion , the qualifying test and the literature distributed about it did not seem to be a step forward . The reviewer is concerned that assessment psychology has been retarded and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this test . He is amazed and disturbed that such inferior work can be conducted and tolerated on such a large scale . It is hoped that it will not be repeated . " The people who take the tests , of course , know nothing of such criticisms and the tests go merrily on . STATISTICS SHOW ... C A N anything be done about the multiple-choice tests ? Must we simply accept them passively ? It is not difficult to find prominent educators and other commentators who have launched wide-ranging general protests against them . William H. Whyte in The Organization Man and Professor Jacques Barzun in The House of Intellect arc but two of the more recent . These writers and others have made many charges against the tests . For example : The tests deny the creative person a significant opportunity to demonstrate his creativity , and favor the shrewd and facile candidate over the one who has something of his own to say . They penalize the candidate who perceives subtle points unnoticed by less able people , including the test-makers . They are apt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult by means of ambiguity because genuinely searching questions do not readily fit into the multiple-choice format . They too often degenerate into subjective guessing games in which the candidate does not pick what he considers the best answer out of a bad lot but rather the one he believes the unknown examiner would consider the best . They neglect skill in disciplined expression . They have , in sum , a pernicious effect on education and the recognition of merit . But such criticisms do not seem to disturb the test-makers , who , well entrenched and grow42 MULTIPLE-CHOICE TESTS ing more powerful every day , have developed a strikingly effective routine for dealing with their critics . When confronted with general criticisms , they make a show of patient reasonableness . Of course they welcome concerned criticism , they say . But the critic is just an amateur offering mere opinion , not scientific fact . After all , they are experts , and they know . Having said this , they go on to extol the virtues of their product . They speak proudly of the professional competence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Educational Testing Service boasted of " hundreds of outstanding teachers from schools and colleges " who work with his organization . They point to the elaborate scientific ritual they follow in constructing and evaluating their tests . Insisting that " statistics show . . . ' ' they surround themselves with such an aura of scientific infallibility that few people realize that they have avoided answering the criticism aimed at them . There is , I suggest , a way to penetrate this defense . Instead of making general criticisms , one should exhibit specific test questions , such as the two I have presented above ; declare that they arc defective ; and challenge the test-makers to defend these questions specifically . The test-makers intensely dislike this sort of challenge because it puts them in a quandary . They have to be wary of conceding that the questions are bad and claiming that they are rare exceptions , for they do not know how many more examples the challenger has in reserve . On the other hand , if they defend a bad question by their " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their use of statistics is improper or that their statistics are untrustworthy . If they defend the question by referring to the scientific ritual used in constructing their tests , they undermine faith in the efficacy of that ritual . If they defend it by pointing to the high caliber of their staff experts and consultants , they may well start people wondering whether the caliber is high enough . Therefore , a sharply focused challenge of specific questions seems the one effective means by which the quality of multiple-choice tests can be called into question . It is important to point out , however , that no matter how many defective sample questions one could find , no more than a prima fade case could he made against the testers because most of the important tests used for competitive selection purposes are kept secret . Even if the sample questions are found to be defective , we still have no way of knowing whether they fairly reflectthe tests themselves . In short , there is at present no way for a comprehensive and independent judgment of the tests to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this dilemma could be the formation of a completely independent board of eminent educators and scholars which could have access to the whole range of questions produced by the testing organizations . Committee members could examine the actual tests and the statistical evidence concerning them , consult with experts and their critics , and form an opinion as to the real worth of current tests . The scope of their critique should extend far beyond the technical reviews of tests now published in the Mental Measurements Yearbooks . The committee could open up the question whether the multiple-choice format is really suited to measuring the various kinds of ability tested today . If they found the tests wanting , they . might recommend alternative approaches to testing to supplement or supplant the multiple-choice method . And they could consider the merits of the rather hesitant steps already being taken within the testing industry to augment the role of essay questions in certain testing programs . If , however , they found that present tests are doing a generally effective job , we would have the assurance that this was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clients but by a distinguished independent board acting in the public interest . AN " AVERAGE " QUESTION H O W will the testing organizations respond to this proposal ? Judging from their past reactions to outside criticism , we may be sure they will not readily accept such an intrusion into what they mistakenly regard as their domain . However , if there were an explicit and convincing public demonstration that their present methods are producing dangerously defective questions , it is hard to see how they could honorably and responsibly ignore it or hamper an independent committee of inquiry . With this in mind , I have compiled a challenge to the testers based on the sample questions in two booklets put out by the College Entrance Examination Board . Their tests are , of course , among the best known and most important used in America today , and they are made by the Educational Testing Service , which is generally recognized as the leading test-making organization . Of the 234 questions in these two booklets I have picked twelve , arbitrarily limiting myself to 5 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had originally appeared in College Entrance examinations . Thus they have been subjected not only to the rigorous screening , pretesting , and statistical analysis which all . examination questions undergo , but . also to a further screening which qualified them to serve as illustrations of the kind of questions to be expected on these tests . I have already challenged the merits of two of these questions publicly , one in an appendix appearing in Jacques Barzun 's book , The House of Intellect , the other in an article in the Spring 1959 issue of The American Scholar . The president of the Educational Testing Service replied officially to the latter in the Autumn 1959 issue of The American Scholar , but instead of defending or discussing the question itself he gave an almost classic example of the test-makers ' response to criticism . ( It was here , for instance , that he spoke of the " hundreds of outstanding teachers " who have helped to construct the tests . ) He made no defense at all of the defective question itself . One could wish for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present two more questions of the twelve constituting the challenge . Since the two that have already appeared were from the booklet describing the Scholastic Aptitude Tests , I shall here give two questions from the booklet Science , published in 1954 , which describes the Science Achievement Tests . They give an indication of the extraordinary manner in which the College Entrance Examination Board measures scientific caliber . The questions are quoted with permission of the College Board . I am , of course , prepared to exhibit the other eight questions selected from the College Entrancebooklets ; but space does not permit me to include them here . Do not be deterred by the presence of unfamiliar technical terms . The defects in the questions are so striking that they tower above the technical background , and no scientific knowledge is needed in order to understand their nature . If , therefore , some of the terms are obscure , simply ignore them . Here is question 54 in Science . It is listed as belonging to chemistry and its degree of difficulty is said to be " average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobile cylinder involves all of the following except ( A ) reduction ( B ) decomposition ( C ) an exothermic reaction ( D ) oxidation ( E ) conversion of matter to energy . The average chemistry student quickly picks the wanted answer , E , doubtless arguing that conversion of matter into energy refers to nuclear reactions and is thus inappropriate here . But the student who is unfortunate enough to understand , even if only in an elementary way , what E = mca is really about finds himself at a distinct disadvantage . He knows that in certain nuclear reactions energy is released through the breaking of nuclear bonds . He knows too that in the burning of gasoline the energy released comes from the dissociation of chemical bonds , that these chemical bonds contribute , however minutely , to the rest mass of the substances involved in the reaction , and that the released energy ? all of it ? comes from the diminution of this rest mass . Thus here , lust as in nuclear reactions , there is " conversion of matter into energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the given answers is correct . One might try to defend the question by saying that since matter is a form of energy . answer E is tautological . But , quite apart from the fact that the wording is customary , any tautology would make F. a fortiori valid , and thus unacceptable as an answer . A " DIFFICULT " QUESTION S O MUCH for what the College Board conceives to be a question that is neither easy nor difficult but average . Here is a question that it regards as " difficult . " It is question 65 and belongs to physics . The student is supposed to select the statement which gives the correct scientific cause . 65 . Potassium metal loses electrons when struck by light ( the photoelectric effect ) more readily than lithium metal because the potassium atom contains more protons than does that of lithium ( B ) the valence electron of potassium is farther from the nucleus than is that of lithium ( C ) potassium occurs above lithium in the electrochemical series ( D ) the potassium atom contains more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potassium nucleus is larger than that of lithium The wanted answer is B. Let us accept it as a factually correct answer and ask whether it is the best answer . We shall find that three of the other possible answers are not only factually correct statements in themselves but could be defended as more satisfactory answers than B. Let us put ourselves in the place of a well44 MULTIPLE-CHOICE TESTS prepared and inquiring student faced with answer B. Yes , he may say to himself , the sentence in question can be plausibly completed with the statement that the " valence electron of potassium is farther from the nucleus than that of lithium . " But he then sees that answer D accurately ( if ungrammatically ) states the reason why this is so , namely that " the potassium atom contains more electrons than does that of lithium . " Thus , the student may sensibly conclude that while B is a correct answer , D is a correct answer too . And D is a more profound answer than B. But our student is not finished . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the potassium atom than in the lithium atom is to be found in answer A : the atom of potassium " contains more protons than does that of lithium . " Thus , if D is a correct answer , so is A. And A cuts deeper than D. Finally he hesitates to dismiss E , knowing that the nucleus of potassium " is larger than that of lithium " because it contains more neutrons and protons . Thus if A is a correct answer , so also is E. TOO CRUCIAL FOR TRUST I N VIEW of the above , most of us would agree with the College Board that the question is " difficult . " But with us this is merely a matter of opinion . With the test experts it is an objective , scientific , no-nonsense fact based on statistics . Of course , the statistics do not reveal that the wording of the question is vague . Nor that , if the wanted answer is a correct one , so are three others . Nor that the examiners have chosen the most immediate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minds , as they so often do . Can we be complacent when we know that such questions are used by so many of our colleges to assess scientific talent ? As I have pointed out , my first published challenges of two sample questions from the Scholastic Aptitude Test elicited no public defense of the questions themselves from the College Entrance Examination Board . Will the Board now come forward and defend the two additional science questions I have cited above , and defend them specifically ? Will the organizations that produced the two other questions quoted in the first part of this article defend those questions ? their own samples ? and defend them specifically ? And if the criticisms I have made remain unchallenged , will there not be a prima-facie case for a full-scale inquiry into the whole question Amid the Alien Corn G HAIN operator Harold Field believes that Iowans ca n't understand English as the English speak it . He proposes therefore that British pictures be " dubbed " with American English . " The British pictures might as well be in a foreign language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the characters are saying . . . Years ago all of Leslie Howard 's fine pictures flopped in these Iowa towns because few could understand what Howard was saying , " Field told the Morning Tribune . ? Variety , December 21 , 1960 of testing for aptitude and ability ? If an outstanding organization like the Educational Testing Service ran , after twice filtering its questions , come up with such defective specimens , would there not seem to be legitimate cause for concern about the methods and products of other testmaking organizations ? Admittedly there is no easy solution to the problem of testing . That is why the committee I advocated earlier should include creative people of commanding intellectual stature who could bring fresh vision to the testing situation , especially as it affects those gifted young people whose talents do not conform to the statistically based norms of the multiple-choice testers . Only a minority of such a committee should consist of test psychologists or professional test-makers . Perhaps one way to bring such a group into being would be through appointment ? with or without foundation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for instance , the American Council of Learned Societies , the National Academy of Sciences , and the Modern Language Association . It would be premature to anticipate the conclusions of such a committee . Certainly there is a case for the usefulness of multiple-choice tests , properly constructed , in a limited range of testing . It is possible that their quality can be much improved . But if it is decided that their very format makes them inappropriate for broader testing purposes , their tight grip on our educational system should be broken . Testing in this country is too crucial an activity to be accepted on trust . 