@@488142

" In our times , from the highest class of society down to the lowest , everyone lives as under the eye of a hostile and dreaded censorship , " John Stuart Mill observed in his essay On Liberty . It is hard to imagine what he would have said about life in 1967 , in the days of the transistorized martini olive or  --  as in the action of the Buffalo police against my colleague Leslie Fiedler  --  the transistorized teeny-bopper His statement is now truer than he could ever have imagined . There have been few times and places in history in which people have not lived as under the eye of a hostile and dreaded censor  --  ship . But not everyone . What was modern about Mill 's experience of social constraint was that it affected the highest as strongly as the lowest ; in some cases , more strongly . Traditionally , one assumes otherwise ; the aris  --  tocracy is supposed to be licentious with impunity . Cen  --  sorship and other forms of oppression are ordinarily directed by the legally constituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent their most powerful social groups and assert the legitimacy of their demands on their subordinates When this becomes no longer true , it is questionable that there really is any longer an upper class , for status has not much mean  --  ing in the absence of power . This decline of the upper 360 class , and along with it the decline of personal liberty , its central element of social change The censorship of which he complained , though ubiquitous , was largely unofficial and informal , it was not imposed from above . The hostile and dreaded censor was everywhere , was A one 's neighbor , was oneself . But he was real enough , and his actions were as binding as those of any inquisitor . It is this sense of being under the eye of a hostile and dreaded censorship that I have called the spirit of fascism In my Judgment it has gotten steadily stronger since the beginning of the 19th century , though in some respects also less crude . Nothing as strident and uncivil as Hitler is likely to erupt again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to paraphrase the singing group ? called the Mothers of Invention , do n't make it . But the basic trend continues . There is little that is oppressive in our life in this country today that Tocqueville , writing twenty years be  --  fore Mill ( who draws heavily on his work ) , did not anticipate . But clarity may be improved by focusing on a specific , contemporary form the spirit of fascism is taking . I could most easily have used the public school system and its practices as my source of examples ; but so much of my writing has been devoted to this increas  --  ingly dismal topic that I prefer . on this occasion , to look elsewhere . An equally informative , and depressing , pecu  --  liarity of modern life in America is the sacredness of the police as a social institution , especially among the less sophisticated lower-middle class  --  the people with THE NATION/ October 16 , 1967 " Support your local police " bumper stickers who en  --  liven their lives by reading about child molesters in the Sunday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such people never find fault with their police . Indeed , police spokesmen are probably justified in their frequent complaint that they face increasing distrust and disrespect in attempting to discharge their duties . But what is criticized is usually some specific police action . There is no complaint about the ideology police power expresses ; in the mass media and among " straight " people , at least , each successive incident of police brutality or violation of civil liberty is regarded as an exceptional case  --  a malfunction , to be condoned , dismissed , or in rare cases investigated , in order to determine what went wrong . This is rather the attitude Shakespeare takes toward royalty in his plays ; in them there are kings who do a bad job , and even bad kings , but never a critical examination of the institution of royalty itself This suggests that there was something in the Eliza  --  bethan social climate that was inimical to any notion that the monarchy itself , or any assumption underlying it , might be a source of social problems . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operates in our society to limit criticism of police constraint . In any case , no American speaking in any official capacity today dares to say , " No , it is not always better for the law to be enforced ! " or " So far as we can judge by the evidence to date , race riots in American cities are usually precipitated by police action , and in the absence of zealous law enforcement they would probably not occur . " No more would he declare that " pot-busts , not marijuana , are what is demoralizing the students in my school , and until there is some positive evidence that the stuff is at least as harmful as alcohol we are not going to cooperate with any more of them " All of these are reasonable assertions with a stronger empirical basis than the policies now in effect have to rest on , but they are never publicly made . Instead , the defenders of liberty accept the assumption that law enforcement is good in itself and argue only about whether a particular law should he repealed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has , enforcement is still regarded as the greater good Governor Hughes of New Jersey praised the action of the police and National Guard in the Newark riots , in which they committed most of the violence that occurred , while promising that individual abuses of police power would be investigated . Earlier , California State Assembly Speaker Jesse Unruh had been equally laudatory about the action of the Los Angeles police in suppressing with great brutality the demonstra  --  tion against President Johnson 's appearance at the Cen  --  tury Plaza Hotel . Yet simply on the basis of past observa  --  tion of the Newark and Los Angeles social scenes , and of the role the police had come to play in them , any rational observer could have predicted the course that police intervention would follow To say that unfortunate abuses occui red and look for their cause in particular idiosyncracies is like explaining away the relationship between smoking and lung cancer m terms of individual THE NATioNiOctober 16 , 1967 susceptibility  --  which does , indeed , affect who the victims will be  --  instead of admitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our reverence for law enforcement is not an expression of respect for law itself . We are a lawless and unruly people , as peoples go Notoriously , the same Congressmen who trumpet their indignation as they propose increasing  --  ly harsh legislation against rioters or draft-card burners turn out to be the ones who are implicated in dubious transactions . This is not hypocrisy ; wheeling and deal-in are attempts to evade the law , not to defy it . The Congressman , once caught , is usually as tearful and repentant as a spanked child may be ; if , like Mr. Powell , he is n't , he does become an object of intense hostility . What Americans demand of themselves and one an  --  other is not respect for the law , or respect for authority ? a tradition of griping and derision toward authority is our standard way of concealing from ourselves that , in fact , we submit to it instead of saying , quietly and solemnly like Bartleby , " I prefer not to . " We demand , rather , submission to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and something different from the law ; policemen , in fact , find themselves some  --  what at a disadvantage in open court where the defendant and the witnesses enjoy formal protection . He represents the values and social attitudes of the common man , the anxieties and resentments of what , in some respects , is the most deprived level of society . Young men who choose to become -law-enforcement officers are , after all , choosing a comparatively low-paying and dangerous job whose chief appeal must come from its bureaucratized security and the opportunities it provides for controlling the lives of others This control may be benevolently exercised , in many cities the police informally and with little extrinsic reward in fact perform the services that preserve poor and desperate people from disaster  --  stopping husbands from beating up wives , getting sick people to the hospital , cooling down scenes of violence  --  and which are supposed to require the skills of profession  --  al social workers . But the processes of self-selection that determine who will devote their lives to law-enforcement insure that the police officer will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any form of uncontrolled spontaneous behavior , though stereotyped forms of disorderly conduct may be tolerated with good humor Police have a built-in bias against youth , hippies and other undersocialized persons , and sometimes add insult to the injury they have done them by winking at gross disorder if it is a kind that seems conventional . Last spring , for example , the same police who had been making life miserable for the more turned-on students at the Davis campus of the University of Cali  --  fornia ( by their obsessive preoccupation with marijuana ) quite willingly stopped traffic on a major street adjacent to the campus for an hour or so to permit students in two fiaternities to pelt one another with garbage and rotten fruit in a battle that had become traditional . While this undermined whatever confidence the hippy students may have had in the integrity of the police , the incident is un  --  derstandable  --  indeed , reNealmg  --  as an example of the 361 capacity of the police to distinguish forms of disorder which indicate genuine rejection of social norms from forms which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; people do not become law-enforcement officers anywhere in order to serve as guardians of liberty What does seem more intense here is a panic determination to praise the kind of order the police enforce and limit any challenge to questions of procedure and technique . We are hooked on law enforcement . There is no other country in which the secret police , however powerful , have enjoyed the degree of social endorsement and approval accorded the FBI . It takes courage in this country even to demand due process . But this , important as it is , does not get to the heart of the matter Returning , for example , to the Fiedler case , even if the police had used unquestionably ethical methods of gathering evidence , is it desirable that they , even with a valid warrant , burst into the house and ar  --  rest its residents , subjecting them in the process to the consequent indignities that have since been fully re  --  ported elsewhere ? The action is wholly destructive ; noth  --  ing is gained to compensate for the waste and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotional and intellectual resources in struggling just to preserve themselves , under conditions of shock and anxiety , instead of continuing to use their energy to illu  --  minate our lives . 362 All societies sacrifice some measure of individual creativity to the maintenance of order , but societies differ in their conception of order and of its source ; and some have been governed , at least for a time , by a nobler con  --  ception of order than that which can be imposed by a " hostile and dreaded censorship . " Why , then , do we continue to respond to such clich  --  s as " Nobody gets special treatment around here , no matter what they do or how smart they are , " or , " As long as it 's on the books , the law must be enforced , " or " There are n't any privileged sanctuaries for lawbreakers in our com  --  community , " as if the only thing wrong with them was that they were corny , naive or hypocritical . While nobody believes such statements ( though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while no society  --  no military platoon , even , in which they were in fact true could function  --  we still agree that they represent an ideal . Why ? In part because one of our basic cultural beliefs associates law with order , though , as Paul Goodman has so often stated , the law does at least as much to promote disorder as to preserve order , since it continu  --  ally interferes with the processes of civic and political homeostasis and accommodation , creating problems where none would otherwise exist and impeding efforts to solve those that do There arc cities in America which remain bearable and viable , or barely viable , simply because their governments arc corrupt , being corrupt they can get a little something done , instead of being absolutely impotent . But a more basic reason , surely , is that the law-enforce  --  ment process is thought of as democratic , as more demo  --  cratic than the law itself , since the courts are dominated by smooth-tongued lawyers , while the police represent ? and , indeed , act out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as , and often rather than , the commands of the law . Where the two are in conflict , the police remind individuals that they have overstepped the social norms . The victims may win on appeal , but it takes a decade and costs a fortune . Police action , rather than conviction in court , is the real sanction . To criticize law enforcement as a social function , rather than to direct one 's complaints to specific abuses , is therefore to challenge the democratic process itself . The socially acceptable response , instead , is to say that the law should be changed , but the police must he obeyed till it is . In practice , even this is more than an angry and hostile community will often tolerate . It was precisely Professor Fiedler 's sponsorship of an organization which advocuted legalizing marijuana that drew the wrath of local authorities on him . But legal forms of advocacy and protest may also , in piactice , be not only futile but nominating , as the advocate comes to perceive that his adversaries are counting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he makes no progress in the contest , that the futility of his protest has been pro  --  gramed into the system so that his adherence to legiti  --  macy makes him a fall guy . This is what is happening with pot and also what has happened to both the civil rights and Vietnamese War protest movements , and accounts for much of the bitterness which makes Rap Brown seem much more relevant today than Dr. King . THE NATioN/Ortober 16 , 1967 Much of the present split between the liberals and social activists comes , I believe , from the activists ' grow  --  ing conviction that they ca n't win on any of these issues under the working rules of American democracy . It seems reasonably clear that here and now the American people are not turned against the war by depictions of its brutalities or by the memorable contradictions in the statements of public leaders , though they do dislike pay  --  ing for it and having it dislocate their personal plans . Nor were they appalled when Andrew Jackson  --  the leader and custodian of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision and destroyed the settled and literate Cherokee Indians  --  whose willing  --  ness to adopt ways that had recently become American made them a peculiar threat to their white rivals  --  by forcing them from their North Carolina homes on a death march to Oklahoma that seems , in its conception and its execution , to have been a century ahead of its time . It seems intolerably doctrinaire , in the face of such events occurring repeatedly since the republic was founded , to persist in assuming that American democ  --  racy , for some reason , would provide an optimum climate for the growth of freedom and dignity if it were only working right ; and that the abuses are accidents rather than expressions of its spirit . Our efforts to reconcile Vietnam and racial bigotry with the stated values of our social system have surpassed the desperation with which the Ptolemaic astronomers sought to prevent the observa  --  tions of Copernicus and Kepler from revealing that what actually happens in the solar system just was n't like their model . The American social system has many remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ? implicate nearly all of us in whatever policy its leaders undertake by persuading us that we were involved in its formulation ; and , above all its remarkable genius for exploiting individual ambition to achieve antagonistic cooperation rather than overt conflict among people of very different backgrounds . But it is not a society in which individuals are treated with respect , and never was . If its founders had conceived that it might be , they would surely have had no reason to begin that portion of the Constitution which seeks specifically to safeguard crucial areas of personal liberty with the flat prohibition , " Congress shall make no law . . . " No document , how  --  ever , can effectively protect liberty in a society where 4 political action , to be legitimate , must continually be ratified by people who despise and fear it . Historically , our political tradition holds that the im  --  pulse toward freedom and dignity comes from the hearts of the people , whom our institutions are designed to pro  --  tect from the constraints and domination of privilege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to have led the aristocratic Stendhal to perceive Napoleon as a liberator . Many of those who favored democracy , on balance , as the most promising of possible social systems , ? remained cautious , however , particularly if they had the responsibility for actually advancing democratic social in  --  stitutions . Tocqueville  --  himself an aristocrat who never ? lost either his principles or his poise , though his father was put to death in the French Revolution  --  held that so ciety would inevitably become more egalitarian and that democratic social institutions provided the best hope of keeping it decent and orderly , though at great cost in freedom , diversity and human fidelity . The founding fathers not only chose to construct a system of checks and balances biased in favor of settled men of property ; they were deliberately disingenuous in writing the Declaration of Independence . Carl Becker , in his classic work , recounts , with illustrations from suc  --  cessive drafts of the Declaration , their rather comical dif  --  ficulties in ascribing to harmless . nutty old George III the oppressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament , but which had to be interpreted as mo  --  narchical abuses in order to justify secession . Plenty of social critics  --  and these not inimical to liberty and human dignity  --  have argued that the source of the hostile and dreaded censorship was the growing power of the mass itself in political democracies that were functioning very much as might be expected from their design and structure . Besides Tocqueville and Mill there have been Henry Adams , T S. Eliot and Ortega , to name the most consistent and obvious . The thought of all these men is familiar , but it cuts across our ideological grain . We continue , then , to connect democracy and liberty in such a manner as to assume that advances in the scope of popular- control should enhance the quality of freedom , though there ? seems more reason to expect the contrary . At this point in our civic life , invasion of privacy is at least as pressing a social problem as broadening the base of political decisions . This is not to deny the urgency of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now live  --  as the urban poor , for example , do  --  at the mercy of decisions they are powerless to influence , for every individual has a right to participate in the social processes that bear on his life and dispose of his person and his resources . But if the exercise of that right is not to strengthen even further the operation of the hostile and dreaded censorship , it is imperative that the American people be enjoined from intruding on other persons ' lives , whether those others be their fellow citizens or unfranchised long-haired youths and nomads or Viet  --  namese peasants . We have no such reticence today . Empirically , even liberals operate as if they knew that it was usually unwise to turn to the instruments of popular sovereignty as allies in the defense of personal freedom . Surely . no university president has ever rebuffed a critic who objected to the presence of controversial speaker or student organization on campus by saying : " If I interfered with my students ' freedom to hear whom they choose and support such causes as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation ! " Still , the idea that personal freedom is lodged in popular sovereignty retains its strength , and re  --  mains , indeed , the basis for legitimation of democratic government . It is this assumption that consensus holds the key to moral as well as legal authority that makes it difficult for a liberal to scrutinize critically the specific values actually involved in rigorous enforcement of marijuana laws or compulsory school attendance or the Selective Service Act . Yet underlying our deference to the institutions of popular sovereignty is not only the democratic tradition but realistic fear as well  --  fear of the ressentiment of a vast majority of individuals who have been lured by the promises of a seductive economic system into meaning  --  less sacrifices of personal fulfillment for the sake of fit  --  ting in to a society that has no use for them as people and can not even allow them the leisure or the privacy in which to reflect on what their lives have become . If the headsman and the memory of Thomas Cromwell were fearsome enough to discourage the Elizabethans from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unyielding sullenness of a Congress which hates the poor too much to provide decent housing ; and the suspicion and misery in the eyes of motel owners , TV announcers , smiling stewardesses and senior citizens in leisure towns are enough to terrify most men of good will who might be interested in a closer scrutiny of the meaning of Ameri  --  can democracy . Is it possible to conceive of an American society organized so as to be less destructive in its psychological impact on those who must live in it , one that would sub  --  ject us less to the hostile and dreaded censorshi No doubt it is , but societies have not much free choice They are not constructed ; they evolve , and even the forms their revolutions take are molded by their peculiar heritage , of which their members are at once victims and bene  --  ficiaries . The peculiar demands and opportunities offered by our economic system have surely played a funda  --  mental role in making us what we are , but whether at 364 this point we would become very different under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is an  --  other question . We might . It does seem clear , as Jules Henry has argued in The Nation " Capital 's Last Frontier , " April 25 , 19661 ) , that the most oppressive features of our foreign policy stem from our colonialism , particularly our need to expand capital investment in Asia rather than merely seek new markets there . Much of our national economy , particu  --  larly in California , is dependent not only on the war but on winning enough of a victory in it to permit us to re  --  establish and surpass the economic interests in Asia of which communism threatens to deprive us . Such factors as this have often led , as they have led us , to aggressive expansion and war . But much of the horror of what we are doing in Viet  --  nam and elsewhere stems from the fact that we depend on capital investment not only for affluence but for self-esteem , and this seems a peculiar feature of the Ameri  --  can corporate economy . Tocqueville specifically noted this , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a high standard of living in order to think well of itself . Today , the mass media exploit this connection so thoroughly that it is impossible for the poor to retain any self-respect unless they become alienated from the society and reject its reward-system ; and this would not be true , or as true , in a Socialist country . But this , as Franklin Roosevelt  --  no mean defender of the free-enterprise system himself , it now appears  --  used to say , is an iffy question . What is perfectly clear is that under our system the social fabric has been stretched so tight by the frustrations involved in seeking self-esteem under the eye of the hostile and dreaded censorship that it is ripping . Both the hippy movement and the summer riots have served notice that there are limits to the degree of control that can be derived from vigilant assertion of legitimate authority . The authority may be formally un  --  impeachable and may be used as a basis for jailing and sometimes killing the protestors and rioters , but it is then thoroughly apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legal norms has shamed no one and occasioned no repentance . I do not mean to suggest that hippies and slum rioters are natural allies . I wish they could be ; but I fear that , except in very special circumstances , they are more likely to be adversaries . Youth protest in America , as Goodman has stated in his Playboy article and elsewhere , is middle class in origin and aristocratic in attitude . Hippies , who have mostly emerged from the middle-class bag they felt was suffocating them , put the social system down and treat the rewards poor urban looters demand with a destructive irony that must be insulting to people who have never enjoyed them . ? Student activists , who are not exactly hippies but who usually have more in common with them than with the urban poor , report that their major difficulty in organizing draft resistance in the slums is that for many poor Negro youths the army , even Vietnam , seems an opportunity  --  and is one . Basically , the rioters want what the society values and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are so much less alienated than hippies that THE NATION/October 16 , 1967 the motives of the two groups are in fundamental conflict . Less abstractly , it seems very likely that as urban Negroes gain more opportunity they will join the ranks of the hippy haters . These are primarily persons who have recently become respectable  --  like many policemen , school officials and municipal bureaucrats  --  and fear that any sudden movement may dislodge their new status . Such people hate both hippies and unruly Negroes , which provides , for the moment , a common cause . But the latter may also be anxious , upward mobile Negroes , or Toms . Aspiring Negro teachers often treat lower-class Negro children more severely than they do white , or than white teachers do Former school Superintendent Willis in Chi  --  cago relied for years on an elderly and formidable Negro matron on his board as his staunch ally in defending the Chicago school system against the demands of uppity civil rights militants . Hippy youth , angry and exhausted by continual harassment , sometimes say of themselves : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and increasing , number of Negroes today are , in this sense , the new Irish or the new Italians  --  the black caucus seems re  --  luctant to be the new Jews  --  and are likely to be as up  --  tight and hostile to flower children as any ethnic group that is having troubles with marginality . Nevertheless , both hippies and rioters have succeeded this year in challenging the hegemony of the uptight way of life , and the adequacy of the legal norms from which it derives its right to use force and violence . That their direct and sometimes unlawful social action is alarming to the general public is undeniable ; that it may occasion more repressive legislation , and elicit more severe violence from the authorities is probable , and tragic . But there seems no less costly way of raising fundamental questions about American polity and its legal and moral bases , among a people who see no incongruity in judging their country 's foreign policy by the degree of endorsement it receives on public opinion polls . That 's the way we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ else ! GHETTO REDEVELOPMENT Corporate Imperialism for the Poor The " urban crisis " has clearly become a full-blown ? political crisis . Just as clearly , national elites are re  --  sponding by fashioning the outlines of a plan to forestall further violence . The plan features public subsidies to * induce private enterprise to redevelop the ghetto  --  at both high profit and low risk . Political leaders are stumbling over one another in * their haste to promote corporate intervention in the ghetto . Senator Kennedy has proposed tax advantages for large-scale investors who can be persuaded to build low-rental housing , at profits of between 12 and 19 per cent Another Kennedy bill would extend similar tax benefits to big employers who agree to locate in ghettos and hire local residents Senator Javits , focusing on 6 somewhat smaller entrepreneurs ( tax advantages work best for big investors ) , is calling for a " domestic devel opment bank , " funded by public and private capital , * from which redevelopers could borrow at low cost . Governors and Presidential aspirants are also busy . Romney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days ) , and Rockefeller has proposed a quasi-public " New York State Urban Redevelopment Corporation " ( to be launched with $50 million of public funds ) which would work with local , state and federal agencies to promote private investments in ghetto housing and industry . Recently , the President announced that * the nation 's major life insurance companies were pre . pared to invest $1 billion in redevelopment  --  thus initiat ing a " creative private-government partnership , " accord IHE NATION/ October 16 , .1967 ing to The New York Times . What makes this partner  --  ship attractive to insurance companies is the promise of federal rent supplements to guarantee a return from low-income tenants , and changes in FHA policies to insure private investments in " high risk " areas  --  i e. , ghettos . The new urban program is being pressed by an alliance of political and corporate leaders , with representatives of labor and traditional civil rights organizations bringing up the rear In New York City , Mayor Lindsay actively cultivates business leaders through his Economic Devel  --  opment Council , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bedford-Stuyvesant by such notables as Gerald L. Phillippe , chairman of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , and Christian A Herter , Jr. , vice president of the Mobil Oil Corporation . A comparable council in Detroit , formed after the riot , is headed by Joseph L. Hudson , Jr , president of one of the largest department stores in the country , and includes the top officials of General Motors , Chrysler and Ford . Cleveland businessmen have created a revolving fund to provide " seed money " and to guarantee loans for ghetto rehabili  --  tation . In Pittsburgh , the Allegheny Housing Corporation draws on funds from PPG Industries , U. S. Steel , Rock  --  well Manufacturing , Westinghouse Electric and Alcoa , among others . The Urban Coalition which met recently in Washington brought together 800 national political leaders , mayors , officials from labor and civil rights and such stalwarts of corporate enterprise as Andrew Heiskell , chairman of Time Incorporated ; Henry Ford II , chair  --  man of the Ford Motor Company ; David Rockefeller , president of the Chase Manhattan Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The urban alliance could have substantial economic impact . Public subsidies for the ghetto are now pitifully                     