@@488077

Mr. Sherman , a member of the Law School faculty at Indiana University , is completing a study of military justice . He served two years in the Army as a captain in the Judge Advocate General 's Corps , and holds a reserve commission as captain in that service . Whatever the impact of the Green Beret case upon American military prestige or the image of the intelligence organizations , there is not much doubt that the system of military justice has suffered . Senators and Congressmen have received heavy mail complaining about the military conduct of the case  --  the secrecy , the seemingly unnecessary incarceration of the defendants , the offers of immunity in return for prosecution testimony , the withholding of evidence from defense lawyers , and the influence of the area command . These objections go to the fundamental structure of the court-martial system , which for the first time since World War LI is being seriously chalen ced . It will be ironic if the Green Beret case serves to bring about reform of military justice . The Green Berets , triemhers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been advocates for curbing the powers of commanders or expandTHE NATION/October 20 , 1969 ing rights of due process for servicemen . But that is precisely why the case may be so effective for reform . Criticisms of military justice have been coming for years from opponents of the military ; now they have been voiced by oareer commissioned and noncommissioned officers from the Army 's most gung ho outfit . The Green Beret defendants alleged that they could not receive a fair trial by court-martial and requested that civilian authorities or civilian courts step in , a request finally granted by the Secretary of the Army , apparently with the authorization of the President . It can not be lightly passed over that loyal supporters of the military establishment have asked for civilian interference in the Green Beret case . The military have over the years guarded nothing quite so jealously from civilian intervention as the independence of the court-martial system . " It will be a grave error , " stated Gen. William T. Sherman in 1879 , " if by negligence we permit the military law to become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derived from their practice in the civil courts . " When Congress in 1950 replaced the old Articles of War with the Uniform Code of Military Justice ( which still governs the operation of courts-martial ) , it buckled under pressure from the military , leaving 3911 commanders in control of court-martial administration and preserving the autonomy of the military justice system . The civilian secretary of any of the services and the President have the power , theoretically , to overrule military determinations concerning courts-martial and to reduce or remit sentences , but the power has rarely been invoked because of the prevailing belief that the military know best how to handle their men and run their courts . The taboo on civilian courts is even stronger There is no means of direct appeal from a court-martial conviction to a federal court , and federal courts have assiduously refused to take jurisdiction of eases brought by servicemen who challenged military determinations or alleged court-martial errors that did not involve the Constitution Military law , as the Supreme Court said in a 1953 case , " is a jurisprudence which exists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicial establishment This court has played no role in its development ; we have exerted no supervisory power over the courts which enforce it . " The willingness of the Green Beret defendants and their supporters to criticize the military justice system and to by-pass the court-martial by appealing to the Secretary of the Army and the federal courts reflects a change in public attitudes toward the military Only two and a half years ago , criticisms very similar to those made by the Green Berets lawyers were raised by Capt . Howard Levy , who was court-martialed in May 1967 for refusing to teach Green Berets and for making anti-war statements . Captain Levy 's court-martial , like the projected one for the Green Berets , was brought at the direction of a commander who was emotionally involved m the case , and command influence was apparent throughout the proceedings . Like the Green Berets , Levy was subjected to seemingly needless incarceration and restrictions pending trial ; his mail and telephone calls were monitored ; promises and threats were made to witnesses to obtain prosecution testimony , the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued its own self-serving version of the case , and certain witnesses and evidence were not made available to the defense . Levy was tried , as the Green Berets would have been , before a court chosen by the commander from ' among his officers , and neither Levy nor his civilian attorney was permitted to see a 180-page intelligence dossier on him which the defense believed contained important evidence . However , the climate was different in the spring of 1967 , Levy 's attempts to get the Secretary of the Army and the federal courts to intervene aroused little public interest and failed . He was sentenced to three years at hard labor Since the spring of 1967 , there has been a dramatic change in public attitudes toward both the war in Vietnam ( the Gallup poll , in late September 1969 , showed that 58 per cent disapprove of the war , 32 per cent approve ; these figures were almost exactly reversed in the spring of 1967 ) and the traditional immunity of the military from criticism This has affected even the military 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rarely been reported in the press , became front-page news as the number of trials of dissenters rose ; and with the expanded coverage came a public reac-400 Lion against certain authoritarian and disciplinarian aspects of court-martial procedure In the spring of 1969 , two very different court-martial cases attracted substantial attention , and resulted in unusual intervention by the secretaries of the services . The first involved the prosecution at the Presidio in California of a number of young soldiers who had staged a brief , peaceful sit-down strike to protest the shooting of a prisoner , and stockade conditions m general . In February , the first three to be court-martialed were found guilty of mutiny and sentenced to sixteen , fourteen and fifteen years ' imprisonment . Protest against the convictions and sentences was widespread . Among others , a petition to the Secretary of the Army signed by a number of well-known law professors asked " whether the intense command interest in prosecuting these soldiers for serious crimes and the unusually severe sentences indicate that the court-martial proceedings did not result in a fair and impartial trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised by these courts-martial concerning the administration of criminal law in our armed forces and the capacity of the present military justice system to insure basic due process rights to members of the military . " At first , the Secretary said it would be inappropriate for him to interfere , since the military appeals were ' adequate to insure that justice was done ( he made a similar statement early in the Green Beret case ) . Then , under mounting public pressure , the Judge Advocate General of the Army , taking instruction from the Chief of Staff and the Secretary of the Army , announced the unusual step of cutting down the sentences to two years , although the military appeals had not yet been completed . The second 1969 case involved the Pueblo crew . When the Navy completed its Board of Inquiry hearings concerning the seizure of the Pueblo , it announced that it would court-martial Commander Bucher and certain other crew members Acting in response to a storm of adverse criticism , the Secretary of the Navy overruled this decision and dismissed the cases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different , have all had the effect of breaking through the precedent that the civilian sphere should not interfere with the manner in which the military disciplines its men In each instance , the motive behind the public clamor seems to have been not so much that the defendants were innocent , as that the military was out to get them and that they would therefore not receive a fair trial in a court-martial There appears to have been an underlying feeling that the military was using the court-martial , not dispassionately to determine guilt or innocence but to punish ideological nonconformity and make an example ( the Presidio case ) , or to find a scapegoat ( the Pueblo case ) , or to satisfy personal animosities and further institutional ambitions ( the Green Beret case ) . One might be tempted to conclude that the intervention of the secretary in each of these cases was appropriate and that this , therefore , is a satisfactory way to remedy court-martial injustice . However , that manner of redress provides only temporary relief in individual cases ; it does not cope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary 's dismissal of court-martial charges , as in THE NAT1oN7October 20 , 1969 the Pueblo and Green Beret cases , does not even insure that justice has been done in the individual case . If , indeed , the Green Berets committed murder , or if Commander Bucher was derelict in his duties to the point that he violated definite military criminal laws , then society , as well as the military , has an interest in their prosecution . Intervention by the Secretary to dismiss the case accomplishes none of the objectives of a sound criminal law system . It provides no deterrence for similar crimes in the future , it leaves the accused in limbo with no chance to clear his name if innocent , or to serve his sentence if guilty It does not insure fair and equitable administration of the law in the future , for the decision is made , not on the merits but according to primarily political considerations , such as the desire to shield certain organizations from embarrassment or to mute public clamor . It also tends to discriminate against others whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortunate enough to have a case that excites press attention and public sympathy . Finally , unlike intervention by a federal court to protect the constitutional rights of a serviceman , the Secretary 's intervention is not guided by judicial precedent Thus it is not surprising that , after tfie initial rejoicing over Secretary Resor 's decision to dismiss the charges , no one , neither the Green Beret defendants , the military , the CIA nor the public , is really satisfied with the outcome . But despite the unsatisfactory resolution of that case , it has served very usefully to release , at last , the cause of military justice reform from the ideological limitations of the hawk-dove controversy and to indicate that , unless changes are made in the basic court-martial structure , awkward and unsatisfactory interventions may have to continue Like no other event in the post-World War II period , it has moved the Congress to look critically into military justice The defects in military justice procedures which became evident in the Presidio , Pueblo and Green Beret cases result primarily from old authoritarian and disciplinarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system in 1950 There had been 1 7 million courts-martial during World War II and 100 capital executions ; 45,000 servicemen were still imprisoned when the war ended . Senators and Congressmen were flooded with complaints about " drum-head justice " and unduly severe sentences A special committee headed by Gen. James Doolittle found that injustice and discrimination were prevalent in courts-martial cases and called for " a new philosophy in the military order , a policy of treatment of men , especially in the ranks , in terms of advanced concepts of social thinking " But by the time the various , bills Much IN Ore . thereupon dri:fted had worked their way through the committees , the Uniform Code of Military Justice contained little to cure the evils The code did extend substantial due process safeguards to servicemen in courts-martial ( such as the right to a lawyer in a general court-martial and a broad right against self-incrimination ) , but it preservcd the basic structure of the old stem Several conspicuous defects in the administration of military justice deprive servicemen of a fair and imTHE NATION/October 20 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been mentioned earlier . It is " command control , " and its effect is that the individual commander who decides to prosecute one of his men controls the court-martial machinery and appoints the personnel . Our civilian law places particular importance upon the separation of functions and independence of individuals who administer the criminal process The district attorney decides whether or not to prosecute ; the grand jury must indict , the judge is an independent official , and the defense counsel is hired by or appointed for the defendant , the jury is picked from the defendant 's peers by random selection from the community , and the appeals courts are independent tribunals . Under the court-martial system , the commander plays a part in all these functions He decides whether to prosecute and can court-martial a man even over the contrary recommendation of an investigating officer ; he can handpick the jury from among the officers under his command , and both prosecutor and defense counsel from his legal officers . And when the trial is over , he has the power to review the sentence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative powers over the conduct of the court-martial . He frequently enters a pretrial agreement with the accused , promising to cut down the sentence if the man will plead guilty . He frequently grants immunity to other servicemen if they will testify against the defendant . He determines whether or not a defense counsel should be allowed to subpoena witnesses and obtain other evidence before trial He appoints the court and in certain situations can excuse court members , even after the trial has begun . He can reverse a dismissal of charges that the court has granted on such grounds as denial of a speedy trial , and order the trial to proceed He is the immediate superior of the staff judge advocate , who carries out a number of supposedly impartial functions in the court-martial , and has the power to rate him , to determine his assignments , leaves , etc Although the commander is forbidden from attempting to influence the decision of a court , he is in a position to do so , quite legally , in countless ways . It is understandable , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abrams had an intensely personal interest in the outcome of their trial , petitioned to have the case tried in a federal court . The second most important defect in the court-martial procedure is the absence of a right to a grand jury hearing and to trial by jury Although the code of 1950 provides for a pretrial investigation that is usually more thorough than what a civilian grand jury provides , the commander is not bound by the investigating officer 's recommendation . Thus , although the investigating officer found no evidence to support charges of mutiny against some of the Presidio defendants , the commanding general overruled his recommendations and tried them for mutiny anyway The right to trial by a jury of one 's peers , chosen at random , is a basic assumption of civilian criminal law A serviceman is permitted to request that one-third of the court chosen by the commander he from the enlisted men , but commanders then invariably appoint high-ranking noncommissioned officers , who are usually the most rigid disciplinarians in the service , and the right 401 is rarely exercised . thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they often reflect not only a heavily disciplinarian and class-oriented bias but also the attitudes of their commando ' on discipline , offenses and sentences . The thud detect club ' aces a wide variety of practices and procedures which ' elate to the extraordinary power which the military is able to exert over a defendant in a court-martial and which often affects its outcome . Servicemen have fewer rights of privacy than do civilians ; therefore It is easier for the command to monitor telephone calls , censor mail , exclude visitors , and impose restrictions on a defendant . Although military courts have generally recognized the Supreme Court 's opinion concerning the right to winning befoic interrogations and the exclusion of evidence resulting horn an unlawful search or seizure , searches and " shake-downs " are permitted on a military reservation by authority ul the commander , and therefore it is relatively easy for military police legally to obtain incriminating evidence Militaiy provisions for bad , both before trial and pending appeal , are inadequate . Commanders are vested with excessively broad discretion in the matter of release pending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time , that a convicted serviceman can be released during the period when his appeal is being completed , but leaves such release to the sole discretion of the commander . This has produced one of the most SeVel c injustices of the court-martial system set VILCIllell have been made to begin serving their sentences immediately upon conviction , thus even when their conviction was later overturned , they have spent substantial periods behind bars . ( Full military appeals are sometimes not completed for several years . ) It is still too early to determine whether the 1968 Act will be administered to provide a liberal right to bail pending appeal , but results so far indicate the contrary . A fourth detect is the allegation of extremely vague climes , such as - disoiders and neglects to the prejudice of good order and discipline in the armed forces , " or " conduct of a nature to bring discredit upon the armed lot ces " ( Ai title 134 ) , or " conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman " ( Article 133 ) . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a case to trial than civilian law permits a district attorney , and they would be held unconstitutionally vague and overbroad in a civilian court . They have traditionally been used by commanders to punish a wide variety of conduct which displeases him ( Article 134 is known as the " Devil 's Ai tide " because the terms are so broad that almost any conduct can he bound to come under it ) , and have been especially used in the pemod of Vietnam to court-martial dissenters One of the mole popular charges brought in such cases under Article 134 has been the making of " disloyal statements . with design to promote disloyalty among the troops " A filth detect in military justice is the in-adequacy of the appeals system There ale Once levels of appeal froni a court-martial conviction- administrative reviews by the commander and legal officers ; the Courts of Miluary Itc  --  iew. and the Court of Military Appeals . The right of the commander to review a court-martial 402 conviction is an anachronism from the day when a sentence was not considered final until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitted only to decrease the sentence , his power of review skates an undesirable influence on the court It has not been uncommon for a commander to let it be known that he wishes courts-martial to impose the maximum sentence , so that he may or may not cut it down , as he sees lit , some officers still feel that this is the appiopi tate way tot a court to function Asa result , court-martial sentences are sometimes outrageously severe , and the defendant is then dependent on the good will of the commander The Courts of Military Review arc made up of three members , usually military legal officers The code does not permit appeal to these corn is for sentences of less than a bad conduct discharge or one year 's confinement , and this limitation means that in many cases , the accused will receive only the ieview of the commander and a legal officer in his command Ihe Courts of Military Review have never displayed much independence nom official military positions That can be explained , in part , by the fact that they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be removed at any time Until they achieve tenure and develop some sense of independence , they will not provide the kind of impartial review to which a civilian is entitled in an appellate court fhe Cow t of Military Appeals , the highest miht , uy court , is composed of three civilians appointed for fifteen-year terms by the President It is the outstanding achievement of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and can take the credit for producing the first body of military common law and for keeping the military abreast of Supreme Court decisions on criminal due process However , the right to appeal to the court is discretionary with it , and it hears only a tiny percentage of the total courts-martial Also , it has proved to be a cautious court and , particularly in areas of individual rights , it has lagged behind the Supreme Court . Perhaps the most serious detect in the Court of Military Appeals structure is its ladk of the broad equitable and extraordinary powers available in civilian courts Although it has recently claimed to have " all-writs powers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cases coming before it that involved requests by servicemen for injunctive or other protection from illegal or unconstitutional military determinations Since servicemen are generally unable to get federal court relief , it is especially important that the Court of Military Appeals he empowered and administratively enabled to grant a wide variety of remedies Those are the major areas to which the ( , Digress gill have to give attention , if it is to ' , use military justice to the level of civilian Justice The military will claim . no doubt , that the duties and responsibilities of the services require that commanders continue to control courts-martial , that Juries he officers chosen by the commander and that vague crimes he invoked to haul servicemen into court . But the military has adapted to reforms imposed fiom the outside before , and it will do so , main Even if the reform does not take place , the military justice system will probably not maintain its relative autonomy The willingness of the Secretaries to interfere , under public pressure , is only one predictable conseTHE NAtION/October 20 , 19b @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two other developments , which have already begun in the federal courts , could seriously limit the independence and jurisdiction of the system First , on June 2 , 1969 , in O'Callahati v Patker , the Supreme Court ruled that a serviceman charged with a non-service-connected crime committed off post can not be tried by a court-martial and thus denied the right to grand jury , trial by jury of his peers , and the other rights provided by ciulian law The Court made no bones about the inferior quality of the court-martial or its belief that a serviceman , under the circumstances of this case . should he given all the rights provided in a civilian court . Second , certain federal courts have in the last year displaed a greater willingness to accept iurisdiction of suits brought by serNicernen who challenge the legality of various types of military deter-minations Both developments appear warranted by the present state of military justice Unless reforms are made in the code , it is likely that still more eases will he removed from court-martial jurisdiction and that expanded review of military determinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control . The state of nulltary justice is very much in flux , as the defects of an anachronistic system of criminal law have suddenly manifested themselves The Congress has a clear duty to legislate sufficiently sweeping reform to overcome the disquieting fact that 3 5 million servicemen are bound by an inadequate system of criminal justice .                     