@@478889

These words were spoken by Mr. Schlesinger while Senator Robert Kennedy lay dying in a Los Angeles hospital . The occasion was the commencement ceremony at the City University of New York . The site was Bryant Park behind the New York Public Library . Robed graduates and professors , loiterers , bums , passing businessmen , parents , and mothers with small children made up the audience ; from everywhere came the violent sounds of the great city . The world today is asking a terrible question ? a question which every citizen of this Republic should be putting to himself : what sort of people are we . we Americans ? And the answer which much of the world is bound to return is that we are today the most frightening people on this planet . We are a frightening people because for three years we have been devastating a small country on the other side of the world in a war which bears no rational relationship to our national security or our national interest . We are a frightening people because we have already in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preeminently before the world as the embodiments of American idealism ? and because last night we tried to murder a third . We are a frightening people because the atrocities we commit hardly touch our **26;2374;TOOLONG , our invincible conviction of our moral infallibility . The ghastly things we do to our own people , the ghastly things we do to other people ? these must at last compel us to look searchingly at ourselves and our society before hatred and violence rush us on to more evil and finally tear our nation apart . We can not take the easy course and blame everyone but ourselves for the things we do . We can not blame the epidemic of murder at home on deranged and solitary individuals separate from the rest of us , For these individuals are plainly weak and suggestible men , stamped by our society with a birthright of hatred and a compulsion toward violence . We can not blame our epidemic of murder abroad on the wickedness of those who will not conform to our views of how they should behave 20 THE POLITICS OF VIOLENCE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which we have pursued an irrational war suggests the internal impulses of hatred and violence demanding outlet and shaping our foreign policy to their ends . We must recognize that the evil is in us , that it springs from some dark , intolerable tension in our history and our institutions . It is almost as if a primal curse had been fixed on our nation , perhaps when we first began the practice of killing and enslaving those whom we deemed our inferiors because their skin was another color . We are a violent people with a violent history . and the instinct for violence has seeped into the bloodstream of our national life . We are also . at our best , a generous and idealistic people . Our great leaders ? Lincoln most of all ? have perceived both the destructive instinct and the moral necessity of transcending destruction if we are going to have any sort of rational and decent society . They have realized how fragile the membranes of our civilization are , stretched so thin over a nation so disparate in its composition . so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underground fears and antagonisms , so entrapped by history in the ethos of violence . Now , as our nation grows more centralized , our energy more concentrated , our inner tensions more desperate , our frustrations in our own land and in the world more embittered , we can no longer regard hatred and violence as accidents and aberrations , as nightmares which will pass away when we awake . We must see them as organic in our national past ; we must confront them ; we must uncover the roots of hatred and violence and , through seIf-knowledge , move toward self-control . And we must exert every effort in the meantime to protect and strengthen the membranes of civility against the impulses of destruction . In this effort , a special responsibility lies on our intellectual community . For one can expect primitive emotions on the part of those who occupy the right wing of our national politics But the intellectual community should be the particular custodian of the life of reason . It should be the particular champion of discipline and restraint . It should be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismaying than the way in which some , a few , in the intellectual community have rejected the life of reason , have succumbed to the national susceptibility for hatred and violence , have , indeed , begun themselves to exalt hatred and violence as if primitivism in emotionconstituted a higher morality . I do not suggest that such intellectuals are responsible for the atrocities committed at home and abroad . I do suggest that they have contributed to the atmosphere which has begun to legitimize hatred and violence . I do suggest that they are reinforcing he assault on civility and hastening the decomposition of the American social process . Some wonder , no doubt , whether that social process is worth saving . But the alternative to process is anarchy , where those who use the means of violence win out ; and the intellectual community will always lose in this competition . Our process . with all its defects , is a process of change ? peaceful change ? on which all decency and rationality depend . Let me make it clear that I am not talking about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question that on balance the world stands to gain from student protest . No doubt such protest has on occasion led to excess . But it is already a shameful state of affairs when excess proves the only way of attracting the attention of complacent university administrations and indifferent faculties to the problems and perplexities of the coming generation . The causes of student insurgency vary from college to college , and from country to country . It would seem likely that the primary incitement in our own nation has been the war in Vietnam ? a war which has tempted our government into its course of appalling and insensate destruction , a war which , through the draft , has demanded that young Americans kill and die where they can see no rational relationship between personal sacrifice and national interest . But the cause is also more than the Vietnam war . For that war has come for many to prefigure a larger incomprehensibility , a larger absurdity , even a larger wickedness , in our official society . For some it has come to seem , not an aberration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American system . I can not share the belief that there was something foreordained and ineluctable about the war in Vietnam ? that the nature of American society would have compelled any set of men in Washington to pursue the same course of folly . This really seems determinist nonsense . One can still understand , though , why the contradictions of our society weigh so heavily on the young ? the contradictions between the righteousness of a Secretary of State and the ruthlessness of a B-52 ; between the notion that violence is fine against simple folk 10,000 miles away and shocking against injustice in our own land ; between the equality demanded by our constitutional structure and the equality denied by our social structure ; even between the accepted habits of one generation and the emerging habits of the next , as when a parent tipsy on his fourth martini begins a tirade against marijuana . The very weight of these contradictions has produced a rush of despair about libertarian democracy itself . By libertarian democracy I mean simply the system in which the rule of the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right of minorities to convert themselves into new majorities . Such a system assumes political action to be in its essence a rational process ? that is , a deliberate choice of means to achieve desired ends . As a rational process , libertarian democracy requires the widest possible freedom of discussion and debate ; and this implies , of course , a considerable indulgence of wrongheadedness and imbecility along the way . This has been the American theory , as laid down , for example , in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights . And , in the course of our national history , libertarian democracy has led to many useful results . It has also led to many frustrations . It has left problems unsolved , wrongs unredressed , and sinners unpunished . It can not be relied upon to produce rapid and conclusive change . The very insistence on reasonableness and due process has seemed at times a pretext for inaction and therefore a mask for injustice . This has been particularly the case in recent years . From the moment we started bombing North Vietnam in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reasoned criticism of its course . Increasingly persuaded that change was impossible within the constitutional order , people started to turn to civil disobedience , emotional agitation , and even violent protest . A sense began to arise that libertarian democracy itself was impotent in the new world of economic , military , and intellectual corporatism . One saw a growing conviction , especially among the young , that party politics were a fa ? ade and a fake . One saw a growing cynicism about democratic institutions , a growing defection from the democratic process . In due course , the spreading sense of the impotence of libertarian democracy generated a creed systematically and candidly opposed to libertarian democracy . The new creed has two parts . The first part is an attempt to clear away what its theorists regard as the noxious rubbish of the Bill of Rights . The new creed thus perceives the First Amendment as the keystone , not of liberty , but of a wicked apparatus of tolerance employed by an oppressive social order to thwart basic change . I do not wish to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state in the words of its leading advocate ? that is , Herbert Marcuse ? its belief that it is necessary and right , as a matter of principle , to suppress views with which one disagrees and to howl down those who utter such views . Mr. Marcuse begins with the proposition that contemporary society has absorbed and abolished the historic means of social revolution . It has done this through an ingenious and despicable combination of welfarism , tolerance , and manipulation . Capitalism , in short , subverts potential opponents by offering a measure of apparent economic security and personal freedom . Mr. Marcuse is determined to expose this state of affairs . As he sees it , any improvement in the condition of the powerless and the oppressed only plays into the hands of the rulers ? and is therefore to be regretted . Anti the device of tolerance is particularly evil because it renders " the traditional ways and means of protest ineffective ? perhaps even dangerous because they preserve the illusion of popular sovereignty . " The way to revive the hope of social change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with tolerance : " Certain things can not be said , certain ideas can not be expressed , certain policies can not be proposed , certain behavior can not be permitted without making tolerance an instrument for the continuation of servitude . " Ile is commendably specific about what he would forbid . His program , as he states it , would include the withdrawal of toleration of speech and assembly from groups and movements which promote aggressive policies , armament , chauvinism , discrimination on the grounds of race and religions , or which oppose the extension of public services , medical care , etc . Moreover , the restoration of freedom of thought may necessitate new and rigid restrictions on teachings and practices in the educational institutions . Mr. Marcuse 's call for the forcible suppression of false ideas is , I have suggested , only the first part of the new creed . Nor is such an assault on the Bill of Rights new , even for radicals . The 22 THE POLITICS OF VIOLENCE Stalinists of the ' thirties , for example , had no compunction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he denied those who resist the Stalinist truth . What particularly distinguishes the New Left of the ' sixties from previous American radicalisms is the second part of its creed ? and here not the summons to revolution , which again is familiar , but the refusal to state revolutionary goals except in the most abstract and empty language . To put it more precisely , what distinguishes the New Left is not only its unwillingness to define what it aims for after the revolution but its belief that such reticence is a virtue . On its positive side , the new creed becomes . so to speak , a kind of existentialism in politics ? a primitive kind , no doubt , but still rooted in some manner in the existential perception that man dwells in an absurd universe and defines himself through his choices , In extreme cases , this perception may lead to voyages ax bold de to nuit : as Nietzsche said , " Nihilism represents the ultimate logical conclusion of our great values and ideals ? because we must experience nihilism before we can find out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In its serious form , existentialism can lead to an immense and intense sense of individual responsibility as every man realizes that only he can provide his own escape from the enveloping nothingness around him . In its vulgar form , however , with which we are dealing here , existential politics becomes the notion that we must feel and act before we think ; it is the illusion that the experience of feeling and action will produce the insight and the policy . Existential politics in this form springs much more from Sorel than from Kierkegaard . Georges Sore , you will recall , drew a distinction between myths , which , he said , were not descriptions of things , but expressions of a determination to act , " and utopias , which were intellectual products , the work of theorists who " seek to establish a model to which they can compare existing society . " Sorel regarded utopias ? that is , rational programs ? as contemptible . The myth must be the basis of action ; the myth would produce the revolution , which would thereafter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Sorel emphasized , " must be judged as a means of acting on the present ; any attempt to discuss how far it can be taken literally as future history is devoid of sense . " So , in the footsteps of Sorel , the New Leftists believe in the omnipotence of the deed and the irrelevance of the goal . The political process is no longer seen as the deliberate choiceof means to move toward a desired end . Where libertarian democracy had ideally demanded means consistent with the end , and where the Stalinist left of the ' thirties contended that the end justified the means , the New Left propounds a different doctrine : that the means create the end . Let us not ignore the attractions of the existential approach . After all , there are many absurdities in our world . Our country has never undertaken anything more absurd in its history than the Vietnam war . After all , a man does make himself by his decisions . After all , our conventional liberalism is to a discouraging degree a liberalism of promises and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from personal commitment .. All these things help explain , I think , the appeal of the new creed . Yet this creed contains so much in the way of fakery and fallacy ? to put it bluntly , it is so preposterous and so depraved ? that I do not see how it can be long entertained by any serious democrat . Let us look first at the negative part ; the demand for the forcible suppression of false ideas . This immediately raises a self-evident question : how is one to tell which ideas are admissible and which are to be suppressed ? " In the interplay of theory and practice , " Mr. Mareuse replies , " true and false solutions become distinguishable . . . . Freedom is liberation , a specific historical process in theory and practice , and as such it has its right and wrong , its truth and falsehood . " But who is to make this determination ? What agency is the repository of final judgment on truth and falsehood ? Here , alas , Mr. Marcuse lets us down . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ places his confidence in what he mystically calls " the democratic educational dictatorship of free men . " This is not very satisfactory ; so let us pursue the question a step further . I suppose that the new creed does not expect to make such judgments through a man . But , if not through a man , these judgments must be made through a mechanism , which means through men . Such a mechanism would plainly have to have an extraordinary degree of power . What assurance can there ever be that this power would be used disinterestedly ? that is , for the good and the true , should there ever be a means of defining the good and the true ? rather than in the interests of the men operating the mechanism ? What will this mechanism become ? what have such mechanisms ever become ? but a means for the suppression of all criticism of the manipulators of the mechanism ? So the mechanism , in the end , rests on an assumption of human infallibility . But the assumption of human infallibility has never been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It implies the rule of those whom Mr. Dooley long ago defined as men who do what they think " th ' Lord wud du if He only knew the facts in th ' case " ? and Mr. Dooley was defining a fanatic . Not only do men who claim infallibility in politics do far more evil than good ; but the systematic suppression of supposedly false ideas would deeply constrict and impoverish human knowledge and understanding , " There is no error so crooked , " Tupper said , " but it hath in it some lines of truth . " Or , as Norman Mailer recently put it , " Sometimes a profound idea is buried in a particularly ugly notion . " Human creativity takes a marvelous and sinister diversity of forms . How dare anyone assume the right to censor and deny the unlimited freedom of human expression ? " I tolerate with the utmost latitude the right of others to differ from me in opinion without imputing to them criminality , " wrote Jefferson . " I know too well the weakness and uncertainty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The demand for the forcible suppression of " false " ideas would be an enormously effective way of calling a halt to human progress . Nor does the other half of the new creed make any more sense : that is , the conviction that one should feel and act first and think later , that the means create the end . The kind of action supremely required to strike through the mask of official society , we are told , is violence . Without violence , official society , in its present sophisticated condition , will calmly co-opt and emasculate the opposition . Only violence will force official society to drop the smiling mask of tolerance and reveal its inner viciousness . More than this , violence becomes a means of social and individual redemption . As Frantz Fanon has written , " Violence is a cleaning force . It frees the native from his inferiority complex and from his despair and inaction ; it makes him fearless and restores his self-respect . . . Violence alone , violence committed by the people , violence organized and educated by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social truths . " This is hardly , of course , a new doctrine . Others in this century have propagated the cult of the deed . Mussolini and Hitler celebrated violence , because violence , by abolishing the procedures and civilities of society , opens the way for those who are most successful in the use of force . I do not know about the situation in developing countries ; there violence in certain contexts may have the benign effects claimed by Fanon . But surely little is more pathetic than the view that violence in American society will benefit the left . A limited amount of violence may stimulate the process of democratic change ; but , if the left , through the cult of the deed , helps create an atmosphere which destroys the process of democracy itself , the winners will be those who use violence best , and they will be on the right . The new creed , with its dismissal of free discussion and its conviction that violence will mystically generate policy and program , represents an assault on rationality in politics ? an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in public affairs are so absolute and so easily ascertainable that opposition can be legitimately destroyed . This assault on the Bill of Rights and on libertarian democracy is in my judgment wrong , because no one is infallible , It is stupid , because the beneficiaries of this view will not be the idealists of the left but the brutalists of the right . It is dangerous because it represents a reversion to and rationalization of the strain of hatred and violence in our own national tradition : the politics of lynch law against the politics of Lincoln . It is a vote for the worst against the best in our political ethos . The new creed above all overlooks the fact of human frailty . " Men are not flattered . " wrote Lincoln , " by being shown that there has been a difference of purpose between the Almighty and them . " Yet men are not gods . That is why absolutism always fails in human society . Democracy requires consent ? it insists , that is , that a majority of the electorate be persuaded that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanisms were infallible , there would be no need for persuasion . But , because they are not , the discipline of consent is indispensable to civilized society . The discipline of consent means the policies must triumph not through divine right or through a " democratic educational dictatorship " but through making sense to a majority of the people ; and the condition of bringing a majority along is the best guarantee that policies relate , not to personal fantasy or personal power , but to the greatest good of the greatest number . This discussion of the new creed may seem irrelevant to the pragmatic insurgencies of our society . And , indeed , so long as these insurgencies remain pragmatic ? that is , related to specific issues and specific injustices ? they represent a desperately needed pressure against the established complacencies of a self-righteous nation . 24 THE POLITICS OF VIOLENCE Yet the new creed exists ; it has received serious , if not convincing , formulation ; it has won support because of the spreading sense in recent years of the impotence of libertarian democracy ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mystical passion for revolutionary upheaval . Ihave said that the new creed will only weaken democracy against its enemies . I would say further that it underestimates the power of rational democracy ? that is , the power of the people , in one way or another , to modify the system and alter its course . We have had , I noted earlier , a season of despair about our democracy . But those whom despair led on to desperation underestimated the capacity of public opinion eventually to catch on to what is happening , even in fairly controlled and manipulated societies , and to demand a change in things . This has happened even in authoritarian states , like France . It has happened even in communist states , like Czechoslovakia . And it has happened in our own country . Here the democratic process has turned out to be more effective than its critics had supposed . The rebellion against libertarian democracy gathered momentum , we have noted , because of the obstinate and righteous determination of our government to pursue a policy of military escalation in Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , working in its own inscrutable way , has forced the President to abandon ? for a moment , at least ? the escalation policy ; it has forced him to begin serious peace talks ; it has forced him to withdraw from the Presidential contest . These are not inconsiderable accomplishments . I do not contend that the process works swiftly . Obviously if President Johnson had given his March 31 speech a year earlier , many Americans and Vietnamese , now dead , might be alive ; and the evidence against the escalation policy was just as strong on March 31 , 1967 , as it was on March 31 , 1968 . Nor do I contend that the process works surely . There is no guarantee against the re-escalation of the war . Nor is there any guarantee , given the irresponsibility of the romantic left , against the election of a President committed to continue the persons and policies against which the rebellion began . Nor , alas , is there any guarantee against the resurgence of violence , bloodshed , and murder . Yet , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show a certain vitality and efficacy . " The sober , second thought of the people , " as Martin Van Buren said years ago , " is never wrong , and always efficient . " At any rate , it is wiser in the long run than the certitudes of the absolutists . Nietzsche once wrote , " Gaze not too deeply into the abyss , lest the abyss gaze into you . " Those who claim to be bearers of absolute truth are men who have gazed too deeply into the abyss . They have committed what Hawthorne called the Unpardonable Sin ? the sin of self-pride , which destroys discrimination , enslaves people , breeds fanaticism and violence , and concludes in madness and catastrophe . It is sad when the derelicts of our society surrender to the Unpardonable Sin ; it is contemptible when our intellectuals exemplify it . Let us strike out against the concrete and particular evils of our time . But let us not yield to that awful despair which dissolves all distinctions in thought and action and hurtles us on to the polities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society must rest on freedom and reason . If we abandon this , we abandon everything . If we are to survive as a nation , we must resist our inbred impulse to violence , not capitulate to it , not celebrate it . We must resist our inbred impulse to intolerance . We must resist our inbred impulse to absolutism . As we identify these impulses , as we strive against them wherever they appear ? whether in the gutter press or in the abstractions of intellectuals ? we create a chance of defying the winds of unreason . But we can not suppose that this problem will solve itself . We must , indeed , define ourselves by our choices , but do so by making the choices which respect human reason and human dignity ; the choices which acknowledge and nourish the human capacity for mutual respect and affection . When Martin Luther King was murdered , Robert Kennedy broke the news of his death to a black audience on a street corner in Indianapolis . He said : ... we can make an effort , as Martin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Is replace that violence , that stain of bloodshed that has spread across our land , with an effort to understand with compassion and love .. .. I had a member of my family killed , but he was killed by a white man . But we have to make an effort in the United States , we have to make an effort to understand .... What we need ... is not division ; what we need ... is not hatred ; what we need .. is not violence or lawlessness , but love and wisdom , and compassion toward one another , and a feeling of justice towards those who still suffer within our country , whether they be white or they be black . Robert Kennedy concluded with a quotation from Aeschylus : " In our sleep , pain which can not forget falls drop by drop upon the heart until , in our own despair , against our will , comes wisdom through the awful grace of God . " 