@@268844

Because he is small ( 5 ft. 6 in. ) , mop-haired and young ( 19 ) , Israeli Pianist Daniel Barenboim sometimes resembles a rebellious child who would rather be playing baseball than fondling the keys . Playing with the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra last week on a U.S. tour that opened with a triumphant appearance in New York , he swiveled around in moments of inaction and regarded the orchestra 's string section with an intensity so fierce that it seemed ready to wither the first violinists . But Barenboim 's dis concerting mannerisms are only the mark of an extra-attentive and highly sensitive musician who believes that each perform ance is " an experience to be lived . I listen because their part is just as important , " he says . ' ' I never think of piano playing - only of making music . " Barenboim makes music uncommonly well - as audiences in the U.S. and Europe have become increasingly aware . Other pianists of his age and training may be his match in technique , but few young pianists can muster the depths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally . His reading of Chopin 's Piano Concerto No. 1 last week had an unusual breadth , a feeling of spaciousness , an easy-breathing pulse . It had its purely bravura moments - trip-hammer scales that Barenboim 's small , elegant hands looked incapable of - but the overall effect was one of quietly exalted strength . <P> Barenboim claims that " I was listening to music before I was born . " Both his parents taught piano in Buenos Aires , where Daniel became " just another pupil " when he was five . He did not remain so for long . By the time he was nine , he had given recitals in Argentina and Europe , and was performing in Tel Aviv , where his parents had settled . He won the first America-Israel Cultural Foundation scholarship to study in Europe , and at 13 became the youngest student in the history of Rome 's Academy of Santa Cecilia to win a master 's degree . Hearing of the prodigy . Artur Rubinstein several times invited Barenboim to his home to play . Present on one occasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 14 for his first U.S. tour . ( This is his fourth . ) <P> Barenboim has honed his talents on a wide variety of masters : Bach , Mozart . Schubert . Brahms . Beethoven ( by age 14 , he knew all 32 of the Beethoven sonatas ) . He works at the piano only about two hours a day , because " you may lose freshness if you sit all day practicing. " sometimes plays the violin to help him understand what the composer has written for the piano and feels that every musician should do some composing ( as he does ) to give his playing " a quality of understanding . " Though he has made six recordings , he does not enjoy listening to them . " One of the symptoms of development is change . " he says . " You do not want to return to something you did long ago . "                     