@@212937

" Sin enters by dread , but sin in turn brought dread with it , " wrote Kierkegaard , describing the guilt that floods the dark night of the soul . Another Scandinavian , Ingmar Bergman , plays out that quasi-religious concept by examining one soul in the blackness just before dawn-the Hour of the Wolf , " when nightmares are most palpable , ' when ghosts and demons hold sway . " <P> On an island off the coast of Sweden live a cadaverous , obsessed painter ( Max von Sydow ) and his pregnant wife ( Liv Ullman ) . The time is summer , and Von Sydow is slowly going mad . He is terrified by demons , people whom he sees and fears . One is a homosexual , another a 216-year-old woman who keeps threatening to take off her hat-and her face . Gradually infected with her husband 's aberrations , Ullman looks up from her yard one day and sees the ancient crone . Soon the artist and his wife are invited to a haunted castle where the Draculalike Baron von Merkens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirits -a sadist , an effeminate embezzler , and Von Sydow 's naked ex-mistress ( Ingrid Thulin ) , who seduces him , then ridicules him before the others . The castle takes on the air of a Dadaesque painting : a man walks the ceiling and the walls , like a fly ; the old lady peels off her face like a mask , then drops her eyes in a wineglass . A malignant bird pecks away at Von Sydow as if he were Prometheus chained . <P> Shattered Shards . As he traces the history of Von Sydow 's agonies , Bergman draws almost too straight a line : as a boy , the painter was chastised by his parents , locked in a dark closet , then caned repeatedly by his father until he begged forgiveness from his mother . As Von Sydow descends into insanity , he keeps re-enacting that scene in the closet . His dread of the dark , his punishment and redemption , are constantly replayed ; the characters who destroy him are shards of his shattered personality that , by direct transference , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean his story to be taken solely on the literal level . Von Sydow is also the Creative Artist beset by the bourgeoisie ; the island is a metaphor of man 's tragic isolation from : he mainland of humanity . Though he has glaring faults as a scenarist , Director Bergman is supreme in handling us troupe ; the actors , like Sven Nykvist 's phosphorescent photography can ender reality and surreality without missing a heartbeat . Von Sydow is gothically brilliant as the madman ; Ullman 's ragedienne reinforces her position-already secured by Persona-as one of Scandmavia 's major actresses . If in the nd , the Hour of the Wolf suffers from simplistic psychiatry and some less than fresh observations of man 's fate , it remains worthwhile simply because Ingar Bergman can turn near homilies to revelations .                     