@@488203

Despite the boundless ? affection engendered by the art of Bonnard , and despite the shivers of pleasure it has given countless ' spectators , no one has ever quite had the nerve to place him among-the greatest artists of the 20th century . It is as if a naked sensuous joy ' had in the end to be discounted as vessel for proper genius  --  or as if hedonism - alone could not justify a world view of the kind demanded by our definition of greatneSs . But Bonnard 's relation to individual sensations was , I believe , as artistically charged as Cezanne 's with composition , or Picasso 's with metamorphosis . That enduring oddness and heightening of traditional themes beyond recognition , which we see in those masters , occurs in Bonnard also In the end , he must be accounted something rare , I think : an expressionist of pleasure Far less often than they comment on - the , smiling suirface of bourgeois households in Bonnard 's art , have people remarked on the nervousness and emotion lie injects into every form . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the more high-strung and otherworldly is his depiction of it : an ironic counterpoint that reflects back ' to his origin in Symbolist aesthetics just as it points forward to postwar abstraction . He appears to empathize exclusively with the transmission of pleasureable perceptions from eye through hand to canvas and back again , wanting in the procesS to discover rather than to give gratification , as did the more social Renoir . Then , unlike orthodox expressionism , where intense feeling is theoretidally " wreaked " upon the specific image by vehement strokes , Bonnard invests feeling directly into and for the sake of those strokes  --  each one ( and ' there are innumerable species ) an effigy of seduction . Over these minute icons the artist pauses , caressing but more often irritating their preciousness , so that he seems to burrow up beneath colored objects and separate their outer molecules . And this , in turn , releases that luminous and chromatic effulgence , so destructive of surface and frame . which Bonnard will feed back to the canvas in order , somehow , to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ecinnard Exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art this month ( it will be seen also in Chicago and Los Angeles ) , being enchanted and possibly a little unnerved ' y this relentless circuit of energy that flickers out and regenerates itself To stand at any length before these pictures is to be plugged into their pictorial current , at great expense to one 's individual will power and ability to digest even a fraction of their teeming visual incidents . Challenged to start at any definite point , one might begin to detect , say in " View from the Studio , Le Cannet " ( 1945 ) , shreds and patches of porous color  --  blond pinks sieved by lavender blues , surrounding greens freckled , by spots of orange  --  which only gradually reconstitute themselves into delicate lineaments of furrowed fields , truck gardens , trees and maroon groves , at a moment of burnt gold sunset The substance of these images is open-stitched and knit at apparently careless angles , so that they boggle , molest , and yet dissolve into one another And over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resembling peach bruises and handkerchief dabs ? that characterizes the florescent , watery spectacle as some slightly polarized or overexposed color film Further still ; this diaphanous emulsion , , prickling incessantly with tiny shocks , appears to uproot nature , as if the follicles of all plant life had suddenly weakened , and sent high up the picture plane the heavier foliage which only ' here and there dangles into the weightless ,  - -  tilted foreground . Although I doubt very much that Bonnard saw it this way , his work is one of ' the , century 's greatest defi-ances of the restrictions of inert paint in the way it simulates optical light and intangible space The fact that one is forced to talk of his picture tissues as overlapping breathings or palpitations underlines the metaphorical agency operating hi his art His brush is incapable of touching the canvas withcnit seeming to expand pigment gaseously . As distinct from the Neoimpressionist switchboard , in which extraordinarily intimate and small-scaled screen passages of colored dots confUsed the brain into thinking that they were in a virtually fluent and transient connection with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from behind his cellular facades , which have become correspondingly transparent for that very purpose But his constant fluctuations of density , and the way he flies from minimal to heavy saturations , keep alive a color strength that would have been systematically degraded had the white canvas ground shone through evenly . Despite the general up-ending of all perspective , which flattens out objects on the two-dimensional surface , Bonnard 's paint units are not only shapeless and unspecific , they refuse to adhere to , or position , anything in space . In addition , for all that one strongly feels his initial observation of subject , Bonnard 's palette ( generally less arbitrary than Matisse 's ) , only surreptitiously and rarely echoes local or reflected October 26 , 1964 colors . Objects are never as substantial , nor atmosphere as insubstantial , as our expectations of stability require , with the result that the majority of his canvases seem to deliquesce in a totally invented matrix , midway between a palpable , light-filled , but represented world , and a schematic , thin-bodied abstraction . ( That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultra-sensitive to changes of light conditions , as well as to the varying distances from which it is seen ) We are dealing , whatever the period of his long career ( c. 1890-19E17 ) , with a perverse , contrary artist , ceaselessly improvising and capricious . What happens along the edge of his pictures , for , example , has always been thought to be a legacy of Impressionist cropping , suggesting the candidness and spontaneity of a vision whose frame caught people and events partly in and out of the picture field . But Bonnard deliberately tucks away color incidents , and obscurely camouflages personages ( usually his furtive wife ) in the margins , so as to diffuse focus , and force a widespread reading of the surface . ( Frequently , his central images will sink away for this reason , re-taming their importance only in placement . ) On the contrary , when he does refer to images beyond the periineter , Bonnard shows mirrors whose refleptions of the outer world are precipitated just sharply enough to discredit his ordinarily rather fluffy reality . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is perhaps his most exquisite artifice as well  --  is Bonnard 's fascination with the deterioration of color Only Monet before him had been as concerned with the expressive potentialities of dissolution , but as a symptom specifically of diminished or oblique light . For Bonnard , the whole overripe universe is in the process of fading and decay . a condition whose very transcience elicits that spectrum of indescribable half lights and chromatic semiquavers-which becomes the enduring ingredient of his art Or , more accurately , provides its base , for the more typical activity in Bonnard is involved with accenting and spotting of bright or dark over a tenuous fabric It is not particularly surprising that a nude in a bathtub or boudoir changes color chameleon-like , because the picture organism itself acts not as a ground Which receives settled deposits of hue , but behaves as if it were a phenomenally sensitive litmus . But Bonnard com presses wildly different colors into areas that have no value distinction , thus giving them an outrageous mutuality , or else he will shock by value jumps of such unexpected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bonnard had as prodigious a decorative talent , as Braque and Matisse , but he constantly inverted and frustrated it . Thus , in the " Nude Before a Mirror " ( from Venice ) , instead of giving a sharp contrast to the central figure , he hides it at different points by placing the same pink grays and yellow olives on both sides of a contour . If the English critic Patrick Heron pointed out years ago that it is impossible to take in one form in these pictures without perceiving the adjacent others ? until , finally , an " all over " reading emerges , one can now see Bonnard 's color rhythms as sprung . In the " Terrace at Vernon , " an enormous lilac-crimson tree trunk in the front plane fights with a contiguous vermilion orange of a woman 's dress in mid-ground , giving off the most eccentric tension of cool and warm , in which their usual positions as well as weights are reversed . Generally speaking , though , Bonnard 's canvases , despite the aerated , thermal impression they give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and warm , so that their environments are teases of advance amid recession . And this is not to mention the flux of induced color reflexes he gets in intervals by setting an orange sugar bowl against both a scathing white ground and its own sharp blue shadow ; or a lemon yellow ( shadow ! ) that runs under bowls on an off-white and cerise striped tablecloth in the , Bragehne collection , " Still Life at an Open Window . " What is known of Bonnard 's working methods nicely confirms this calculated and bizarre density of his pictorial effects . One glimpses him in hotel rooms orchestrating on canvases which have been tacked up against the most baroque floral wallpaper , or dabbing perfunctorily , then going out for a walk , returning for a few more touches , recessing again , coining back , adding further considerations , etc . Or finally , when his pictures were in museums or collections , covertly taking out his little color box for foxy afterthoughts Before the overpowering bouquet he was creating , Bonnard oscillated widely between alertness and fatigue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presence , lie drew on a delectation that was reluctant to end . This suggests a way his paintings might he seen H one savors them  --  especially the more aromatic , excruciating ones  --  at first restlessly , they can then be penetrated , after their saturated environments become more familiar , for their limitless exotic nuances . The slower this acclimatization , the more rewarding . There is no hurry . Perhaps the artist would have found , this response appropriate . He was devoted to perception , to direct vision , but could deal with sensation in his art , as he once implied , only by means of recall Like most of his generation in forging a conceptual imagery out of his perceptions , Bonnard 's approach was yet not so much of sense leading Space Crescent I I I ( Continued from page 277 ) in Holland had it been discovered that tulips grow on the moon . Senator Morse was not heard from regarding the tests , but Oregon 's Governor Mark Hatfield did greet the NASA team with the observation that he was glad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics in the space crescent have been changed little by the program . The mayor and city councilmen and county commissioners are still in their dingy chambers , fielding complaints a ) bout clogged sewers and roads gone to pot . But these local leaders , most of them native sons of the area , have successfully guided their communities through what could have been a shattering series of changes . No one did it more smoothly than R. B. ( Speck ) Searcy , Mayor of Huntsville . Speck Searcy , first elected Mayor in 1952 , has been the chief architect of what may well be the most extensive and successful municipal improvement ever undertaken by a city the size of Huntsville . He saw to it that the community did what was required to avoid crumbling in a chaotic heap under the pressure of the space-age drama being enacted on its doorstep . For the most part , newcomers to the crescent do not bother participating in local politics " They 're all rushing somewhere , and they 're not taking an interest , " ' said Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Huntsville ) judgeship . Voter registrations are up  --  in Madison ' County , from 24 , - 000 in 1962 to 38,000 today  --  and I to idea , as of sense itself " ideated " Still he could do this only " by holding in suspense the physical resolution of each canvas , just as he had to impart a unique pulsing life to each touch within that canvas . That neither of these aims was predictable lends to his works not merely their hesitations and their faults , but their priceless air of nervous discovery . It is a state of being which the , exhibition ( selected ' beautifully by James Elliott , and accompanied by the best picture book on Bonnard to date ) charts with admirable care . With ' their psychological overtones and concealed ironies , these skittish , voluptuous paintings are among the supreme work of our era . MAX KOZLOFF in some areas this has resulted in a weakening of the previously tight Democratic control . Ten years ago , there was only a sprinkling of Republicans in Florida 's Brevard County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mrs. Debbie Garst , society editor of the Tribune , in Cocoa , Fla , , has found that many of the workers sent to the crescent from the Midwest and elsewhere continue to vote Republican if that is how they voted back home . The fact is , of course , that many men whose minds are freighted with abstruse technology are likely to have little patience with politics . Thus the Cleveland engineer , who is a Republican , poses little threat to the Democratic Party in most of the crescent , if only because he will probably not take the time to vote . Or he will cast an absentee ballot back home . " We have n't come in here and said , ' Okay , you cotton pickers , we 're taking over , ' " a spokesman at the Marshall Space Flight Center pointed out . " Some of our people are on school boards , some serve as councilmen and some even play in community orchestras , but they do n't run the cities and counties . " NASA is n't really concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out for politicians . It knows only that it has a job to do and that certain things are needed with which to do it . Moon Day is drawing near , and when a man  --  our man  --  actually opens the capsule hatch and steps out on that desert 238,857 mean miles from Cape Kennedy , the agency feels that the end will more than justify the sometimes dubious means . The NATION                     