@@431687

 | The Long Battle Between Art and the Machine @# @# Our fake-modern buildings , recklessly " cleaned " paintings , dehumanized music make us wonder once more whether the artist is using the machine ? or being enslaved by it . It might be thought that art and mechanization are mutually exclusive . An artistic performance is a creative act , unique and unrepeatable , whereas it is of the very essence of a mechanical event that it can be repeated , and often is . To say that a creative artist would not incline to repeat himself exactly is an understatement ; he is incapable of it . If two paintings ascribed to a great master look identical , it is more than likely that at least one of them is a copy by another hand . The rule is the same as in the study of handwriting . A man 's signature varies because he writes spontaneously . When two signatures are exactly the same , a suspicion of forgery arises . There are anecdotes about Mozart which illustrate the point in music , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when asked to repeat an improvised piece , he would unfailingly improvise a variation of it . As a child of seven , while accompanying a singer extempore , he changed the accompaniment with every repetition . According to Grimm , who reported this incident in his Correspondance litteraire ( 1763 ) , " he would have done it twenty times over if he had not been stopped . " Copyright Q 1963 by Edgar Wind It was in a similar spirit of creative exuberance that Renoir denied in a conversation with Vollard that the chemistry of pigments ever forced him to regularize and repeat his procedures : " In painting , you know , there is not a single process that can be made into a formula . For instance , I once attempted to fix the quantity of oil that I add to the paint on my palette . I could n't do it . Each time I have to add my oil at a guess . " The statement is the more remarkable as it comes from a meticulously trained technician who started as a painter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a little , or that Vollard embellished the statement while recording it , the bias of Renoir 's remark is clear enough : he held fast to the old belief that art is degraded by mechanization . I call it an old belief because it antedates our age by at least five hundred years . The invention of printing , for example , and the use of woodcuts for the illustration of books , filled the Duke of Urbino , the famous Federigo da Montefeltro , with such dismay that he would not allow a printed book to enter his library . For him the act of reading a classical text was desecrated by the contemplation of the printed page . Words that were beautifully written by a scribe seemed to address his eye and mind in a personal way which was obliterated by mechanical type ; and a manuscript illuminated by hand-painted miniatures gave him a pleasure that no woodcut could equal . It would be easy to dismiss this attitude as  | sheer snobbery , the kind of preciousness that is sometimes found among modern collectors who have turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound investment . That an ingredient of vanity and calculation may have entered into the Duke of Urbino 's disdain of printing I would not deny , but there is more to it than that . The first printed books were made to look like manuscripts , some were even doctored with hand-painted initials , or colored washes imposed on the woodcuts , or by being printed specially on vellum , to satisfy the kind of fastidious taste which the Duke of Urbino had cultivated . Thus he can not be entirely blamed for having regarded this new manufacture as an impertinent and vulgar cheat . Ruskin Overstated His Case At its first appearance a newly mechanized art always looks like a fake , because it models itself on an unmechanized or less mechanized kind of art . Before the film had found its own powerful idiom , it looked like degraded theatre , just as television now often looks like degraded film . Thus , when Ruskin spoke of what he called " vile manufacture , " he did not mean to distinguish between vile and honorable manufacture . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of honorable craftsmanship in which the artisan controlled his work by his own hand , whereas in manufacture the production was surrendered to a machine , an automaton that mimicked and falsified living craftsmanship and thus was nothing but its cheap , deceptive double . Although it is obvious that Ruskin overstated his case , there is no denying that there are aspects of mechanization which justify some of his apprehensions . In the creation of monumental sculpture , for example , it is economical for the artist to confine his work to a small model and delegate the enlargement of it to a mechanical instrument which , point by point , transposes the small shapes to a huge scale . The machine treats forms as if they were indifferent to size , although every perceptive sculptor knows that they are not . The same problem in reverse arises with medals or coins , where it is expedient to make the model on a larger scale , which is then brought down to the right size by the reducing machine . As a result , the ordinary coin or medal looks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive mechanization of carving , duly upbraided by Ruskin in Aratra Pentelici for weakening and effacing " the touch of the chisel as expressive of personal feeling or power , " it is worth consulting the Encyclopaedia Britannica . Some fifty years ago ( 1911 ) the article on Sculpture noted that " in the opinion of many artists the use of the mechanical pointing-machine is responsible in a great measure for the loss of life and fire in much of modern sculpture . " In the 1960 edition we read instead that " with the help of a pointingmachine the present mechanical system of carving is easy to learn and free of responsibility because it is mathematically exact . " If Ruskin said that " a great sculptor uses his tool exactly as a painter his pencil , and you may recognize the decision of his thought , and glow of his temper , no less in the workmanship than the design , " the same thought applies with little variation to architectural workmanship as well : its quality declines if a machine is allowed to superimpose its own habits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , when inserted into otherwise conventional buildings , produce a jarring monotony of fenestration in which architecture is victimized by mechanics . I hasten to add that these dreary cases speak not against mechanization as such , but only against bad and inflexible mechanization , an unimaginative use of machinery which the creative modern architects have triumphantly overcome . Entering as they do into the spirit of a mechanized process , with the same intimacy as the manual craftsman felt for the tool in his hand , they project their imagination into every part of the mechanism , and thus render mechanization itself expressive . In such cases we do not have a " mechanization of art , " but on the contrary an artistic use of machinery ; and if this ideal relationship of mechanical instrument to art were universal , there would be no argument . But even these modern achievements , as is well known , are travestied by " vile manufacture . " The streamlined constructions required for airplanes and racing cars are transferred to cars not designed for such speeds but intent on suggesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built so low that we must double ourselves up in order to get in or out of it . The beautiful and comfortable chairs invented by  | Mies van der Rohe are parodied in the massproduced , streamlined chair constructed according to a technological idea of being seated and hence allowing no one to sit as he pleases . The streamlined knife , fork , and spoon are likely to interfere with the act of eating by making us needlessly conscious of it . The false rhetoric of mechanization persistently obliges us to look sharp , thus reversing the effect of those antimacassars which obliged even Ruskin to look comfortable . It would be tempting to dismiss all this as a passing fashion that need not be taken too seriously , were it not that many cities are already disfigured by fake-modern buildings that will stand for a long time . Equipped with the newest facilities of engineering , architectural design requires of its craftsmen exceptional powers of resistance not to let any part of the machinery usurp a function that belongs to the architect himself . The temptation to let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery , every new instrument producing new routines which only a master can rescue from automatic proliferation . Perhaps this explains why modern buildings are either superb or miserable . The tension is too great to allow for decent mediocrity . In that respect the architecture of our age is indeed like an airplane or a racing car . The only alternative to perfection is disaster . If the Abbot Returned .. . A particularly destructive use of mechanization is its illicit extension to the past , as for example in the refacing of ancient buildings . Since no modern machinery can produce the exact double of an old facade , every stage of major repair would seem to call for fresh architectural invention . Replacements can not be made by rote . Where complete repetitions have been attempted with machine-cut stones and the old ornaments recarved , they look like replicas or facsimiles of the building that has vanished . Thus the refacing of Wren 's Sheldonian Theatre in oxford may be studied one day as a monumental example of the naive obstinacy and self-delusion that bedevil a mechanical age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a skillful and vigorous engineer and had the support of an inspector of monuments as energetic as Prosper Merimee , that he could restore French cathedrals to their original splendor . Today his name has become a byword for nineteenth-century Gothic ; yet few of those who smile at Viollet-le-Duc seem to recognize his fallacy in their own confident pursuit of exact restoration . " The Church of Vezelay , " wrote Merimee , " is now restored in the most complete manner , and if one of its abbots of the thirteenth century were to return from the dead , no doubt he would find it just as he had left it . " It is worth recalling here a remark made by Auguste Prost in 1885 : " To remake ( refaire a neuf ) an ancient monument ... is to place oneself before this dilemma : either to falsify it by failing , or to produce a pastiche by succeeding . " Prost admitted the necessity of restoring corroded parts : " but to set oneself the task of replacing a decayed work in its entirety is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that one is dismounting . " In describing what had happened before his own eyes to the cathedral of Metz , he recorded a typical sequence of events : " At first they wished to repair ; then they were drawn into wanting to restore ; and today they destroy whatever is left of the old building in order to rebuild it entirely . " The same problems and delusions occur in the so-called " scientific " cleaning of pictures . Conscientious restorers are always guided by an awareness that they can not touch a painting without interpreting it . The danger arises when the attempt is made to reduce the burden of exegesis by delegating a major part of it to a chemical solvent which , it is hoped , will safely remove superimposed layers of paint or varnish , and so lay bare the artist 's original work without having altered it by the contact . The belief that a painting of , say , the fifteenth century can be returned with scientific certainty to its pristine state , as if five hundred years of existence had left no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as a historical absurdity . Even if the material history of such an object were reversible , which it is not , the restorer 's own vision can not be wound back to a fifteenth-century optic except by an effort of historical imagination that is subject to all the hazards of learned inference . " Does not the eye altering alter all ? " Yeats asked . In an age of art-historical inquiry , which increasingly converges with studies in the history of science , it is surprising that some museum curators will fail to realize that after a short passage of time the " scientific " treatment of a picture will be datable to the year . Style will be recognized in cleaning as easily as it used to be in overpainting , for no one can jump over his own historical shadow . That these adventures of restoration are often pursued today in a reckless spirit , and on a much  | larger scale than should be necessary , is due to a scientific as well as an aesthetic fashion . The notion that every old picture must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it obligatory for every respectable person of advanced age to " take the waters . " In the preservation of pictures these restorative ablutions are encouraged by a desire for freshness at any cost , even if it entails fragmentation . After a picture has been decomposed , the painting is " honestly " left in a half-raw state ? an artificial ruin or , to put it more charitably , a carefully prepared scientific specimen which , like any other product of technical skill , registers some of the peculiarities of the technician . Since the mechanics of stripping down a painting reverses the sequence in which it was built up , it is almost inevitable that processed pictures acquire a surface that looks machine-made , resembling the hard luminous gloss of mechanical reproductions , with brute colors in glaring juxtaposition . The satisfaction aroused by paintings reduced to that state may probably be ascribed to the fact that vision has increasingly been trained on derivative prints , which tend to overdefine an image in one direction by fixing it to a mechanical scale . Painted for Color Printing That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious . Our eyes have been sharpened to those aspects of painting and sculpture that are brought out effectively by a camera . What is more decisive , in the artist 's own vision we can observe the growth of a pictorial and sculptural imagination that is positively attuned to photography , producing works photogenic to such a degree that they seem to find a vicarious fulfillment in mechanized after-images ? as if the ultimate hope of a painter or sculptor today , apart from having his works placed in a museum , would be to see them diffused in comprehensive picture books , preferably in an illustrated catalogue raisonne . What has optimistically been called the " museum without walls " is in fact a museum on paper ? a paper-world of art in which the epic oratory of Malraux proclaims , with the voice of a crier in the marketplace , that all art is composed in a single key , that huge monuments and small coins have the same plastic eloquence if transferred to the scale of the printed page , that a gouache can equal a fresco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ color print threatens to become the medium on which a painting must count for being remembered . That Picasso has consciously adjusted his palette to the crude requirements of the color process I would not say , but his paintings suffer remarkably little in this singularly coarse form of reproduction . They suit it almost as well as Van Gogh . With a growing adjustment to the color print , it is natural that the objects best suited to that medium should be preferred to works that are too intricate for it , machinery thus dictating a selection that sponsors a stylistically regressive taste . The art of the douanier Rousseau has thus an advantage over that of Titian because his color effects , being schematic and plain , can be simulated more easily by the printing press . The same forces are active also in music . Originally the gramophone record produced an echo of the live performance , with all the peculiarities of the performer 's attack . It served as a substitute for a concert , removed.by one degree from the real event . For that reason musicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute , with much the same vigor as the Duke of Urbino displayed in his resentment of printing . However , recording ? like printing ? developed its own style : it became an idiom with a particular aesthetics . Marked idiosyncrasies of phrasing , for example , which may be startling and impressive in the concert hall , can grate when they are heard too often . Recording therefore tended to file them off , aiming instead at a technical finish which would allow for constantly repeated hearing . It is a well-known fact that gramophone records are now often put together piece by piece , each piece a polished unit in a musical collage which no living performer has played as a whole . The ear thus gets adjusted to dehumanized sounds , and there can be no doubt that , ever since , the style and the quality of performances have changed toward a more even mechanical proficiency , not only for the purposes of recording but retroactively in live concerts as well . In some instances composition itself has begun to aim for the recorded tone , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ montage and stereophonic projection , just as the mechanized idiom of the film has decisively shaped certain styles of dramatic writing and acting that subordinate the range of human expression to the capabilities of the screen . The situation reminds me of a historic occasion in Washington when the newly founded National Gallery of Art was opened by President Roosevelt in 1941 . He was expected to address the guests , and many who had often heard him speak so effectively over the radio were curious to see in  | what manner he would address an audience face to face . They found that he did not address them at all . The speech was broadcast , and from the first the President 's mind was concentrated on the microphone before him . It was a graceful speech addressed to the world outside , while those in his immediate presence were like eavesdroppers , listening in on a performance not intended for them . No doubt , those listening to the broadcast assumed that they were getting only a reflex of his speech , a sort of echo , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substance . We Live Among Shadows I n the enjoyment of art this curious reversal seems to me one of the fundamental dangers of mechanization . The medium of diffusion tends to take precedence over the direct experience of the object , and more often than not the object itself is conceived with this purpose in view . We are given the shadow for the thing , and in the end we live among shadows , and not only believe that things are made for the sake of their shadows , but find that this is actually the case . Not that this condition is without promise . Many a brave new world of things was made out of shadows firmly shaped by an artist , but the boldness required for that task has increased with the ease of evading it ; for it is both the strength and the weakness of a mechanized medium that it can replace personal choice by automatisms which , however economical in other walks of life , are artistically blank and wasteful . No mannerism is more stultifying than one caused by a machine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as unfounded as that proverbial phobia of it which was justly ridiculed by J. B. S. Haldane : " There is no great invention , from fire to flying , which has not been hailed as an insult to some god . " To assume , as Ruskin did in his weaker moments , that an art must lose its authenticity whenever it delegates part of its function to an ancillary craft is an aesthetic superstition . Ideally , on that theory , the composer should be a singer , the poet a bard , the architect a builder , mason , and bricklayer . It is true that some of the arts still survive in that uncorrupted state . The painter has not yet delegated his brush , nor the draftsman his pencil , and there are even sculptors who have not delegated their chisels . And yet , some of the creative expansions of art ? in architecture , music , and drama ? could never have taken place at all if the artist had always remained his own instrument , or the only authentic instrument of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it overreaches itself , should not deny the positive part that machinery and substitution have played in artistic growth . To my mind one of the most enlightening of anti-mechanical protests lies buried in that quizzical American book , The Education of Henry Adams . Always scrupulously attentive to historical ceremony , particularly when he foresaw that it might be fatuous , Adams took a few steps of his own , in the year 1900 , to inaugurate the twentieth century . He went to Paris and visited the World Exhibition , where he stood , bemused and bewildered , before the forty-foot dynamos in the Great Hall . He understood little about engineering and , perhaps for that reason , viewed its progress with misgiving . He reflected that , since 1893 , " the automobile had become a nightmare .. . almost as destructive as the electric tram which was only ten years older , and threatening to become as terrible as the locomotive steam engine itself . " To regain his balance , Adams withdrew to the cathedrals of Chartres and Amiens . Here , worshiping at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those who were worshiping at the shrine of the dynamo . Adams was the kind of man who feels that on a memorable occasion it is important to make a memorable statement . Although he did not agree with Gibbon 's evaluation of the Gothic style , he envied Gibbon for having dismissed all Gothic cathedrals in one single sentence by saying : " I darted a contemptuous look on the stately monuments of superstition . " Adams longed to dart just such a look on the stately monuments of engineering , but for that he was too shrewd ; he knew that these forces had to be reckoned with , and although he distrusted them intensely , he prided himself on being a good judge of forces . He therefore composed for his autobiography , under the year 1900 , a chapter entitled " The Dynamo and the Virgin . " In it he contrasted the modern powers of steam and electricity with the force exerted by medieval faith . " All the steam in the world , " he writes , " could not , like the Virgin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T his memorable remark is worth analyzing . According to it , the Virgin built Chartres ; which is clearly a metaphor , and presumably it means that faith in the Virgin inspired the building of the cathedral . But Chartres was not built by faith  | alone . Like other French Gothic cathedrals , it was built by carefully calculated engineering . The master builders who constructed ribbed vaults and flying buttresses would have been much displeased with an admirer of their work who discounted their mathematical and mechanical ingenuity . The antithesis between modern engineering and medieval spirituality is one of those facile and fallacious disjunctions by which we get trapped when we regard art as naturally opposed to mechanization . On the side of art Adams disregarded the mechanical energies that had been harnessed to produce an admirable building , while on the side of mechanics he considered the energies in the raw , unrelated to any purposes they might subserve . Thus we get a fine antithesis between mechanization and spirit , produced by mental omissions on both sides . A philosophical inquiry into artistic utensils would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lie dormant in the use of the simplest instrument . A mere pencil or piece of chalk in the hand of an artist extends his range beyond his natural self . Is not all art a form of self-extension , as in Carlyle 's definition of man as " a tool-using animal " ? Any instrument . it is true , brings with it the danger that might enslave the man that it is meant to serve . Thus the pencil dominated Meissonier , Menzel. and Muirhead Bone , and their perception became as mechanical as their skill . Yet a vision without instrument is an equivocal ghost : there is no " Raphael without hands . " As for Mozart , he may have disliked the mechanics of copying , but once he had put pen to paper , the notes could be read . recopied , distributed , and played , and with the help of modern mechanization the performances in their turn can be recorded and the records replayed ad libitum . Repetition , however unattractive to Mozart , seems as essential to the continued existence of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , certain chances offered by mechanical repetition were explored with great spirit by Mozart himself . He composed rondos , fugues , and ritornelli for little clockwork organs and magical music boxes in the collection of Count Josef Deym , whom he jestingly called " the watchmaker . " How spontaneously he enlivened automatic toys is best known from Papageno 's Glockenspiel in The Magic Flute . Mozart could thus adapt his genius to mechanization , but only as a marginal exercise . Imagine that all of Mozart 's music were readjusted to suit the needs of " the watchmaker " ! Yet it might well be argued that , in the last analysis , listening to a gramophone or a tape recorder , or to any of the more advanced machines of electro-acoustical engineering , is like listening to a superior sort of musical clock . No matter how perfect these robots may become , music would shrink if it were composed primarily for them ; just as painting would shrink if it were conceived as a perfected form of printmaking . It remains one of the memorable facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the production of musical discs , that some of the most notable contributions to that medium came from artists who were primarily painters and turned to engraving only intermittently . Strongly mechanized crafts , to remain responsive to art , will always require the kind of irregular refreshment which engraving received from the peintre-g ? ' aveur . Otherwise a composer 's skill might eventually be learned by a computer , and in that case , as has been well said , both will have wasted their time . Harper 's Magazine , February 19G4                     