@@493853

Did Goldwater Lose ? by Daniel Bernd If we follow John Buchan 's dictum that the politician must be satisfied with the success that stops short of total victory , then it must be allowed that Goldwater won the election . We have been far too eager to explain away Goldwater as an amiable hobbyist who got hold of something he did n't really want , a country-club type who could n't understand what he was up to . The liberal habit of mind is not very receptive to conspiracy theories of history in any case ? we leave that to the little , old sneaker set ? and we are reluctant to admit that the election was a planned debacle . We can believe that a man might not really want to be President , yes , but it is extremely difficult for us to understand that a Senator may be indifferent to votes , not because he values rectitude more than power , but because he is contemptuous of the votes themselves . Our last two Republican Presidents disliked politics and distrusted politicians , but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not from meanness of spirit . One wished to admire Hoover and Eisenhower because they were genuinely good men , and our impulse is to extend our admiration to the current loser . As they keep saying , a man who gets 26 million votes must have something . I suggest that he had a very clear notion of what he wanted and that he got it . It is a mistake to think that he shared the simple dream of having all the liberals in one party and all the conservatives in the other . What Goldwater wanted was something much more impressive ? all the people who could be trusted to distrust the electoral processes solidly with him , and the hell with all the rest . That polarization has always been an inherent danger , but up to now we have never had a major candidate who considered it not a danger but an opportunity . We have not understood Goldwater because we did not realize that he was playing a different game than we were ? not win the election , but change the rules so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concession telegram , Goldwater spoke in a code we could not crack because we thought that , whatever he said , it was at least in the common language of politics . We thought Goldwater was making the classic Republican error of mistaking his audience , of forgetting he was speaking to the nation , not to the red-hots in front of him . But Goldwater was no Willkie , losing women 's votes by making cracks about Frances Perkins to businessmen ; he knew exactly to whom he spoke . Consider the atmosphere of the Republican National Convention . There have been plenty of stacked conventions in American history , but none before that so delighted in humiliating the losers . Again we are wrong if we think the booing of Rockefeller , the open contempt for the Negro delegates , were the excesses of bumptious amateurs , finding themselves winners by default in a hopeless year . No , these actions were signals to the true believers watching on television that finally the politics of no-compromise was here . " Extremism in the defense of liberty " was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that at last a hero had appeared who would not sully the Republic by seeking votes . Consider also the effect of this kind of appeal . If you believe that a large proportion of the people of the United States are Communists or their agents , including most Democrats and one Republican President , then it must be obvious that rescue at the polls is not only unlikely , but irrelevant . If you believe that ballots have given us the sick society , you will not prescribe more ballots as the cure . The bullets of the Minutemen are perfectly consistent with their conception of the state of the nation . It is Goldwater 's genius that he has been able to draw into a political party those elements most disdainful of politics , and he did it by more or less open promises to remold the party in their image . Eisenhower got votes by making appeals for non-politics , but all Eisenhower wanted was the votes , and he cared not about the party . Goldwater , by contrast , wanted the party ? not as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organized to exert power in a more direct fashion . The mandate Goldwater received from the voters was for a program not realizable through legislative means . Not laws , but the hearts of men are for Goldwater the true source of power , and he wants no government to stand between them . When Goldwater implied that the Vietnam crises were put-up jobs , for the first time in modern American politics a candidate publicly embraced the devil theory of history . Goldwater can not be so stupid as to think Johnson would arrange to have American soldiets killed in order to win an election , but he evidently does not mind manipulating the people who are stupid enough to believe it . One reason we have survived so well as a nation is that our system insures that no man will be elected President who will not do his best by the country . This was as true of Grant as it was of Roosevelt and would have been true of Nixon had he been elected . Gold-water 's crime lies in his attempt to rend the consensus gentium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His purpose becomes , not to win elections but to prevent , as far as possible , the winner from governing . If you tell the people of the United States their President is a conspirator and impure of heart , you are saying they need not respect his right to govern nor the system that gave him that right . Most candidates say things during campaigns they are later ashamed of , but they never attempt to exclude from their party all those who can not be depended upon to believe the absurd . Wendell Willkie 's appointment of Joseph Martin in 194o as his campaign manager was naive , but much more in the spirit of our politics than Goldwater 's cold-blooded purge of the Republican National Committee in 1964 . The predilection of the right-wing loonies to weave patterns of conspiracy out of the most wildly improbable materials should not blind us to certain consistencies in Goldwater 's behavior . We must consider the possibility that his **30;1982;TOOLONG stands on TVA , nuclear weapons and Social Security were planned razzle-dazzle to give us something to criticize that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our time searching out his inconsistencies of policy , when we should have been looking for his consistencies of motive . Consider the record of the campaign as it developed : the loyalty oaths for delegates , the vote against the civil rights bill , the rigged platform committee , the abuse of Rockefeller , the picking of the lightweight Miller as Vice Presidential candidate , the invitation to extremists and the scorning of moderates in the acceptance speech , the attack upon the press , the recruitment of Strom Thurmond , the phony issue of morality in government , the smarmy references to Walter Jenkins while pretending not to mention him , the refusal to hold press conferences , the refusal to spend money in the last week of the campaign , the concession telegram that did not concede , the praise of Dean Burch for ending the campaign in the black , the denial of defeat , the official fantasy that the Republican moderates caused the defeat . It is difficult to see how Goldwater could have lost more votes . When a man does everything wrong , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incompetent could win a nomination in the first place . The theory that Goldwater meant to do what he did explains a lot more facts than the theory of blunder . Are we to assume that Goldwater ca n't count , and thus traded Middle-Western votes that were his for the asking for white Southern votes not worth having ? In election after election , Middle-Westerners have seized upon almost any excuse to vote Republican , but Goldwater would n't even give them a pretext . His speeches on farm policy were so ludicrously inappropriate that he must have meant them . Many candidates must have had secret qualms at the thought of being President , but no other man so openly did n't care . One can not fairly say that no other candidate has toyed with the idea of swapping national power for party power , but no other candidate had the chance of making it work . We are faced with a curious paradox : we have just elected the most liberal Congress in 25 years , and have just given a President committed to liberal legislation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in greater danger from the right-wing , not even , I would suggest , during the McCarthy era . The paradox arises partially out of the hyperbolic effect on politics of the population increase . There probably are no more political birdbrains per thousand in our country than there ever were ( probably fewer ) , but in absolute numbers , five or ten percent of the voters is an enormous minority , especially when they flock together in places like Orange County , California . To complicate the paradox , the mass society is peculiarly vulnerable to individual influence . Just a few vicious gossips on the telephone can upset a whole community . Never has it been so easy for a disciplined minority to drown out the voice of reason with sheer noisemaking . The Jeffersonian assumption that the informed citizen will make the right decisions did not take account of mass communications . I believe that Goldwater 's success is largely due to his lago-like willingness to evoke certain black responses that lurk below the rational surfaces of our politics . Our fear of Goldwater 's itchy finger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had already pulled the trigger of a moral weapon as powerful as a nuclear bomb . Mephistopheles ' description of himself as " I am the Spirit which always denies " is chillingly apt when applied to Goldwater . Like Mephistopheles , he tempts us with raw , irresponsible power - the power that recognizes no law but " I want . " If the " I want " is the desire of Mississippi whites to murder Negroes , then Goldwater provides the principle of states ' rights to excuse them for failing to suppress race hatred . The glazed-eyeball loyalty of the Goldwaterites is the cost of his priceless gift to them : the release from conscience . The campaign issue of morality in government proved almost useless as a vote-getter , but that was hardly its intent . " Morality " serves only too well as the issue for those who desperately want absolution from responsible citizenship . In their hearts they knew he was right , because he appealed to the heart - not to principle , not to law , not to justice , not to decency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart , the unrestricted will . As Mephistopheles puts it , We still must ask ourselves why Goldwater would want to lose in a way that denies the premises of politics . I think Goldwater chose to lose big because he understood that he had little chance of winning , and , more important , he realized that if he did win , he could not govern - he could not alter the federal system to serve his interests ( he said as much during the campaign ) . What we see , then , is a man playing not the game of win the election , but the much deadlier game of rule or ruin . Goldwater could see what the liberals missed : that the prize of election is not the government but the strong , monolithic party that can be used to blackmail government . Western money , with its grinding sense of inferiority to Eastern money , has found the way of making a virtue out of crudity . They have chosen the power to threaten and bully over the power of due process . Their fantasies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing their will ( after all McCarthy managed it for awhile ) , a world where the Negroes , the poor , the Ivy Leaguers , the intellectuals , the foreigners , will have to jump to their tune . It is an ugly world they live in , but we are mistaken if we think it not a possible one . From the Bircher cops using false arrest as a political weapon to the pretty housewives slandering the school librarian , they know what they want and they think they know how to get it . The liberal triumphs of 1964 will come to nothing if we misinterpret and underrate them .                     