@@477577

One of the world 's most charming cities has been losing its beauty in recent years because of blight . But it now has a long-range scheme working ? an exciting one ? to regain much , of its lost ground . This is the fourth article in " Harper 's " series on building in America . FROM the silver bridge bending high over the bay , the cityscape is one of the most stirring in the world . San Francisco smiles in the sunlight . Directly behind the piers of the Embarcadero the towers of downtown thrust upward , twenty and twenty-five and thirty stories into the bright air , massed together in the financial district that controls the economy of the Far West . Beyond , on the slopes and summits of the hills , stand more towers ? hotels and apartments as well as office buildings ? going westward with the city . The grid of streets , resolutely American , crosses crest after crest , so that San Francisco rises and falls with the spectacular terrain , the lines of white houses rolling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elegant red web of its bridge , to the Pacific . Nowhere , unless at Rio , can so fine and powerful a metropolis be found in a setting of comparable grandeur ; and this is the chief secret of San Francisco 's charm . If the skyline recalls the tremendous profile of New York , the port ( five hundred square miles of sheltered water ringed with hills and peaks ) , the play of light on buildings , the easy climate , and the classical sea beyond the harbor , all suggest Naples and Marseilles . Side by side with San Francisco 's frank business premise , its American air of getting things done , exists a half-Mediterranean dolce far niente , tempered by the informal manners of the pioneer West . If such a city ? the most pleasant in the United States ? can not he saved and improved during the present age of urban crisis , then all our cities would appear to be lost . Indeed , even to speak of " saving " San Francisco , when megalopolitan jungles such as New York and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face problems of far greater magnitude , may seem to be begging the urban question . For if San Francisco has been called a " miniature Manhattan , " the qualification of size makes all the difference . Inhuman scale , appalling land densities , and paralyzing congestion have rendered New York increasingly uninhabitable ; and on a frightening night last August , with the power dead in half of sweltering Manhattan , the city received an intimation of apocalypse . On the day the air-conditioners failed in New York , San Francisco was gay and cool . Visiting strangers , as they have since the Gold Rush , and particularly since the last war , experienced a strong urge to stay . People were polite ; there did not seem to be too many of them ; they appreciated food and wine , spoke a variety of languages , and had more money to spend , per capita , than any other urban population in history . Cable cars , their bells clanging , climbed the hills like donkeys : a civic affectation perhaps , so late in the technological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to drive in the heart of the city , in spite of occasional tie-ups , and to park rather quickly . From every high intersection , going up Nob or Russian Hill , breath-taking views of the city and port opened suddenly . In the distance appeared the baroque dome of City Hall , or the burnt-orange dome of Maybeck 's Palace of Fine Arts , and across the expanse of the bay , the sunlight caught thousands of windows in the Berkeley hills , above the great university . Nowhere does the environment seem to crush the individual . Even the tallest buildings ? the 31-story Russ , the 30-story Shell , the 26-story Pacific Telephone , all dating from the boom of the ' twenties ? would be lost in midtown Manhattan . The city has retained manageable proportions , and this is not the least of its advantages as it embarks on a prodigious program of construction and renewal that makes it a fascinating laboratory of urban experimentation . A CITY PREMATURELY OLD S I N C E the last war it has been clear that San @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the world 's main centers of civilized life , a city of the first international rank . It is no accident that Mr. Khrushchev was captivated by his visit there ; nor was it accidental that San Francisco , facing Asia , was the scene of the inaugural meeting of the United Nations in 1945 . Yet even though history has given San Francisco a grand role in the middle of the twentieth century , the city has far to go ? in terms of urban beauty ? before it fulfills its potentialities . The romantic city of towers gives way , on close inspection , to the tawdriness that typifies the urban scene almost everywhere else in the United States . Whole sections of San Francisco are blighted . Even on the proudest streets such as Montgomery , California , and Post , one turns a corner into what , in a more prosaic city , would be called a slum . In San Francisco , however , because of the richness and vigor of the whole , ugly details pass for piquancy . Beneath its garish trappings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary American buildings erected ? like virtually all of the city 's slums ? after the disaster of 1906 . Significantly , too , it preserves the ghetto dispositions imposed on the Oriental community by the pioneers . For although the reconstruction following the earthquake and fire must be accounted one of the heroic municipal achievements of modern times , the city was actually rebuilt in a nineteenth-century image . The original street pattern was retained . Except for the mall of the grandiose Civic Center , no important open spaces were created . Architecturally , as can be seen in the Palace Hotel , so dull in comparison with the marvelous structure it replaced , the city lost much of its early gusto and distinction . How distinguished the pioneer city was at its best could beseen in the Montgomery Block of 1853 , one of a few early buildings to escape the fire , before it was destroyed last year to make room for a parking lot . More serious still , the city which rose from the ashes ? " the Phoenix of the Pacific " ? aged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the twentieth century , but also because of lack of planning and laissez-faire chaos in design , San Francisco ? only fifty-odd years later ? is prematurely old . The weird surrealism of the American commercial ethic has made matters even worse . Market Street ? the main artery ? over most of its length from the Ferry Building to the foot of Twin Peaks has been disfigured by gimcrack shops , penny arcades , sensational movie houses , mean hotels , and further out , ramshackle apartments . Discordant signs clamor for attention , as everywhere in the U. S. , and by night the pavements are splotched with neon . Perhaps it will take the rest of the century , or longer , to repair all of this environmental damage , but the important fact ? at a time when the urban situation usually elicits cries of despair ? is that San Francisco has begun the task . A new city is in the making , which should be one of the first to display the new urban beauty that is possible in the age of the Second Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fire will be needed : some $600 million in new construction is now contemplated , and that is only a portion of the work ultimately required . A rapid transit system for the Bay Region ? to cite only one great undertaking the voters will be asked to approve ? is urgently needed if San Francisco is to remain " the City , " the dynamic core of the immense metropolitan complex developing around it in a territory as large as Connecticut and Delaware combined , and is not to fall victim to the automobile . That alone , in the end , will probably cost the better part of a billion dollars . But if the costs are high , the stakes are tremendous ; and already , as automated factories and a nuclear power station have appeared beside the bay , new towers have been rising in downtown . Two of them , the recently completed Allan Temlco , a New Yorker by birth , decided to live in California when he visited the Bay Region during the war . He is a cultural historian now specializing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast associate editor for " Architectural Forum . " He is author of " Notre-Dame of Paris , " published by Viking . Crown Zellerbach and John Hancock Buildings , rank with the finest architecture created since World War IL a claim which hitherto could not have been made for office structures in San Francisco . And more towers are on the way , including the dozen or so which will be part of the large Golden Gateway project which will be built just north of the present financial district , in the curve of the Embarcadero . In another important project the worst of the slums , which festers on the hill of the Western Addition directly behind the Opera House ( where the UN convened ) , has been partly demolished to make way for handsome residential and commercial developments . Still a third major renewal project is underway on Diamond Heights . The battle for the future of the environment has been joined , and with luck and stamina , San Francisco can win . FIASCOES OF THE ' FIFTIES B E F O RE the city could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems had to grow almost desperate . Perhaps because there is no local squalor comparable to the fantastic degradation of human life in Harlem and the Chicago South Side , San Franciscans are not quick to find fault with their surroundings . Only a series of fiascoes , which occurred with weari ' some frequency as the ' fifties passed and little was accomplished , roused them into action at the end of the decade . By then the entire redevelopment program was virtually at a standstill , and the Chronicle bitterly suggested that it had been entrusted to " Dawdle , Dawdle , Bumbling Re Pokery , specialists in deceleration . " This was a particular pity because the city has enjoyed the services of specialists of exceptionally high caliber , who after the war attracted national attention for the excellence of their renewal concepts . The Western Addition project , proposed in 1949 , was a model enterprise , the first of its kind to take advantage of new federal legislation enabling cities to pay a comparatively small share of redevelopment costs by providing streets , sewers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often are already in existence . The project for Diamond Heights , a steep but potentially splendid site which was largely unoccupied , followed soon after , and San Francisco seemed on its way . Instead , sordid political squabbles occurred . From the start the gifted professional planners met with niggardliness and lack of imagination in City Hall ; sometimes downright ohstruction ism and venality hamstrung their efforts . Repeatedly federal officials warned that San Francisco would not be given a " free ride " and declared that more rapid progress was necessary if funds were to be kept available in Washington . City officials replied that the California state redevelopment law , written in deference to the real-estate lobby , made land acquisition a very slow procedure . In truth , until the law was amended last year , it was one of the most unwieldy in the U. S. , and it is still far from perfect . Also , its constitutionality was questioned , and there was wrangling in the courts . But these difficulties did not prevent other California cities , notably Sacramento , from carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the disgraceful delay both Mayor George Christopher and former Mayor Elmer Robinson , whom he succeeded in 1954 , must bear responsibility . But if Mayor Christopher has gradually ? one might say , painfully ? become aware of what redevelopment means for the city , such comprehension apparently was beyond the grasp of his predecessor . It was under Mayor Robinson that a quarrel erupted between political hacks and planners which resulted in the resignation of James E. Lash , director of the Redevelopment Agency , and one of the foremost urbanists in the country . Mr. Lash moved on to ACTION ( the American Council to Improve Our Neighborhoods ) , where he continues to do outstanding work . In his place was appointed Eugene J. Riordan , an elderly appraiser and a gentleman of the old school but with no evident qualifications for so demanding a post . Nevertheless Mayor Christopher retained him , too . During five years in office , Mr. Riordan gave few indications that he had learned much about the job . And lower echelons of the Redevelopment Agency were filled with political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Addition began , but at so slow a pace that speculators have had a field day . In October 1958 , the press revealed that Mayor Christopher 's principal aide , a devout realtor named Chester R. MacPhce , who conducts Bible-reading sessions for fellow businessmen , owned stock in one of the syndicates which had been buying slum properties for resale to the Redevelopment Agency . Mr. 1VIacPhee 's holdings were small , but their value can be estimated to have increased from $5,000 to $20,000 within a space of two years . This news did not shock the public so much as did Mr. MacPhec 's inability to fathom what he had clone wrong . The Mayor appeared shaken , but he allowed Mr. MacPhee to remain in office for three more months until an opinion by the city attorney forced a dismissal . The scandal , which coincided with the exposure of other slum dealings by lesser municipal employees , also came shortly after U , S. Housing Administrator Albert M. Cole 's patience with the city ran out . He noted that San Francisco was " behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and ordered an investigation of its " slowness . " These were blows which could lead only to total disaster or to recovery . To his credit , the Mayor made a praiseworthy appointment . He induced Everett Griffin , a wealthy and exceptionally able chemical engineer , to assume the chairmanship of the Redevelopment Agency . Previously this had been a largely honorific post , but Mr. Griffin , a native San Franciscan with genuine concern for the city 's welfare , has made it an instrument of progress . His first task was to find a " younger , more vigorous man " than the sixty-nine-year-old Mr. Riordan to serve as executive director of the Agency . After a nation-wide search , during which he saw impressive accomplishments at Philadelphia , Pittsburgh , and other cities , Mr. Griffin decided that the best possibleman had been in San Francisco all along : M. Justin Herman , Western administrator of the U. S. Housing and Home Finance Agency , who since 1951 had been prodding the city to get its program under way . A short , amiable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to the Agency incisive intelligence , as well as a generous Fund of common sense and a firm grasp of political realities . In less than a year spectacular progress has been made on all fronts , not least in the Redevelopment Agency itself , where the staff has been increased , salaries raised , some deadwood removed , and morale restored , Land acquisition has been dramatically accelerated and is now complete in Diamond Heights and almost complete in the Western Addition ; the few remaining parcels are under condemnation . Already developers are bidding For the Diamond Heights and Western Addition projects , and soon the new neighborhoods will begin to rise : probably construction will start within a year . What will give these projects particular distinction , however , is Mr. Herman 's determination to ensure their high quality as social architecture . Not only the price offered by the BY ALLAN TEMKO 55 developer for the land ? usually the main factor considered when renewal contracts are awarded ? hut the proposed design of the buildings , absence of monotony , provision for middle-income housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly into the Agency 's decision . An interesting feature of the Western Addition will be a Japanese trade and cultural center , long needed in San Francisco , which will be an integral part of the rebuilt neighborhood . So will the landscaped courts which have been foreseen in the master plan of the area , providing tranquil urban space close to the city 's amenities . but free from traffic , where children can play and adults can stroll . These achievements alone are stirring , but they are overshadowed by another undertaking which Mr. Herman has set moving : the great Golden Gateway project which will replace the decaying produce market on the edge of the present financial district , and transform the skyline with its office towers and high-rise apartments . MEN AND MONEY G OLDEN GATEWAY , understandably enough , since its inception in 1956 has been the special project of the men who control the great affairs of the West Coast from their downtown offices . As the economy of the West expanded prodigiously after World War II , several major corporations failed to set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not find suitable accommodations . Yet , as late as 1955 , only one large structure had been erected in the financial district : the 25-story Equitable Building which , architecturally , was a disappointment . Indeed , within its pseudo-modern facing of white marble and aluminum , the Equitable was not much different from a speculative skyscraper of the ' twenties . Its clumsy shaft filled the zoning envelope with a maximum of rental space , but did little else for the city . Every inch of the important corner site was occupied . No greenery was provided ; nor was underground parking . The building was a crass money-maker of the kind which has reappeared in most American cities , anarchic , coarsely designed , lacking even the vulgar ornamental verve of the old towers nearby . The ugly advertising clock on the roof of the Equitable was only one indication that time might be running short in the most powerful part of the city , where eight of the nation 's fifty leading banks are located , including the head office of the titanic Bank of America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including Shell Oil , Standard of California , and Pacific Gas ge Electric . Another sign was a tendency of some tom-patties , such as the Fireman 's Fund Insurance Company , to abandon downtown . Yet on the very edge of the financial district , crying for redevelopment , was the produce market , a colorful but inefficient and badly blighted nest of low buildings , which the city planning commission had designated a slum immediately after the war . Like all slums , it does not pay its way , yielding only about a quarter of a million dollars in annual taxes for more than fifty prime acres in the heart of the city . Moreover , it is particularly difficult to keep clean and well-policed . Rats and vermin infest the hotels and rooming houses where its tiny population of six hundred , mostly old men , live in squalor . Fire engines can not move through the streets during business hours when the trucks of the produce merchants are busy at the obsolete loading platforms . The market , like the Halles in Paris , belongs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its buildings date from the early twentieth . Clearly a wonderful renewal opportunity existed here , close to the waterfront , within easy walking distance of the financial district and only a little further from the shopping and entertainment districts . But nothing was done until 1956 . Then at last , when the redevelopment prospect looked darkest and Western Addition and Diamond Heights lay dormant , the magnates of downtown decided to assume some of the civic responsibility which the politicians seemed bent on abdicating . The turning point came on a December evening in 1955 when Mr. James D. Zellerbach , head of the vast Crown Zellerbach wood-products empire which extends from Canada to Mexico , was reading an article entitled " Rebirth of the Cities " in Time and found that San Francisco was riot mentioned . The next day he showed the article to the late Charles R. Blyth of the investment banking house which bears his name . Together these powerful figures invited nine other business leaders ( " men , " in Mr. Zellerbach 's words , " who can provide money when it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to serve as a catalyst for the entire urban renewal effort . Its first step was to finance a preliminary study of the produce area by Skidmore , Owings &; Merrill , creators of Lever House in New York , who in association with the local firm , Hertzka &; Knowles , were designing new headquarters for Crown Zellerbach Corporation . At this point Nathaniel A. Owings , a founding partner of S.O.M . ( as the nation-wide , thousand-man architectural firm is known ) , exuberantly entered the local scene . He is probably the most successful salesman of serious design in the history of modern architecture . Corporation after corporation has yielded to his argument that maximum expenditure for aesthetic and human purposes ? which of course means the renunciation of giant size and the sacrifice of quick investment returns , as at Lever House ? is the wisest way of achieving prestige . The new " corporate image , " rather than the childish fantasies of the Woolworth or Chrysler Buildings in New York , consists of landscaped plazas , liberal use of sculpture and other works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology . Mr. Owings had no difficulty persuading Mr. Zellerbach that this was the appropriate philosophy for Crown Zeller-barb in its own headquarters , and it was with Mr. Zellerbach 's blessings that S.O.M . drew up an ambitious scheme for the Golden Gateway . Yet when the first drawings were published , an uproar broke out . The project called for two groups of severely geometrical , all-glass towers ? office buildings on the south , apartments on the north ? separated by a vast central garage whose roof would serve as a mall . As the authors of The Exploding Metropolis put it , the project ? coldly formalistic and barren ? could n't have looked " less like San Francisco . " Plenty of open space was provided ? perhaps too much ? between the widely dispersed buildings . The old street pattern was replaced by superblocks connected by bridges , for the pedestrian level was raised a story above automobile traffic . But the overalleffect was forbidding . 1he structures seemed like cubistic abstractions rather than habitable buildings , Procrustean cliffs of glass in which was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ S.O.M . promptly explained that the drawings were meant only as " diagrammatic " studies of volumes and related forms ; the buildings actually erected might be different in shape and number . This was true . but the admission inadvertently damned the firm 's own sleek version of the International Style . In actual fact , S.O.M . often had built structures identical in spirit to those in the drawings , and there was scant reason to think that Golden Gateway was not intended to look the same . But what would be right for so generous , outgoing , and sunswept a city as San Francisco ? There were no existing buildings in downtown which could serve as examples , except possibly the ten-story Mills Building of 1890 by the great Chicagoan John Wellborn Root , which survived the 1906 fire . Its light buff-colored facades , organized in tall , rhythmical arcades which recall Louis Sullivan 's Chicago Auditorium but are less heavy and serious , display a warm , easy cheer as well as strength and dignity . These qualities combined seem very San Franciscan . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern buildings which make no concession to historicism , but on the contrary make the fullest possible use ? as the modern should ? of industrial techniques and materials ? The city was given time to ponder the problem while the redevelopment effort bogged down again . Golden Gateway was quickly snarled in the same net of red tape , incompetence , and apathy as were Western Addition and Diamond Heights . The project 's guiding spirit , Mr. Zellerbach , had left to become Ambassador to Italy , and without him the Blyth-Zellerbach Committee lapsed into quiescence . GLASS , STEEL , AND WILD STRAWBERRY IN THE meantime individual corporations went ahead , . sporadically and without overall plan , with construction projects downtown . A few modest towers appeared ; none was as tall as Equitable although most shared its total lack of distinction . Only the Crown Zellerbach and John Hancock Buildings , completed last fall , gave the city heart . More important , each in its own way ? for they are profoundly different buildings although both were designed by S.O.M . ? opened paths which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In what had been a declining waste on Market Street , but is now a resplendent little park , the twenty-story Crown Zellerbach rises swiftly in the cityscape as a transparent enclosure of green-tinted glass . Obviously it is a cousin of Lever House , but in many ways it marks an advance over its graceful predecessor on Park Avenue . Its landscaped garden , in contrast to the dry formalism of the Lever plaza , possesses an almost baroque exuberance as it flows at several levels in sinuous patterns through the magnificent triangular site . In the center of the garden , occupying only one-third of the ground area ? a record for generosity in modern urban land use ? the glass-sheathed structure represents an even more dramatic departure than Lever 's from traditional tower design . Eighteen colossal steel columns ? nine on either side of the long slab ? lift the tower two stories free of the ground , propelling the building into the air , rather than merely holding it aloft , thus providing an almost unobstructed view of the garden , with its pebbled walks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fountain ? its abstract sculpture by David Tolerton jetting water above a pool ? sheftered by granite-covered walls which soon will be covered with ivy . Everywhere there are shrubs , banks of lawn and wild strawberry , and trees ; and near the corner of Market and Sansome a small round bank ? an office of the American Trust Company ? sits above the rest of the garden like a summer house . Overhead , defining the great expanse of urban space which has been created on every side of the garden , the tower rises masterfully . The ) eighteen columns ascend the full height of the building , piercing floor after floor , passing through a series of vast superimposed rooms two hundred feet long and nearly seventy wide . The floors seem separated by layers of air ; and in fact , except for the columns and movable office partitions , they arc ; the flexibility of this unobstructed interior space , in contrast to the forest of supports within a conventional tower , provides a remarkable solution to the problem of obsolescence in tall buildings . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shaft which flanks the broad southern facade , boldly revealing ? in a stunning application of functionalist theory ? the immense amount of technical equipment which goes into a modern office building . But if Crown is a formidable work of technological art , it also suffers from the sin of pride of the Miesian school of " skin-and-bones " design ; the vain display of the structural skeleton through a glass skin . Just why a building otherwise so sumptuous should have surfaces as ascetic as Crown 's is puzzling unless the curtain walls are understood in terms of modernist dogma : they are " honest , " " clean . " " crisp . " They are also rather inhuman . Despite the undeniable geometric grandeur of the green glass facades , they are severely punished by the sun . Without air-conditioning Crown would be uninhabitable ; and even so the windows are covered with draperies ( a decorator 's , not an architect 's , device ) much of the time , depriving the occupants of the view which theoretically is a main advantage of a transparent structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away the John Hancock Building , richly cloaked in polished black granite , its pattern of individual windows set off by bronze frames , its concrete parapet meeting the sky with a sense of finality rather than soaring off in thiii blue , represents a radically different tendency in modern architecture . Six stories lower than Crown and a smaller building in virtually every other dimension , its structure a stanch shell of reinforced concrete rather than a skeletal frame of steel , Hancock is more modest in purpose and situation . ft serves not as the headquarters monument of a leading Salt Francisco corporation , but as the regional office of a conservative Boston insurance company . And although the corner site , at California and Battery Streets , is one of the best in the financial district , it can not compare with the spacious park which Crown has to itself . Crown was able to create a new environment in its immediate vicinity ; Hancock has had to fit in with an existing one . This challenge has been turned to brilliant advantage . Hancock , like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California Street and are intended to re . semble Florentine palaces , exists as a mass with a strongly defined base , middle , and top , and not as a transparent volume which would have violated the character of its surroundings . But unlike its bulky neighbors , Hancock nowhere resorts to textbook architecture . It sports no Tuscan orders or rusticated masonry . Rather , the architects have transmuted the lessons of Renaissance splendor into a thoroughly modern idiom , making adroit use of technology to achieve opulence and variety . But no Renaissance arcade springs with the energy of Hancock 's , biting two stories on columns of reinforced concrete which change shape with a lithe strength impossible in stone and a plastic freedom impossible in steel , tapering upward and suddenly outward , and at the same time spreading to either side ? like the wingspread of a bird ? to form the arches that support the granite-covered concrete walls above . The arches have been broken in mid-rise by a projecting balcony which on the inner sides of the site becomes a delightful terrace garden or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cityscape without being crowded by its neighbors . Beneath the balcony the pedestrian is sheltered as nowhere else in the city and can pause pleasantly to examine the windows of the shops in the lower half of the arcade . These model commercial premises show what a row of stores can be in the United States : as dignified and unassertive as the shops in the Rue de Rivoli , spacious . inviting , and easy to identify through the controlled lettering of their signs . On the level above , fronting on the terrace , are the Hancock Company 's executive offices , rooms with a lordliness that most people thought had vanished from modern architecture . French doors lead to the garden with its sycamores and birches , flower beds , boxed hedge , paved walks , and an especially fine granite fountain and wrought-bronze balustrades . The influence of Hancock promises to be enormous . If it is recognizably an experimental structure , it nevertheless recalls the fresh romantic vigor of the modern at its most winning early moment , in the Chicago of Sullivan , Root , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came tumbling forth so quickly that manyremain unassimilated today . But a change has set in . The modern is coming of age , and a new generation of architects such as Edward Charles Bassett , chief designer in the San Francisco alike of S.O.M. , who is only thirty-eight years old , has found it possible to abandon the negativism and severity of men such as Mies , who had to fight stubbornly against the academic tradition during the nadir of the ' twenties and ' thirties , when the contemporary cause at times seemed lost . THE THRESHOLD ? T ODAY it has triumphed . That the single firm of S.O.M . has been responsible for buildings as dissimilar as Hancock and Crown , in much the way that the pioneers Burnham gc Root within a year or two of 1890 created both the solid Monadnock and the airy Reliance in burgeoning Chicago , can be taken as a sign that we are on the threshold of a period of great towers . Possibly that period will he truly inaugurated in the Golden Gateway project , for which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our time . Directed by Justin Herman and the Redevelopment Agency , the project has been revitalized , and is gaining powerful momentum . Only the rudiments of the preliminary scheme have been retained , and a jury of international stature has been assembled to evaluate the proposals of seven great syndicates of architects and developers for the northern half of the complex . This part of the project calls for 2,200 apartment units , as well as the central mall and garage , which will now be surmounted by a large office or residential structure . This tower , at the heart of the project , is hoped by the city to become " one of the monumental buildings in the West . " Skidmore , Owings &; Merrill naturally is in the thick of the competition , but its rivals include some of the must gifted designers in the country . Whatever proposal the jury prefers , there is pretty good assurance that San Francisco will have a development which Mr. Herman expects to " command world attention and renown . " For the rules of the competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundation of imaginative architecture ' . that goes " beyond the expected returns to investors " ? rare words in an age that too often builds for expediency and selfish profits . Indeed , no civilized society has ever expected more from its architecture , and now that San Francisco has come alive to the challenge and responsibilities of the future , it should not be content to accept less . 