@@212435

While the first batch of Kennedy Round tariff reductions was going into effect last week , a wide assortment of other trade barriers loomed as high as ever . These are nontariff gimmicks designed to impede the inflow of foreign goods . Wine-producing France , for example , puts a crimp on bourbon and Scotch imports by prohibiting all whisky advertising . In Italy , foreign automakers find it difficult to buy prime time on the state-owned television . Switzerland not only restricts imports of milk products but gives special help-including price supports and low-cost feed-to Swiss dairymen whose cows graze in remote areas or on mountain slopes . <P> Though generally more subtle than tariffs , such practices are often equally effective in locking out the goods of other countries-and nobody knows this better than Lyndon Johnson . " Nontariff barriers , " he said in his balance of payments statement last week , " pose a continued threat to the growth of world trade and to our competitive position . " In particular , the President expressed concern over foreign-mostly European-nations whose tax systems give " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose special border tax charges on our goods entering their countries . " <P> Johnson had special reason to be disturbed about a new European tax scheme pioneered by France and Denmark . Last week West Germany adopted it , and several other European countries are planning to follow suit . An excise-type levy on goods produced ( the U.S. , by contrast , usually taxes only the profits of companies that make the goods ) , the new tax figures to streamline the traditional European system , which heretofore has resulted in a maze of overlapping assessments . It thus will make it an easier bookkeeping matter to rebate the full tax paid by exporters and , at the same time , to exact the full tax on imported goods-precisely the practices L.B.J. was complaining about . <P> Blocking the Whortleberries . Yet tax measures are not always the most far-reaching nontariff barriers to trade . Impoverished Ghana , trying to combat its balance of payments problem as well as protect fledgling native industries , has simply ruled out import licenses for 79 products ranging from suitcases to incense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banning virtually all coal imports . In Japan , which officially restricts imports as disparate as golf balls and electric generators , the government uses friendly persuasion to get importers to cut traffic in other goods that are not formally excluded . <P> Such protectionism persists even within Europe 's supposedly cozy Common Market . Volkswagen has had lagging sales in Italy ever since that country imposed a temporary tax that craftily penalized owners of the German bug . France , challenged at home by Italy 's burgeoning appliance industry , has tried everything from a deliberate customs slowdown , which piled up thousands of Italian refrigerators at the border , to a formal request , now pending before the Common Market commission , for outright import quotas . The French also forbid the import of walnuts before Sept. 25-by which time the remnants of Italy 's early-ripening crop have often rotted .                     