@@490686

FEBRUARY 23 S 3141EONE  --  most likely a Democrat on his way out of the Defense Department  --  recently turned over to the Washington Post a pair of classified documents dealing not with any specific questions of national security but , rather , with the problem of persuading American citizens and their representatives in Congress that the Sentinel anti-ballistic-missile system is a gond and desirable investment . The first of these documents , which gave birth to the second , is a seventeen-page memorandum , headed " Public Relations Program for SENTINEL , " which was written sometime last year by Lieutenant General Alfred D. Starbird , identified by the Post as the " manager " of the Sentinel project . It was addressed to his boss , Secretary of the Army Stanley . R. Resor , who was appointed by President Johnson in 1965 and was retained by President Nixon and his Secretary of Defense , Melvin R. Laird . The second document is a shortened and extensively paraphrased version of the Starbird memorandum that was prepared by Resor and passed along to Johnson 's Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1968 election . In declassifying these documents on its front page last Sunday , the Post treated its readers to very little of the seminal paper written by the wonderfully named General Starbird , evidently for the reason  --  amply established in the few quotations it did publish  --  that , even though its subject was public relations rather than military strategy , it was so full of military and bureaucratic gobbledygook that ordinary readers would find it impenetrable . The paper did , however , publish substantial portions of the abbreviated Resor version , and that , while scarcely a model of literary felicity , was altogether clear . It advised Secretary Clifford ( as if he did not already know ) that " several highly placed and reputable U.S. scientists have spoken out in print against the Sentinel missile system , " and went on to propose a whole series of techniques for countering the influence of the heretics and assuring congressional support for deployment of the ABM system . The techniques were anything but new and were not given the prevailing modes fur the conduct of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the New Jerusalem  --  in and of themselves immoral . " We will he in contact shortly with scientists who are familiar with the Sentinel program and who may see fit to write articles for publication supporting the technical feasibility and operational effectiveness of the Sentinel system , " Resor wrote . This is a sly but routine procedure both in and out of government , and it is employed  --  or , at least , attempted  --  in behalf of the most virtuous of causes as well as of the most dubious ones . Resor recommended extensive " briefings " of congressmen and journalists , the preparation of tapes and films to he used by Army personnel in encounters with the public , and " information packets " for interested citizens . This is the way  --  or a large part of the way  --  that the consent of the governed is won , whether by the Army when it wishes to plant rocket launchers in the suburbs or by the Justice Department when it wants to build up support for a civil-rights law . The only defense the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system that breeds skeptics . There are , however , some important differences between the military 's use of public relations and the use that most other institutions make of it . The military , for one thing , has more money than anyone else , and when to its vast funds are added those of the industries it deals with , it seems to have just about all the money there is . ( The Starbird memorandum specifically suggested recruiting the assistance of " all individual industrial firms and civilian contractors participating in the production and deployment of the Sentinel system . " ) The Under-Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may take some doubting Thomas from Congress or the press on a tour of local projects in it government limousine , but his funds are severely limited and more or less subject to public scrutiny , and the agency could not organize a propaganda campaign on anything like the scale of the one proposed to Secretary Clifford by Secretary Resor . Moreover , the military can make a secret of anything it chooses . It chose to " classify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information on " national security " as might he found in a soap merchant 's instructions to his salesmen , with the consequence that Army officials could claim that they would be violating discipline if they discussed the documents with representatives of the Post . ( One did go as far as to explain that although there was a " freeze " on Sentinel construction , there would he no letup in the campaign to persuade the public of the benefits of deployment . ) Other government agencies  --  and , of course , private institutions  --  have methods of concealment that are often as effective as the military 's , but they can not hide behind them quite as unchallengeably as the military can . If Department of Commerce spokesmen clam up when asked for figures on trade , there are , as a ride , plenty of other sources to which determined investigators can turn . But if the military says there are facts about a weapons system that civilian scientists have n't been told , there is nothing much to do but to plead for the " dc-classification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bound to go unheeded . A great deal depends on the outlook of the pleader . Deep in his own " classified " memorandum , General Starbird recommends that in certain cases- - clearly those that would favor the Sentinel  --  the Army take a favorable view of declassifying material " which is responsive to the anticipated questions . " For decades now , the defense agencies have been conducting huge and hugely expensive public-relations campaigns . For the most part , though , the effort has been undertaken with the aim of reflecting glory on a particular service or , less frequently , on the Department of Defense itself . It has rarely been necessary to focus a propaganda drive on any one program , such as the deployment of the Sentinel . Inter-service conflicts over appropriations have sometimes had to be adjudicated more or less publicly by the President or the Congress , but the usual rule has been to ask the generals and the admirals to compose their differences in the Pentagon and then bill the country for whatever they think is needed to keep the flag aloft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sometimes with a substantial gratuity . It is questionable whether much in the way of military public relations was ever needed to achieve these results ; many societies more strapped for Funds than this one give their soldiers and sailors everything they ask for and give their civilians anything that happens to he left over . What is striking and , in recent times , unprecedented about the Army 's campaign for the Sentinel is not its slyness or the attempt to keep it secret but the fact that it is essentially defensive in nature and content . It calls for the use of all the loaded devices of propaganda , but its appeal is not primarily to patriotism  --  though no doubt the assemblers of the " information packets " have not overlooked the possibilities of scoring points with displays of Old Glory  --  but to reason and logic . The Army 's argument this time is not with pacifists or appeasers but with informed critics , who have managed to unsettle certain sections of the public not by moralizing about foreign and military policy but by asserting their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military really knows what it is doing , and even whether it is capable of making guns that will shoot . This , to be sure , is only one of several new elements that have come to light in the Sentinel controversy , which seems likely to he the most important and certainly the most interesting one in these early months of the Nixon Administration , The war in Vietnam has , of course , gone a long way toward undermining public and congressional confidence in military leadership . The senators on the Foreign Relations Committee who have been giving Secretary Laird and other Administration members so hard a time over the Sentinel  --  while ostensibly soliciting their views , all favorable , on the non-proliferation treaty  --  had expressed dismay over the competence of General Westmoreland and his aides long before the present disputes arose . But there was a tendency then to put the major blame for Vietnam on the civilian policy-makers and to fault the military men mainly for their complicity in what the senators regarded as an unwise and unworkable foreign policy . The senators did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons technology with the presumed experts from the Pentagon . Another obvious factor that bred dissatisfaction  --  though not , as far as is known , disenchantment  --  with the military was its intrusion , through the original Sentinel deployment plan , into communities that happen to include the homes of influential and articulate citizens . But these citizens ' objections , apparently , can rather easily be met by a military rezoning , which the Sentinel proponents would be happy to undertake . This controversy , though , would not be . ended  --  at least in the Senate , where the most widely publicized debate will take place -- if the war were called off tomorrow and aU suburbanites were assured that there would be no missile sites within five hundred miles of them . For the argument really turns ( as such arguments rarely do ) on the facts in the cast  --  or , to put it another way , on who , as between scientism and soldiers , is better equipped to determine the facts . The question could not have arisen in an age when the military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A military education was sufficient to enable a soldier to pass judgment on the effectiveness of a or a sailor on the seaworthiness of a ship . But if Jerome Wiesner , who was science adviser to President Kennedy ' and is currently provost of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , knows what he is talking about , the Sentinel , in its present state of development , " is probably the most complicated electronic system anyone has ever tried to put together ... the most elaborate , sophisticated , dynamic combination of rocketry , radar , computers , electronics , and other technology ever proposed . " 1A'iegner says that the Sentinel is untestable ( because it would violate the test-ban treaty , and also because it could never be really tested unless the Chinese or the Russians sent an ICBM our way ) and in all likelihood unworkable . General Starhird , a West Pointer of the class of 1933 and an officer with a fair amount of engineering experience , and Secretary Resor , once an Army major and a 1946 graduate of the Yale Law School , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't know , but there is clearly a growing tendency here and around the country to believe that men like Dr. Wiesner know a great deal about electronics , computers , and radar ( in the development of which Wiesner played an important role ) that General Starhird and Secretary Resor , like most of the rest of us , do not and probably never could know . The military would no doubt respond by saying that there are scientists who hold with them rather than with Dr. Wiesner , and certainly this must be true , or the Sentinel would not exist . But most of them are presumably working for the government or for defense industries . In the Resor memorandum , it was delicately pointed out that the articles to be written in praise of the Sentinel and in dispraise of such as Dr. Wiesner should be " preferahh by nongovernment scientists . " As far as is known , the search for qualified debaters free of government ties has been unavailing . Meanwhile , all seven of the men who have served in the sixties as science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Engineering in the Department of Defense have declared their opposition to ABM systems of one kind or another . Senator Edward Kennedy , the new Democratic whip and an opponent of the Sentinel , has asked Dr. Wiesner and Professor Abram Chay es , formerly legal adviser to the State Department and now at Harvard Law School , to prepare a lengthy report on the ABM and get it in his hands before the Pentagon completes its own review of the program , which has been prom-ised for early March , when the floor debate will probably begin in earnest A year ago , it would have been safe to predict that although Senator Ken-nedy and those who share his view might win the debate , they could hope to win nothing else . When the roll was called , the Pentagon and the defense industries always prevailed , with votes to spare . The case against the Sentinel is abstract and abstruse  --  and , in the end , as improvable as the case for it , which is that it could save millions of American lives . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who can charge him with vot-ing to expose his constituents to death . The import of the Pentagon 's review is as predictable as that of Dr. Wies-ner 's , and it . is scarcely conceivable that the President would decline to endorse it . Yet the campaign that Senator Ken-nedy is mounting , in collaboration with Senator John Sherman Cooper , the leading Republican opponent of the Sentinel , can not now he regarded as al-together quixotic , or worth making only for the sake of the public record . In the last session , Senator Cooper , joined by Senator Philip A. Hart , of Michigan , and others , three times of-fered amendments striking from au-thorization or appropriation bills funds intended for deployment of the Sentinel . As the knew they would , they lost all three votes , their best show-ing on any one being thirty-four , But Senator Cooper has recently pointed out that on one proposition or anoth-er more than forty senators voted as he did , and he and other anti-ABM senators he-hew that their position has huen greatly strengthened in the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now forty-five senators ready to oppose the Pentagon on the Sentinel . The Majority Leader , Senator Mansfield , can he counted on , and the Minority Leader , Senator Dirksen , seems to he avoiding com-mittnent at this time . If , in fact , forty-five senators are siding with Senators Cooper and Kennedy , they constitute at least a temporary plurality , for there are surely more than five strad-dlers . Among the straddlers is to he found the surprising figure of Senator Barry Goldwater , who has never , up to now , been known to question the good judgment or the competence of anyone accoutred with military brass or braid . Asked where he stood on the Sentinel the other day , Goldwater said he was " not married " to any ABM system . " It 's going to he a devilishly costly thing , " he went on , " and i hope we can hear from all sides . " At least there is now no doubt that all sides will he heard from . THE President is in Brussels , and the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for is that his travels will be concluded without serious incident and with Western Europe in no worse shape than it is today . Why lie thought the trip necessary remains unexplained despite all that he himself has said about it and the length briefings given the press by members of his staff . He and his spokesmen have repeatedly maintained that negotiations with the Russians should not take place until there is adequate assurance that they will produce the desired results . This proposition would seem to apply to negotiations with any power , but if it did , of course , the President would recall Ambassador Lodge from Paris and would himself depart the Brussels Hilton for the White House tomorrow morning . Apparently aware of the contradiction , the President has been insisting that he does not intend to " negotiate " with any of the leaders he will he seeing in the next few days but will be only holding " consultations , " in which , he has said , they will do most of the talking and he most of the listening . To emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no communiques . But the distinction is a meaningless One . When heads of government agree to meet , the negotiating process is already under way , and the fact that communiques  --  which in any case rarely communicate anything of significance  --  are not issued does not mean that there have been no substantive agreements or disagreements . Nixon has . gone to Europe knowing that he can bring home no agreements that do not already exist these are precious few , and mostly on the trivial side  --  and that his " consultations " can end none of the numerous and by no means trivial disagreements that now prevail . The contention most frequently made by the President and others is that the last Administration ignored E u-rope in favor of Vietnam and Southeast Asia , and that it is now necessary to dramatize our continuing " commitment " to Western Europe and NATO . But unless the extent of that commitment is measured by Presidential travels , the argument that the Johnson Administration ignored Europe is a difficult one to defend . In the last Eve bears , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States has been  --  wisely or not  --  more loyal to the NATO concept and tradition than most of the alliance 's European members , and has made the must substantial contributions to it . In Europe there are fears  --  b1 no means imgrounded  --  that we may at some future time make a deal with the Soviet Union at the expense of our Western allies , especially West Germany . But such apprehensions do not account for much of the present disarray in Europe . To the degree that Figure in the disarm ) at all , it is our embrace that is feared more than some distant possibility of our abandonment . President de Gaulle makes life hard for us and some of our friends not because he dreads American withdrawal but because he dislikes American participation on its present scale . So it is doubtful , whatever the White House may say , whether anyone in it really regards our relations with Western Europe as the most important foreign problem the new Administration faces . Getting out of the war in Vietnam and preventing war in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far behind them is the control of nuclear weapons . There is no question but that Nixon , when he stops listening and gets in a few words of his own , will try to enlist the support of his hosts on these issues . But he will speak with the knowledge that hr really is n't addressing the right people . The French may have a small amount of credit with the North Vietnamese , but they have been reluctant to use it so far , and it is unlikely at the moment that Nixon has enough credit with de Gaulle to compel any extra generosity . The only major powers that can have much influence in the Middle East are the United States and the Soviet Union , and the Soviet Union is not likely to seek the advice of the British , the French , the Italians , the West Germans , or the Pope nn its policies vis-a-vis Israel and the Arab nations . Nor will it consult them if it enters into negotiations with us over the control of nuclear weapons . One suspects that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure of his own course but because he is still most unsure of it and is playing for more time in which to determine it .                     